27-07-2020||Kalaburagi||Dattatreya Patil Revoor appointed as KKRDB Chairman||The state government has on Monday issued an order appointing Gulbarga South MLA Dattatreya Patil as Chairman of Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board. The post had remained vacant ever since the formation of the BJP government.  Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur has been appointed as Chairman of North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/dattatreya-patil-revoor-appointed-as-kkrdb-chairman-866217.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus a taboo, saw discrimination against the infected: Covid-free cop spells out his battle||The line of duty for Covid Warriors is a path strewn with dangers. To get infected with coronavirus and come out trumps is a tale that inspires many. Covid Warriors and head constable at women's police station in Puttur, Dinesh Kumar, says the infection taught him new tools of the era and the taboo associated with the coronavirus. "While I was admitted to hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, I used to read and watch videos online on farming and various acts. I had become an online student literally," said Covid warrior Dinesh Kumar of Kadamajal in Puttur. He is serving as a head constable at the women's police station in Puttur and tested positive for Covid-19 on July 16 and was discharged on July 25. "I was feverish along with a headache on July 11 and gave my swab for testing on July 13. After I was confirmed with Covid-19, I was admitted to a Covid hospital in Sullia. Apart from mobile phone, I did not have anything to read." "It is a challenge to spend time by not having any direct contact with people. Hence, I started searching for farming activities on YouTube and other search engines. I studied various acts. Along with following the advice of the doctors who were treating me, I used to gargle in saltwater and practice light exercise while at the hospital," he said. "I might have contracted the virus while at work. It is our duty to maintain social distancing while at work, to ensure that the virus does not spread to others. Cleanliness and maintaining distance is the mantra to check the spread of the virus," he said. Further, he said the taboo associated with Covid-19 should be removed from the society. "I had the full support from the SP and the department. But, I have come across several families who had faced discrimination after testing positive. I wish to help Covid-infected families in future. I am also planning to have a kitchen garden in front of my house," he said. "When I received the report about testing positive, I began to think over all the reports that I had seen on TV and read on social media. We were 15 infected persons undergoing treatment in the ward. Except for one senior citizen, all others were asymptomatic. We all were not sacred. More than the infected, it is those in the society who should be positive, for the speedy recovery of the infected," he felt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-a-taboo-saw-discrimination-against-the-infected-covid-free-cop-spells-out-his-battle-866143.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Two arrested for submitting fake documents to bank||The police arrested two persons including a doctor, for submitting fake documents to avail loan from the bank. The arrested are Dr. Rineta Sonia D'Souza (37) of Salmara in Tenkabettu and Vijay Kotari (42) of Chitrapadi. On July 3, Rineta had approached Bank of Baroda, Moodabettu branch claiming that she was serving as a doctor cum professor at Kasturba Hospital and Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) and was earning Rs 2,66,000 per month. She had sought a loan for 7.80 lakh to purchase a car. She had also sought a loan of Rs 16 lakh for her brother Akash D'Souza to purchase a car. She had even submitted a payslip from May 15, 2019, to July 2, 2020, along with IT Returns of 2017-18 and 2018-19 along with the price list of the vehicle to be purchased, on July 13. The bank manager inturn had verified the authenticity of the payslip with MAHE and found that she was not working at MAHE. Accordingly, Bank Manager Alwyn D'Souza filed a complaint at Kaup Police Station on submitting fake documents, to avail loan. The police arrested Rineta, who later informed the police that Vijay Kotari had helped her create fake documents. Based on the information given by her, the police arrested Kotari and seized a laptop used for creating fake documents, said the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-arrested-for-submitting-fake-documents-to-bank-866147.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 deaths continue unabated in Dakshina Kannada||Covid-19-related deaths continue unabated in Dakshina Kannada with the district administration reporting eight more fatalities on Sunday. The total number of deaths has now climbed to 123. The first death in the district was reported on April 19, when a woman from Bantwal succumbed to the virus. The district has been recording deaths daily since July 1. According to the officials, it is the late arrival to the hospitals for treatment and comorbid conditions in the patients that is responsible for deaths in the district. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said a 71-year-old man from Mangaluru with the symptoms of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)/multi-organ dysfunction chronic renal disease, diabetes and hypertension, failed to respond to the treatment at a private hospital and died on July 23. His throat swab tested positive for Covid-19. A 70-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from sepsis, chronic kidney disease stage V, chronic respiratory tract infection, hypertension, died on July 24 and was confirmed with Covid-19. A 55-year-old man from Puttur suffering from sepsis with acute kidney injury and severe metabolic acidosis had also tested positive for Covid-19 and died on July 24. A 56-year-old Covid-19 positive man with acute respiratory distress syndrome, multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and ischemic heart disease died on July 24. A 72-year-old man suffering from refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, septic shock, secondary bacterial infection, renal failure, acute coronary event, arrhythmia, pulmonary thromboembolism succumbed to the virus while a 45-year-old woman with metastatic carcinoma right lung, viral pneumonia died on July 24. A 55-year-old man suffering from refractory hypoxemia/Refractory ARDS, septic shock, bacterial infection, renal failure, arrhythmia and pulmonary thromboembolism, succumbed to the virus. A 70-year-old man with severe pneumonia with ARDS, multiorgan dysfunction, sepsis acute on chronic kidney disease failed to respond to the treatment and died. 199 fresh cases On the other hand, the Covid-19 case graph saw a slight downward trend with 199 fresh cases recorded on Sunday.  A 28-year-old engineer of Puttur CMC and a 46-year-old police official were also confirmed Covid-19 positive. Sindhu B Rupesh said of the fresh cases, 31 are the primary contacts of infected persons. Seventy-three persons with symptoms of Influenza-like Illnesses (ILI), 10 with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), and two with international travel history have tested positive. The contacts of the 83 infected are being traced by the officials. On a positive side, 90 people have recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The total discharges in the district are 2,217. Following the CMC engineer testing positive, the CMC building in Puttur had been sealed since Saturday noon. The CMC will function normally from Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-deaths-continue-unabated-in-dakshina-kannada-866155.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||76-year-old coronavirus patient goes missing from Mysuru facility||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/76-year-old-coronavirus-patient-goes-missing-from-mysuru-facility-866162.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya doctors withdraw protest after Tahsildar agrees to their demands||They decided to withdraw the protest after Tahsildar K Chandramouli visited the spot and assured to make food and accommodation arrangements and discuss the medical devices with the Health Department. Six doctors and around 20 paramedics and 'D' group employees staged a protest urging the authorities to provide accommodation facility and protective equipment for treating the Covid-19 patients. There are around 29 Covid-19 positive cases in the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-doctors-withdraw-protest-after-tahsildar-agrees-to-their-demands-866218.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports six fresh Covid-19 cases, tally at 354||Six fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in Kodagu district on Monday, taking the tally of the district to 354. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said that of the positive patients, two are suffering from the symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and four are the primary contacts of previously infected persons. The infected are --  a 20-year-old man who is the primary contact of an infected person from Abburukatte in Somwarpet, a 41-year-old woman who is a primary contact of a positive patient from health quarters in Gonikoppa, a 31-year-old woman suffering from ILI from Bydagotta in Somwarpet; a 38-year-old woman with symptoms of ILI from Beetikatte in Somwarpet; a 12-year-old child, who is the primary contact of an infected man from Kaveri College Road in Shanivarasanthe, and a 75-year-old woman who is the primary contact of a person infected from Hulase in Kushalnagar. With the rise in positive cases, two more containment zones -- Byadagotta and Beetikatte -- have been notified. While three containment zones at Aruvathoklu, Mysuramma Badavane and health quarters at Murnadu have been denotified by the district administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-six-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-at-354-866236.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Boards and corporations: Mysuru misses yet another opportunity||Mysuru district, which has sent three BJP MLAs to the Assembly, the highest for the party in the Mysuru region, has missed an opportunity even in the nomination to State Boards and Corporations. It has to be mentioned that there is no one in the B S Yediyurappa-lead Cabinet, from Mysuru. All other districts of the region — Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar — have only one MLA each. With the nomination of Preetham J Gowda as Chairman of Jungle Lodges and Resorts Limited and C S Niranjan Kumar as Chairman of Karnataka State Forest Industries Corporation Limited (KSFIC), Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts, respectively got representation in the government. Earlier, on February 6, 2020, K C Narayana Gowda from KR Pet of Mandya was sworn-in as minister. Only Mysuru district — with MLAs S A Ramadass of Krishnaraja segment, L Nagendra of Chamaraja segment and B Harshavardhan of Nanjangud — remains unrepresented. Besides, the neighbouring district of Kodagu, which has returned BJP MLAs from both of its constituencies is also left unrepresented. It has to be noted that Kodagu — with Madikeri and Virajpet segments — is a stronghold of the BJP and both its MLAs — M P Appachu Ranjan and K G Bopaiah respectively — are seniors. With the nomination of Adagur H Vishwanath as MLC, there is hope that Mysuru might get a place in the Cabinet if there is an expansion, in future. Apart from this, former minister Ramadass is also an aspirant in case there is an expansion. There are many aspirants like R Raghu, general secretary of BJP state Slum Morcha, and T S Srivathsa, city BJP president, who are looking forward for some nomination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boards-and-corporations-mysuru-misses-yet-another-opportunity-866410.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||KSOU building developed into model Covid Care Centre||The new building of the Academic Bhavan of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) at Mandakalli on Nanjangud Road, near Mysuru, has been developed into a model Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the wake of the rise in the number of Covid-positive persons in the district, over the past one month. It has to be noted that the total number of active Covid positive patients was 1,932, on July 26, 2020, while the total detected cases were 2,867. The capacity of the Designated Covid Hospital, the district hospital, is 250. Active Covid positive cases exceeded the capacity of the Covid Hospital on July 8 itself, when they crossed the 250 mark. However, as a precautionary measure, the district administration has opened several CCCs like the one in KSOU, Krishnaraja (KR) Hospital of Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMC and RI), new building of ESI Hospital on KRS Road, Basappa Memorial Hospital on Hunsur Road and the Primary Health Centre at Hoskote of Nanjangud taluk. The taluk administrations also have opened CCCs at their respective headquarters, or nearby place, to isolate and treat patients from their respective jurisdiction. Besides, for those with infrastructure and facilities, home isolation and treatment is under progress, since over a month. The CCC at the KSOU building, with 600 beds, houses mainly asymptomatic patients. Besides treatment, there are facilities for entertainment, like indoor games, for the inmates. All halls have television sets, with cable connection and Wi-Fi for internet. The building has 53 halls and several rooms. As per the guidelines of the Health department, 15 to 20 beds are arranged in each hall, with a gap of over two metres. All basic needs like bathrooms, toilets, facility to wash clothes and hot water for bathing are available. Facilities and security of health professionals, including doctors, is given utmost care in the CCC. Separate accommodation is provided for doctors and other healthcare workers, in the ground floor, which is named ‘green zone’. Hygiene and cleanliness is a priority in the CCC and an exclusive official is deputed for the purpose. Even garbage and bio-medical waste is disposed of scientifically. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “The efforts of Nodal Officer Dr Ashok and project manager of Nirmiti Kendra M T Manjunath and their team members, in establishing the CCC as per the guidelines, in a short span of time, is commendable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksou-building-developed-into-model-covid-care-centre-866411.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Mysuru crosses 3,000-mark with 296 new Covid-19 cases||With the highest single-day spike, the Covid-19 cases crossed 3,000-mark on Monday. The district reported three deaths. The district reported 296 cases on Monday, the highest so far, and the total positive cases has increased to 3,163. The highest so far was 281, followed by 230 reported on July 24 and 26 respectively. Of 296 cases, 181 are contacts of infected persons, 46 ILI cases, 30 have travel history, 17 SARI cases and 22 asymptomatic. Mysuru district stands second after Bengaluru, in terms of death rate. With the death of three persons due to infection, total deaths increased to 115 as on Monday. All the three patients were suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). While two are male below 55 years of age and one is a 71-year-old woman. It has to be noted that majority of the deaths reported are due to SARI. With the fresh cases, there are 2,152 active cases and a total of 896 persons have recovered and discharged till date, including 73 persons on Monday. The Health department authorities have observed a total of 19,592 persons and 16,222 have completed quarantine period of 14 days and 1,218 are under isolation.  The authorities have tested a total of 37,650 samples. The district administration has identified 115 new containment zones in the district on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-mysuru-crosses-3000-mark-with-296-new-covid-19-cases-866412.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Farmers stop sugarcane-laden lorries; stage protest||Alleging that the sugarcane coming under Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkare Kharkhane (PSSK), is being transported to other districts and states for crushing, the farmers stopped a sugarcane-laden lorry, and staged a protest here, on Monday. They stopped the lorry on the Mysuru Road near PSSK factory. The protesters said, "The state government has given PSSK on lease to Nirani Sugars, which is all set to begin operations from August 11. All preparations are underway, and it is not right for the sugar factory owners of other districts and states to purchase the cane." "We have already submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, requesting him not to allow the sugarcane grown here to be transported to other places. The district administration should take stern measures," they demanded. If no step is being taken, it would be inevitable to stop all the lorries plying with sugarcane and stage a protest, they warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-farmers-stop-sugarcane-laden-lorries-stage-protest-866415.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Record single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in Kalaburagi||Virus-hit district of Kalyana Karnataka-Kalaburagi-recorded a highest single day spike in positive cases on Monday. The district recorded a whopping 631 fresh cases. At 4495, the district is third in the State in Covid-19 cases after Bengaluru (46,923 cases) and Ballari (4,930). Kalaburagi, which hit the national headlines in last March after it reported nation's first Covid-19 death has seen 66 people succumb to the virus infection till date. As many as 2,271 people returned their homes upon recovery from the disease and there are 2,158 active. A total of 229 positive cases which was reported on the last Thursday was a highest single day spike in positive cases. The Monday's cases have taken Raichur district's case count to 1,822. Of which 844 are active. Two deaths on Monday has taken the death toll in the district to 20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/record-single-day-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-kalaburagi-866430.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Yediyurappa government's achievement in one year is zero, says Congress||The opposition Congress alleged the BJP government in Karnataka was directionless in its one year in office and had not fulfilled promises made to people. State Congress president D K Shivakumar also repeated the charge of corruption and loot" in purchase of equipment for managing Covid-19 pandemic by the government led by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, a charge rejected by the latter. There was 'lack' of coordination among Ministers. "This is a directionless government, they lack direction in everything... The government has completely failed, the corruption has gone to the peak," he told reporters here. He dubbed as "a chain of lies" the list of achievements released by the government and said it had not been able to fulfil the promises made to people. The government's achievement so far was 'zero', he said adding the ruling party can say it has completed one year in office, won bye-elections and carried out well "operation Lotus", a reference to defections allegedly engineered by the BJP to topple the Congress-JDS government last year. Yediyurappa was sworn in as the Chief Minister for the fourth time on July 26, 2019, three days after the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) government led by H D Kumaraswamy that lost the trust vote after a section of the ruling combine MLAs raised a banner of revolt. The KPCC president said his party will go to the "people's court" on the government's "failures and corruption". Reiterating the party's allegation of "loot" of about Rs 2,000 crore in purchase of equipment and supplies related to Covid-19, Shivakumar also demanded that the government give the list of people who were given cash relief during lockdown totalling to about Rs 1,600 crore as stated by it. "As an opposition party we have demanded a wite paper, is that wrong? Is it wrong to question your corruption and seek answers? Your Ministers have indulged in corruption in various departments," he alleged. Congress and its legislature party leader Siddaramaiah had recently alleged that the total expenditure of the government relating to Covid was Rs 4,167 crore of which at least Rs 2,000 crore was pocketed by ministers and officials, a charge rejected by the government. Recalling that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called the then Congress government as 10 per cent (commission) government during the 2018 assembly poll campaign, Shivakuamr said, "....do you know what percentage it has gone to in corona purchase?" "I want the honourable Prime Minister to intervene...look at what other states have purchased and at what price the Centre has purchased (Covid equipment)," he said. He demanded an inquiry into the alleged misappropriation and corruption and said it can also look into graft charges levelled against the previous JDS-Congress rule by BJP ministers now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-yediyurappa-governments-achievement-in-one-year-is-zero-says-congress-866368.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Rajasthan crisis: Congress stages protest in Karnataka||Senior Congress leaders were taken into police custody on Monday as they attempted to proceed towards Raj Bhavan in protest against the BJP’s alleged attempts to topple their party’s government in Rajasthan.  The police stopped Congress leaders near the Balekundri Circle, where they sat in protest, before being bundled into a bus. They were released later.  “The Rajasthan governor is a part of the BJP’s conspiracy. It’s the duty of the governor to function as per the Cabinet decision. But the governor is behaving as the puppet of the Centre,” leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said at the protest. KPCC presidentD K Shivakumar said the BJP’s attempt to “come to power by toppling an elected government is a murder of democracy.”  In a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind through Governor Vajubhai R Vala, the Congress sought “immediate intervention in the affairs of Rajasthan government” and urged him to save democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rajasthan-crisis-congress-stages-protest-in-karnataka-866417.html
27-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||H D Kumaraswamy fires salvo at govt over appointments to boards||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy lashed out at the government in a series of tweets saying it was busy trying to safeguard power instead of focusing on Covid-19 relief measures. Kumaraswamy was referring to the appointment of 20 MLAs are heads of various boards and corporations. On one hand, the government is busy with marking one year of its return to power. On the other, the party is busy consolidating power by appointing 20 MLAs to various Boards and Corporations, he tweeted. “This is a shameful act of the government. Especially at a time when the state government’s revenues have depleted and people too are reeling under financial pressure, brought about by the pandemic. Instead of catering to the public interest, the government is catering to the interest of the legislators,” Kumaraswamy charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-d-kumaraswamy-fires-salvo-at-govt-over-appointments-to-boards-866422.html
27-07-2020||Mysuru||Assistant engineer at MUDA tests Covid-19 positive||The assistant engineer is now under home isolation. The Health Department authorities are tracing his primary contacts and also looking for the source of his infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/assistant-engineer-at-muda-tests-covid-19-positive-866214.html
27-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Crisis: Governor will order us soon, we will call the Assembly session, says Ashok Gehlot||Taking part in the Congress' online campaign to "expose" the "BJP's designs to violate" constitutional and democratic norms, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot claimed that "democracy is in danger" and the entire country is "worried by the way elected governments are being toppled". The party on Sunday carried out the "SpeakUpForDemocracy" online campaign to back Gehlot amid the political crisis in Rajasthan, and plans for nationwide protests to ramp up the pressure. "Today, the entire country is worried because democracy is in danger. The 'SpeakUpForDemocracy' programme has its own message. Common people will have to understand and those in the government also will have to understand... the atmosphere in the country is worrisome," Gehlot said in a statement. About his government demanding the governor to call an Assembly session, the chief minister said, "The ruling party is always reluctant to call a session and the opposition always demands for it. But here, we are demanding. Till now, we have not received a reply." The Congress on Sunday accused the Rajasthan Governor of resorting to the "worst kind of obstruction of democracy" by raising "superficial and motivated" queries on Ashok Gehlot government's demand for convening a session of the state assembly. Gehlot, however, said the governor is an amiable, and tactful person who has great dignity for his office. "This is a constitutional post. He will order us soon, we will call the assembly session." The governor is concerned about the coronavirus pandemic and has praised the arrangements made by the state government in the fight against the viral disease, the chief minister said, adding that discussion on the state's economic situation as well on political issues will be held in the Assembly.  Targeting the BJP, he said, "The coronavirus crisis is not over. Instead, it is aggravating. You have started moving towards Rajasthan after Madhya Pradesh. What is happening? The whole country is worried and I am hopeful that they will understand this."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-crisis-governor-will-order-us-soon-we-will-call-the-assembly-session-says-ashok-gehlot-866095.html
27-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi lauds effort in growing lemongrass in Jharkhand's Bishunpur||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised the joint effort by self-help groups in growing lemongrass in Bishunpur area of Jharkhand's Gumla district. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, the prime minister said around 30 groups are jointly cultivating lemongrass in Bishunpur area. He also said that lemongrass grows in four months and its oil is also in demand and fetches a good price in the market. Hailing the valour of the armed forces during the Kargil War, Modi in his radio address also asked people to speak and act keeping in mind the morale of soldiers and asserted that wars are fought not just on borders but on many fronts within the country too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-lauds-effort-in-growing-lemongrass-in-jharkhands-bishunpur-866101.html
27-07-2020||National||Suspended Shiv Sena leader booked for extortion||A case of illegally occupying a flat and demanding Rs 30 lakh in extortion from a businessman was registered on Sunday against Shiv Sena's suspended Nagpur unit president Mangesh Kadao, police said. An official said the victim had taken loan from the accused in August 2010 and returned part of it. Kadao and his accomplices allegedly took possession of the victim's flat located on Central Bazaar Road, and also took his signatures on a blank stamp paper, he said. Later, Kadao and his aides allegedly demanded Rs 30 lakh from the victim to vacate his flat, he said. Police registered a case under various sections of the IPC and under the Maharashtra Money Lending (Regulation) Act against Kadao, who has already been arrested in connection with other cases. While nine cases are pending against Kadao at various police stations, investigation in seven more complaints is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suspended-shiv-sena-leader-booked-for-extortion-866104.html
27-07-2020||National||AAP MP ‘adopts’ 70-year-old who had been abandoned by family||Leelavati Devi, abandoned by her family in Mumbai, got on a Shramik train to Delhi, only to be welcomed into Delhi’s North Avenue  When the Covid-19 pandemic hit, many lives were permanently altered. One of those was Leelawati Kedarnath Dubey’s - a 70-year-old woman who lived with her son, Dinesh Kumar Dubey in Mumbai’s Mahul Gaon.  Leelavati ‘Devi’, as she is sometimes referred to, was abandoned by her son, an autorickshaw driver, and daughter-in-law, despite paying for her food expenses while living with them.  As news of Devi’s woes spread, Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP, Sanjay Singh, stepped up and welcomed the elderly woman into their home.  Before being invited into Singh’s home, Devi had been welcomed by another Delhi-based family, who later ended up abandoning her for unknown reasons.  Devi, originally from Delhi, went to Mumbai to care for her son, whose health had been deteriorating. “He stays with his wife and children. Over time, his health improved. When I was no longer needed, I was thrown out,” she said.  Devi says her woes started after the demise of her husband. Along with a daughter, she has two other sons, who live in Delhi as well.  Singh lives with his wife, two children, parents, and Devi in his official residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-mp-adopts-70-year-old-who-had-been-abandoned-by-family-866105.html
27-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 27||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 14 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 14,78,608 as of July 27 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 33,358 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 9,17,568 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-karnataka-maharashtra-delhi-tamil-nadu-west-bengal-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-27-866114.html
27-07-2020||National||Indians around world can help make country self-reliant: MoS Shripad Naik||The Indian diaspora around the world can play a crucial role in making India self-reliant, said Minister of State for Defence Shripad Yesso Naik on Sunday. Naik was addressing a virtual seminar on “atmanirbhar Bharat” organised by the Jaipur Foot USA. He stressed the economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the wake of the pandemic is equivalent to 10 percent of the country's GDP. “The objective of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan is to make India independent against the tough competition in the global supply chain and to empower the poor adversely affected by Covid-19,” he said, adding that a self-reliant India that is a manufacturing hub can help other nations as well. The Indian diaspora can also play a very important role in achieving the goal of a self-reliant and resilient India, he added. Addressing the webinar, Senior RSS leader and Muslim Rashtriya Manch margdarshak Indresh Kumar said India is “taking great strides” under the leadership of Modi and the “country will emerge stronger" from the coronavirus crisis. Under the leadership of Modi, India has taken strong measures on various fronts, be it combating terrorism or gender equality, he said. The speakers also paid homage to the Indian soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice during the Kargil War as the nation commemorated the 21st anniversary of India’s victory over Pakistan on Sunday. Jaipur Foot USA chairman Prem Bhandari underlined the philosophy of "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" and said a self-reliant India will benefit other nations as well. He said in the post-pandemic world, all nations will have to become self-reliant and strengthen their manufacturing capacities to ensure that they don’t have to depend on only one country, China. “Nations have realised that they cannot put all their eggs in one basket. Not just India, but other countries around the world such as the US, Vietnam, and in the Asian region also have to become self-reliant,” he said. Bhandari added that 32 million non-resident Indians and persons of Indian origin around the world can contribute tremendously to the Indian government's campaign for self-reliance. "They may be living outside India but the diaspora will always be ready to work together for a strong India," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-around-world-can-help-make-country-self-reliant-mos-shripad-naik-866154.html
27-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi greets Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray on his birthday, praying for his long and healthy life. Thackeray was born in 1960. "Best wishes to Maharashtra CM Shri Uddhav Thackeray Ji on his birthday. I pray for Uddhav Ji's long and healthy life," the prime minister tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-greets-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-on-birthday-866163.html
27-07-2020||National||With record single-day spike of 49,931 cases, India's Covid-19 tally crosses 14-lakh mark||With a record single-day jump of 49,931 Covid-19 cases, India's caseload climbed to 14,35,453 on Monday, while recoveries surged to 9,17,567, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country's death toll rose to 32,771 with 708 fatalities being recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,85,114 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country, while 9,17,567 patients have recovered and one person has migrated. The recovery rate stands at 63.92 per cent, according to the data. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the fifth consecutive day when Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 45,000. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 1,68,06,803 samples have been tested up to July 26, with 5,15,472 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-record-single-day-spike-of-49931-cases-indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-14-lakh-mark-866166.html
27-07-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic is spreading at the fastest pace in India||By Bibhudatta Pradhan Infections in the South Asian nation of 130 crore people have reached 14.3 lakh, including 32,771 deaths, India’s health ministry said, with daily cases close to a record 50,000 on Monday. India is only trailing the US and Brazil now in the number of confirmed infections, but its growth in new cases is the fastest. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka are among the states where the maximum number of daily cares are being reported. The world’s second-most populous country has been ramping up testing, with 515,472 samples taken on Sunday, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research. Still, India and Brazil have some of the world’s lowest testing rates, with 11.8 tests and 11.93 tests per 1,000 people respectively, compared to the US with 152.98 tests per 1,000 and Russia with 184.34, according to Our World in Data, a project based at the University of Oxford in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-is-spreading-at-the-fastest-pace-in-india-866180.html
27-07-2020||National||BJP leaders stage sit-in near Delhi CM's residence over power bills; detained by police||BJP leaders, including its Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition in the city Assembly Ramvir Bidhuri, were detained during a protest against the AAP government over the issue of electricity bills in the Civil Lines area here on Monday. The leaders staged a sit-in near the Civil Lines metro station and attempted to march towards Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence on Flagstaff Road when they were stopped and detained by the police. Addressing the protesters, Gupta said the people of Delhi are receiving electricity bills for "huge" amounts and demanded that the Kejriwal government withdraw the fixed charges and stop the disconnection notices being sent by the discoms to the consumers. The leaders, including Gupta and Bidhuri, were taken to the Civil Lines police station, from where they were released subsequently, Delhi BJP's media cell head Ashok Goel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-stage-sit-in-near-delhi-cms-residence-over-power-bills-detained-by-police-866234.html
27-07-2020||National||Israeli team working with DRDO to develop rapid Covid-19 testing kit arrives in India||A high-level team of researchers from Israel arrived here on Monday to take forward the work it has been doing with India to develop a rapid testing kit for Covid-19 which can give the result within 30 seconds. Israel's Ambassador to India Ron Malka said if the testing kit is developed, it could be a "game-changer" in the battle against Covid-19. The Israeli defence ministry research and development team has been working with India's chief scientist K Vijay Raghavan and Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to develop rapid testing for Covid-19 in less than 30 seconds, the Israeli Embassy had said last week. The team from the Directorate of Defence Research and Development (DDR&D) in the Israeli Ministry of Defence will conduct a series of "final stages of testing" to determine the effectiveness of a number of rapid diagnostic solutions with their Indian counterparts. The special flight, which arrived here in the morning, also brought with it breakthrough emerging Israeli technologies for combating Covid-19, Malka said. Latest medical equipment developed in Israel to fight Covid-19 has been brought on the special flight, he said. "We also brought on this flight advanced respirators that are banned for export in Israel but a waiver was given to bring them to India," he added. Since the outbreak of the global pandemic, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have held three telephonic conversations in which they promised mutual assistance in dealing with the virus and committed to joint technological and scientific research between the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/israeli-team-working-with-drdo-to-develop-rapid-covid-19-testing-kit-arrives-in-india-866241.html
27-07-2020||National||PM Modi took bold decisions to help people fight Covid-19: JP Nadda||Addressing Maharashtra BJP unit functionaries via video link, Nadda also said the Modi-led government has increased production of PPE kits and set up additional test facilities. "Our prime minister took bold decisions in healthcare and economy to help people," Nadda said. The US and European countries spent more time debating on economy and health, that led to worsening of the coronavirus crisis, he added. "The countries known for their strong economy and healthcare network, like the US and EU countries, spent more time debating on economy and health. It worsened the coronavirus crisis," he said. These countries failed to take the right decision at the right time, Nadda said. "Had there been no powerful leader like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India could not have fared well in the current (coronavirus) crisis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-took-bold-decisions-to-help-people-fight-covid-19-jp-nadda-866245.html
27-07-2020||National||SC reserves order on plea for transferring funds collected in PM CARES to NDRF||Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that the PM CARES Fund is a "voluntary fund" while funds to the NDRF and SDRF are made available through budgetary allocations. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for petitioner NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), said they are not doubting the bona fide of anyone but the creation of the PM CARES Fund is allegedly in contravention of provisions of the Disaster Management Act. He claimed that an audit of the NDRF is being conducted by the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) but the government has said the audit of the PM CARES Fund will be done by private auditors. The Supreme Court has reserved its order on the issue raised in the petition regarding transferring the money collected under the PM CARES Fund to the NDRF. On June 17, the apex court had asked the Centre to file its response on the plea, which has sought a direction that all the contributions made by individuals and institutions for the Covid-19 pandemic should be credited to the NDRF, rather than to the PM CARES Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-order-on-plea-for-transferring-funds-collected-in-pm-cares-to-ndrf-866253.html
27-07-2020||National||FICCI suggests reopening of foreign air services, cinemas, metro rail in Unlock 3.0||Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FCCI) in its Unlock 3.0 roadmap has suggested the government to reopen multiplexes and cinemas and metro rail, and allow international flight services, among others, with adherence to all safety precautions. The industry chamber has also favoured reopening of schools and educational institutions keeping in mind the local situation, as it outlined standard operating procedures for lifting of several restrictions as part of Unlock 3.0. The chamber suggested that Indian and foreign air carriers be allowed to operate between two countries. It also called for permitting usage of restaurant and eateries in hotels, opening up of cinemas and multiplexes and reopening metro rail services. As the world continues to battle the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has become clear that a strategy of long-term total lockdown is simply unsustainable for most economies, FICCI mentioned. "As lockdown orders continue to be enforced in many parts of the country, businesses and livelihoods are under tremendous pressure due to the collapsed demand, layoffs, and wage reductions," it said. As the end of 'Unlock 2' is approaching on July 31, 2020, and the country prepares for 'Unlock 3',  there is need to look at lifting of existing restrictions keeping in mind 'Threat of Covid-19 is not over yet and we need to remain vigilant', said the chamber. It has recommended that it is now time to consider easing the prohibitions placed on sectors such as aviation, sports and tourism, provided businesses follow the guidelines laid out in this document to the fullest. Laying out its suggestions for international air travel of passengers except as permitted by Ministry of Home Affairs, Ficci said, "Indian and Foreign carriers be allowed to operate between two countries". India should allow foreigners to travel to the country on a reciprocal basis while accepting the Covid-19 Negative Certificate issued by the Origin Country. It said a Standard Quarantine Protocol should be issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to be followed by all states to facilitate smooth transit and clarity of rules for passengers. Moreover, clear cut dates should be announced by the states to open tourism,  monuments, tourist attractions, hotels, restaurants and bars, said FICCI. As of now, the usage of restaurant and eateries in any hotel is confined only for residential guests who are staying in the hotel. This arrangement makes F&B operation totally unviable due to the burden of fixed costs involved like manpower, power and fuel etc., said the chamber. It suggested that all restaurant and eateries in the hotel should be allowed to serve resident as well as non-resident guests, at 50 percent seating capacity while maintaining social distancing norms and all necessary precautions. Besides, the chamber said permission should be granted for hosting all kinds of banquet and conference in the hotel, however a ceiling of 50 percent of venue capacity maintaining social distancing norms should be permitted, enabling the hotel to earn some revenue when other source of business has dried up. "Metro rail services may be opened. Stations at containment zones to remain closed and trains to not stop at these stations. Security personnel to be deployed at metro stations to ensure SOP is being strictly followed," suggested FICCI. It further said metro services may start with less than 50 percent capacity initially and could be gradually increased, along with contactless ticketing as far as possible,  mandatory thermal screening at entry points, social distancing to be maintained at all stations, and seating to ensure distance between travellers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-suggests-reopening-of-foreign-air-services-cinemas-metro-rail-in-unlock-30-866259.html
27-07-2020||National||Delhi violence: HC restrains police from circulating info on allegations on Pinjra Tod activist||The Delhi High Court Monday restrained the police from circulating information about the allegations against 'Pinjra Tod' activist Devangana Kalitha, arrested in relation to communal violence here during the anti-CAA protests, till the trial commences in the case. Justice Vibhu Bakhru, while pronouncing order through video conferencing, also said the prayer made by Kalitha to set aside the press note issued by Delhi Police on June 2 to the media about the case cannot be acceded to. The court passed the order on a plea by Kalitha, a JNU student, alleging selective leak of certain evidence against her by the police. Pinjra Tod (break the cage) is a collective of women students and alumni of colleges from across Delhi. Kalitha, who was arrested on May 23, is lodged in Tihar Jail under judicial custody in a case associated with violence in old Delhi's Daryaganj area during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year. In all, three cases have been registered against her, including in relation to the northeast Delhi riots earlier this year. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-hc-restrains-police-from-circulating-info-on-allegations-on-pinjra-tod-activist-866260.html
27-07-2020||National||Hope President instructs Rajasthan governor to convene Assembly session: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday expressed hope that the President will intervene and instruct the Rajasthan governor to convene a session of the state assembly. The former Union minister alleged that BJP-appointed governors have violated the letter and spirit of the Constitution and have in the process "gravely impaired" parliamentary democracy, its conventions and traditions. "I sincerely hope that the President will take note of what is happening - the erosion of parliamentary democracy, the erosion of the Constitution, the violation of the Constitution and do what is right in the circumstances," he told a virtual press conference. Chidambaram said the President has the “absolute authority” to tell the governor that what he is doing is wrong and ask him to call an assembly session. "I still believe that the President of India can intervene and instruct the governor to convene an assembly session," he said when asked whether the president can directly intervene in the matter. "I hope better counsel will prevail and wise people can instruct the governor that he must summon a session of the assembly," the Congress leader said, noting that the governor has no discretion of his own in the matter. Chidambaram said if the chief minister, who is accused of not enjoying a majority, wants to prove his majority, he is entitled to call a session at the earliest to prove it. "No one can stand in his way," he said. "Placing any obstacle to calling the assembly session would undermine the fundamental basis of parliamentary democracy," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-president-instructs-rajasthan-governor-to-convene-assembly-session-chidambaram-866267.html
27-07-2020||National||Man arrested for raping 8-year-old girl in Delhi||A 40-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly abducting and raping a minor girl in North Delhi's Sadar Bazaar area, police said on Monday. The accused, Sudama, resided in Nabi Karim area and worked as a cart puller in Sadar Bazaar, they said. The incident took place on Friday night. The eight-year-old girl was sleeping with her grandmother outside their house when the accused took her to a nearby place and raped her, they said. According to police, when the girl's grandmother woke up and did not find the child, she alerted a family member. Though the girl returned to the house, she started bleeding the next morning. The family then rushed her to a hospital and informed the police. Since the victim only spoke Marathi, police took help from a woman who spoke the language to interact with the girl. The victim narrated her ordeal and managed to give a description of the accused. The accused was arrested on Saturday. The police said Sudama was under the influence of alcohol when he committed the crime. A case under IPC section 363 (Punishment for kidnapping), 376 (Punishment for rape) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against the accused, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-arrested-for-raping-8-year-old-girl-in-delhi-866268.html
27-07-2020||National||Supreme Court asks UGC to respond to plea against circular for final exams by September 30||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and the UGC to respond to a batch of petitions, including by Shiv Sena's student Yuva Sena, questioning the directions to conduct university final examinations by September 30. A bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan sought a response from the authorities in the matter within three days as petitioners claimed the move was set to affect right to life among others of the students. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for a petitioner, contended that the UGC's direction was harsh and unrealistic and states like Maharashtra and West Bengal objected to it for having been given no discretion in the matter. The petitioners, including a Covid-19 patient, questioned validity of the direction issued by the UGC on July 6. They claimed many final year students and their family members could be affected with the virus, posing a risk to other students. They also relied upon the top court's order in the CBSE matter. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UGC, said the response in the matter may be filed on Wednesday. The court posted the matter for consideration on July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-ugc-to-respond-to-plea-against-circular-for-final-exams-by-september-30-866270.html
27-07-2020||National||Education dreams fade for millions in digitally divided India||The digital divide stretches long and deep across the expanse of India, further separating the haves from the have-nots and the tech-empowered from the tech-deprived with millions of children struggling to keep up with the challenges of online classes. The coronavirus pandemic that forced people into their homes and forced schools and colleges to move to virtual classes has edged education dreams with conditions aplenty – a computer or at least a smartphone, proper internet connectivity and uninterrupted power supply. The education playing field, never really level, is now potholed and bumpy as students, and their teachers, in cities, towns and villages scramble to cope with the demands of the times. Children in a small settlement in the floodplains of the Yamuna along the Delhi-Noida border, for instance, have never had it easy. They would cross the river in a boat to reach school, just minutes away from the bright lights of the national capital and its suburb. Four months ago, when India went into lockdown, their odds increased manifold. Joshna Kumar, 12, has a phone but often no electricity so it is difficult to attend her online classes everyday. Most residents of the settlement rely on Charan Singh, a cattle rearer who visits daily, to charge their phones. And so does she. “Every evening I give my phone for charging. He brings it charged next morning,” she said, sitting on a charpoy in the backyard of her home, quickly scrolling through her Whatsapp messages to take down notes and finish her homework. To save battery, Joshna keeps the brightness of her phone low. Her 10-year-old brother studying in the same school mostly stays away from class. When he does attend, Joshna has to miss school and catch up through pre-recorded videos. Their father is a daily wage worker and another phone cannot happen for them. Her story finds echo in Faridabad, Haryana, where Suchi Singh, a Class 8 student, said there is only smartphone between her three siblings and her. So, the four take turns in attending class. That Suchi, a topper, is forced to miss class troubles her father Rajesh Kumar, a newspaper vendor, but he said he has no option. A smartphone is a luxury when he is struggling to provide for his family. “E-classes have made life difficult,” he said, pessimistic about what the future holds for him and his children. Hundreds of kilometres away in Mumbai’s Aarey Colony, Jyoti Randhe, a Class 10 student in a municipal school, shares a smartphone with her mother who takes it to work. Her classmate Roshni Nere has to divide her phone time with two sisters who also take e-classes. Roshni’s mother said she is worried about her future and appeals to authorities to at least equip them with the required technology. Some students don’t have that option either. Like Sumit Wadakar, who studies in the same school and whose father Laxman Wadakar works as a security guard in Mumbai’s Film City. He said candidly his salary is not enough to buy a smartphone. The numbers tell the story of e-education deepening the rift. According to data released by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation for 2017-18, only 10.7 percent Indians have computers while 23.8 percent have internet facilities. A nationwide survey of villages conducted by the Ministry of Rural Development in 2017-’18 estimated that 16 percent of households received one to eight hours of electricity daily, 33 percent received nine-12 hours and only 47 percent received more than 12 hours of electricity a day. In Srinagar, the circumstances are different but the helplessness the same. Sheik Sulayman Mushtaq’s parents can afford his private school education but there is only 2G connectivity in Kashmir Valley. The slow speed means the Class 10 student can’t exchange large files and or live stream classes on his computer. While students juggle between problems of connectivity, lack of screens and no electricity, teachers are in a bind too. Jeyaishwari RC Nadar, who teaches Maths to Class 5 and Class 6 children in a Mumbai school, uses a transparent tray from her refrigerator as her mobile stand when she conducts classes. She said about 10-15 students in her class are not able to attend online sessions. It is difficult even for those who are able to attend because Maths particularly requires one-on-one interaction with students for better understanding, she said. Jaishwar Sulochana, who teaches Hindi and History in a school in Mumbai’s densely populated Dharavi slum, believed to be Asia’s largest slum, said many of her students live in one-room houses. The background noise breaks their concentration. And while most families have smartphones, some students are unable to join classes as their parents take their devices when they step out for work. “The need of the hour is to equip these students with mobile phones and tabs so that they can at least attend classes. There is no satisfaction in teaching students via online classes,” she said. Children with special needs face a whole different set of challenges. “Despite connectivity and other issues, online classes have the potential to be more beneficial for these students as their parents sit with them and are able to explain to their children. This helps in educating both the child and parent,” said Neeta Hemant Dhuri, a speech therapist in Mumbai who takes classes for the hearing impaired.   She uses daily objects, pictures and toys to teach language concepts such as prepositions and verbs through her laptop. NGOs working with people with disabilities have expressed concern over the issues faced by students in e-education. Akhila Sivadas, executive director at the Centre for Advocacy and Research, a non-profit organisation, said the government needs to provide education that is accessible to students with disabilities. Innovation is often the name of the game. Sandeep Saggar, a PE teacher in Delhi, uses a broom and everyday daily objects that he can grab to teach students hockey from his garage. He said parents must pay fees on time so students and teachers can look after each other and continue whatever little learning is possible in these difficult Covid-19 times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-dreams-fade-for-millions-in-digitally-divided-india-866275.html
27-07-2020||National||Online LSAT-India 2020 exam results in mid-August, says Jindal Global Law School||The results of the first online, remote-proctored and AI-enabled LSAT-- India 2020 Test, taken by 6,000 students amidst the Covid-19 pandemic to join JGLS in different academic programmes, will be announced in the second week of August. The test, owned and administered by Law School Admission Council (LSAC) Pennsylvania USA, was successfully conducted in India by their affiliate Pearson VUE, Jindal Global Law School (JGLS) of O P Jindal Global University said in a statement. "These are extraordinary times when the world of higher education and universities have been challenged by the Covid-19 global pandemic," said C Raj Kumar, Founding Vice-Chancellor of the University and Founding Dean of JGLS. "Most of the registered students successfully completing the test in an Online and Remote-Proctored exam format," he said. The statement said 6,651 students registered for the online test, held on six days from July 19-26, and the results will be announced in the second week of August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-lsat-india-2020-exam-results-in-mid-august-says-jindal-global-law-school-866290.html
27-07-2020||National||Drop contempt proceedings against Prashant Bhushan: Former judges, activists||Over 100 former judges, writers, academicians, politicians and activists on Monday expressed concern over the initiation of contempt proceedings against prominent activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan by the Supreme Court, saying it appears to be an attempt at stifling criticism of the apex court, which had faced "serious questions about its "reluctance" in checking "governmental excesses" in the past few years. In a joint statement, the group asked the Supreme Court to withdraw to initiate suo-moto contempt proceedings against Bhushan about his tweets in the "interest of justice and fairness" and to maintain the dignity of the apex court. The statement was signed by 131 people, including former Supreme Court judge Justice Madam B Lokur, former Delhi High Court Chief Justice A P Shah, writer Arundhati Roy, former Navy chief Admiral L Ramdas, CPI General Secretary D Raja, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat, former Delhi Lieutenant Governor Najeeb Jung and activists Aruna Roy, Anjali Bharadwaj and Nikhil Dey. "In the past few years, serious questions have been raised about the reluctance of the Supreme Court to play its constitutionally mandated role as a check on governmental excesses and violations of fundamental rights of people by the state. These questions have been raised by all sections of society, media, academics, civil society organisations, members of the legal fraternity and even by sitting and retired judges of the Supreme Court itself," it said. "Most recently, the Supreme Court’s reluctance to intervene in a timely manner to avert the migrant crisis during the lockdown came under intense public scrutiny. Concerns have also been raised regarding the decision of the court to not restart physical hearings, even in a limited manner, despite passage of five months since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic," it said. The group urged the Supreme Court to take note of these concerns and engage with the public in an open and transparent manner. They were of the opinion that the initiation of contempt proceedings against Bhushan, who had "articulated some of these concerns" in his tweets, "appears to be an attempt at stifling such criticism, not just by Prashant Bhushan but by all stakeholders in the Indian democratic and constitutional setup". Emphasising that an institution as important as the Supreme Court must be open to public discussion without the fear of retribution or action of criminal contempt, they reminded that criminal contempt as an offence has been circumscribed and made redundant in most functioning democracies, such as the United States and the United Kingdom. "Even in India, the principle that criticism of the judiciary should not be stifled by the indiscriminate use of the power of contempt has been recognised by the Supreme Court as well as by academics and advocates of repute," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drop-contempt-proceedings-against-prashant-bhushan-former-judges-activists-866291.html
27-07-2020||National||Session can be summoned, give 21-day notice: Rajasthan Governor to Cabinet||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday agreed to summon a session of the state assembly provided the government gives a 21-day notice. The condition is part of three suggestions the Governor has made while returning Ashok Gehlot Cabinet’s recommendation that he should call a session of the Vidhan Sabha. This was the second time that Mishra has returned a Cabinet proposal on convening the assembly, amid the power tussle in Rajasthan. Mishra also wrote that the state government should undertake to broadcast live the proceedings of a floor test if it takes place. It should also ensure precautions during the proposed Vidhan Sabha sitting against the spread of coronavirus, his note said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/session-can-be-summoned-give-21-day-notice-rajasthan-governor-to-cabinet-866302.html
27-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 fatality rate progressively falling, currently stands at 2.28%: Govt||India's Covid-19 fatality rate has been progressively falling and currently stands at 2.28 per cent which is among the lowest in the world, the government said on Monday, attributing the dip to factors like aggressive testing and an effective containment strategy. It also said that the recovery rate has been improving consistently and the total recoveries have now crossed the nine lakh-mark. The focused efforts of the Centre, state governments and Union Territory administrations on early detection and isolation through aggressive testing and efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases have shown results with continuously falling case fatality rate and improving recovery rate, the health ministry said. "With effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care approach, the case fatality rate has significantly dipped," the ministry said in a statement. The case fatality rate is progressively falling and currently is at 2.28 per cent, it said, adding that India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. India also recorded more than 30,000 recoveries in a single day for the fourth successive day with 31,991 patients discharged in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. The number of recovered patients now stands at 9,17,567 with the recovery rate at 64 per cent, it said. As a result of low mortality and more people recovering, the recovered cases exceed the active cases (4,85,114) by 4,32,453 as on Monday, the ministry said. Medical attention continues to be provided to all active cases in hospitals and home settings, it said. With a record single-day jump of 49,931 Covid-19 cases, India's caseload climbed to 14,35,453 on Monday, while recoveries surged to 9,17,567, according to Union Health Ministry data. The country's death toll rose to 32,771 with 708 fatalities being recorded in a day, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-progressively-falling-currently-stands-at-228-govt-866304.html
27-07-2020||National||Govt launches 'Mausam' app for weather forecasts||Earth Sciences Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday launched a mobile application which will provide city-wise weather forecasts, nowcasts and other warnings. The mobile application, 'Mausam', has been designed and developed jointly by the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune and the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Speaking at the event, Vardhan said huge financial investments are needed, at least twice the present budget, to augment observational networks, replace old ships and procure new computing resources. 'Mausam' is available both on Google's Play Store and Apple's App Store. The app will offer different services. It will provide current weather information, including temperature, humidity, wind speed and direction, for 200 cities. The information will be updated eight times a day. It will also issue nowcasts, three-hourly warnings, for local weather phenomena and their intensity for about 800 stations and districts. In case of severe weather, its impact will also be included in the warning. The app will provide weather forecast for the next seven days for around 450 cities in India. Weather information of the past 24 hours will also be available on the app. It also has a system which will issue colour-coded alerts (red, yellow, orange) for all districts twice a day for up to five days to warn people ahead of dangerous weather.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-mausam-app-for-weather-forecasts-866306.html
27-07-2020||National||CPI MP writes to Javadekar opposing use of Doordarshan to telecast 'religious function' in Ayodhya||CPI MP Binoy Viswam has written to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, opposing the telecast of the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on Doordarshan as it would be "contrary to the accepted norms of national integrity". In his letter to Javadekar, Viswam said section 12(2)(a) of the Prasar Bharati Act, which governs the functioning of Doordarshan, clearly states that the objective of the national broadcaster is "upholding the unity and integrity of the country and the values enshrined in the Constitution". "As the national broadcaster for a country that is founded on the principles of secularism and religious harmony, the use of Doordarshan to broadcast the religious function at Ayodhya on 5th August is contrary to the accepted norms of national integrity. "In a secular democracy, state practice and organisations must be kept devoid of religious inclinations and attempts must be made to ensure that the religious sentiments of all communities are respected," the Communist Party of India (CPI) leader said. Given the historicity of the dispute over the land where the religious function is to take place, it would be mature for the government to resist the "attempts to politicise" the issue and ensure that the secular image of the country is not compromised, he added. Viswam further pointed out that as a broadcasting channel governed by an arm of the government, the use of Doordarshan to telecast the religious function in Ayodhya must be avoided. "As the Minister for Information and Broadcasting, it is incumbent on you to ensure that the organisations under your leadership uphold the constitutional values that govern our country," the Left leader said. The "bhoomi pujan" ceremony of the Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya on August 5 will be telecast live on Doordarshan, trustees of the temple said on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpi-mp-writes-to-javadekar-opposing-use-of-doordarshan-to-telecast-religious-function-in-ayodhya-866316.html
27-07-2020||National||Celebrate Eid adhering to all health ministry guidelines on Covid-19: Jamiat to Muslims||Prominent Muslim body Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind on Monday urged members of the community to celebrate Eid-ul-Azha adhering to all Union Health Ministry guidelines on the Covid-19 pandemic. Jamiat president Maulana Arshad Madani said that in view of the rising cases of coronavirus, it is advised that Muslims perform Eid-ul-Azha prayers in mosques or at home following all social distancing norms and guidelines issued by the health ministry from time to time. It is better to perform animal sacrifice, an important part of the festival, after offering sermon and prayers in a short period of time, immediately after 20 minutes of sunrise, Madani said. He said that it must also be ensured that all waste be buried or disposed of in a manner that it does not create any problem for other people. "If, however, there is no way to fulfil this (sacrifice) religious obligation, then a sacrifice should be offered at a nearby place where there is no difficulty," Madani said. "But, at a place where the sacrifice has been offered regularly, and there is a problem right now, at least one goat must be sacrificed there after registration with the local administration," he said. Eid-ul-Azha will be celebrated on August 1. Animal sacrifices are performed as a ritual to commemorate Prophet Ibrahim's willingness to sacrifice his son Ismail, as an act of obedience to god.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/celebrate-eid-adhering-to-all-health-ministry-guidelines-on-covid-19-jamiat-to-muslims-866317.html
27-07-2020||National||Restrictions in Andaman to prevent Covid-19 spread among vulnerable tribes||The Andaman and Nicobar Islands administration has decided to restrict the number of vehicles passing through Jarawa tribal reserve in South Andaman district with immediate effect to prevent the spread of coronavirus among its indigenous population, officials said on Monday. The district administration in Nicobar has made it mandatory for people seeking to enter its islands to produce Covid-19 test certificates, in order to protect the Nicobarese tribal population from the infection, they said. The tribes of the Union territory have low immunity to diseases due to their minimal contact with the outside world. Only one convoy per day has been permitted to ply on the Andaman Trunk Road, which passes through the Jarawa tribal reserve, between Jirkatang and Middle Strait areas in South Andaman district, the officials said. The convoy will leave Jirkatang at 10 am and begin its return journey from Middle Strait at 3 pm, they said.  "The health status of drivers, crew and passengers will be checked. Travellers are urged to take safety precautions, keep windows of the vehicles shut and not give food to Jarawas or allow them inside the vehicles," an official said. The South Andaman district administration has asked both private and government offices, barring those engaged in essential services, to work at 50 per cent capacity and in staggered working hours to prevent the spread of the disease, an order issued by its deputy commissioner said. Shops in the Port Blair Municipal Council area have also been asked not to allow more than five persons at a time inside the business establishments. Bigger showrooms and supermarkets are urged to operate at 50 per cent capacity, it said. Buses and ships plying in the district should also operate at 50 per cent passenger capacity. A jeep is permitted to carry a maximum of four passengers, a taxi three and an autorickshaw two, the order said. Those found violating the order will face legal action under sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, it added. The Union territory has so far registered 324 Covid-19 cases, of which, 142 are active and 182 people have recovered, officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restrictions-in-andaman-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-among-vulnerable-tribes-866320.html
27-07-2020||National||Supreme Court asks states to show compliance with directions on Covid-19 treatment||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the States to show that its directions issued Suo Motu on June 19 for proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and supervision of such hospitals were complied with. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said though the Union government has filed an affidavit, it does not give details of compliance of the order, except that directions have been issued to comply with it. "Mere direction to comply the directions is not enough. The steps taken towards compliance of the directions have to be brought on the record," the bench said. The bench asked the States to file a response within two weeks. "We are of the view that the Chief Secretaries of the States have to take steps to ensure that directions issued by this court in order dated June 19, 2020 are complied with. An appropriate compliance report be filed," the bench said. On June 19, the court had directed all States to immediately constitute a team of doctors and other experts for inspection, supervision and guidance of government and other hospitals, dedicated to treatment of Covid-19 patients. The court had directed the Chief Secretary of each State to ensure that such committees are immediately constituted and start their works within a period of seven days. The court was dealing with Suo Motu matter related proper treatment of Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of the dead bodies. It had directed for installing CCTV cameras at Covid dedicated hospitals, allowing one attendant of the patient, among others. It directed the Centre to issue directions to States, prescribing reasonable rate for Covid-19 tests. It had ordered Chief Secretaries of all States to take steps regarding installation of CCTV Cameras in Covid dedicated hospitals where patients were taking treatment to facilitate the management of such patients. The court also ordered all Covid-dedicated hospitals to permit one willing attendant of the patient in the hospital premise, and create a helpdesk accessible physically as well as by telephone from where well being of patients admitted in the hospitals can be enquired. It had also directed the Ministry of Home Affairs to issue appropriate directions under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to all States and Union Territories to uniformly follow the revised discharge policy issued on May 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-states-to-show-compliance-with-directions-on-covid-19-treatment-866321.html
27-07-2020||National||CRPF Raising Day: MoS Home Nityanand Rai recalls valour of CRPF men in 1959 China attack in Ladakh||Union minister Nityanand Rai on Monday recalled the valour and sacrifice of the CRPF personnel outnumbered during an attack by heavily armed Chinese troops in 1959 in Hot Springs in Ladakh, which is one of the friction points in the current Sino-India standoff. Rai, the union minister of state for home, was speaking here while officiating as the chief guest of the 82nd Raising Day celebrations of the Central Reserve Police Force(CRPF) headquarters here. Home Minister Amit Shah was slated to attend the event but he could not make it owing to "some exigency", officals said. The CRPF has a rich history of valour and sacrifice...and on October 21, 1959, it showed that in Hot Springs in Ladakh when the Chinese attacked, Rai said. "What a coincidence. Whenever China attacks, its strength is huge and ours is less...but China has always suffered the consequences," he said, but did not elaborate. He said 10 CRPF personnel sacrificed their lives in Hot Springs, and the Chinese army had to suffer a "big damage." Similarly, he said the CRPF defended the country at Sardar Post in Gujarat when a small team of the force repulsed an attack by a 3,000-strong army contingent of Pakistan in 1965. "Pakistan would shake with fear whenever it would recall this incident," Rai said. The minister praised the force for ensuring the security of the country as he said without security there can be no peace, no development and no unity. He said under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah terrorism and Naxalism were being wiped out in the country. In the last six months, 150 terrorists have been killed and 4-6 terrorist outfits like Lashkar-e-Taiba(LeT) and Hizbul Mujahideen have been eliminated from Kashmir, he said. Rai said terrorists should know they will have to either change their ideology or will be wiped out by joint security forces like the CRPF, the army and the Jammu and Kashmir police. He also recalled the 2019 Pulwama attack on a CRPF convoy in which 40 personnel were killed, and said the prime minister then had declared this sacrifice of the troops will not go in vain. "The force went into Pakistan and killed the terrorists and Pakistan just kept watching. India did what it wanted to do," the minister said in a reference to IAF's air strikes in Balakot after the Pulwama attack. During the course of his speech, the minister made an apparent error while referring to the history of the CRPF. He said the country's first home minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel gave the flag or colours to the force on July 27 in recognition of the good work done by it in aligning all the princely states with India post-independence. However, an official pointed out that the CRPF was given the President's colours by Sardar Patel on March 19, 1950. The importance of July 27 is due to the raising of CRPF's first battalion on this day in 1939 in the Neemuch town of Madhya Pradesh. In 1939, the force was raised as the Crown Representatives Police under the British and was re-named CRPF in 1949. The minister also said the Modi government wants that a force like the CRPF should be well equipped and their families are taken care off well. Home Minister Shah praised the CRPF on the occasion, and congratulated it through a tweet. CRPF is synonymous with valour, courage and sacrifice. I join millions of Indians to wish our brave CRPF personnel and their families on 82nd Raising Day. "CRPF is synonymous with valour, courage and sacrifice." "Time and again @crpfindia has made the nation proud. Their dedication to serve the society during Covid-19 is unparalleled. I join millions of Indians to wish our brave CRPF personnel and their families on 82nd Raising Day," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-raising-day-mos-home-nityanand-rai-recalls-valour-of-crpf-men-in-1959-china-attack-in-ladakh-866325.html
27-07-2020||National||Dalits should use Buddhism as caste in 2021 Census, say experts||“Importance of Census-2021 for Dalits” was a webinar, which discussed the idea that Dalits or those castes under the Scheduled Caste category should register under the Buddhism category in the upcoming census. They also suggested that the caste names Ravidassia and Adhi-Dharmi be used instead of demanding a new column for these, as religions. This is contrary to some previous demands raised by leaders of these groups, who asked people to mention Ravidassia and Adhi-Dharmi as religions not castes. “Baba Saheb (Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar) is considered one of the six greatest intellectuals in the world. In his research books, ‘Who were the Shudra? How they came to be the fourth varna (Classification by profession) in the Indo Aryan Society’ and ‘The Untouchables-Who were they and why they became untouchables’, Baba Sahib has proved that the Buddhists were made untouchables by the Aryans,” said Dr GC Kaul,  in the webinar. Dr Kaul also said that the original religion - the ‘Adi Dharma’ is Buddhism, since it is based on egalitarian values. He reiterated to listeners that Dr Ambedkar chose to convert to Buddhism in his last days, instead of, say, laying the foundation of a new religion. AICS founder member Chanchal Mall is also of the belief that until Dalits are classified as a separate religion, they should cite buddhism as their religion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalits-should-use-buddhism-as-caste-in-2021-census-say-experts-866330.html
27-07-2020||National||Elderly Covid-19 victim's body lied unattended for over 14 hrs, claims family||The family members of an elderly Covid-19 patient have claimed that his body lied unattended at their residence in south 24 Parganas for more than 14 hours, and neighbours or the local councillor did not respond to their distress calls, despite repeated attempts. The man, in his mid-60s, died around midnight on Sunday, the family members -- three of whom have also tested positive for the disease -- said. "My elder brother, his wife, daughter and sister-in-law had tested positive for the disease. Dada (brother) died around 11.55 pm on Sunday. Since then we had tried contacting councillor Ashoka Mondal several times, but all calls went unanswered. We also contacted the state health department, but no one helped," the deceased's brother said. None in the neighbourhood, too, came to the aid of the hapless family, he said. It was only after the state minister and local MLA Partha Chatterjee intervened, arrangements were made to take the sexagenerian's body for cremation, he added. Behala Paschim MLA Partha Chatterjee, when contacted, said the matter was being looked into. "I have spoken to the Behala police station officer-in-charge and the brother of the deceased. If the councillor has not responded to calls then that wasn't the right thing to do. I, being the MLA, have certain responsibilities and will do whatever is needed. I am personally overseeing things," Chatterjee said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elderly-covid-19-victims-body-lied-unattended-for-over-14-hrs-claims-family-866337.html
27-07-2020||National||Due to 'right decisions taken at right time' India better placed in Covid-19 fight: PM Modi||India is in a much better position than other countries in the fight against Covid-19 as a result of "right decisions taken at the right time", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, asserting that the country has expanded its health infrastructure at a rapid pace. Speaking after virtually launching Covid-19 testing facilities in Noida, Mumbai and Kolkata, Modi said that in the fight against coronavirus, India has come to a point where it does not lack in awareness, its scientific data is expanding and resources are also increasing. Due to the "right decisions taken at the right time" in the country, India is in a much better position than other countries in the fight against the pandemic, he said. The deaths due to the coronavirus in India are much lower than many big countries, the prime minister said. Modi also pointed to the rapid pace of health infrastructure development, from testing labs, personal protection equipment to Covid facilities. "In January, where we had only one centre for Covid-19 testing, now there are about 1,300 labs operating in the country," he said. The new testing facilities will give West Bengal, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh more strength to fight Covid-19, Modi said. The three high-tech testing facilities have been set up strategically at ICMR institutions -- National Institute of Cancer Prevention and Research in Noida, National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health in Mumbai and National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases in Kolkata. These will be able to test over 10,000 samples in a day, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office had said. These labs will also reduce turnaround time and exposure of lab personnel to infectious clinical materials. The labs are enabled to test diseases other than Covid-19 as well, and post the pandemic, will be able to test for Hepatitis B and C, HIV, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, cytomegalovirus, chlamydia, Neisseria and dengue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/due-to-right-decisions-taken-at-right-time-india-better-placed-in-covid-19-fight-pm-modi-866339.html
27-07-2020||National||Newly retiring employees need not wait to avail pension||Central government employees retiring during the Covid-19 pandemic will receive 'provisional' pension till their regular pension payment order is issued. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Personnel Dr Jitendra Singh on Monday, who said that the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in retiring employees not getting the Pension Payment Order (PPO) on time. "As an evidence of the present government's sensitivity towards the pensioners and the senior citizens, a decision was taken that in order to avoid a delay in the start of regular pension covered under CCS (Pension Rules) 1972, the rules may be relaxed to enable seamless payment of “Provisional Pension” and “Provisional Gratuity” till the regular PPO is issued," he said. The Office Memorandum issued by the Department of Pensions said the payment of provisional pension” will initially continue for a period of six months from the date of retirement. It may be extended up to one year in exceptional cases. Those officials availing voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) are also eligible for this. The decision was taken after finding out that several government officials were finding it difficult in submitting pension forms to the head of office and not able to forward claim form in hard copy along with the service book to the concerned Pay and Accounts Office on time during the Covid-19 pandemic. In several cases, it was also found that these two offices were in separate cities. Another order issued by the Ministry of Personnel also directed all offices maintaining General Provident Fund accounts to complete all credit entries including accruing interest to the employees two years before retirement and then one year before retirement so that Provident Fund is also paid accurately on time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/newly-retiring-employees-need-not-wait-to-avail-pension-866343.html
27-07-2020||National||India and Indonesia resolve to expand defence ties||India and Indonesia on Monday vowed to expand security cooperation in a range of areas including defence industries and technology sharing, as the two maritime neighbours aimed at injecting a new momentum to their strategic partnership. The possible areas of further expansion of defence and military ties were discussed during talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Indonesian counterpart General Prabowo Subianto, officials said. Reflecting the importance Indonesia attaches to its strategic ties with India, Subianto arrived here on Sunday for the talks, notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic. Sources said the issue of possible export of BrahMos cruise missile to Indonesia by India and ways to further deepen maritime security cooperation figured prominently in the talks. "Both the ministers agreed to further enhance the bilateral defence cooperation in mutually agreed areas. Potential areas of cooperation in the field of defence industries and defence technology were also identified by the two countries," the defence ministry said in a statement. It said both Sing and Subianto committed themselves to further strengthen bilateral cooperation in these areas and take the defence ties to the "next level of deliverables." "The meeting ended on a positive note with a commitment to further strengthen and widen the scope of the bilateral cooperation between the two countries," the ministry said, without giving details. India and Indonesia have robust cooperation in the area of defence and security. The two countries inked a new defence cooperation agreement in 2018 during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Indonesia. The pact was aimed at reflecting the elevation of relationship between the two countries to a comprehensive strategic partnership. In Monday's talks, Defence Minister Singh reiterated the long history of mutually beneficial interactions between the two countries with a tradition of close political dialogue, economic and trade linkages as well as cultural and people-to-people interactions. Officials said both sides explored a range of areas to further expand the strategic cooperation including in the field of defence industries and technology sharing. It is understood that China's aggressive posturing in eastern Ladakh and South China Sea figured in the talks, but there was no official confirmation about it. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff Gen M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar were among the key officials who were part of the Indian delegation. Earlier, General Subianto was given a ceremonial guard of honour on the lawns of South Block when he arrived for the defence dialogue. The Indonesian defence minister also visited the National War Memorial and laid a wreath as a mark of respect to the fallen soldiers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-indonesia-resolve-to-expand-defence-ties-866345.html
27-07-2020||National||43,022 healthcare centres under Ayushman Bharat operational across country: Health Ministry||A total of 43,022 health and wellness centres have become operational in different parts of the country to ensure that an array of healthcare facilities reaches the people, the Union health ministry said. In a statement, the ministry said as many as 13,657 health and wellness centres (HWCs) were operationalised within the period of the coronavirus pandemic itself (between January to July 2020). These centres provide comprehensive and quality primary care close to the community. "As of July 24, 2020, a total of 43,022 HWCs are operational across different parts of the country," it said. The ministry said 44.26 lakh people benefitted from the services provided by the Ayushman Bharat Health and Wellness Centers (AB-HWCs) from July 18 to July 24. "The cumulative total footfall among the HWCs since their inception (April 14, 2018) consequently rose to 1,923.93 lakh people. This is a testimony to the foundational work of the HWCs in their communities. They have played a pivotal role in ensuring that non-COVID essential services are not hampered," it said. The ministry said 32,000 yoga sessions were conducted last week in AB-HWCs across India and a total of 14.24 lakh yoga sessions have been conducted by these centres since their inception. "Apart from this, HWCs are playing a major role in mass screening for non-communicable diseases. In the last week, 3.83 lakh individuals were screened for hypertension, 3.14 lakh for diabetes, 1.15 lakh for oral cancer, 45,000 for breast cancer and 36,000 for cervical cancer," it said. Since their inception, the HWCs have tested a total of 4.72 crore individuals for hypertension, 3.14 crore for diabetes, 2.43 crore for oral cancer, 1.37 crore for breast cancer and 91.32 lakh for cervical cancer, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/43022-healthcare-centres-under-ayushman-bharat-operational-across-country-health-ministry-866349.html
27-07-2020||National||Harbhajan Singh 'shocked' by electricity bill, questions Adani Power||Veteran Indian cricket team bowler Harbhajan Singh expressed shock over receiving an electricity bill for Rs 33,900. He voiced his feelings on Twitter, even tagging Adani Electricity in his tweet. The former spinner asked Adani Electricity if they incorrectly gave him a collective bill for every house in the neighbourhood. He claimed that the bill was seven times what he would normally pay.   However, an Adani spokesperson told DH, "We saw his Twitter message and immediately checked the power consumption in his house. We have also contacted him and explained that there was nothing wrong with the bill. After explaining he was convinced of the same." Harbahajan is not the first person to express surprise over his electricity bill. From Taapsee Pannu to Arshad Warsi, several celebrities have expressed displeasure with hefty electricity bills. Adani Electricity has been caught in the eye of the storm as people across Maharashtra complain about their power bills. Some have speculated that electricity bills are much higher because people have been spending all their time indoors. The company claims that the heat and the pandemic are contributing factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/harbhajan-singh-shocked-by-electricity-bill-questions-adani-power-866354.html
27-07-2020||National||Why continue with rapid antigen tests when false negatives so high: HC to Delhi govt||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the AAP government why it was going with Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT), which has a high rate of false-negative results, as the primary test of Covid-19 infection. It also made it clear to the Delhi government to "strictly" follow the guidelines on Covid-19 testing as issued by ICMR and not according to its own interpretation. The high court also noted that the serosurvey of the national capital carried out by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) indicated that more than 22.86 per cent of the population has gone through the Covid illness without even realizing they were infected as they probably were asymptomatic. A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad said in such a scenario how can the Delhi government go with RAT as its front line test, when its rate of false negatives was very high, with RT/PCR being recommended for only those who were symptomatic.  It added that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has not said that testing has to be done in this manner. RT/PCR, short for Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction, is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. Delhi government additional standing counsel Satyakam told the bench that the health department was strictly adhering to ICMR guidelines which say that people testing negative for RAT but showing influenza-like illness (ILI) have to undergo RT/PCR. The stand was opposed by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, whose plea for increasing of the testing numbers in the national capital and getting speedy results was being heard by the court, He told the bench that ICMR only said that persons showing influenza like illness (ILI) and testing negative in RAT have to go for RT/PCR and this strategy was not applicable to those having a severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). However, Delhi government had included SARI also in its list high risk group individuals who have to first undergo RAT. ICMR, represented by central government standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia, told the bench that it had never recommended SARI for RAT and that it was not similar to ILI. Dr Nivedita Gupta from ICMR also told the court that it never said asymptomatic RAT negative persons should not undergo RT/PCR testing, it only said the symptomatic RAT negative patients be given priority. Taking note of the ICMR stand, the bench told the Delhi government that it has to "strictly" follow the guidelines on COVID-19 testing as issued by ICMR and not according to its own interpretation. "Why are you tweaking ICMR advisory? Why are you including SARI? Tell your clients (Delhi government) to strictly follow ICMR advisory. You cannot interpret on your own," it said. The high court directed Delhi government to delete SARI from its office orders of July 5 and July 9 which give a list of high risk group individuals who have to first undergo RAT. The high court was also of the view that in light of the NCDC sero survey report and the high rate of false negatives of RAT, RT/PCR tests, whose numbers were plummeting, should be ramped up. It said that while there were 54 labs, both public and private, in Delhi which are capable of carrying out RT/PCR tests and have a combined capacity of 11,000 tests per day, between July 15 to July 23 the number of RT/PCR tests per day have not even crossed 6,000. The high court said,"ICMR never said that RT/PCR, which is the gold standard test, be replaced with RAT." Delhi government faced the court's ire also over the issue of requirement of a doctor's prescription for undergoing Covid testing.  The high court asked the Delhi government how it could in May permit private doctors to issue a prescription for Covid -19 when the ICMR and Health Ministry permitted it only on July 1. "This is how confusion is created in public which is running helter-skelter for a prescription from government doctors for undergoing Covid tests," the bench said. The high court said that the media or the press, which has been doing a commendable job, alone cannot be relied upon to disseminate information to the public and the Delhi government and ICMR to have to do so. The high court asked NCDC, which was also represented by Ahluwalia, as to what were its short term recommendations in light of the serosurvey report and it said that it would advise RT/PCR tests be conducted for general public and RAT be used only in hospital settings where patients need urgent treatment and RAT would give faster results which can be re-confirmed subsequently. The bench asked the ICMR to place before the court its next advisory, in view of the serosurvey, on testing strategy and listed the matter for further hearing on August 4. The Delhi government was also directed to give an updated status report of the tests carried out till then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-continue-with-rapid-antigen-tests-when-false-negatives-so-high-hc-to-delhi-govt-866372.html
27-07-2020||National||AIIMS doctors remove 20-cm long knife from man’s liver after rare surgery||After a rare and challenging three-hour surgery, doctors at the AIIMS here successfully removed a 20-cm-long kitchen knife from a man's liver who had bizarrely swallowed it in a fit of psychosis. The doctors said they were perplexed as to how the 28-year-old gulped down the saw-edged knife without any damage being caused to his wind-pipe, lungs, heart and other vital organs. “The knife could have easily perforated the oesophagus and gone into the trachea, heart or big vessels, on its journey from mouth to liver via duodenum,” said Dr Nihar Ranjan Dash, professor of Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant at AIIMS. He said, “We have searched the literature, but such big sharp knife ingestion has not been reported. We are searching for more literature.” He said there are reports of small needles and fish bones going into liver after perforating duodenum. The man, a daily wage worker from Palwal in Haryana, has a history of psychosis and had a habit of smoking cannabis. "He was not an addict but took cannabis quite often,” said the doctor. The man told the doctors that one-and-a-half-months ago, during the coronavirus lockdown when “he was in his kitchen, he felt like eating the knife. He tried to chew it and finally gulped it down with water”.  He had no problems for a month. But subsequently, he developed issues like difficulty in eating, weight loss, fever, abdominal pain which soon became unbearable, the doctors said. He was taken to local hospitals and was referred to the Safdarjung hospital in Delhi. "An ultrasound and an X-ray of the abdomen revealed blade of a kitchen knife stuck in the liver. Anticipating the challenges involved in removing the object, doctors there referred the patient to the Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant department at AIIMS," Dr Dash said. The patient came to the emergency of the AIIMS on July 12. A Covid-19 test was done to rule out coronavirus infection. The reports came out negative. While the patient was admitted in the emergency, an ultrasound, CT scan and other investigations were carried out to know the exact position of the knife, its relation to the vital organs and the complications it had caused, the doctors said. "On CT scan, we found the blade of the knife was entirely inside the liver and the handle inside the duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine. "The knife actually had perforated the duodenum and had gone into the liver. It had led to bleeding, infection, abscess formation in the liver and sepsis. His haemoglobin level was very low. Asepsis had set in, there was the loss of weight and water had accumulated in his right chest," Dr Dash elaborated. "An immediate surgery was not possible," he said, adding removing the knife through endoscopy was ruled out as it was very risky and could have caused injuries to the organs. Doctors decided to first control the sepsis and gave him a blood transfusion. He was put on high antibiotics and was under critical care. The doctors said under X-ray guidance, a tube was put inside the liver to drain the pus that sucked around 100 ml pus everyday for four to five days. Another tube was inserted to take out the water from the chest, Dr Dash explained. He said the man was given nutrition intravenously as he was not in a condition to take food orally. He was also being provided psychiatric counselling all throughout. After seven days, though his condition improved to a certain extent, the sepsis could not be controlled entirely. "It was then that we decided to take him for surgery. Challenges during the surgery were the possibility of heavy bleeding, injuring the liver, controlling bleeding after removing the knife and to do it as quickly as possible with minimum complications. "When a patient is septic and anaemic, giving anaesthesia for a longer period and conducting longer procedures could turn fatal," Dr Dash said. In a challenging surgery lasting three hours, the knife was removed by opening the intestine on July 19, Dash said.  A team of doctors from the Department of Anaesthesia, Critical Care, Radiology and Gastroenterology besides the Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplant were also involved in the surgery and the knife was pulled out under ultrasound guidance. “The patient was in the ICU for seven days. He is out of danger now and out of ICU care,” Dr Dash said. "We had put a food pipe during the surgery in his abdomen and through that tube, he is being given food. Very soon we will start giving him food orally. He is conscious and able to walk around. He is being given psychiatric counselling," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-doctors-remove-20-cm-long-knife-from-man-s-liver-after-rare-surgery-866385.html
27-07-2020||National||India-Bangladesh ties example of good neighbourly relations, says Jaishankar||India’s relations with Bangladesh has set an example for the region, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said, as New Delhi formally handed over 10 broad gauge locomotives to eastern neighbouring nation. “Very few countries in the world share such close fraternal ties as those of ours. Our partnership today stands out as a role model in the region for good neighbourly relations,” Jaishankar said, as he and Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Monday virtually flagged off the locomotives, which rolled into Bangladesh from India. “As friends in prosperity and growth, we have also faced challenges together. I, therefore, firmly believe that our partnership will be key to building a prosperous and peaceful South Asia.” To mark the occasion, Jaishankar and Goel had a video conference with Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen and Railway Minister Mohammad Nurul Islam Sujan. Goyal said that New Delhi’s neighbourhood policy was based on Prime Minister mantra of “Sabka Sath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas”. “The leadership of both India and Bangladesh are committed to reviving the pre-1965 railway connection between the two countries,” said the railway minister. “India remains a committed development partner of Bangladesh. Our uniquely concessional lines of credit of close to US$ 10 billion is the largest India has extended to any country,” said Jaishankar. “These projects will help in the infrastructure development of Bangladesh, a pre-requisite for its economy to leapfrog to the next level. We need to work together to expedite many of the ongoing projects.” The External Affairs Minister lauded the relations between New Delhi and Dhaka even as a rare phone-call between Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and her Pakistan counterpart Imran Khan last week caused unease for India. New Delhi suspects that Beijing is trying to play the role of a mediator to bring its “all-weather ally” Islamabad and Dhaka closer, leaving behind the five-decade-long bitterness, which has its origin in Pakistan Army’s atrocities on people of the erstwhile East Pakistan during the 1971 liberation war that gave birth to Bangladesh. Even as its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) was engaged in a stand-off with the Indian Army along the disputed boundary between the two nations, China recently brought into effect a zero-tariff policy for 97% of its imports from Bangladesh, allowing the South Asian nation to export to the communist country an additional 5161 items without paying any customs duty. Beijing is also understood to be in discussion with Dhaka for granting loans to the tune of $ 6.4 billion for several infrastructure projects across Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-ties-example-of-good-neighbourly-relations-says-jaishankar-866392.html
27-07-2020||National||Govt to go ahead with divestment of 23 PSUs cleared by Cabinet: Sitharaman||The government is working on completing the stake sale process of about 23 public sector companies whose divestment has already been cleared by the Cabinet, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday. The minister also said she would soon meet small finance firms and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) to review the credit being extended by them to businesses. Sitharaman, in a conversation with Hero Enterprise Chairman Sunil Kant Munjal, said the government as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package had announced opening up of all sectors for private participation. "The final call as to which are the sectors which are going to be called 'strategic' is not made yet, that has to be announced and I can't preempt what announcement is likely to come. "But in those sectors which we are going to call strategic, the private will obviously be allowed to come in but the public sectors will be limited to a maximum of four units," she said.  She said this would lead to consolidation of public sector undertakings (PSUs) as well as scaling up of their operations. Talking about disinvestment plans, the minister said the government wants to sell stake in public sector companies at a time when it fetches the right price.   "There are already nearly 22-23 such PSUs which have been cleared by the Cabinet for disinvestment. The intent is clear that at least for those which had already been cleared by the Cabinet, we will have to disinvest," Sitharaman said.   For 2020-21 fiscal, the government has set a disinvestment target of Rs 2.10 lakh crore. Of this, Rs 1.20 lakh crore will come from disinvestment of public sector undertakings and another Rs 90,000 crore from stake sale in financial institutions.    With regard to extending credit to the industry, Sitharaman said under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) can avail loans. As of July 23, 2020, the total amount sanctioned under the 100 per cent Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme by public and private sector banks stands at Rs 1,30,491.79 crore, of which Rs 82,065.01 crore has already been disbursed. "Now I am pushing the banks saying that it's not their risk, we have taken the risk on ourselves, they should now facilitate the process... "We have very clearly told banks that they are not going to sit on the judgement of anybody's viability. Now it is the question of giving them resources, hand holding them so that they survive," Sitharaman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-go-ahead-with-divestment-of-23-psus-cleared-by-cabinet-sitharaman-866394.html
27-07-2020||National||Construction, beautification work on for Ayodhya bypass at Rs 55 cr: Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Monday said the construction and beautification work is progressing for the Ayodhya bypass at Rs 55 crore to showcase the historic city. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit the city to lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple on August 5. "Sri Ram is a symbol of our culture and heritage. Ram Janmabhoomi temple's construction will begin soon. For beautification- and construction-related works of the Ayodhya bypass, NHAI has sanctioned a project worth Rs 55 crore," Gadkari said in a video message. The road transport and highways minister added that the bypass will "showcase Ayodhya's beauty to visitors from the country and abroad". The bypass connecting Ayodhya will be 16-km long. However, the exact locations the bypass would be connecting could not be provided by the NHAI. He said the Rs 55-crore project, sanctioned on the request of Ayodhya MP Lallu Singh, includes a bypass construction work of Rs 40 crore and beautification of Rs 15 crore. "Special trees will be planted and Ayodhya will be beautified," the minister said. "The present progress of the civil work is nearly 30 per cent at the present date," he said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday visited Ayodhya and placed the idols of Laxman, Bharat and Shatrughan on the new 'asans' at the Ram Janmabhoomi temple site. Adityanath was on a short visit to Ayodhya to review the preparations for the foundation stone laying ceremony for the construction of the temple. Ayodhya MP Lallu Singh thanked Gadkari for taking initiative for construction and beautification of the bypass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/construction-beautification-work-on-for-ayodhya-bypass-at-rs-55-cr-gadkari-866397.html
27-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi launches Covid-19 testing labs in Noida, Mumbai, Kolkata||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched three high-throughput laboratories with capability to test 10,000 samples each for Covid-19 every day. The laboratories, located in populated regions of Noida, Kolkata and Mumbai, are expected to ramp up testing capabilities in the three economic centres that attract thousands in search for employment.  Addressing the launch event through video-conferencing, the PM said more number of tests will assist early detection and treatment, thereby helping fight the spread of the coronavirus.  He added that it was imperative to develop corona-specific health infrastructure at a faster pace.  He noted that the Centre had announced a package of Rs 15,000 crore in the beginning and the country now has more than 11,000 Covid-19 facilities and more than 11 lakh isolation beds.  “The right decisions at right time means India is better off than other countries, Our death rate is less than many leading countries and our recoveries are more than many countries,” Modi said at the virtual event that was attended by chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray, Yogi Adityanath and Mamata Banerjee. The PM said that apart from developing physical infrastructure, the country has managed to ramp up human resources including paramedics, ASHA workers, Anganwadis, who have played a significant part in controlling the spread of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-launches-covid-19-testing-labs-in-noida-mumbai-kolkata-866399.html
27-07-2020||National||Cop turns teacher for labourer's son||Raj’s father is a daily-wage labourer while his grandfather is a roadside vendor. “During the lockdown, I saw how the cops were working towards the cause and it inspired me. That is when I decided that I too want to become a policeman and approached uncle Ji (Dikshit), who offered to teach me,” he told the Indian Express. However, the duo has few resources at their disposal. Without classrooms, tables, even proper lighting, the two try to find any place that is well-lit and work there, using the bonnet of Dixit’s car as a makeshift table. “Whenever I am around the locality, he spots me and wherever there is light, we sit or stand to study there, said Dixit. Dixit has tutored children in the past as well. Some of his students are now police officers themselves. “I have taught many children in Dhar and Ratlam when I was posted there. Some of them have even joined the police force,” said Dikshit, who has vowed to help any child that aspires to become a police officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cop-turns-teacher-for-labourers-son-866402.html
27-07-2020||National||India lodges strong protest with Pakistan over 'attempts' to convert Lahore Gurdwara into mosque||India on Monday lodged a protest with Pakistan over the move to convert a gurdwara into a mosque at Lahore in the neighbouring country. New Delhi expressed concern over the move to claim Gurdwara “Shahidi Asthan” at Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore as the place of Masjid Shahid Ganj as well as to convert the shrine into a mosque. A “strong protest” was lodged with the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) stated. The Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan Bhai Taru Ji is a historical shrine where devout Sikh Bhai Taru Ji made supreme sacrifice in 1745. Bhai Taru Ji had preferred to have his head scalped rather than cutting down his hair as ordered by the then governor of Lahore, Zakaria Khan. "A strong protest was lodged with the Pakistan High Commission today on the reported incident whereby Gurdwara ‘Shahidi Asthan’, site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singh ji at Naulakha Bazaar in Lahore, Pakistan has been claimed as the place of Masjid Shahid Ganj and attempts are being made to convert it to a mosque," MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. India expressed its concerns, in strongest terms, on the move and called upon Pakistan to investigate the matter and take immediate remedial measures. “Pakistan was also called upon to look after the safety, security, well-being of its minority communities including protection of their religious rights and cultural heritage,” said the MEA spokesperson. "The gurdwara is a place of reverence and considered sacred by the Sikh community. This incident has been viewed with grave concern in India," he added. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lodges-strong-protest-with-pakistan-over-attempts-to-convert-lahore-gurdwara-into-mosque-866413.html
27-07-2020||National||Supreme Court extends its stay on Madras HC's order for online sale of liquor||The Supreme Court on Monday extended its May 15 stay on the Madras High Court's orders that directed for only online sale and home delivery of liquor due to overcrowding seen at vends. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said we are of the view that the writ petitions which were being heard by the High Court may be decided over there. The interim protection granted by this court should continue till disposal of the writ petitions, the court added. Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, appearing for Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Ltd, contended that the relief claimed by the petitioners before the HC has virtually become infructuous. The court, however, disposed of the petition before it, allowing the High Court to consider the matter. The state-owned Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC) had earlier maintained that it can't be directed for online sale and home deliveries of liquor. They said guidelines have been issued to maintain social distancing at shops. The TASMAC shops were re-opened on May 7, 2020 after a 44-day shutdown. The HC had on May 8 directed for only online sale and home delivery of liquor due to overcrowding seen at vends following the Union government's Ministry of Home Affairs' May 1 guidelines allowing sale of spirits subject to restrictions including social distancing. Maintaining that the interim order was "factually untenable and legally unsustainable", the state government said the sale of liquor was a policy matter, falling within its domain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-extends-its-stay-on-madras-hcs-order-for-online-sale-of-liquor-866416.html
27-07-2020||National||Andamans reports first Covid-19 death, active cases at 142||Andaman and Nicobar Islands reported its first Covid-19 death as a 49-year-old patient lost his life on Monday, officials said. The Union Territory also detected 34 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 324, they said. The man, a government employee, died around 6 am while undergoing treatment at the GB Pant Hospital, officials said. He had comorbid conditions, they said. Meanwhile, the fresh infections have pushed the number of active cases in the islands to 142, while 182 people have recovered from Covid-19, including six in the past 24 hours, they said. Deputy Director (Health) Avijit Roy, who has been at the forefront of the island's efforts to fight Covid-19, also tested positive during the day, officials said. Roy, who is the Nodal Officer on Covid-19, has been shifted to the Circuit House in the South Point area, they said. Lieutenant Governor Admiral (Retd) D K Joshi, in a radio address, has appealed to the islanders to follow the guidelines issued by the administration in the wake of the rise in COVID-19 cases. Noting that over 36,000 islanders have travelled to the Union Territory from other parts of the country from May till date, he urged people to avoid unnecessary travel. He said 53,000 tests per million people have been conducted in the islands, which is better than the national average.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andamans-reports-first-covid-19-death-active-cases-at-142-866425.html
27-07-2020||National||ED books Sanjay Bhandari in fresh money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a money laundering case against absconding defence consultant Sanjay Bhandari to probe kickbacks worth USD 4.99 million allegedly received by him from South Korean major Samsung Engineering Co Ltd (SECL) in 2009, officials said on Monday. Bhandari's firm was paid by SECL, in violation of rules, to influence government officials in awarding a Rs 6,744-crore contract for setting up a Dual Feed Cracker Unit in Gujarat to OPaL, a company promoted by some oil PSUs, including ONGC, they said. OPaL, in turn, awarded the contract of the project to a consortium of SECL and Germany's Linde for Rs 6875.11 crore, they said. They said the central probe agency has filed an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), equivalent to a police FIR, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to probe these dealings. The agency took cognisance of a CBI FIR filed early this month against Bhandari and others in the case, they said. This is the second money laundering case against Bhandari after he was booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for alleged possession of undisclosed assets abroad and other charges in February, 2017. A charge sheet was filed by the ED in this case in June. The central probe agency said Bhandari had not cooperated with it in the probe in the first case and had run away from the country and was last stated to be in the UK or a nearby country. In the latest case, the CBI has charged Bhandari for allegedly receiving kickbacks worth USD 4.99 million from SECL in 2009 to influence government officials in awarding the Rs 6,744-crore contract to ONGC Petro Additions Ltd (OPaL), a company promoted by PSUs like ONGC, GAIL and Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation. The allegation is that the Dual Feed Cracker Unit (DFCU), the CBI had said, which was to be set up at Dahej Petrochemical Complex in Gujarat, was awarded in favour of SECL in 2009 and advance payments were released to it from ONGC in contravention of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) guidelines. In its FIR, the CBI has also named the then Senior Manager of SECL Hong Namkoong, UK-based Foster Wheeler Energy Ltd, and Bhandari's UAE-based company Santech International FZC, besides unidentified officials of ONGC and OPaL, for alleged corruption in the award of the contract. The tender for the DFCU project was floated on April 20, 2007 for which two consortiums -- Germany's Linde and Korean SECL, and USA-based Shaw Stone and Webster and Indian Larsen & Toubro -- submitted their bids. Linde and SECL consortium won the contract at their quoted "lump sum price of Rs 6875.11 crore" on the basis of higher Net Present Value (NPV). NPV of Linde and SECL was calculated to be around Rs 4,160 crore while that of Shawstone and Webster and L&T around Rs 3,918 crore. The tender committee came to the conclusion that NPV of Linde and SECL was higher and lump sum prices were 7.75 per cent lower than the competing consortium. The other consortium challenged the decision but the objection was turned down and the contract was awarded to Linde and SECL consortium for a lump sum price of over Rs 6,744 crore on February 10, 2009. The agreement signed between the consortium and ONGC and OPaL had an integrity pact which said no agent or consultant was to be engaged and no commission or fee could be paid against the contract in India or abroad, the CBI had said. The CAG had also raised objections to it and the project was not completed even two years after the deadline of August 2012. The CBI has alleged that Bhandari in its Income Tax returns did not disclose maintenance of foreign bank accounts in the name of Santech International and also the receipt of USD 4.99 million.  Bhandari's case first came to light after the Income Tax department conducted searches against him in April, 2016 and recovered certain "sensitive" official defence documents from his premises. The tax department had booked him under criminal charges of the anti-black money law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-books-sanjay-bhandari-in-fresh-money-laundering-case-866426.html
27-07-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi to address grand finale of Smart India Hackathon on August 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the grand finale of Smart India Hackathon on August 1 during which over 10,000 students will compete to solve 243 problem statements from government departments and industries, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Monday. The HRD minister chaired a high-level meeting to give final shape to the plan for the finale of the hackathon event scheduled from August 1-3. Smart India Hackathon is an initiative to identify new and disruptive digital technology innovations for solving the challenges faced by our country. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the grand finale of the largest ever online hackathon in the world from 7 pm onwards on August 1 through video-conference. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, the finale shall be organised online by connecting all the participants throughout the nation together over a specially built advanced platform," Nishank said. "This year, we will have more than 10,000 students competing to solve 243 problem statements from 37 central government departments, 17 state governments and 20 industries. Each problem statement carries a prize money of Rs 1 lakh except the student innovation theme which will have three winners, 1st, 2nd and 3rd, with prize money of Rs 1 lakh, Rs 75,000 and Rs 50,000 respectively," he added. Hackathon is a non-stop digital product development competition, where problems are posed to technology students to suggest innovative solutions. "Students would have the opportunity to work on challenges faced by government departments and private sector organisations for which they can offer outside-the-box and world-class solutions," a senior HRD Ministry official said. "The first level screening of students' ideas has already taken place in January through a college-level hackathon and only the winning teams at the college level were made eligible for the national round. Again at national level, ideas were screened by experts and evaluators and only the shortlisted teams will compete in the grand finale," he added. This is the fourth edition of the hackathon organised by HRD Ministry. "As outcome of Smart India Hackathons till date, around 331 prototypes have been developed, 71 start-ups are under formation, 19 start-ups are successfully registered. Further, 39 solutions have already been deployed at various departments, and around 64 potential solutions have been funded for further development," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-address-grand-finale-of-smart-india-hackathon-on-august-1-866439.html
27-07-2020||National||Two lovers found hanging from tree in Amritsar||A young couple was found hanging from a tree in Chander village, nearly 25 kilometres from Amritsar, police said on Monday. The deceased were identified as Jagrup Singh (24) and Rajwinder Kaur (19), they said. During preliminary investigation, it was found that they were relatives and allegedly in a relationship for the last six months. The bodies will be handed over to their families after a post-mortem is conducted, said police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-lovers-found-hanging-from-tree-in-amritsar-866440.html
27-07-2020||National||School girls in India discover Earth-bound asteroid||Two teenage girls from India have discovered an Earth-bound asteroid by poring through images from a University of Hawaii telescope, an Indian space education institute said on Monday. The asteroid is presently near Mars and its orbit is expected to cross that of Earth in about one million years' time, said SPACE India, a private institute where the two 14-year-old girls received training. "I look forward to... when we will get a chance to name the asteroid," said Vaidehi Vekariya, who added that she wants to become an astronaut when she is older. The asteroid, currently called HLV2514, may be officially christened only after NASA confirms its orbit, a SPACE India spokeswoman said. Radhika Lakhani, the other student, said she was working hard on her education. "I don't even have a TV at home, so that I can concentrate on my studies." Asteroids and comets pose a potential threat to Earth, and scientists discover thousands of them each year. In 2013, an asteroid heavier than the Eiffel Tower exploded over central Russia, leaving more than 1,000 people injured from its shockwave. The two girls, who hail from the western Indian city of Surat, discovered the object as part of an asteroid search campaign conducted by SPACE India along with the International Astronomical Search Collaboration (IASC), a NASA-affiliated citizen scientist group. IASC Director J. Patrick Miller confirmed the discovery, according to an email from him to the girls seen by Reuters. The girls used specialised software to analyse the images snapped by the Pan-STARRS telescope in Hawaii, and made the discovery in June, SPACE India said. The institute is among the few private space education initiatives in India, a country known for championing low-cost space technology that has spurred missions to the moon and Mars.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/school-girls-in-india-discover-earth-bound-asteroid-866442.html
27-07-2020||National||6,940 entries received for 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge'||About 7,000 entries have been received for the 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge', which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier this month, an official release said on Monday. The 'AatmaNirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge has received an "enthusiastic response" from tech entrepreneurs and start-ups from across the country, it said. "The last date of receipt of entries was July 26, and 6,940 entries have been received across the 8 categories identified. These include 3,939 from individuals and about 3,001 from organisations and companies," the release said. Among the entries received from individuals, around 1,757 applications are ready to use and the remaining 2,182 are under development. "For the apps submitted by organisations, 1,742 apps have already been deployed and the remaining 1,259 are under development," the release said. The category-wise breakup of the apps submitted include 1,142 under the business category, 901 under health and wellness, 1,062 e-learning, 1,155 social networking, 326 games, 662 under office and work from home category, 237 news and 320 under the entertainment category. Around 1,135 apps have been submitted under the others category. Nearly 271 of these apps have more than 1,00,000 downloads, while 89 apps have million-plus downloads. The applicants were from all across the country including remote and small towns.         "This shows the talent that exists in our country and this App Innovation Challenge is the right opportunity for Indian tech developers, entrepreneurs and companies to build for India at a scale, that is unparalleled anywhere in the world," the release said. Screening Committees have already begun scrutinising the apps on various parameters, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6940-entries-received-for-aatmanirbhar-bharat-app-innovation-challenge-866451.html
27-07-2020||National||We welcome Rafale aircraft, but there are issues in way contract handled: Congress||The Congress on Monday welcomed the Rafale aircraft in the country, saying the party has nothing against the fighter jet, but reiterated there were “issues in the way the contract was handled”. "There is no issue with the Rafale aircraft. The Rafale aircraft was evaluated and approved by the UPA. We welcome the Rafale aircraft," senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said when asked about five Rafale jets arriving in the country soon. The Congress had made the purchase of Rafale fighter jets by the Modi government-1 a major poll issue during the 2019 Lok Sabha election, alleging corruption in the deal. The charges were vehemently denied by the BJP. "Why should we protest against Rafale aircraft? Remember from day one, we said that it is a good aircraft. In fact, it was chosen by the UPA government. “There is nothing wrong with the aircraft. There are other issues in the way the contract was handled," he said at a virtual press conference, when asked about it. The first batch of five Rafale fighter aircraft on Monday took off from France for India, nearly four years after the two countries inked an inter-governmental agreement to supply 36 of the multi-role jets to the Indian Air Force under a Rs 59,000-crore deal. The aircraft flew out from the Merignac airbase in the French port city of Bordeaux and will cover a distance of nearly 7,000 km with air-to-air refuelling and a single stop in the United Arab Emirates before arriving at Ambala airbase on Wednesday, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-welcome-rafale-aircraft-but-there-are-issues-in-way-contract-handled-congress-866455.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi invites BJP MP Anil Baluni for tea before vacating bunglow: Source||Ahead of the August 1 deadline for vacating her government bungalow in Delhi's Lutyens' zone, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday sent an invitation for tea to BJP leader Anil Baluni, who has been allotted the house, sources said. It is learnt that the invite has been sent to the BJP's Rajya Sabha MP, seeking his convenience and confirmation. When reached out for comments, Baluni did not respond to calls. Priyanka Gandhi is in the process of vacating the 35, Lodhi Estate house, after the Ministry of Urban Development issued her a notice on July 1 asking her to vacate the bunglow before August 1 as she was no longer eligible for it after her security cover was downgraded last year. She is learnt to have zeroed in on a house in Delhi and will be shifting there soon. She has, however, moved some of her belongings to a penthouse in an upscale residential society in Gurgaon's Sector 42, but will not be living there, sources said. They said the Gurgaon's house is only being occasionally used by her children and she will be located in central Delhi only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-invites-bjp-mp-anil-baluni-for-tea-before-vacating-bunglow-source-866094.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan crisis: Congress' numbers game after BSP blow||In a fresh twist to the Rajasthan political drama, the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Sunday issued a whip to six MLAs in the Rajasthan Assembly to vote against the Congress if Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot sought a trust vote. How will this decision affect the numbers game in Rajasthan Assembly, and can the Congress manage without the BSP's support? Let us take a quick look.    In the 200-member Rajasthan Assembly, the Ashok Gehlot government enjoys the support of 125 MLAs while the BJP has the support of 75 MLAs. In the 2018 Assembly elections, the Congress won 100 seats, one short of the majority. The BJP won 73 seats, BSP 6 and  Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) 3. Independent candidates and Others won 13 and 5 seats respectively.      The Congress increased their tally after six BSP MLAs decided to support the party. The Congress also enjoys the support of two CPM members. With 107 MLAs, the Congress had the majority and later 13 Independents, two from the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and one from the Rashtriya Lok Dal pledged their support to the Ashok Gehlot government.    Now, if the BSP stands firm on its decision of voting against the Congress, it would be a big blow to the Grand Old Party as it would upset their numbers game.    If Sachin Pilot enjoys the support of more than or equal to 20 MLAs, then the BSP decision will compound the Congress' misery and disrupt the majority status of the Gehlot government, as the seat strength of the ruling government will fall below 101.   It will be interesting to see how the Congress tackles this latest problem. But to prove their majority in the Rajasthan Assembly, they would need the support of the Mayawati-led party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-congress-numbers-game-after-bsp-blow-866160.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Vice President Naidu, Prime Minister Modi greet CRPF personnel on force's 82nd raising day||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the CRPF personnel on the 82nd raising day of the paramilitary force on Monday, saying it is at the forefront of keeping the nation safe. Describing the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) as "peacekeepers of the nation", Naidu said it is synonymous with dedication and commitment towards duty and national security. Extending greetings to the personnel of the "outstanding force", Modi said the CRPF is at the forefront of keeping our country safe. "The courage and professionalism of this force are widely admired. May the CRPF achieve even greater heights in the coming years," the prime minister said in a tweet. May the CRPF achieve even greater heights in the coming years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vice-president-naidu-prime-minister-modi-greet-crpf-personnel-on-forces-82nd-raising-day-866164.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Will not lie about Chinese transgressions in Ladakh even if it costs me politically: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said he is not going to lie about Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh even if it costs him politically, asserting he will say the truth as far as Indian territory is concerned. Gandhi made these remarks in a tweet, along with an over-a-minute-long video, as part of a series launched by him on the India-China face-off along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh.  The Chinese have occupied Indian land. Hiding the truth and allowing them to take it is anti-national. Asked in the video how he would react to people who say his questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on China weakened India, the former Congress chief said, "If you want me to lie that the Chinese have not entered this country, I am not going to lie. I will simply not do it. I do not care if my whole career goes to hell. I am not going to lie." "This disturbs me. Frankly, it makes my blood boil. How can some other nation just come into our territory?" "Hiding the truth is anti-national. Bringing it to people's attention is patriotic," Gandhi said. "So frankly, I do not care if it costs me politically. I do not care if I have no political career at all after that. But I am going to say the truth as far as Indian territory is concerned," he added. Gandhi has been repeatedly attacking the prime minister and the government over Chinese transgressions on the LAC in eastern Ladakh. "As an Indian, my number one priority is the nation and its people," he said on Monday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has hit back at Gandhi over his attack on the government on the Ladakh face-off, alleging he is seeking to politicise defence and foreign policy matters and "wash their past sins of 1962 and weaken India". BJP president JP Nadda has also alleged that for years, a dynasty has been trying to destroy Modi, while adding that those who want to destroy the prime minister will only end up causing further damage to their own party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-not-lie-about-chinese-transgressions-in-ladakh-even-if-it-costs-me-politically-rahul-gandhi-866208.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||He insulted our soldiers again: BJP hits back at Rahul Gandhi over his latest Ladakh face-off remarks||Hitting back at Rahul Gandhi for his latest remarks on the Ladakh face-off, the BJP Monday said he was again insulting the bravery of 20 soldiers who sacrificed their lives in Galwan Valley, and alleged his family ceded thousands of kilometres of land to China. With his repeated utterances on the India-China face-off, Rahul Gandhi is trying to present falsehood as truth, BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao said. Rahul Gandhi on Monday said he is not going to lie about Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh even if it costs him politically. In his response, Rao told a press conference at the BJP headquarters here that Gandhi has again insulted the sacrifices of 20 soldiers in Ladakh with his statements. "Rahul Gandhi has not learnt from his mistakes. He had insulted our soldiers at the time of the surgical strike, the Balakot airstrike and now again he has insulted them," Rao said. He further said that Rahul Gandhi's political career ended in 2019 after he insulted the soldiers. Citing a reply given by the Congress-led UPA government in November 2012 in parliament, Rao said during the tenure of various governments led by the Gandhi family, they ceded more than 43,000 sq kms of land to China. Gandhi made his remarks in a tweet, along with an over-a-minute-long video, as part of a series launched by him on the India-China face-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. "If you want me to lie that the Chinese have not entered this country, I am not going to lie. I will simply not do it. I do not care if my whole career goes to hell. I am not going to lie." "This disturbs me. Frankly, it makes my blood boil. How can some other nation just come into our territory?" "Hiding the truth is anti-national. Bringing it to people's attention is patriotic," Gandhi said in his video. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/he-insulted-our-soldiers-again-bjp-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-over-his-latest-ladakh-face-off-remarks-866265.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||From the Newsroom: Rahul Gandhi slams Modi government over China row||In today’s episode, Rahul Gandhi has said that he is not going to lie about Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh even if it costs him politically. Adar Poonawalla says that "More than enough" doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca will be reserved for the Parsi community. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has agreed to summon a session of the state Assembly provided the government gives a 21-day notice.  Here is the top news of today, Monday: July 27, 2020: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said that he is not going to lie about Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh even if it costs him politically, asserting that he will say the truth as far as Indian territory is concerned. Rahul made these remarks in a tweet, along with a video, as part of a series launched by him on the India-China face-off along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Asked in the video how he would react to people who say his questions to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on China weakened India, Rahul said: "If you want me to lie that the Chinese have not entered this country, I am not going to lie. I will simply not do it. I do not care if my whole career goes to hell. I am not going to lie.This disturbs me. Frankly, it makes my blood boil. How can some other nation just come into our territory?" He further said that hiding the truth is anti-national and bringing it to people's attention is patriotic. Hitting back at Rahul, the BJP said that he was again insulting the bravery of 20 soldiers who sacrificed their lives in Galwan Valley, and alleged his family ceded thousands of kilometres of land to China. BJP spokesperson GVL Narasimha Rao said: With his repeated utterances on the India-China face-off, Rahul Gandhi is trying to present falsehood as truth. "More than enough" doses of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca will be reserved for the Parsi community, Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the vaccine's local manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII), has said. Poonawalla, however, did not specify the quantity of the doses that will be kept for the community. Replying to producer Ronnie Screwvala on Twitter, Poonawalla on Sunday said, "Yes @RonnieScrewvala, we will keep more than enough for the community. Our production capacity of just one day will be enough to cover every Parsi on the planet...given the size of our community." Screwvala in his tweet said, "On a lighter note, Since Parsi's are to be Extinct race (Though avg age of Parsi's show otherwise) there is a lobby that as the vaccine does come in there will be a special quotaunder saving from extinction race..& why not if a Parsi is at the forefront of it." Poonawalla last week said the company aims to manufacture 300 million to 400 million doses by the year-end, following the success of initial and licensure trials. Upset over downgrading of Jammu and Kashmir to the status of a Union Territory following abrogation of Article 370, former chief minister Omar Abdullah has said that he will not contest assembly elections till full statehood is restored. However, Omar made it clear that he would continue to work for his party, the National Conference, and people of Jammu and Kashmir. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has agreed to summon a session of the state Assembly provided the government gives a 21-day notice. The condition is part of three suggestions the Governor has made while returning Ashok Gehlot Cabinet’s recommendation that he should call a session of the Vidhan Sabha. This was the second time that Mishra has returned a Cabinet proposal on convening the Assembly, amid the power tussle in Rajasthan. Mishra also wrote that the state government should undertake to broadcast live the proceedings of a floor test, if it takes place. It should also ensure precautions during the proposed Vidhan Sabha sitting against the spread of coronavirus, his note said. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-the-newsroom-rahul-gandhi-slams-modi-government-over-china-row-866323.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Centre should clear Bengal government’s dues so that it can fight Covid-19: Mamata to PM Modi||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that the Centre clears all financial dues of the state so that her government can step up its fight against Covid-19. Attending a video conference through which the Prime Minister inaugurated new Covid-19 testing facilities in West Bengal, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh Mamata said that the financial burden of the West Bengal government was steadily increasing in fight with Covid-19 and it has already spent Rs 2,500 crore for it. She also said that the Centre owes the Bengal government Rs 53,000 crore and urged the Prime Minister to release at least parts of it. “I want to draw the Prime Minister’s attention to the fact that the Centre owes us Rs 53,000 crore. We are trying to get it. I am requesting the Prime Minister to release at least part of it so that we can continue our work,” said Mamata. The Chief Minister urged the Centre to clear the state government’s GST compensation of Rs 4,135 crore. Mamata said that following the cyclone Amphan the state government had only received Rs 1,000 crore declared by the Prime Minister as emergency assistance during his visit to Bengal whereas the state has submitted an estimated damage of Rs. 5000 crore. “You visited West Bengal after the cyclone Amphan. The Central team also visited the state. We submitted our estimated damage of Rs 5,000 crore. So far we have received nothing but the Rs 1,000 crore which you declared as advance assistance,” said Mamata. She also said that the Centre is asking the state government to spend only from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to tackle Covid-19. The Chief Minister asked that if the SDRF gets exhausted in tackling the pandemic then where will her government get fund in case of major natural disaster. “Centre is saying only to spend from SDRF on Covid-19. SDRF is for disaster management. If I spend all from it for Covid-19 where will we get the funds in case of major natural disaster,” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-should-clear-bengal-government-s-dues-so-that-it-can-fight-covid-19-mamata-to-pm-modi-866333.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Mayawati faces crisis of survival in state politics||BSP’s dilemma on Dalit politics was evident when ten months after its six MLAs, who had won on her party symbol in 2018 and subsequently merged with Congress, it issued whip asking them to vote against Ashok Gehlot government. Dalit leader Udit Raj dismissed the BSP’s whip saying the party has no right to issue a whip as “the anti-defection law is not applicable in this case when all six MLAs, joined the Congress” and accused Mayawati of acting as “B team of BJP”. Over a week ago, Mayawati had demanded President Rule in Rajasthan. However, it is not the first time that the BSP has taken a strong stand against the Congress. Facing a dent in its Dalit vote bank from both the main national parties—BJP and Congress in different elections, Mayawati has repeatedly trying to strike a balance, veering towards a nuanced equidistant policy from the both, seeking to paint them as anti Dalit and BSP the soul entity to espouse the Dalit cause. In 2018 assembly elections in Karnataka, where the BSP has a minuscule presence, it tied up with JDS, making the fight triangular in some seats. Congress cried foul saying it aimed at helping the BJP. But after elections Congress-JD(S) came together and a lone BSP MLA supported the alliance government that lasted 15 months. Before that, BSP spurned the offers of Congress for alliance in MP, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh in 2018 Assembly polls for a united fight against the BJP. As post elections, Congress won in all three states, BSP was quick to declare its support to the Congress in government formation. When the six BSP MLAs jumped the ship to join Congress in September last year, Maywati cried “betrayal”. The two MLAs of the BSP, however, remained with the party. BSP, which had tied up with the BJP in 1995 after a failed experiment of alliance with the SP, had for last few decades have been maintaining the “Naagnath-Saanpnaath (both meaning the lord of snakes) terminology for both the Congress and the BJP it was their approach towards the Dalits that necessitated the formation of a party like BSP. Also Rahul Gandhi's dine with Dalit programmes in 2009-11, contributed to defeat of BSP in 2012 UP state polls. In the last six years, a substantial chunk of Dalits, particularly non-Jatavs (Mayawati’s caste) had voted for BJP and now Congress led by Priyanka Gandhi in UP is trying to revive its old BMD (Brahmin Muslim Dalit) vote base in Uttar Pradesh, which sends 80 Lok Sabha MPs to Parliament. It’s a double whammy for BSP, whose OBC-Dalit formulae by tying up with SP in 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which her party won 10 seats after scoring duck in 2014 Lok Sabha polls when she contested alone. She broke the tie-up later.  Months before 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale extended an open invitation to Mayawati to have a tie up with the BJP, something which is again gaining a buzz before 2022 state assembly polls but the BSP has dismissed as the handiwork of Congress, which is trying hard to revive in UP this time. So, while UP is a lost case for Mayawati, the other states follow a typical pattern of BSP not doing well when Mayawati is not in power in UP. BSP, out of power in UP since 2012, could not do well in state polls in other states. Mayawati’s earlier formulae of bring a Dalit-Brahmin unity That answers for Mayawati’s complex twists and turns, who now faces a sort of crisis of survival in state politics as she cannot accept Chief Ministerial claim of Akhilesh Yadav of SP, whose party has a complementary separate vote base and cannot back Congress either, whose revival could a see Dalit votes shifting towards the latter. Mayawati has very limited options.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mayawati-faces-crisis-of-survival-in-state-politics-866373.html
27-07-2020||National Politics||Kapil Sibal, 2 other former UPA law ministers ask Rajasthan governor to follow rules||Three former law ministers in the UPA government—Kapil Sibal, Salman Khurshid and Ashwani Kumar—on Monday wrote to Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra asking him to adhere to the rules and call a session of the state assembly as advised by the state government.  “Having served as Union ministers of Law and Justice in different periods of time and as students of Constitutional law, we are of the clear view that established legal position obliges the Governor to call the assembly session in accordance with the advice of the state cabinet,” the three senior Congress leaders said in a letter to the Governor. “Any deviation from the established constitutional position in the present circumstances would be an avoidable negation of your oath of office and will create a constitutional crisis,” they said.  The three former ministers said the Governor, in accordance with the established traditions of parliamentary and constitutional democracy, has to defer to the wisdom of the elected government that expressed the will of the people.  “Indeed, the office of the Governor, envisaged under our Constitutional scheme is above and beyond the constraints and compulsions of partisan politics so that its holder can act freely and fairly to uphold the Constitution,” they said.  Mishra had sought clarifications on two proposals sent by the Gehlot government to the Governor recommending him to convene a session of the Rajasthan assembly.  Gehlot has written to President Ram Nath Kovind and spoken to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the Governor’s “conduct”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kapil-sibal-2-other-former-upa-law-ministers-ask-rajasthan-governor-to-follow-rules-866405.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Bodies of missing five members of family recovered from river in J&K's Udhampur||The bodies of five members of a family, who had gone missing since July 20, were recovered from a river in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur district, officials said on Sunday. According to a complaint by one Bhagat Ram of Janderari area Ramnagar tehsil, his son Mohan Lal, along with wife and three children, had gone to Udhampur from Langa, Ramnagar in their car on July 20, they said. A missing report and subsequently a case was lodged in Ramnagar police station, following which a search operation was initiated, the officials said. During the search operation, the body of Mohan Lal was recovered first from the Kaghote river in Ramnagar. Later, the body of his eight-year-old daughter, identified as Pooja, was recovered, followed by four-year-old son Naksh on Saturday, they said. The bodies of Lal's wife Rekha Devi and son Mahesh were recovered after four days of search operation on Sunday evening from Kishanpur Manwal and Doha area of Jhajjar Kotli, which was 50-55 km away from the spot, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bodies-of-missing-five-members-of-family-recovered-from-river-in-jks-udhampur-866098.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Three killed, 1 injured in group clash, firing in Uttar Pradesh's Holdalpur||Three people were killed and one person was injured on Sunday in a clash that broke out between two groups over an old enmity in Uttar Pradesh's Holdalpur village, police said. The incident occurred under Soron police station area, where members of two groups clashed following heated arguments, Superintendent of Police (SP) of Kasganj Sushil Ghule said in a statement here. Three people were killed and one person was injured after the members of one group opened fire at the rival group members with illegal country-made pistols, he said. The injured has been referred to Aligarh for treatment, Ghule said. The SP also informed that so far seven people have been arrested in this regard and three illegal country-made pistols used in the firing have been recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-killed-1-injured-in-group-clash-firing-in-uttar-pradeshs-holdalpur-866100.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Militant hideout busted in J&K's Poonch, IEDs seized||The police busted a militant hideout in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Sunday and seized explosives from there, official said. The search and cordon operation was carried in Loran top area of Poonch district, they said. Explosives, including two IEDs were seized and later destroyed, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-hideout-busted-in-jks-poonch-ieds-seized-866106.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Five-year-old girl raped and killed by her cousin||A five-year-old girl was raped and bludgeoned to death allegedly by her cousin brother, also a minor, in Chhattisgarh's Jashpur district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on July 24 when the girl accompanied the accused to a forest near their village under Bagicha police station area for grazing of livestsock, an official said. When the girl did not return home, her relatives launched a search for her. They approached the police after failing to trace her, he said. The accused boy told police that he raped the girl and then killed her by smashing her head with a stone. He then threw the victim's body in a waterfall and returned home, the official said. The body has been recovered from the forest and the boy was detained, he said. The accused has been booked under sections 376 (Punishment for rape) and 302 (Punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-five-year-old-girl-raped-and-killed-by-her-cousin-866107.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Man dies allegedly in police lock-up, judicial probe ordered||A 28-year-old man has died after allegedly being beaten up inside lock-up at Khanpur police station in Jhalawar district. The family members of the deceased man accused the police station of thrashing him severely leading to his death. Police, though, lodged a case under Section 176 (inquiry by magistrate into cause of death) of CrPC and initiated investigation into the matter. However, a judicial probe was later ordered into the matter after demands were raised by the family members, who received support from the local MLA. In accordance with National Human Rights Commission guidelines on custodial deaths, the SHO of Khanpur police station Kamalchand Meena was suspended and the entire station staff sent to the Police Lines, the Jhalawar SP said. "It is not proven as of now that he died in police custody. As on record, he was not in our custody. However, the inquiry under Section 176 of CrPC by a judicial magistrate is being carried out," Jhalawar Superintendent of Police Kiran Kang Sidhu said. The victim, Rajesh Meena (28), who was a resident of Raiger Basti in Khanpur town of the district, died on Saturday evening in hospital where he was admitted after his condition deteriorated, Jhalawar Additional Superintendent of Police Rajesh Yadav said. On Saturday noon, the police had arrested Meena under the Arms Act and was later allowed to leave the station upon being served a notice following initial interrogation, Yadav said. Meena's condition "deteriorated" and he collapsed in the premises itself when he came out of the station following which the police personnel rushed him to hospital where he died on Saturday evening, the ASP claimed. Meanwhile, the victim's family members alleged that Khanpur police station personnel severely tortured Meena that led to his death. Meena's brother said the 28-year-old was in sound health when he was taken into custody but the policemen later "killed" him. The deceased man was an alcoholic who would frequently beat his mother, wife and other family members, the ASP said. Meena's mother had lodged the case against her son on Saturday morning, the ASP claimed, adding that Meena was in possession of a sharp weapon when he was arrested. The family members, accompanied by local BJP MLA Narendra Nagar, protested on Sunday morning in Khanpur town demanding a case of murder be lodged against the staff of Khanpur police station and also refused consent for conducting a postmortem. Following several rounds of negotiations, the protesting family members agreed for the postmortem after they were assured that the SHO would be suspended and action taken against the two police personnel allegedly involved in the beating, compensation of Rs 5 lakh and support for the deceased man's 18-month-old daughter. The family members agreed to a postmortem after they were assured of a judicial inquiry into the matter along with the other slew of demands, the MLA said. With the entire proceeding being filmed, a medical board carried out the postmortem in presence of a civil magistrate on Sunday afternoon and the body was handed over to the family members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-man-dies-allegedly-in-police-lock-up-judicial-probe-ordered-866108.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Woman, infant killed in wall collapse in southwest Delhi||A woman and her seven-month-old son died after a wall of an adjacent house collapsed on their shanty in southwest Delhi's Palam Vihar area, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on Wednesday noon. The deceased, Kari Sardar (25) and her son Mahabur, hailed from West Bengal, they said.  The woman, along with her baby, husband and sister were inside their shanty when it started raining heavily, police said. The water started seeping in through the walls and suddenly, a wall of an adjacent house collapsed on their shanty and the woman, her son and sister got trapped under it, they said. Later, with the help of neighbours, her husband Sabijudeen, who works as a waste picker, pulled them out from the debris. Both the woman and her son were found unconscious, while her sister suffered minor injuries. They were all taken to a nearby hospital, where the mother and son duo was declared brought dead, police said. On the complaint of her husband, an FIR was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the matter was being investigated, a senior police officer said. In his complaint, he alleged that the house adjacent to their shanty was not stable and he had informed the landlord about the same, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-infant-killed-in-wall-collapse-in-southwest-delhi-866110.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Two trapped in debris after house collapse in Uttarakhand||Two persons were trapped in debris when their houses collapsed over them early on Monday morning following torrential rains in Bangapani sub-division of this Uttarakhand district. The incident occurred at Dhamigaon village in Bangapani-subdivision, which had witnessed a cloudburst recently that killed 12 persons in Gaila and Tanga villages. State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and revenue police personnel were rushed to the village to launch rescue operations, Pithoragarh District Magistrate VK Jogdande said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-trapped-in-debris-after-house-collapse-in-uttarakhand-866152.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi withdraws plea in Supreme Court against High Court order||Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi on Monday withdrew from the Supreme Court his petition challenging the validity of the High Court's July 21 order directing him not to take any action against sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs in disqualification proceedings. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari allowed the plea by the Speaker. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Speaker, submitted after the High Court's subsequent order of July 24, said they wanted to weigh their legal options. The High Court had then allowed maintainability of Pilot and other MLAs' plea questioning issuance of notice by the Speaker. It had ordered status quo in the matter and framed a series of legal questions for determination. Sibal also indicated that the Speaker might file a fresh petition against July 24 order. Sources had then said as a change of strategy, a considered decision has been taken not to pursue the matter before the top court. Notably, the court had on the last date of hearing on July 23 indicated to examine a larger issue if MLAs can have a right to voice their "dissent in democracy". In the light of the High Court's order of July 24 and the Supreme Court's oral observations, the legal team pursuing Speaker C P Joshi's petition decided that they would prefer to withdraw the matter, they had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-speaker-c-p-joshi-withdraws-plea-in-supreme-court-against-high-court-order-866170.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Are J&K parties ready to re-calibrate politics as per post-Article 370 abrogation reality?||Almost a year after the scrapping of special status and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories, politicians in the Union Territory (UT) seem to be ready to re-calibrate their politics according to the post-Article 370 reality. Kashmir’s oldest party, the National Conference (NC), hasn’t said a word about the future course of action on Article 370 since August last. The NC president and former Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah on Sunday in an interview with a news agency called for the restoration of the statehood of J&K. On revocation of J&K’s special status, he didn’t speak much and instead pinned hope that the Supreme Court would render justice by striking down the repeal of Article 370 provisions. Abdullah’s son Omar, also a former CM in an article in a national daily said that he would not contest any Assembly elections as long as J&K remains a Union Territory. Sharing excerpts from his piece on Twitter, he said: “J&K participated in democratic processes, shared in the nation's development but the promise made with it wasn’t kept. Removing 370 may have been the popular thing to do, but going back on a nation’s sovereign commitments was not the right thing to do.” Congress veteran from J&K and Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad also demanded the restoration of statehood before holding assembly polls in J&K. Azad, also a former CM of J&K, called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi where he took up several problems related to the UT. In his meeting with the Prime Minister, he spoke about lack of development in J&K, and reminded Modi of his promise to restore the statehood of J&K which he had made on the floor of the House. Azad also urged the PM to hold assembly elections in J&K. He, however, didn’t make a mention about the revocation of Article 370 or its restoration in his meeting with Modi. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) President Mehbooba Mufti and also a former Chief Minister, is still in detention but keeps giving out her views on issues through her Twitter account operated by her daughter Iltija. However, she has not spoken a word on the move to scrap J&K’s special status either. Political observers say that the NC and the PDP have shown their readiness to recalibrate their politics according to the post-Article 370 abrogation reality. “The two major regional political parties, whose politics revolved around autonomy and self-rule, have realized that they need to move on beyond Article 370 as special status can’t be returned. However, for time being they may tell their voters that the August 5 decision has been challenged in the apex court,” they said. A PDP leader, however, said that keeping the special status of J&K off the table will be political suicide, and also “a sign of surrender.” A day before the Modi government scrapped Article 370, all major political parties had met at Farooq Abdullah’s Gupkar residence, and vowed to protect the special status of the erstwhile state in the ‘Gupkar Declaration’ they had all signed. But the declaration has been given a miss by all the politicians so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/are-jk-parties-ready-to-re-calibrate-politics-as-per-post-article-370-abrogation-reality-866171.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||3-day lockdown relaxation in Kashmir ahead of Bakr-Eid||Ahead of Bakr-Eid, authorities in Kashmir have announced a three-day relaxation in the lockdown restrictions from Tuesday. The lockdown was announced last week in view of the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the Valley. Officials said the three-day relaxation period has been given so that people can make purchases, especially of sacrificial animals. During the period, only private transport and auto-rickshaws shall be allowed to ply while public transport shall remain off the roads, they said. Pandurang K Pole, Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, said that the respective Deputy Commissioners will issue “separate rotational schemes for markets to operate” during the relaxation period. “We expect large crowds in the markets during the three days of relaxation. All efforts will be made to ensure that the crowd is regulated for which we also urge people to maintain social distancing,” he said. Pole urged people to follow social distancing norms while going out in the markets on the forthcoming festival.  Till July 26 evening, J&K had 17,920 Covid-19 positive cases while 314 people have died due to coronavirus across the Union Territory (UT). While J&K had 7.497 positive cases on June 30, within a span of the 26 days of July, 10,423 new cases were added to the state's tally. After a sharp rise in positive cases and deaths, authorities on July 23 imposed a six-day strict lockdown across Kashmir to prevent the spread of Covid-19. No movement of people, except medical emergencies and essential services, is being allowed across Kashmir with most of the roads barricaded by the police in Srinagar city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-day-lockdown-relaxation-in-kashmir-ahead-of-bakr-eid-866182.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal launches 'Rozgar Bazaar' job portal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched a job portal and appealed to traders, businessmen, industrialists and people to join hands to revive the city's economy. The portal -- jobs.delhi.gov.in -- will serve as a "Rozgar Bazar" for recruiters and job aspirants, Kejriwal said. "There are people who want jobs and there are traders, businessmen, professionals, contractors who are not getting the right people for their work. This portal will fill this gap by bringing them together on one platform," the chief minister said in a virtual press briefing. He also said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic many people have lost their jobs and businesses have been affected. The website attracted a "massive" response in the first six hours after its launch, with 51,403 job-seekers registering. Also, 1,071 employers posted 18,585 vacancies, said a Delhi government statement. Many migrant workers left Delhi during the lockdown and they have now started returning, Kejriwal said, adding that a special order is being issued to allow street vendors to start work immediately. The people of Delhi have successfully fought the coronavirus in the last three months. Now the need is to move to the next stage of reviving the economy, he said. Due to the pandemic, people lost their jobs, and shops and factories were shut down. People suffered huge losses, and many faced hunger, the chief minister said and added that the Delhi government had arranged for food for people during the lockdown. Now people need jobs and business. Shops and factories should be reopened, he said. "I want to appeal to the people of Delhi to please come together and take steps to improve the condition of the economy of Delhi. I want to appeal to traders, industrialists, professionals, industry associations, market associations, business associations, and NGOs, media organizations and government organizations in Delhi, let's come together and take all measures to improve the economy of Delhi," Kejriwal said. He said that he was happy that Delhi managed to bring the Covid-19 situation under control without going back to imposing a lockdown, unlike some cities and states that have imposed it again to spread the check of the coronavirus. The chief minister said that at a time when cases of Covid-19 are increasing in the country and the world, Delhi is registering a sustained reduction in cases. The recovery rate of Delhi has gone up to 88 per cent, positivity rate has dropped from around 35 per cent in June to currently five per cent, deaths are also lower as compared to June, and only 2,850 hospital beds are occupied by Covid-19 patients while 12,500 beds are empty, he said. "Now we all have to work together to improve the economic situation of Delhi. The Covid-19 situation is improving in Delhi, and businesses and shops have started reopening. I would like to appeal to all migrant workers to come back to Delhi. Industries, shops, and construction activities, that were shut down want to reopen, but there is no manpower," Kejriwal said.  Delhi's Labour minister Gopal Rai said that the services of the job portal will be free and an applicant need not pay any money to anyone for registration.  "Any person can apply to this platform. Job seekers will log in with their mobile number and then they will get the option to select the category of job. One person can apply for one job or more it is an open platform," Rai said. People should help construction workers register on the portal as most do not have access to the internet, he said. The portal connects job-seekers to employers via phone or Whatsapp. In the first six hours, 26,722 connections were initiated.  The top five job categories with vacancies posted by employers were sales and marketing, 11,367; construction, 1,298; accountants,1,051;  delivery services, 1,030, and customer service and tele caller 1,007 vacancies, the statement said. The top jobs attracting the highest number of applications were back office and data entry, 17,527; teaching, 7567;  sales, marketing and business development,7429;  customer service, tele caller, 7036; and accountant, 6379 applicants, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-launches-rozgar-bazaar-job-portal-866209.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||SDO killed, wife, driver hurt in road accident in Rajasthan's Jaisalmer||A sub-divisional officer was killed and his wife and driver were injured when their vehicle collided head-on with a truck in this Rajasthan district, police said on Monday. The accident occurred on the Jaisalmer-Barmer road on Sunday night, when the SDO, Anshul Kumar Singh, was heading towards Fatehgarh in Jaisalmer, they added. All three were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared Singh dead. An officer of the Rajasthan Administrative Service, Singh had taken charge as the Fatehgarh SDO on July 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sdo-killed-wife-driver-hurt-in-road-accident-in-rajasthans-jaisalmer-866216.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Government's effective intervention visible in availability of ‪Covid-19 beds in Delhi: Ministry of Health||In a tweet, the ministry said against a total of 529 Covid-19 beds in the Ram Manohar Lohia (RML), Safdarjung and Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) hospitals, 404 were vacant at 7 am on Monday. "Against a total number of 1515 Covid beds in AIIMS, New Delhi, 1283 beds are vacant today at 7 am," the ministry said in another tweet. "Visible results of Union government's effective intervention in managing ‪#COVID19‬ situation in Delhi are apparent in the number of Covid beds available in the three Central Govt hospitals and ‪#AIIMS‬, New Delhi," the ministry said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/governments-effective-intervention-visible-in-availability-of-covid-19-beds-in-delhi-ministry-of-health-866222.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Revenue depletion no answer for lack of funding to corporations: High Court to AAP government||The Delhi High Court told the AAP government on Monday that depletion of its revenue cannot be an answer to lack of funds with municipal corporations to pay salaries of its staff. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said a solution has to be found and listed the matter for hearing on August 10. It asked Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra to come with instructions on the next date. Mehra, during the hearing via video conferencing, told the court that the government's revenues are depleting, but it will do the needful. "That (revenue depletion) cannot be an answer. The solution has to be found. Figure it out and give us a solution," the bench said. The observations came while hearing an application moved by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) which has alleged that Rs 90.60 crore payable as grant-in-aid under the sanitation/urban development head, for the first quarter ending June 30, has not been released yet and Rs 181 crore under the same head for the second quarter is also due. NrDMC, in its application filed through advocate Mini Pushkarna, has said that the funding was meant for payment of salaries of 'safai karamchaaris' and sanitation activities.  The application has been filed in a pending writ petition by one Rahul Birla seeking directions to the Delhi government and the municipal corporations to pay the salaries with arrears of sanitation workers employed by them. In its application, NrDMC has said that expenditure towards the salary till May 2020, sanitation services and providing PPE kits, gloves, masks, sanitizers to the workers has been incurred by the corporation from its own internal resources, in the absence of any amount being released by the Delhi government. It has claimed that the Delhi government has not been releasing grant-in-aid payments timely under the category of Health and it released an amount of Rs 27.66 crore under Health plan only on July 9. It has further claimed that "the current liabilities of North DMC as on July 1 are Rs 4,757.18 crore, which includes unpaid salaries, pensions, terminal benefits, arrears.  "Besides, there are monthly liabilities towards the salary of employees amounting to Rs 343 crore per month, with annual liability towards salary component alone being Rs 4,116 crore."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/revenue-depletion-no-answer-for-lack-of-funding-to-corporations-high-court-to-aap-government-866224.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Will not contest Assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir till full statehood is restored: Omar Abdullah||Upset over the downgrading of Jammu and Kashmir to the status of a Union Territory following the abrogation of Article 370, former chief minister Omar Abdullah on Monday said he will not contest assembly elections till full statehood is restored. However, Omar, a former union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, made it clear he would continue to work for his party National Conference(NC) and people of Jammu and Kashmir. "I have been leader of the assembly of the state. In its time the most empowered assembly. I cannot and will not be a member of what is now one of the most disempowered assemblies in the country. It's as simple as that," Omar, 50, told PTI. "It is not a threat or blackmail, it's not a display of me sulking. It's just a simple acknowledgment that I won't fight an election to lead the Union Territory assembly which is such a disempowered assembly." Strongly critical of the dilution of Article 370 of the Constitution, Omar said many reasons had been given to justify the abrogation of the provision that granted special status, and claimed that none of those stand any scrutiny. Omar, who is the vice president of the NC, was critical of what had been done to Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 last year and said his party would oppose it in the Supreme Court. "We believe in democracy and peaceful opposition." The abrogation of Article 370 was supposed to end terrorism but the government had been telling the Supreme Court that violence in Jammu and Kashmir was increasing, he said. Similarly, arguments touted such as lack of development and investment due to Article 370 belie facts, he added. Asked whether his decision not to contest the assembly polls has been discussed with the leadership of his party, Omar replied, "it's my view and it's my decision. No one can be forced to fight an election against their will". On the delimitation exercise being carried out by the administration of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar said, "NC is and will continue to explore all legal options to deal with the developments and decisions post-August 5 last year." The elections are likely to be held only after the delimitation exercise is completed in the union territory, which came into existence on October 31 last year. The erstwhile state was split into two union territories--Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-not-contest-assembly-polls-in-jammu-and-kashmir-till-full-statehood-is-restored-omar-abdullah-866226.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Muslim devotees of Lord Ram gear up to celebrate temple 'bhoomi pujan' in Ayodhya||As Ayodhya gets ready for the 'bhoomi pujan' of the proposed Ram temple, some Muslim devotees of Lord Ram are gearing up to celebrate the historic ceremony. The August 5 ceremony will mark the beginning of the temple construction, after a decades-long title suit over the site was settled by the Supreme Court in November last year. Jamshed Khan, a resident of Faizabad district, said he will celebrate the beginning of the temple construction with his Hindu brothers. "We have converted to Islam and embraced its prayer system, but that doesn't change our ancestors. We believe that Lord Ram is our ancestor," he said. Wasi Haider, also a native of Faizabad, echoed similar sentiments. "We believe in the fundamentals of Islam and we practice Islam, but we also believe that Lord Ram was our ancestor. It will be great that we will witness the construction of the Ram temple," he said. Haji Saeed said Indian Muslims consider Lord Ram as 'Imam-e-Hind'. Rashid Ansari said he hopes he gets a chance to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram Janmabhoomi site. "If due to security and other reasons I don't get a chance to go there, I will celebrate the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya," he said. Awadh province incharge of Muslim Rashtriya Manch Anil Singh said some Muslim devotees of Lord Ram are coming to Ayodhya from other states to join the celebrations in the holy town. "One of the devotees is coming to Ayodhya with bricks from his native state Chhattisgarh for the construction of the temple," he said. According to members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya for the ceremony to begin the construction of the Ram temple. Anil Mishra, a member of the trust, told PTI on Sunday that veteran BJP leaders L K Advani, M M Joshi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are among those being invited to the 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony which will be telecast live by Doordarshan. Besides, there is a plan to invite spiritual leaders from all faiths, he had said. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and social distancing restrictions, there will be a limited gathering of up to 200 people at the event, they said according to Mishra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-devotees-of-lord-ram-gear-up-to-celebrate-temple-bhoomi-pujan-in-ayodhya-866233.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan High Court dismisses petition against BSP MLAs' merger with Congress||The Rajasthan High Court dismissed on Monday BJP MLA Madan Dilawar's writ petition questioning the Speaker's inaction on his complaint against the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The petition was filed on Friday and was taken up for hearing by the court on Monday. After hearing, the high court dismissed the petition as the Speaker had passed the order on Dilawar's complaint. Dilwar had filed the complaint to the Speaker in March seeking disqualification of the legislators. In the writ petition on Friday, he challenged the "inaction" of the Speaker for not taking decision on his complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-high-court-dismisses-petition-against-bsp-mlas-merger-with-congress-866235.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi's Covid-19 tally rises to 1,31,219 with 613 fresh cases||On Sunday, the city had reported 1,075 fresh Covid-19 cases. Twenty-six fatalities have been recorded in the last 24 hours, a Delhi health department bulletin released on Monday afternoon showed. The number of active cases stood at 10,994, down from 11,904 the previous day. On June 23, the national capital had reported its highest single-day spike of 3,947. According to the Monday bulletin, the death toll due to coronavirus infection has risen to 3,853 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,31,219. The death toll stood at 3,827 on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-covid-19-tally-rises-to-131219-with-613-fresh-cases-866242.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Mosques in Ayodhya spreading message of communal harmony ahead of Ram temple's 'bhoomi pujan'||With days to go for the August 5 "bhoomi pujan" ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the mosques adjacent to the Ram Janmabhoomi premises are spreading the message of a peaceful coexistence of Hindus and Muslims. There are eight mosques and two mausoleums located close to the 70-acre Ram Janmabhoomi premises mandated by the Supreme Court for a temple of Lord Ram. Azaan and namaaz are offered in the mosques and the annual "Urs" is held at the mausoleums without any objection from the local Hindus. The eight mosques located near the Ram Janmabhoomi premises are Masjid Dorahikuan, Masjid Mali Mandir ke Bagal, Masjid Kaziyana Achchan ke Bagal, Masjid Imambara, Masjid Riyaz ke Bagal, Masjid Badar Paanjitola, Masjid Madaar Shah and Masjid Tehribazar Jogiyon ki. The two mausoleums are Khanqaahe Muzaffariya and Imambara. "It is the greatness of Ayodhya that the mosques surrounding the Ram temple are giving a strong message of communal harmony to the rest of the world," Haji Asad Ahmad, the corporator of the Ram Kot ward, told PTI. The Ram Janmabhoomi premises is situated in Ahmad's ward. "Muslims take out the 'juloos' of Barawafaat that goes through the periphery of Ram Janmabhoomi. All religious functions and rituals of Muslims are respected by their fellow citizens," the corporator said. Asked for a comment on the presence of mosques near the Ram Janmabhoomi premises, the chief priest of the temple, Acharya Satyendra Das, said, "We had a dispute only with the structure that was connected to the name of (Mughal emperor) Babur. We have never had any issue with the other mosques and mausoleums in Ayodhya. This is a town where Hindus and Muslims live in peace." "Muslims offer namaaz, we perform our puja. The mosques adjacent to the Ram Janmabhoomi premises will strengthen Ayodhya's communal harmony and peace will prevail," he added. Both Hindus and Muslims have accepted the Supreme Court verdict over Ram Janmabhoomi, Das said, adding, "We have no dispute with each other." Sayyad Akhlaq Ahmad Latifi, the "sajjada nasheen" and "pir" of the 500-year-old Khanqaahe Muzaffariya mausoleum, said Muslims in Ayodhya are performing all religious practices freely. "We offer prayers five times a day in the mosque at Khanqaah and hold the yearly 'Urs'," he added. "What a scene would it be -- a grand Ram temple surrounded by small mosques and mausoleums and everyone offering prayers according to their beliefs. That will be representative of the true culture of India," Mahant Yugal Kishore Sharan Shastri, the chief priest of the Sarayu Kunj temple adjacent to the Ram Janmabhoomi premises, said. Reacting to the presence of mosques and mausoleums near the Ram Janmabhoomi premises, Triloki Nath Pandey, the decree holder of the land as the "first friend of Ram Lalla" as mandated by the Supreme Court, said, "We do not have any objection to either those mosques or any other mosques. We will not trigger a dispute regarding any structure, Ayodhya must live in peace and communal harmony." Mahant Raju Das, the priest of the Hanumangarhi temple, said, "The presence of the mosques tells the story of Ayodhya's communal harmony. A Ram mandir will be built and there will be no objection to the mosques or religious practices of Muslims."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mosques-in-ayodhya-spreading-message-of-communal-harmony-ahead-of-ram-temples-bhoomi-pujan-866279.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan found Covid-19 positive in second test||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who was hospitalised on Saturday after being tested positive to Covid-19, was again found positive in second test on Monday. However, other tests reports on his body are normal. His wife and two sons have tested negative for the coronavirus. Ministers, top officers and BJP leaders, who had come in contact with the chief minister, have also been found negative for the pandemic. However, cooperative minister Arvind Bhadoriya, who had accompanied with the chief minister to Lucknow to pay last respect to governor Lalji Tandon, is still undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The chief minister has been holding discussion with his ministerial colleagues and officers through videoconferencing from his hospital bed since Saturday. Meanwhile, the spread of the corona virus is continuing unabated in Madhya Pradesh amid re-imposed lockdown as number of cases surged to over 28,000 on Monday. Bhopal toped in cases with 177 fresh patients being detected, followed by Indore where 127 fresh cases were found. So far, the death toll has gone up to 811.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-found-covid-19-positive-in-second-test-866282.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh becomes first state to conduct over one lakh Covid-19 tests||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh conducted over one lakh coronavirus tests in a day, becoming the first state in the country to have achieved this milestone. A government spokesman here said on Monday that more than 1.06 lakh coronavirus tests were conducted in the state on Sunday. They also included antigen tests. He said that the government was focusing on the districts from where more cases were being reported. These districts include Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Jhansi, and Ghaziabad. The spokesman said that around two lakh surveillance teams had been activated. ''We will ramp up testing in the most affected regions,'' he added. The state has witnessed a sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the past few weeks. The number of fresh cases crossed three thousand last week and it has been maintaining an increasing trend, setting off alarm bells among officials. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed 70,000 on Monday. As many as 3,578 people tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday, official said. As many as 1,456 people have so far died from the infection in different parts of the state, while over 42,000 people had recovered were and discharged from the hospitals. The rising number of cases has over-stretched the already poor infrastructure in the state and complaints of refusal to admit infected patients are poured in from across the state. Videos showing the pathetic condition of Covid-19 hospitals and quarantine centres had also gone viral on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-becomes-first-state-to-conduct-over-one-lakh-covid-19-tests-866299.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||SC asks J&K admin to respond on plea for interim bail to Kashmir Bar Association president||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday informed the Supreme Court that the detention of Kashmir Bar Association President Mian Abdul Qayoom in jail here would not be extended beyond August 6. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose, taking into consideration of submission of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, asked him to tell if Qayoom can be released on interim bail till then. The court asked him to take instructions on the issue and put the matter for hearing on June 29. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for Qayoom, submitted that he should be released on interim bail immediately till the expiration of his detention period on August 6. The court had earlier asked Mehta to explain the basis for continued detention of Qayoom, beyond one year period, as per the order passed under the Public Safety Act. Qayoom challenged validity of the High Court's judgement of May 28, 2020 dismissing his plea against the detention following scrapping of special status of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019. The septuagenarian-petitioner, a senior advocate, contended that the HC's order was illegal, unconstitutional and untenable as it erred in relying upon four FIRs lodged against him in year 2008 and 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-jk-admin-to-respond-on-plea-for-interim-bail-to-kashmir-bar-association-president-866348.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||NIA files chargesheet against six JeM operatives in Nagrota encounter||The National Investigative Agency (NIA) on Monday filed chargesheet against six Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) operatives involved in Nagrota encounter in January this year. The chargesheet, filed in NIA Special Court in Jammu reveals Pakistan-backed JeM’s bid to unleash militant attacks in India. On January 31 during random checking of vehicles at Bann Toll Plaza in Nagrota security personnel in a chance encounter killed three Pakistani Jaish militants while three of their aides were arrested from the spot. In a statement a spokesperson of the NIA said the chargesheet in JeM’s Nagrota infiltration-transportation module case was filed against Sameer Ahmed Dar, Asif Ahmed Malik, Sartaj Ahmed Mantoo, Suhaib Manzoor, Zahoor Ahmed Khan, all residents of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district and Suhail Javid resident of Central Budgam district under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Sameer Dar is the cousin of the 14 February 2019 Pulwama suicide bomber Adil Dar, who had driven an IED-laden truck into a CRPF convoy, killing 40 paramilitary CRPF personnel. The NIA took up the investigation of the case on 10 February and arrested three more militant associates of this Infiltration-transportation module. Searches were conducted at several places in Kashmir valley and incriminating material including documents and digital devices were seized. “Investigation revealed that apart from their unsuccessful attempt in January, this module had received a group of three Pakistani terrorists in December, 2019 after they infiltrated into India from the International Border in Samba sector and ferried them to south Kashmir,” the NIA spokesperson said. He said the module was in touch with Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad handlers and launch-pad commanders who used to send the location of freshly infiltrated militants and also share the code-words for receiving them to driver Sameer Dar on secure messaging apps. “The other three arrested accused viz. Suhaib, Zahoor and Suhail were the over-ground workers (OGW’s) of JeM and provided safe shelter, logistics and communication back-up for the infiltration and transit of the Pakistani terrorists. These OGW’s also purchased ‘phirans’ (long gowns) for the infiltrated terrorists to make them look like Kashmiris and to help them hide their weapons,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-chargesheet-against-six-jem-operatives-in-nagrota-encounter-866366.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir sees decline in fresh Covid-19 cases; 470 cases reported||The number of Covid-19 cases witnessed downward trend in Jammu and Kashmir after two days of spike with 470 positive cases reported on Monday taking the tally in the Union Territory to 18,390. While on Sunday 615 Covid-19 positive cases were reported from J&K, the number was 523 on Saturday. Of the new cases, 309 were from Kashmir, while 161 were from Jammu. Srinagar district had the highest number of positive cases at 132. The total number of cases in Srinagar has reached 4134 out of which 2384 are active positives. In Jammu division, Jammu district recorded the highest number of 37 cases followed by 23 in Kishtwar. Jammu region has total cases of 3,933 out of which 1790 are active positives. Officials said nine more people succumbed to the virus on Monday taking the total toll in the UT to 321. While 298 deaths have been reported from Kashmir valley, 23 who died due to the Covid-19 were from Jammu region. The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in death toll and daily-new-cases in July. 220 persons have died in the first 27 days of July alone. On July 20, J&K had reported 751 positive cases which was the highest single day tally since the outbreak of the pandemic in the UT in March. Active cases in the UT stand at 7,667 with 5,877 from Kashmir and 1,790 from Jammu. The number of people who have recovered since the first case was reported on March 9 has reached 10,402, taking the recovery rate to 56.56 per cent. From 63 per cent on July 1, the recovery rate has consistently gone down as the new cases have been showing more increase than the number of recovered. Hospitals in Srinagar are facing the maximum load of patients as many cases are being referred here from other districts of the Valley. The healthcare infrastructure in the Valley is struggling to cope with a surge in new cases. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is almost 1,500 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is almost 1,070. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Kashmir also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-sees-decline-in-fresh-covid-19-cases-470-cases-reported-866379.html
27-07-2020||North and Central||Will pass order to allow street vendors, hawkers to resume work: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the Delhi government will pass an order to allow street vendors and hawkers to restart their work and businesses. The coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown triggered by it have hit both small scale and individual businesses, with street vendors being one of the most affected groups.  "A special order is being passed through which the street vendors and hawkers can restart their work and livelihood in Delhi," Kejriwal said in a virtual press briefing. Hawkers will be allowed to operate from 10 am to 8 pm every day, and they will have to ensure social distancing and all other precautionary measures to avoid the spread of Covid-19, the government said in a statement. Due to some confusion, street vendors were not allowed to work earlier, but now they will be allowed to start work from 10 am to 8 pm, Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-pass-order-to-allow-street-vendors-hawkers-to-resume-work-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-866407.html
27-07-2020||Opinion||Don’t ban TikTok, make an example of it||For a while, it seemed that TikTok might dodge the techlash. After all, what could be problematic about a short-form video app featuring a bunch of teenagers and 20-somethings doing choreographed dances, roller skating, hanging out in influencer mansions and cutting into photorealistic cakes? The answer turns out to be: plenty. In the past year, as it has become one of the most popular apps in the world, TikTok has accumulated many of the same problems that other large-scale social networks have. In addition to all the harmless Gen Z fun, there are TikTok conspiracy theories, TikTok misinformation and TikTok extremism. There are even activists using TikTok to influence our elections, including a network of teenagers and K-pop fans who claimed they used the app to sabotage President Donald Trump’s rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, last month by registering for tickets under false identities. All of this might have been overlooked or forgiven, except for one fact: TikTok is owned by ByteDance, one of the largest tech companies in China. TikTok’s Chinese ownership has become a subject of intense scrutiny by lawmakers, regulators and privacy activists in recent weeks. Trump is considering taking steps to ban the app in the United States. Companies including Wells Fargo and government agencies including the Transportation Security Administration have instructed their employees to delete TikTok from their work phones because of concerns that it could be used for surveillance or espionage. In response to the mounting pressures, TikTok is wrapping itself in the American flag. The company has hired a small army of lobbyists in Washington, has brought in an American chief executive (former Disney executive Kevin Mayer) and is reportedly exploring selling a majority stake in the company to US investors. Jamie Favazza, a TikTok spokeswoman, said in a statement that in addition to the chief executive, the social network had an American as its chief information security officer and another as its head of safety. “We’ve tripled the number of employees in the US since the start of 2020,” she said, “with plans to hire 10,000 more people over the next three years in places like Texas, New York and Florida.” There are legitimate concerns about a Chinese-owned company capturing the attention and data of millions of Americans — especially one like ByteDance, which has a history of bending the knee to the country’s ruling regime. Like all Chinese tech companies, ByteDance is required to abide by Chinese censorship laws, and it could be forced to give user data to the Chinese government under the country’s national security law. Lawmakers have also raised concerns that TikTok could be used to promote pro-China propaganda to young Americans or censor politically sensitive content. Favazza said TikTok stored US user data in Virginia and Singapore. She added that the company’s content moderation efforts were led by US-based teams and not influenced by any foreign government, and that TikTok had not and would not give data to the Chinese government. There are also reasons to be skeptical of the motives of TikTok’s biggest critics. Many conservative politicians, including Trump, appear to care more about appearing tough on China than preventing potential harm to TikTok users. And Silicon Valley tech companies like Facebook, whose executives have warned of the dangers of a Chinese tech takeover, would surely like to see regulators kneecap one of their major competitors. I’ll be honest: I don’t buy the argument that TikTok is an urgent threat to America’s national security. Or, to put it more precisely, I am not convinced that TikTok is inherently more threatening to Americans than any other Chinese-owned app that collects data from Americans. If TikTok is a threat, so are WeChat, Alibaba and League of Legends, the popular video game, whose maker, Riot Games, is owned by China’s Tencent. And since banning every Chinese-owned tech company from operating in America wouldn’t be possible without erecting our own version of China’s Great Wall — a drastic step that would raise concerns about censorship and authoritarian control — we need to figure out a way for Chinese apps and US democracy to coexist. Here’s an idea: Instead of banning TikTok or forcing ByteDance to sell it to Americans, why not make an example of it by turning it into the most transparent, privacy-protecting, ethically governed tech platform in existence? As a foreign-owned app, TikTok is, in some ways, easier to regulate than a U.S. tech platform would be. (One way of regulating it, a national security review by the U.S. Committee on Foreign Investment of ByteDance’s 2017 acquisition of Musical.ly, TikTok’s predecessor app, is already reportedly underway.) And there is plenty more the U.S. government could do to ensure that TikTok plays a responsible role in our information ecosystem without getting rid of it altogether. It could require the company to open-source key parts of its software, including the machine-learning algorithms that determine which posts users are shown. It could pressure TikTok to submit to regular audits of its data-collection practices and open up its internal content moderation guidelines for public comment. As Kevin Xu, the author of Interconnected, a blog about U.S.-China relations, points out, ByteDance could impose strict internal controls to prevent its Chinese employees from accessing any of TikTok’s systems and open-source those controls so that outsiders could verify the separation. Samm Sacks, a cyberpolicy fellow at the centrist think tank New America, told me that some of the solutions being proposed for TikTok — such as selling itself to American investors — wouldn’t address the core problems. A U.S.-owned TikTok could still legally sell data to third-party data brokers, for example, which could then feed it back to Chinese authorities. Instead, Sacks said, the US government should enact a strong federal privacy law that could protect TikTok users’ data without banning the app altogether. “Let’s solve for the problems at hand,” she said. “If the concern is data security, the best way to secure the data is to put TikTok under the microscope and put in place really robust and enforceable rules about how they’re using and retaining data.” Forcing TikTok to operate in a radically transparent way would go a long way toward assuaging Americans’ fears. And it could become a test case for a new model of tech regulation that could improve the accountability and responsibility of not just Chinese-owned tech companies but American ones, too. At its core, a lot of the TikTok fear factor comes down to a lack of information. In March, TikTok announced that it would open “transparency centers” where independent auditors could examine its content moderation practices. The company has also begun releasing “transparency reports,” similar to those issued by Facebook and Twitter, outlining the various takedown requests it gets from governments around the world. But we still don’t know how TikTok’s algorithms are programmed or why they’re showing which videos to which users. We don’t know how it’s using the data it’s collecting or how it makes and enforces its rules. We should know these things — not just about TikTok but about U.S. social media apps, too. After all, Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Snapchat are playing a huge role in the lives of millions of Americans, and for years, they have operated with a degree of secrecy that few other companies of their importance have been allowed. What little we understand about these platforms’ inner workings is often learned years after the fact, gleaned from insider leaks or repentant former employees. Some experts see TikTok’s current predicament as a chance to change that. “I think TikTok is a bit of a red herring,” Alex Stamos, Facebook’s former chief security officer and a professor at Stanford University, told me in an interview. Ultimately, Stamos said, the question of what to do about TikTok is secondary to the question of how multinational tech giants in general should be treated. “This is a chance to come up with a thoughtful model of how to regulate companies that operate in both the U.S. and China, no matter their ownership,” he said. The debate over TikTok’s fate, in other words, should really be a debate about how all of the big tech companies that entertain, inform and influence billions of people should operate and what should be required of them, whether they’re based in China or Copenhagen, Denmark, or California. If we can figure out how to handle TikTok — an app with a genuinely creative culture, and millions of American young people who love it — we’ll have done a lot more than preserving a world-class time-waster. We’ll have figured out a model for getting big tech platforms under control, after years of letting them run amok.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/don-t-ban-tiktok-make-an-example-of-it-866099.html
27-07-2020||South||Actor Sonu Sood gifts tractor to Andhra Pradesh farmer after video of his plight goes viral||An actor who has turned savior for thousands of migrant workers facilitating their travel back home in buses and flights, Sonu Sood has now come to the rescue of a farmer’s family hit hard by the pandemic. This time, with a tractor. V Nageshwara Rao’s plight came to light with a video of him ploughing his two-acre field in Mahal Rajupalli village in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, with his two daughters tugging the yoke and wife sowing legume seeds. Rao used to run a tea stall in Madanapalle town but had to close that livelihood avenue because of the Covid-19 lockdown and return to his village. Good rains encouraged Rao to farm, but he could not afford to rent oxen. This is when his daughters -- Vennela and Chandana -- took the matter and the yoke into their hands. On Sunday morning, Sood noticed their hardship on Twitter, who first promised them a pair of bullocks. A few hours later, Sood tweeted again saying that “the family does not deserve a pair of oxen.” “They deserve a Tractor. So sending you one. By evening a tractor will be ploughing your fields. Stay blessed,” the actor said. True to his word, a tractor worth about Rs 9 lakh along with some cash support reached the astounded Rao’s family by Sunday evening.    Sood, a popular actor in Telugu films who mostly played villainous roles, has now become a real-life hero for the Raos who said they would be indebted to him for life. As per Sood’s wish, the emotionally overwhelmed parents said they would send Vennela (12th class) and Chandana (10th class) for higher studies. While Sood received a flood of appreciation on social media, his large-hearted act also prompted some more people to come to the aid of the family with monetary support. Even Telugu Desam Party chief and former Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Chandrababu Naidu who hails from the same district, announced that he “would take care of the education of the two daughters and help them pursue their dreams.” Naidu also spoke with Sood, applauding his inspiring effort.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/actor-sonu-sood-gifts-tractor-to-andhra-pradesh-farmer-after-video-of-his-plight-goes-viral-866096.html
27-07-2020||South||Gold smuggling case: NIA quizzes Kerala CM's former secretary M Sivasankar in gold smuggling case||Kerala Chief Minister's former principal secretary M Sivasankar was being quizzed by the NIA since Monday morning in connection with the gold smuggling case involving the UAE consulate's former employees. Even as Sivasankar was already placed under suspension, his quizzing assumed much political significance as he was a close confident of Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan and was handling key matters at the CMO over the last four years. It is reliably learnt that the NIA was mainly trying to get information regarding the links of one of the key accused, Swapna Suresh, from Sivasankar. Sivasankar had been maintaining that he had a close relationship with Swapna, who was a former executive secretary at the UAE consulate, but was totally ignorant about their smuggling activities. Sivasankar might be a witness in the case. The NIA is probing into the terror links of the racket. Senior police officers of NIA are closely supervising the case, in which the role of some employees of the UAE consulate in Kerala was also suspected. Sivasankar was quizzed by the NIA and Customs earlier also. Meanwhile, the Customs was learnt to have recovered details of banks deposits to the tune of Rs 40 lakh by Swapna and steps were being taken to freeze the deposits. Earlier Rs one core and one kilogram gold were recovered from her bank lockers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-nia-quizzes-kerala-cms-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-in-gold-smuggling-case-866175.html
27-07-2020||South||CBSE topper from Kerala on cloud nine after a call from PM Modi: Report||An unexpected call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi left the CBSE commerce stream topper from Kerala, Vinayak M Malil, elated, on Sunday.  “Sabash Vinayak, Sabash. How is the josh?” Narendra Modi asked Vinayak when he called to congratulate him on his Class XII results as part of the Mann ki Baat programme every Sunday.  “High sir,” the student of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyala replied. Vinayak scored centum in Accountancy, Business Studies and Information Practices, becoming the national-level topper of CBSE among the SC/ST category.  Exchanging pleasantries with the prime minister, he said that he has applied to Delhi University for higher studies and would like to pursue B.Com for graduation when Modi asked him if he wants to visit the capital. He answered Modi’s enquiries about his interests and said that he plays badminton very often and had the chance to participate outside of his school also.  Vinayak’s father, Manoj Malil, a daily-wage worker said that Vinayak had unending support from his teachers. “He was enrolled in the school in Class VI and ever since he has been closely guided by his teachers. Other than the vacation period at home, he has always been at the school. Though we visit him often, it is the support of people like principal Stella madam which pushed him to achieve success," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbse-topper-from-kerala-on-cloud-nine-after-a-call-from-pm-modi-report-866191.html
27-07-2020||South||Madras High Court directs Centre to form committee to decide on OBC reservation in all-India quota||The Madras High Court on Monday directed the Central government to constitute a committee to decide on the issue of providing OBC reservation in all-India seats (AIQ) surrendered by Tamil Nadu for medical admission. Such a committee comprising representatives from Centre, state and Medical Council of India should be constituted within three months, the court said. The first bench of Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy also made it clear that any decision made by the committee shall be applicable only from the next academic year. Asserting that there was no legal bar in providing OBC reservation in AIQ seats as contended by the MCI, the bench said it was not passing a positive order to provide the reservation only in view of settled law that courts cannot interfere in policy matters of the government, unless in cases where fundamental rights are affected. "Reservation is not a legal or fundamental right," the court added. The bench passed the order on the batch of petitions moved by the Tamil Nadu government, the DMK, AIADMK, PMK and other political parties challenging the decision of the Centre not to provide OBC reservation in AIQ seats for medical admission. Disposing of the petitions, the court also observed that it is open for the Centre to pass any legislation to provide OBC reservation in AIQ seats for medical admission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-directs-centre-to-form-committee-to-decide-on-obc-reservation-in-all-india-quota-866229.html
27-07-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,473 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally crosses 55,000-mark||Telangana reported 1,473 new Covid-19 cases, taking the overall tally in the state to 55,532. Of the 1,473 fresh cases, 506 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy (168), Warangal Urban (111) and Sangareddy (98) districts, a state government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8 pm on July 26. With eight more deaths, the Covid-19 toll in the state rose to 471. The death rate in the state was 0.85 per cent, while it was 2.3 per cent in the country, it said. As many as 42,106 people have recovered from the infection so far, while 12,955 were under treatment. The bulletin said 9,817 samples were tested on July 26. Cumulatively, 3,63,242 samples have been tested. The tests per million population in the state on July 26 was 245. The WHO recommended number of tests per million per day was 140, it said. The number of vacant isolation, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,253 and 2,468 and 1,290 respectively. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds were available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. Alternatively, people can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1473-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-crosses-55000-mark-866232.html
27-07-2020||South||90% demolition of state secretariat over: Telangana government||Ninety percent of the demolition of the state secretariat was over and as many as 4,500 truckloads of debris is expected to be generated out of it, the Telangana government said on Monday. The K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government began razing to the ground the secretariat building complex on July 7, days after the Telangana High Court dismissed a bunch of PILs challenging the state's decision to construct a new secretariat complex by demolishing the existing one. The official information on the demolition came after some writ petitions were filed in the High Court challenging the restrictions on media by the State Government at the Secretariat demolition site. "The government has taken up demolition of the old buildings and removal of debris of the Old Secretariat to pave way for a new building complex. Ninety per cent of the demolition works are over. It is estimated that there would be 4500 Truck-loads of debris. So far 2,000 truckloads of debris were removed," the release issued by the Chief Minister's office said. Other works are going on. As a preventive measure, the government did not allow anyone into the premises, as there is a danger of accidents happening while demolishing the high- rise buildings. As part of this, media is also not allowed, it said. As there were requests from the media representatives to allow them to report the demolition works, the government decided to allow them into the Secretariat premises to cover the news reports on the demolition works and clearing of the debris, the release quoted Roads and Buildings, Minister Vemula Prashanth, as saying. The minister further said the City Police Commissioner will take the media around the secretariat premises, the release said. The demolition of the buildings had to be suspended for a few days following the court's stay order which was lifted on July 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/90-demolition-of-state-secretariat-over-telangana-government-866237.html
27-07-2020||South||3.5-year-old Russian boy gets new lease of life with a complex 'Berlin Heart' surgery||Three-and-half-year-old Fedrenko Lev sports a smile and waves his left hand signaling his recovery from a complex Biventricular Berlin Heart Implantation as he poses for a picture. His parents profusely thanked doctors at a private hospital here who performed the surgery in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic overcoming several challenges. The child from Russia, with severe restrictive cardiomyopathy, was referred to MGM Health Care here in 2019 for treatment, and he needed two heart pumps and Paediatric Biventricular pumps are made only in Germany by a company called “Berlin Heart”. Though doctors here were ready to perform the surgery, there were challenges as the child’s condition worsened during the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Engineers from Berlin could not come personally to install the external console, but the challenges were met as they oversaw technicians at the hospital fit the apparatus via video conferencing. And on May 25, 2020, the first such surgery Biventricular Berlin Heart Implantation was performed in the entire South East Asia, Middle East, and Africa regions on a three-and-a-half-year-old child. The announcement of Lev’s recovery was made by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and directors of MGM Health Care via video conferencing. The surgery was performed by a team headed jointly by Dr K R Balakrishnan and Dr Suresh Rao of MGM Health Care. Doctors who performed the complex surgery on the child said the three-and-a-half-year-old was managed with medicines for two months and that his condition began to deteriorate slowly. “The child had recurrent heart failure and suffered two cardiac arrests but was revived after performing CPR. The baby was less than 10 kg and the only option was to install Berlin Heart, but the Covid-19 pandemic posed several challenges in performing the surgery. Finally, we could do it on May 25, 2020 and the baby is now doing fine,” Dr Rao said. After being on a ventilator for two days, the child was wheeled into the cardiac ICU where his condition was monitored round-the-clock. “It was a pleasant child and it was a pleasant experience to manage…the baby can live a normal life and play like children of his age. But the baby has to take blood thinners life-long,” Dr Rao added. The parents of the child spoke in Russian, which was translated in English, thanking the doctors for making their son smile again. “We are happy and thankful to doctors in Chennai who performed the surgery successfully. We can go home back with satisfaction,” they said. On the challenges, Dr K R Balakrishnan said technical teams at the hospital and of the company in Europe were in constant touch and connected via video conferencing for installing the equipment. “Usually engineers from Germany and Britain would have come here to install the machine, but the installation was done by our staff on guidance from the engineers via video conferencing. It was challenging but technology came handy and we were successful,” he said. The surgeon also said the doctors’ team at the hospital here and those from the company in Germany had a virtual meeting everyday to discuss the child’s health condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/35-year-old-russian-boy-gets-new-lease-of-life-with-a-complex-berlin-heart-surgery-866252.html
27-07-2020||South||Another mishap in Vizag; no casualties reported this time||Two containers were gutted and two more were partially damaged in a fire caused in a container yard near the Visakhapatnam airport on Monday. This is the fourth industrial mishap that took place in the port city of Vizag, in less than three months. On May 7, styrene vapour leak from the LG Polymers unit near Gopalapatnam killed 15 locals. Benzimidazole leak in Sainor Life Sciences pharma unit in Parawada on June 30 caused death of two employees.   On July 14 night, a huge blast and fire in the Visakha Solvents Limited, Jawaharlal Nehru pharma city at Parawada near Vizag killed one operator and injured a chemist. However, no casualties were reported from the container incident on Monday. The cause of the fire is said to be the friction of the crane with the containers loaded with chemicals. Fire tenders, who rushed to the spot, brought the situation under control. However, the fresh incident, which caused heavy plumes of white vapor spread in the surrounding air, added to the fears of the already terrified locals especially in the industrial belt stretching from the NAD junction to Parawada. Visakhapatnam, known popularly as Vizag, on the East Coast is heavily industrialised with steel plant, shipyard, refineries, pharma, and other manufacturing units. The city was designated as Andhra Pradesh’s executive capital by chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy, a decision fiercely opposed by the TDP and its chief Chandrababu Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-mishap-in-vizag-no-casualties-reported-this-time-866257.html
27-07-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,473 new Covid-19 cases, overall tally crosses 55,000-mark||Of the 1,473 fresh cases, 506 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy (168), Warangal Urban (111) and Sangareddy (98) districts, a state government bulletin said on Monday, providing data as of 8 pm on July 26. With eight more deaths, the Covid-19 toll in the state rose to 471. The death rate in the state was 0.85 percent, while it was 2.3 percent in the country, it said. As many as 42,106 people have recovered from the infection so far, while 12,955 were under treatment. The bulletin said 9,817 samples were tested on July 26. Cumulatively, 3,63,242 samples have been tested. The tests per million population in the state on July 26 was 245. The WHO recommended the number of tests per million per day was 140, it said. The number of vacant isolation, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,253 and 2,468 and 1,290 respectively. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds were available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. Alternatively, people can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1473-new-covid-19-cases-overall-tally-crosses-55000-mark-866274.html
27-07-2020||South||Sathankulam victim Jayaraj's daughter gets Tamil Nadu govt job||Persis, the 33-year-old daughter of P Jeyaraj who along with his son Emmanuel Bennix were allegedly killed in police custody, landed in a government job on Monday. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami handed over the appointment order to Persis here on Monday, fulfilling a promise he made while announcing ex-gratia for the family of Jeyaraj and Bennix. Persis has been appointed as junior assistant in the Revenue Department in neighbouring Tenkasi district on compassionate grounds, the order said. After receiving the order, Persis insisted that the family is hoping that justice will be delivered to both his father and brother “who were innocent.” Speaking to reporters, Persis said the Chief Minister expressed grief over the death of her father and younger brother Bennix and assured her family of justice. "A CBI probe is on and it is our belief that the judiciary will do justice and the government will stand by us in getting justice," she said and appealed for an expeditious probe. The appointment comes days after the government provided a solatium of Rs 20 lakh to the family. Bennix and Jeyaraj, who were arrested in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district on June 19 over an argument with police, died due to injuries sustained during police custody within hours of each other on June 22 and June 23. After the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court took suo motu cognizance of the case, 10 policemen have been arrested so far and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has taken over the inquiry. While CB-CID initially investigated the alleged excesses and arrested 10 police personnel, the case is now probed by the CBI.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sathankulam-victim-jayarajs-daughter-gets-tamil-nadu-govt-job-866288.html
27-07-2020||South||Kerala CBSE topper gets congratulatory call from PM Modi||A Kerala student hailing from a weak background was obviously excited when he secured the top marks in the CBSE 12 standard commerce stream in the state. But his excitement had no limits when he received a call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. It was as part of the 'Mann Ki Baat' programme that the Prime Minister rang up Vinayak M Malil, who was a student of the Jawahar Novdaya Vidyalaya at Neriyamangalam, about 70 kilometres from Kochi. He is the son of Idukki native Manoj, a daily wage worker, and Thankamma. After congratulating him for being the topper by fighting the odd conditions in life, the Prime Minister asked him what was his message to other students. "Hard work and proper time utilisation," replied Vinayak, who secured 493 out of marks in the CBSE exams, with full marks in three subject. During the two-minute long conversation, the Prime Minister also enquired about the places he visited and his interest in sports. When Vinayak said he only visited Kerala and Tamil Nadu so far, the Prime Minister asked if he would like to visit Dehi. Vinayak replied that he was applying for higher studies in Delhi university. The Prime Minister, who shared his conversation on the Twitter, asked Vinayak if he was active on social media. Once Vinayak replied that students were not allowed to use electronic gadgets at their school, Modi said he was lucky. Vinayak is now flooded with appreciations as his conversation went viral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cbse-topper-gets-congratulatory-call-from-pm-modi-866296.html
27-07-2020||South||TN VHP functionary attempts self-immolation protesting arrests for drawing 'vel' in public places||A VHP functionary attempted self-immolation during a protest here against the arrest of some people for drawing 'vel' (a type of spear, the weapon of Lord Muruga) on roads to condemn derogatory remarks by a YouTube channel about a hymn sung in praise of the god, police said. VHP Tamil Nadu joint secretary Amarnath Shivalingam suddenly doused himself in petrol and attempted to immolate in front of the Kuniyamuthur police station during the demonstration by nearly 100 workers of various Hindu outfits. However, police personnel overpowered and foiled the attempt and took him into the station, they said. The workers were protesting the arrest of five people in the area for drawing 'vel' on roads and walls during the lockdown as part of the agitation against the YouTube channel "Karuppar Kootam", two of whose members have been arrested recently for the alleged denigration of "Kanda Sashti Kavacham". Besides arresting the two, the cybercrime wing police in Chennai has also written to the YouTube asking it to block the channel. The action was taken on complaints by BJP legal wing and Hindu outfits against the channel. Meanwhile, an organisation of Saivites here sought stringent action against a CPI-M spokesperson for alleged derogatory remarks on Thirugnanasambandar, one of the three prominent Tamil poet-saints, in a YouTube Channel recently. "The comments have hurt the sentiments of Hindus, particularly Saivites and the administration has to take legal action against her," members of the Sivanadiar Thirukootam said in petitions submitted to the District Collector and the city Commissioner of Police, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-vhp-functionary-attempts-self-immolation-protesting-arrests-for-drawing-vel-in-public-places-866318.html
27-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu issues SOP for return of migrant workers; mandates RT-PCR test, 14-day quarantine||The Tamil Nadu government has issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for companies to bring migrant workers from their native places to the state. The conditions include conducting compulsory RT-PCR tests on them and mandatory 14-day quarantine period even if the samples for Covid-19 return negative. In a three-page order, the government said employers who wish to bring the workers from their native state should register for e-pass from the respective district administrations and mention their mode of transport and location of the facility where they will be quarantined. “On arrival in Tamil Nadu, all the individuals have to be tested using RT-PCR method at the cost of the company/manpower agencies. All the individuals who test positive shall be sent to hospital for treatment. All the individuals who test negative shall be sent for room quarantine for 14 days,” the order said. The place quarantine should be identified by the companies and approved by the respective district collectors. If someone tests negative and develops symptoms during the 14-day quarantine period, he should be tested again, the order says. Those who complete the quarantine period without any symptoms can be allowed to work in factories by following the standard precautionary measures like wearing masks, washing hands regularly, and maintaining physical distancing. The order also said the place of stay of the employees should be well-ventilated and hygienic, the order said. Over 3 lakh migrant workers have left Tamil Nadu to their native places due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the order said, adding that several companies have made request to bring back their workers to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-issues-sop-for-return-of-migrant-workers-mandates-rt-pcr-test-14-day-quarantine-866350.html
27-07-2020||South||Covid-19 cases breach 1 lakh-mark in Karnataka, biggest single-day spike of 5,324 new infections||Covid-19 cases in Karnataka breached the one lakh mark on Monday, as the state reported a biggest single-day spike of 5,324 new infections and 75 fatalities, taking the death toll to 1,953, the health department said. The day also saw 1,847 patients getting discharged after recovery. With the fresh cases, a total 1,01,465 Covid-19 cases have been confirmed in the state, including 1,953 deaths and 37,685 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 5,324 fresh cases reported on Monday, a whopping 1,470 were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on July 26 with 5,199 cases. This is the fourth consecutive day that the state is reporting over 5,000 fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-cases-breach-1-lakh-mark-in-karnataka-biggest-single-day-spike-of-5324-new-infections-866389.html
27-07-2020||South||Coronavirus: Kerala sees high recoveries after changed re-test protocol||The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala came down slightly on Monday, with 702 fresh cases. The recovery number went up, with 745 people discharged. Two deaths were reported in the state, taking the total death toll to 63, while at least four more deaths were pending confirmation. Over the last few days, the number of persons recovering from Covid-19 in Kerala has been relatively high, especially since the discharge protocol was changed from RT-PCR test to antigen test recently. So far, of the 19,727 infected in Kerala, 10,045 have recovered. The death rate in state is also relatively low. Meanwhile, gynaecology wing of the Kottayam medical college hospital was shut and the hospital is now treating only Covid patients after 12 women including five pregnant were tested positive for Covid-19 infection recently. In Wayanad district that managed to contain the spread, 15 workers in a building were tested positive. About 300 people were kept in quarantine owing to primary contact with them. A police case was registered against a BJP local leader and many local people in Kottayam district for blocking the funeral of a Covi19 victim's body on Sunday. The funeral was held last on Sunday night under heavy police security. At Aluva in Ernakulam district, one patient died in the ambulance allegedly due to delay in providing timely medical attention. The state human rights commission has ordered a probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-kerala-sees-high-recoveries-after-changed-re-test-protocol-866395.html
27-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu reports nearly 7,000 cases for third day, tally zooms to 2.21 lakh||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported 6,993 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single day spike, taking the tally to 2,20,716 while 77 deaths propelled the toll to 3,571. As many as 63,250 samples were tested, taking the total specimens screened to 24,14,713 so far. Of the new infections, Chennai and its nearby three districts of Chengelpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur accounted for 2,422 cases and the remainder was spread across other districts, a health department bulletin said. Greater Chennai Corporation said there are 59 containment zones in the city as on date. Sixty nine people who succumbed to the virus had comorbidities and eight none, taking the toll to 3,571 with Chennai's count alone rising to 2,032. The deceased included two men aged 95 and 26.  Monday is the third successive day the state has logged nearly 7,000 cases after 6,986 and 6,988 on Sunday and Saturday respectively. Active cases stood at 54,896 and recoveries touched 1,62,249, including 5,723 people discharged on Monday. Chennai accounted for 95,857 cases out of the state's tally of 2,20,716. Nearby Chengelpet has 12,717 cases, the next highest following Chennai. Tiruvallur near here and Madurai in southern Tamil Nadu follow with 12,320 and 10,057 cases respectively. Significantly, in the past one week, increase in the number of cases was 45,038 and 40,473 patients recovered. As many as 4,30,134 samples were tested during this period, and fatalities rose by 1,020, which includes 444 deaths added in Chennai on 22 July following a report of the Death Reconciliation Committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-reports-nearly-7000-cases-for-third-day-tally-zooms-to-221-lakh-866408.html
27-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Complete lockdown not a solution, says Kerala Govt||The Kerala government on Monday said a complete lockdown was not a solution to halt the spread of coronavirus but containment measures in affected areas will be further strengthened as the state's infection tally touched 19,727 with 702 fresh cases. A special cabinet meeting held on Monday decided not to go in for a total lockdown in the state, a line suggested at the all-party meeting last week, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. He said the government had also heldvarious meetings, including with all political partyleaders, health experts and media editors, and the general opinion was against a lockdown. The common opinion was to strengthen the restrictions in clusters to check local transmission, he said adding Police will intervene and take strict action in case of violations. However, as a 'serious' situation continued in Thiruvananthapuram district the existing lockdown would remain in place there, he added. "The current cluster management and the restrictions in the state should be strengthened. We have also decided to do accordingly. Restrictions will be enforced strictly as laxity could be seen.  This cannot be allowed. The Covid protocol needs to be followed strictly and the state administration will intervene in case of any violation", he told reporters. Presently, as many as 9,611 people are undergoing treatment for the infection while 10,054 have recovered and over 1.55 lakh people are under observation, Vijayan said. In Thiruvananthapuram district, which added 161 cases on Monday,a total of 2,881 people were undergoing treatment for the infection and 11 of them in ICU and one on ventilatorsupport. A Chief Secretary-led committee has been constituted to find out if there was need for any relaxation in the district, where at least 15,138 people are under observation. About 45 per centof the 12,801 beds available in 101 CovidFirst Line Treatment Centres (CFLTCs) were now occupied, Vijayan said adding more such facility was being prepared and additional manpower will be mobilised. In the second phase, an additional 229 CFLTCs with 30,598 beds were being made ready, while the third phase will see 480 such centres with 36,400 beds. Vijayan came down against the act by a group of locals, led by a BJP ward councillor in Kottayam, who obstructed the health workers from cremating the body of an 83-year-old man who died of Covid-19. "The yesterday's incident on cremation of a person who passed away due to Covid-19 was a shameful act. The chances for contracting disease from a dead body is very less. The central government has issued separate protocol for handling the body and for cremating the remains of a Covid-19 affected person," he said. The health workers were acting as per the protocol and the real problem was caused when a crowd gathered for the unnecessary protest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-complete-lockdown-not-a-solution-says-kerala-govt-866434.html
27-07-2020||State||Rapid antigen stumbles in Covid-19 test in state||Rapid antigen tests — which were brought in to supplement RT-PCR testing due to rising Covid-19 cases — are providing anxious moments to health personnel as they have been unable to detect hundreds of symptomatic Covid-19 cases.  Authorities have tested 62,188 people so far in the state for Covid-19 using rapid antigen testing kits. Out of these, the test failed to identify 312 people even though they had tell-tale symptoms like fever, cough and breathlessness. The data from the health department was confirmed by IAS officer Dr Shalini Rajneesh, who is overseeing antigen testing in the state, as being up to date from July 13.  According to the data, 312 people were eventually diagnosed as Covid-19-positive after vigilant health officials sent their samples along with 510 other symptomatics who had tested negative on the antigen method for additional verification using RT-PCR. Out of the total 822 people, 37.9% (312 individuals) tested positive. “While these 312 people represent an error rate of 0.5% in antigen testing, we must consider that they were tested a second time using RT-PCR only because they happened to be symptomatic,” said a virologist who did not want to be named. “The question is what about the asymptomatics who test negative on the antigen?” he asked.  In several hard-hit rural districts such as Kalaburagi, Ramanagara and Bidar, the data shows that no people had been referred for additional RT-PCR testing at all. Low testing in Bengaluru Low testing rates also means we don’t know about the true error rate of the antigen tests, the expert said. In Bengaluru, despite the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) stating it will conduct over 10,000 antigen tests per day in the city, data reveals that only 23,640 tests have been done in the city so far since July 13. This is about 1,818 tests per day or about 18.1% of their daily goal. A government source explained that the daily target for testing is 11,500 in Bengaluru Urban and 500 in Bengaluru Rural. A BBMP doctor told DH that the 149 operational Urban Primary Health Clinics (UPHCs) have been given a daily target of 80 tests each. “We have not reached that target,” the doctor said. Among those subjected to antigen testing, however, 5,186 people tested positive and another 431 symptomatics who generated “false negative” reports were referred to the RT-PCR method for additional verification. Among these 32% (or 132 people) tested positive.  On Sunday, day two of a free mobile lab antigen testing programme by the BBMP, 384 antigen tests were done, out of which only 30 people tested positive. A BBMP doctor clarified that antigen tests are only used only on people who are either likely positive or are primary or secondary contacts of known Covid-19 cases. Six extra people were referred for additional RT-PCR testing . BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad admitted that the testing was getting off to a slow start because staff was exhausted and also due to people not coming forward for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rapid-antigen-stumbles-in-covid-19-test-in-state-866074.html
27-07-2020||State||Karnataka top cop asked to file report on internal security after UN observation on IS||The Karnataka government on Sunday directed the Director General of Police Praveen Sood to submit a detailed report on the internal security following the United Nations' observation that international terror outfit IS was active in the state. The UN report stated that Al-Qaeda in the Indian subcontinent, which reportedly has between 150 and 200 members from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar, was reportedly planning attacks in the region. It also warned that there were 'significant numbers' of ISIS operatives in Karnataka and Kerala. Reacting to the UN report, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the state government has taken a serious note of the report on the activities of IS in the state. The state government is in touch with the Centre and the neighbouring states to keep a close watch on the activities of suspicious people and their supporters. "In this context, it has been decided to strengthen the internal security of the state. The Director General of Police has been asked to submit a detailed report," Bommai said in a release. The state is also keeping a strict vigil on all those entering Bengaluru from other states, the Minister said. He recalled that the state police had arrested several members of Al-Hind organisation in January last and Jamaat- ul-Mujahideen from Bangladesh in 2018 and 2019. He added that the National Investigation Agency is investigating the case of JMB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-top-cop-asked-to-file-report-on-internal-security-after-un-observation-on-is-866109.html
27-07-2020||State||Belagavi priest fixed Ram temple ‘muhurat’||It was Vidya Vihar Vidyalaya Kulapati N R Vijayeendra Sharma who gave the auspicious ‘muhurat’ of August 5 for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, it is reported. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the construction of the Ram temple. He was contacted by Ram temple Trustee Swami Govinddevgiri Maharaj to give an auspicious muhurat for the foundation stone laying. Sharma told DH that he had sent four auspicious timings: July 29 (after 9 am), July 31 (from 7 am to 9 am), August 3 (after 10 am) and August 5 full day. Finally, August 5 was selected for the laying of the foundation stone. Sharma said he himself had drafted the letter with dates and auspicious timings and sent it to the the temple Trustee on June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belagavi-priest-fixed-ram-temple-muhurat-866448.html
27-07-2020||State||Covid hit state’s development, rues CM||As the BJP government completed one year in power, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa rued that the Covid-19 pandemic had hindered the state’s development. “I am hurt by the fact that the Covid pandemic has curtailed plans for development of Karnataka,” Yediyurappa said, speaking at an event held to commemorate the first year of BJP administration. Yediyurappa recalled that his tenure got riddled with challenges soon after he took charge on July 26 last year. “When I started the tenure, there was drought in parts of Karnataka. A few days later, the state faced flooding in which more than a lakh houses were damaged,” he said. Subsequently, the Covid pandemic affected the state. “We (the government) have a lot to do. I am tearful when I think of the Covid-19 pandemic,” Yediyurappa said, adding that the government was stable and would focus on development. Taking credit for implementing the recommendations of Dr Nanjundappa Report on Hyderabad-Karnataka, Yediyurappa said that the government was striving to address regional disparity in the state. “I have never pursued the politics of hate,” he said, adding that the government took steps to ensure that there were no communal riots in Karnataka. The chief minister said that amendments to the Land Reforms Act and the new Industrial Policy were formulated to boost investment in Karnataka. “The only intention of the Land Reforms Act is to increase the extent of land used by industries from the existing 2%,” he said, adding that it would create job opportunities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-hit-state-s-development-rues-cm-866449.html
27-07-2020||State||5,324 fresh infections take K’taka tally past 1 lakh-mark||As many as 5,324 fresh infections on Monday took Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally past 1 lakh-mark. As on July 27, the state’s case count has reached 1,01,465. Of which 61,819 are active cases. However, Bengaluru Urban’s new Covid-19 infections dropped below 2000-mark on Monday. The state capital reported 1,470 cases as its tally went up to 46,923. The city has 33,816 active carriers of the virus. Meanwhile two virus-hit districts of Kalyana Karnataka - Ballari and Kalaburgai - continued their worrying trend of rising Covid-19 cases. While Ballari district saw its highest single-day spike of 840 infections, Kalaburagi recorded a new high with 631 cases. The Monday also saw 10 more districts report Covid cases in three digits with Mysuru (296) and Udupi (225) going past 200-mark. The remaining 17 districts recorded infections in two figures. The state registered 75 more Covid fatalities in the last 24 hours with Bengaluru Urban alone accounting for 26 of them. The death toll in the state, as on July 27, stands at 1953. Amid the gloomy Covid statistics, there’s something to cheer for. The state saw a total of 1,847 discharges on Monday. So far, 71,268 rapid antigen tests have been carries out in the state. The testing tally has gone past 12 lakh-mark (12,05,051 so far). Guidelines for festival season  Meanwhile, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner, N Manjunath Prasad, on Monday said that the impending season of festivals posed a high risk to Bengalureans. In a press release, Manjunath Prasad said, “Covid disease is now spreading very rapidly in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru. The festival season is starting with Varamahalakshmi festival on July 31, followed by Bakrid, Raksha Bandhan, Janmashtami, Gowri Ganesha, Muharram and Onam. This festival season poses significant risk of virus transmission.” He urged the public not to visit temples, mosques, and other religious places of worship, even if they are allowed to open. “Please do not visit your relatives, friends and neighbours for any reason. Please restrict your celebrations to pujas at your home with homemade sweets and no outside food, and no people visiting,” Prasadsaid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5324-fresh-infections-take-k-taka-tally-past-1-lakh-mark-866452.html
27-07-2020||State||D K Shivakumar mocks CM B S Yediyurappa’s 1-year fete||KPCC president D K Shivakumar said on Monday that the real achievement of the B S Yediyurappa government was “celebration amid death”. Criticising the government’s one-year completion fete, Shivakumar questioned achievements over the past year.  “The first month went without the Cabinet, the second one was a struggle with floods, third had bypolls, fourth saw Cabinet drama, fifth was a fight for ministerial positions, the seventh and eighth months saw the Covid-19 lockdown, ninth and 10th went into talking about Covid-19 and the 11th and 12th months saw the looting game,” Shivakumar said, adding that the Yediyurappa government had only spoken lies. “The CM hasn’t walked the talk,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-k-shivakumar-mocks-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-s-1-year-fete-866453.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Birth or death not in our hands; have to learn to live with Covid-19. says Ramesh Jarkiholi||Karnataka Water Resources and District In-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Monday said that there has to be a collectively fight against the Covid-19 pandemic to prevent its spread. Replying to reporters here to a query on the increase in the number of deaths related due to Covid-19 in the district, he said, "We have to learn to live with Covid-19. We are making efforts to prevent the spread of Covid-19, but the birth or death of an individual is not in our hands. The situation in Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences District Hospital wherein more deaths have been reported will be reviewed." Regarding complaints of patients with respect to proper treatment not being given to them at BIMS District Hospital, he said, "Let's all visit the facility and inspect it. Officials are doing good work and have scheduled a meeting later in the day to review the situation in the hospital.”  "Complaints of patients have come to our notice and soon, surgeries will be witnessed at the BIMS. If officials of the BIMS transferred during the Covid-19 pandemic, it will send out the wrong message, hence Deputy Commissioner has been asked to take action against them including the private hospitals that were violating government norms and guidelines in treating the patients infected with the virus," he said.   Jarkiholi said that the issue of burning of an ambulance before the BIMS has been taken seriously. Irrespective of those behind the act, action will be taken against them, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/birth-or-death-not-in-our-hands-have-to-learn-to-live-with-covid-19-says-ramesh-jarkiholi-866230.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 affected Karnataka development, rues CM B S Yediyurappa||As the BJP government completed one year in power, chief minister B S Yediyurappa rued that Covid-19 had hindered development of the state. "I am hurt by the fact that the Covid pandemic has curtailed plans for development of Karnataka," Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said, speaking at an event held to commemorate the first year of BJP administration. Soon after assuming power last year, Yediyurappa recalled that his tenure was riddled with challenges. "When I started the tenure, there was drought in parts of Karnataka. Few days later, the state faced flooding in which more than a lakh houses were damaged," he said. Subsequently, Covid pandemic affected the state. "We (the government) have a lot to do. I am tearful when I think of the Covid-19 pandemic," Yediyurappa said. Assuring that measures are being initiated to revive economy, he said that a blueprint for developing Bengaluru infrastructure was also in place. "In the next three years, we will work honestly to implement projects for developing infrastructure," he said. Taking credit for implementing the recommendations of Dr Nanjundappa Report on Hyderabad-Karnataka, Yediyurappa said that the government was striving to address regional disparity in the state. "I have never pursued the politics of hate," he said, adding that the government took steps to ensure that there were no communal riots in Karnataka. Yediyurappa said that Land Reforms Act and new Industrial Policy was formulated to boost investment in Karnataka. "The only intention of the Land Reforms Act was to increase the extent of land used by industries from the existing two per cent," he said, adding that it would create job opportunities in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-affected-karnataka-development-rues-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-866273.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government relents, reduces APMC market cess to 0.35%||The state government has yielded to the pressure from APMC traders, who had threatened to go on a state-wide protest, by reducing the APMC market cess to 0.35 per cent on notified agricultural products traded at APMCs. While the traders had demanded reduction in market cess to 0.20 per cent, the government had reduced it to 1 per cent from 1.5 per cent earlier. DH was the first to highlight the problems of APMC traders. Subsequently, the state cabinet, in its meeting on July 23, agreed to reduce it to 0.35 per cent. In an emergency circular issued on July 24, the principal secretary, department of cooperation stated, “It has been decided to fix the APMC market fee at 0.35 per cent. It is directed to reallocate the market fee for various purposes of APMCs.” The proposed reduction in market fee is expected to generate around Rs 250 crore revenue for APMCs as against Rs 600 crore projected earlier. The funds will be used for maintenance and development of government-owned market yards. Recently, the state government amended the APMC Act to facilitate private trade outside the boundaries of APMC yards and exempted them from paying market fee. Subsequently, the state cabinet on July 9 decided to reduce the market fee to 1 per cent from the earlier 1.5 per cent. The trade bodies and APMC traders decided to stage a state-wide protest against this order and demanded for reduction of the cess to 0.20 per cent. “We had requested the government to create a level-playing field in the state as private markets are exempt from the market fee. Though it is difficult for us to pay 0.35 per cent, we will cooperate with the state government and compete with the private trade,” Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, Chairman of APMC Committee, FKCCI told DH. Around 5,000 traders in north Karnataka districts such as Bidar, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Vijayapura and Yadgir had also shut down their trade in demand for the reduction in the market fee. "The decision of the state government in reducing the APMC market cess will not only help farmers but also APMC merchants to sell agri products at competitive rates," FKCCI President C R Janardhana said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-relents-reduces-apmc-market-cess-to-035-866289.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks Centre increase subsidy amount to procure electric buses under FAME- II||Transport Minister Laxman S Savadi on Monday requested Union Environment, Forest and Heavy Industries Minister Prakash Javadekar to restructuring and increase FAME-II subsidy for procure electric buses to BMTC. Savadi met Javadekar here an submitted a memorandum requesting him to reduce the sanctioned 300 electric buses under FAME-II scheme to the state, and to increase the subsidy amount to Rs 1 crore on the line of FAME-I. FAME (Faster Adoptation and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicle in India) is a centrally sponsored scheme, implemented by Ministry of Heavy Industries, to promote electric and hybrid vehicles in public transport system. The scheme was implemented in two phases, FAME-I and FAME-II. Under FAME-II, the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) was selected to receive the capital expenditure subsidy to procure 300 electric buses. Despite the fact that BMTC has issued Request For Proposal (RFP) to procure buses, due to high quote for the bid, the transport company was forced to reissue tender, making it more attractive, Savadi said in a memorandum. Like FAME-I, the subsidy amount should be increased to Rs 1 crore in FAME-II also, the Minster said in the memorandum to the Minister. Later speaking to reporters, Savadi said the government has decided to install GPS system in all buses to improve its efficiency and better monitoring its movement. Several steps have taken to reduce expenditure on diesel, including giving incentives to drivers for saving diesel, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-centre-increase-subsidy-amount-to-procure-electric-buses-under-fame-ii-866331.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC seeks report on netas, celebrities violating social distancing rule||The Karnataka High Court on Monday asked the state government to submit enquiry reports on alleged violation of social distancing norms during Covid-19 pandemic. The bench came down heavily on the government for allowing politicians and celebrities at Chamundeshwari temple in Mysuru. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Shankar Magadum was hearing a PIL filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation about non-implementation of the order passed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on May 30, 2020.  On allegations of violation of norms at Chamundi Hills, the state submitted that it was customary practice that a few celebrities and elected members are part of the rituals. "On one such occasion Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje visited the temple. Similarly, actor Darshan also was allowed to the temple as per the request of temple administration. No violations have been reported during their visits," the state submitted. "Who decided that only select people could enter the temple," the court orally asked the government. "We direct the state government to submit the enquiry report of the officers who enquired into these alleged incidents. Place on record as to who granted permission for individuals to visit the temple on Chamundi Hills. Necessary documents shall be placed on record," the bench said. Earlier, the state government submitted that necessary action has been initiated by the authorities concerned in case of violations. According to the statement, there was no violation of norms at the ground-breaking ceremony for installation of 108-foot tall statue of Kempegowda. It said the engagement of Congress leader D K Shivakumar's daughter was a family function and only a few invitees attended.  It further stated that action has been initiated by registering FIRs in connection with the bicycle rally taken out by Congress leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-seeks-report-on-netas-celebrities-violating-social-distancing-rule-866414.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka schools not to reopen soon, but teachers will visit kids at home in villages||The government seems to be in no hurry to reopen schools for the current academic year as the Covid-19 cases are spiking every day. This was also the opinion of the Union government during the interaction of Prime Minister Narendra Modi with chief ministers of states on Monday, to discuss unlock procedures. Considering the safety of kids and also the opinion gathered from parents through a survey, the department of education has decided not to reopen the schools as parents are not willing to send their wards to schools. However, the department is framing a district-wise strategy to reach out to children and teach them at their doorstep, specially in rural Karnataka. The department has designed a new scheme “Vidyagama,” under which teachers will reach out to students at their doorstep. “We have gathered data of villages/schools where the number of students is less than 25. In such cases, we are planning to send teachers to the villages, so that they can conduct classes, maintaining social distance,” said an official from the department.  Christened ‘Vidyagama scheme,’ the programme will continue until the physical classes commence. “Along with continuous learning, this scheme will help reduce child marriage, child labour and other crimes against children,” the official said. The department is also planning to conduct physical classes for high school children in rural areas where students strength is less than 20. This is mainly to engage students who are deprived of any technology to utilise online mode of teaching, including classes through Doordarshan Chandana TV channel. Also, the plans for those who have access to mobile phones and telecommunication networks and for those who have no access to such facilities are different. “There are cases where parents have mobile phones, but are available to children only before 9 am or after 6 pm and carry the gadgets to work. In such cases, we have informed teachers to leave voice messages and text messages before 9 am and give assignments for the day,” explained the official. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar conducted a webinar with editors of newspapers in Karnataka on Monday and discussed several issues, including ways to engage children during Covid crisis, online classes and the department’s plan for providing continuous learning.  The minister said that he would soon hold a meeting with cable TV operators in the state to explore the possibility of airing recorded classes for students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-schools-not-to-reopen-soon-but-teachers-will-visit-kids-at-home-in-villages-866418.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 hospitals: HC directs Karnataka govt to form expert panel||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the state government to immediately appoint an expert team of doctors and other experts to inspect hospitals as directed by the apex court. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the state government to file compliance by July 29, 2020. The Supreme Court had passed the order with specific direction to the state governments to constitute an expert team of doctors and other experts for inspection, supervision and guidance of the government and other hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The high court observed that the state did not constitute a committee despite the directions issued on the last two occasions. During the hearing, the state submitted a circular issued on July 23 on the reconstitution of the medical expert committee. However, the bench observed that an eminent in the field should be named as the member of the committee. "According to us this failure on the part of the state is not only contemptuous but it adversely affects the steps which have been taken for preventing Covid-19 and management of patients infected of Covid-19. The state should immediately constitute teams with emphasis that the team should be of doctors who are eminent in their respective fields and also other eminent experts. Not only that the committee should be constituted, it should be provided with all infrastructure and other facilities,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-hospitals-hc-directs-karnataka-govt-to-form-expert-panel-866419.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||5,324 fresh cases take Karnataka tally past 1 lakh-mark||As many as 5,324 fresh infections on Monday took Karnataka's Covid-19 tally past 1 lakh-mark. As on July 27, the state's case count has reached 1,01,465. Of which 61,819 are active cases. However, Bengaluru Urban's new Covid-19 infections dropped below 2000-mark on Monday. The state capital reported 1,470 cases as its tally went up to 46,923. The city has 33,816 active carriers of the virus. Meanwhile two virus-hit districts of Kalyana Karnataka - Ballari and Kalaburgai - continued their worrying trend of rising Covid-19 cases. While Ballari district saw its highest single-day spike of 840 infections, Kalaburagi recorded a new high with 631 cases. The Monday also saw 10 more districts report Covid cases in three digits with Mysuru (296) and Udupi (225) going past 200-mark. The remaining 17 districts recorded infections in two figures. The state registered 75 more Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24 hours with Bengaluru Urban alone accounting for 26 of them. The death toll in the state, as on July 27, stands at 1953. Amid the gloomy Covid-19 statistics, there's something to cheer for. The state saw a total of 1,847 discharges on Monday. So far, 71,268 rapid antigen tests have been carries out in the state. The testing tally has gone past 12 lakh-mark (12,05,051 so far). Guidelines for festival season  Meanwhile, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner, N Manjunath Prasad, on Monday said that the impending season of festivals posed a high risk to Bengalureans. In a press release, Manjunath Prasad said, "Covid disease is now spreading very rapidly in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru. The festival season is starting with Varamahalakshmi festival on July 31, followed by Bakrid, Raksha Bandhan, Janmashtami, Gowri Ganesha, Muharram and Onam. This festival season poses significant risk of virus transmission." He urged the public not to visit temples, mosques, and other religious places of worship, even if they are allowed to open. "Please do not visit your relatives, friends and neighbours for any reason. Please restrict your celebrations to pujas at your home with homemade sweets and no outside food, and no people visiting," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/5324-fresh-cases-take-karnataka-tally-past-1-lakh-mark-866421.html
27-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Former minister Raja Madangopal Nayak dies at 70||Former state minister Raja Madangopal Nayak (70) died on Monday, three days after he tested positive for Covid-19, at ESI Hospital in Kalaburagi. The three-time MLA from Shorapur (Surpur) Assembly constituency, Nayak was rushed to ESI hospital on Friday after he tested positive for novel coronavirus. He had contracted pneumonia and lost his battle against the virus on Monday morning. Nayak, who had served as APMC, Small Savings and Lottery minister in the Veerappa Moily Cabinet from Nov 1992 to Dec 1994, is the first high-profile politician from the state to succumb to Covid-19. He was first elected to the Legislative Assembly in 1983 on a Congress ticket from Surpur. Nayak was re-elected in two subsequent elections to Assembly in 1985 and 1989. Nayak, however, tasted defeat in 2004 Lok Sabha elections from Raichur. Contesting on JD(S) ticket, he lost to Venkatesh Naik by a slander margin of 501 votes. He is survived by wife and two sons. The mortal remains of Madangopal Nayak were laid to rest at his native Shellgi in Surpur taluk on Monday evening, as per the prescribed protocol governing the funeral of Covid victims, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-former-minister-raja-madangopal-nayak-dies-at-70-866423.html
27-07-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||CM B S Yediyurappa to continue lead BJP in Karnataka: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Water Resources and District Incharge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that there were no talks of leadership change in the state and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will continue to lead Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2023 Assembly election and the party will retain power.  Speaking to reporters on the sidelines a programme organised at Zilla Panchayat office in Belagavi on Monday to mark one-year completion of Yediyurappa government, Jarkiholi said that there were no talks to change leadership in the state. “I was unaware of the expansion of the cabinet. I am a common worker of the BJP. Party high command and chief minister will take a decision regarding cabinet expansion.”  He said that his meeting with Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi's visit to New Delhi was for developmental works. It cannot be construed as a difference of opinion for a leadership change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-continue-lead-bjp-in-karnataka-ramesh-jarkiholi-866221.html
27-07-2020||West||DH Toon: In Rajasthan crisis, governor is a partisan player||What started as a rebellion against the Congress government of Ashok Gehlot by the then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other legislators some weeks ago has taken legal and constitutional dimensions and expanded beyond the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dh-toon-in-rajasthan-crisis-governor-is-a-partisan-player-866122.html
27-07-2020||West||E-book on 100 common Indian birds released||In what would go a long way in educating kids and amateurs, a unique e-book on 100 Indian common books was recently released. Veteran naturalist and conservationist Dr Raju Kasambe, in his e-book '100 Common Birds in India', describes the species of birds with their identification, calls, residential status, habitat, distribution along with updated maps, some habits, diets of most species, bird migration studies, and interesting tidbits about many species.  Every species is illustrated with a colourful image. The book can be accessed on any smartphone, tablet, laptop or desktop computer. "The purpose of the e-book is to spread the joy of bird watching and knowledge about the common birds among amateur bird watchers and nature lovers in India," says Kasambe, who works as an assistant director of education with the Conservation Education Centre, Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).  The 126-page book is published by the Wildlife and Environment Conservation Society, Amravati. The cover design has been done by Neenad Abhang. Dr. Suhel Quader of National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bangalore has provided the list of birds most widely reported from India, as per the eBird India database.  "I have selected the species which have a wider distribution or range across major parts of India.  I firmly believe that if the knowledge of wildlife or birds is to be passed on to the next generation, it should be transmitted through the medium the ‘next generation’ is daily hooked on to. Printed books are required, but we cannot reach more people without the use of digital form and social media. We need to use them more often," he said. "To avoid confusion of nomenclature, which has changed a lot in recent past, old names as well as alternate names of many bird species, for both common names and scientific names are mentioned," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/e-book-on-100-common-indian-birds-released-866158.html
27-07-2020||West||Maharashtra hospital loses Covid-19 facility tag due to lapses||A private hospital in Bhiwandi township of Maharashtra's Thane district has been stripped of its status as a Covid-19 treatment facility after several lapses were found in its functioning, a civic official said on Monday. It was observed that the Covid-19 death rate at the hospital was high. The facility, located in Kamatghar area, also did not have specialist doctors to treat the patients and lacked physicians, Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation's medical officer of health Dr Nitin Mokashi said. It did not follow treatment protocols of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), hence it was decided to strip the hospital of its status as a Covid-19 treatment facility, he said. Patients currently undergoing treatment at the facility will be immediately shifted to the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Bhiwandi for further treatment, he said. Officials who had classified the hospital as a Covid-19 facility without due diligence will also face action, he added. On Saturday, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) suspended the licence of a city-based private hospital and cancelled its classification as a Covid-19 facility after it allegedly overcharged patients. The decision was welcomed by local leaders and social activists. They were of the view that the TMC should take over the facility and some other big hospitals in the city and use them for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Till Sunday, Thane district reported 78,567 Covid-19 cases and 2,153 deaths due to the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-hospital-loses-covid-19-facility-tag-due-to-lapses-866174.html
27-07-2020||West||CM Uddhav Thackeray, MVA ministers failed in handling Covid-19 crisis: Nadda||Lashing out at the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, BJP national president J P Nadda said that the Uddhav Thackeray-government has failed in handling the Covid-19 crisis. “The chief minister and his ministers have failed in handling the crisis. The (MVA) government is an unholy alliance (of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congres). It is a government for profit,” Nadda told the Maharashtra office bearers during a meeting, through video-conference from New Delhi. “The government is facing inter-party problems, intra-party problems,” he said. He said that leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has provided an “effective opposition” and exposed the ruling dispensation, headed by its former ally, Shiv Sena. He also asked state BJP president Chandrakant Patil to ensure that the IT cell in Maharashtra is strengthened. “You have to strengthen it and aggressively use it. WhatsApp groups and virtual meetings need to be enhanced,” he said, adding that the party needs to remain galvanised to the grassroots. Nadda, a former union public health minister, said that we have to ensure that we do not need anyone and we should go alone in the next elections. The statement assumes significance in wake of reports that the Shiv Sena may have an alliance with Sharad Pawar-led NCP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-thackeray-mva-ministers-failed-in-handling-covid-19-crisis-nadda-866184.html
27-07-2020||West||Animal sacrifice prohibited in public in Ahmedabad, Surat ahead of Bakri Eid||Days ahead of Bakri Eid, police commissioners of Ahmedabad and Surat in Gujarat have issued orders prohibiting animal sacrifice in public places and at private places where it would be visible to the public. The notifications, having similar content, were issued on Sunday by Ahmedabad Police Commissioner Ashish Bhatia and his Surat counterpart R B Brahmbhatt. The notifications, issued to maintain law and order under section 144 of the CrPC, "prohibit animal sacrifice on Eid-al-Adha, to be celebrated on August 1, at public places and at private places where it would be visible to the public." Such public sacrifice would "hurt sentiments of people of other faiths and it would disrupt communal harmony," the notifications said. The notifications also put a ban on decorating animals and taking out their procession ahead of the ritual of sacrifice. People have also been barred from throwing animal remains in public after the ritual. During the festival, people must wear a mask and maintain social distancing to stop the spread of coronavirus, the two notifications said, adding that those found violating the orders will be booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/animal-sacrifice-prohibited-in-public-in-ahmedabad-surat-ahead-of-bakri-eid-866198.html
27-07-2020||West||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra returns revised proposal on convening assembly session||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday returned to the Ashok Gehlot-led government a cabinet note seeking an assembly session and sought additional information. This is the second time that the governor has returned the proposal and sought clarifications from the state government. "The governor has returned the file to the state government with some queries. The matter is being examined," government sources said. The cabinet had sent a revised proposal to the governor for calling the assembly session from July 31 on Saturday, a day after he returned the government's first proposal. Returning the first proposal, the governor had sought clarifications on six points, after Congress MLAs held a five-hour dharna on the lawns of the Raj Bhawan pressing for a Vidhan Sabha session. The Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs, says it wants to hold the session so that it can prove its majority. Gehlot has alleged that the governor is facing pressure "from above" to stall the assembly from meeting, hinting at the alleged involvement of the BJP government at the Centre in the tussle for power in the state. Mishra has denied the charge. Including the 19 dissidents, the Congress has 107 MLAs in the 200-member assembly and the BJP 72.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-governor-kalraj-mishra-returns-revised-proposal-on-convening-assembly-session-866201.html
27-07-2020||West||Gujarat Congress chief among 60 protesters detained for march towards Raj Bhavan||Nearly 60 Congress workers and leaders were detained by police Monday when they marched towards the Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar to protest against the BJP over the political crisis in Rajasthan. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Paresh Dhanani were among those detained. The march was part of the Congress's nation-wide call for agitation to protect the Constitution and democracy and to show solidarity with the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. Before they were detained, Congress workers and leaders marched towards the Raj Bhavan in the Gujarat capital holding banners with the message "Save Democracy-Save Constitution," and shouted slogans against the BJP. "We detained nearly 60 Congress workers and leaders as they did not have the permission to hold the protest," Gandhinagar Superintendent of Police Mayur Chavda said. Talking to reporters ahead of the march, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda accused the BJP central leadership of "murdering democracy and insulting the public mandate by dismantling democratically elected governments in its hunger for power." Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday returned to the Ashok Gehlot-led government a cabinet note seeking an Assembly session and sought additional information. The Rajasthan Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs, says it wants to hold the session so that it can prove its majority. Gehlot has alleged that the governor is facing pressure "from above" to stall the Assembly from meeting, hinting at the alleged involvement of the BJP government at the Centre in the tussle for power in the state. Mishra has denied the charge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-chief-among-60-protesters-detained-for-march-towards-raj-bhavan-866210.html
27-07-2020||West||Have written to President, spoken with PM on Rajasthan political situation: CM Gehlot to Congress MLAs||The standoff between Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot over convening an Assembly session escalated on Monday, with Mishra seeking assurances from the government on ensuring physical distancing measures in the House in times of Covid-19. Mishra returned the revised proposal Gehlot had sent him on calling a session, citing the three-week notice required to be given to members before summoning a sitting of the House and also laying down procedures, should the chief minister seek a trust vote. On Sunday evening, Gehlot dialled Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apprise him of the conduct of the Governor even as the Congress asked President Ram Nath Kovind to step in to resolve the “constitutional crisis” in the state. Gehlot is battling a rebellion by his former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who has been accused by the Congress of hobnobbing with the BJP to topple the state government. The Congress on Monday stepped up pressure on the Governor for convening the session by holding protests at Raj Bhawans across the country “against the BJP’s attempts to topple democratically-elected governments using money, intimidation and misusing constitutional bodies". In a statement, Governor Mishra rejected Congress' allegations that he was delaying the Assembly session. “The Raj Bhawan has no intention of not calling a session of the Assembly,” Mishra said, adding that all decisions will be taken in accordance with the Constitution and the rules of procedure. “The Governor has once again sent us a six-page love letter,” Gehlot told reporters in Jaipur, adding that constitutionally, the Governors are bound to act on the advice of the elected government and have no discretionary powers on calling a session.  After facing setbacks in courts, Gehlot has focused his energies on proving the majority on the floor of the House to end the uncertainty facing his government due to Pilot’s rebellion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/have-written-to-president-spoken-with-pm-on-rajasthan-political-situation-cm-gehlot-to-congress-mlas-866313.html
27-07-2020||West||Birthday message by Ajit Pawar to Uddhav Thackeray sparks controversy||Hours after Maharashtra chief minister Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray said that he holds the “steering wheel” of the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government, a message by his deputy and veteran NCP leader Ajit Pawar, sparked off a debate and controversy on social media platforms. Thackeray, the leader of MVA, turned 60 on Monday. At the stroke of midnight, Pawar, the deputy chief minister, who holds the finance and planning portfolios, posted a message on Twitter wishing Thackeray and put out a photo of himself at the wheels of a golf cart while Thackeray sitting next to him. “Best wishes to the Hon. CM of Maharashtra, ShivSena Party President & Maha Vikas Aghadi Leader, Shri. Uddhav Thackeray ji. Wish you a healthy & long life! @OfficeofUT @CMOMaharashtra,” Pawar tweeted. Later in the evening, Pawar called on Thackeray at the latter's private bungalow Matoshree and greeted him on his birthday. Pawar, 62, is the nephew of NCP founder-president Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the MVA government. It needs to be mentioned that the former chief minister and now leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has likened to call the government a three-wheeler auto-rickshaw, referring to the three ruling allies – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. However, referring to the opposition charge, Thackeray, in a two-part interview given to Shiv Sena mouthpieces – Marathi broadsheet Saamana and its Hindi tabloid version Dophar ka Saamana – has said that his government’s fate does not depend on the leader of opposition. Said Thackeray: “We were criticised that our government is like a three-wheeler. It is okay that our government is a three-wheeler, what's more important is that it is functioning properly. The balance of a vehicle is a more important factor when riding, whether it is a two or three-wheeler, as bumps are experienced even in four-wheelers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/birthday-message-by-ajit-pawar-to-uddhav-thackeray-sparks-controversy-866324.html
27-07-2020||West||4 held in Mumbai for plan to empty Covid-19 victim's bank accounts||The Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested four people for allegedly trying to steal money from the bank accounts of an 81-year-old man who died of Covid-19 last month, an official said on Monday. A Crime Branch Unit XI official said accused Shafique Shaikh, who worked in the Covid-19 victim's office for the past 15 years, hatched the plan to withdraw the latter's money from bank accounts and brought in Swapnil Vinod Oglekar, Pritesh Mandliya and Arshad Sayyed, all residents of Mira Road in neighbouring Thane district, to execute it. "On Saturday, the Crime Branch got a tip-off about the plan, which involved transferring money to the tune of several crore rupees with the help of forged documents like Aadhaar card, as well as fake user IDs and passwords. A raid was conducted in a Dahisar slum and all four were held," he said. Other employees of the Covid-19 victim's firm filed a case with Juhu police station against Shaikh, he said. The four have been charged under IPC, Information Technology Act among others for cheating and forgery, said Unit XI Senior Inspector Chimaji Adhav. "The wife of the deceased is bed-ridden while their children are in the United States," Adhav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-held-in-mumbai-for-plan-to-empty-covid-19-victims-bank-accounts-866336.html
27-07-2020||West||Manoj Tiwari urges Maharashtra CM Thackeray to register FIR in Sushant case||Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari urged Maharshtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday for registration of an FIR in the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Wishing Thackeray on his birthday, the former Delhi BJP president pointed out that 43 days had passed since Rajput died, but no FIR was registered so far. "Many happy returns of the Day @CMOMaharashtra Shri Uddhav Ji, on this day I request with folded hands to give justice to Sushant who died 43 days ago, but no FIR has been registered so far," Tiwari tweeted. "I hope you will help. Please do justice to millions of SSR fans," he tweeted. The Bhojpuri singer and actor, who represents Northeast Delhi Lok Sabha seat, said when he visited Rajput's family in Patna last month, "his father and sister requested me to take up the issue and get Sushant justice. It was really a sentimental moment for me". Earlier, Tiwari had demanded a CBI investigation into death of the actor, who was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. "To my surprise, even 43 days after Sushant's death, no FIR is registered in Mumbai. So the case cannot be transferred to the CBI," Tiwari told PTI. Mumbai Police should register an FIR immediately so that proper and impartial investigation could take place, he added. In its ongoing investigation in the case, Mumbai Police have recorded statements of nearly 40 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/manoj-tiwari-urges-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-to-register-fir-in-sushant-case-866371.html
27-07-2020||West||Viscera report rules out foul play in Sushant death: Official||The viscera report of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput has ruled out any foul play in his death here last month, a police official said on Monday. The Mumbai police, probing the case of alleged suicide by Rajput, has received his viscera sample report which came "negative", indicating no foul play in his death, he said. The report was submitted by the Kalina-based Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) to the probe team on Sunday, the official said. Earlier, Rajput's post-mortem report had stated that the 34-year-old actor, who was found hanging in his apartment, died due to asphyxia. Cyber report and findings of the physics department of the forensic lab are yet to be submitted, he said. Meanwhile, sources in the FSL said the viscera report did not find anything suspicious in the actor's death. "It seems it is a suicide case. Now we are collecting evidences from his mobile phone and the cyber department is working on it to find out if messages or videos were deleted from his mobile phone," they said. Earlier in the day, the police recorded the statement of filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt in connection with the actor's death case. Rajput was found dead on June 14 at his rented flat in suburban Bandra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/viscera-report-rules-out-foul-play-in-sushant-death-official-866396.html
27-07-2020||West||Maharashtra adds 7,924 Covid-19 cases in day, 8,706 recover; 227 die||The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra increased to 3,83,723 on Monday with the addition of 7,924 fresh cases, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. With 227 more people succumbing to the viral infection, the toll rose to 13,883. A total of 8,706 patients were discharged during the day, taking the number of recovered cases in the state to 2,21,944, he said. Maharashtra now has 1,47,592 active cases. A total of 19,25,399 people have been tested so far in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-adds-7924-covid-19-cases-in-day-8706-recover-227-die-866401.html
27-07-2020||West||Will not proceed with recruitment process till Sept 15: Maharashtra govt to SC||Maharashtra government on Monday assured the Supreme Court that it would not proceed with the recruitment process to fill up the vacancies on the basis of 12 per cent Maratha reservation till September 15, except for departments, Public Health and Medical Education and Research. The Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018 was enacted to grant reservation to people of Maratha community in Maharashtra in jobs and admissions. The Bombay High Court, while upholding the law in June last year, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and said that quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions. A bench of Justices L N Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat adjourned the hearing on a batch of petitions challenging the High Court order and the Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs for September 1. It said that application seeking reference to a constitution bench shall be dealt on August 25. “Mr.Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. PS Patwalia, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Maharashtra submitted that no regular appointments shall be made in terms of the GR (government resolution) dated May 4, 2020 till September 15, 2020,” the bench noted in its order. It said that the urgency shown for final hearing by the petitioners was due to the main grievance that the State Government is proceeding to fill up all the vacant posts. “As the State government undertakes not to make any regular appointments in terms of the GR dated May 4, 2020 till September 15, 2020, the matters can be listed for hearing after four weeks by which time the situation caused due to the Pandemic may improve,” the bench said. It also refused to interfere with the Post Graduate (PG) medical admissions as they were at the final stage saying “we are not inclined to interfere with the admissions”. The bench clarified that the admissions to undergraduate medical courses without applying reservation as per the impugned legislation will be considered at the next date of hearing. At the outset, Rohatgi submitted that as per the GR which was passed by the Maharashtra government on May 4, except for departments of Public Health and Medical Education and Research, all the other Departments shall not undertake any type of fresh recruitment process. He said that it is difficult to proceed with the hearing of the case as the officers of the State Government have not been able to effectively assist their counsel in preparing for the hearing. Some other counsel appearing for the respondents also submitted that the matters require to be heard after the Court commences physical hearing. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that a statement was made by the State Government that 72,000 posts will be filled up. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for the medical students made a fervent plea that the matters should not be adjourned, especially taking into account the fact that medical students of the general category would lose an academic year as the last date for admissions to the PG Medical Courses is July 31. Advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, appearing for the petitioners argued that the last date for admission to PG Medical Courses should be deferred. The top court had earlier said that from July 27 it would commence day to day hearing through video conferencing on a batch of pleas challenging Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. The top court, had earlier refused to pass any interim stay order on the quota, said chances of physical court seem remote due to the persisting COVID-19 pandemic. The top court had last month sought response from the state government on a separate plea of six MBBS doctors, seeking a direction that the state law granting 12 per cent quota to Marathas not be made applicable for admissions in the post graduate medical and dental courses for academic year 2020-2021. The high court, in its June 27, 2019, order, had said the 50-per cent cap on total reservations imposed by the Supreme Court could be exceeded in exceptional circumstances. It had also accepted Maharashtra government's argument that the Maratha community was socially and educationally backward and it was duty-bound to take steps for its progress. The high court had said though the reservation was valid, its quantum -- 16 per cent -- was not justifiable and it should be reduced to 12 per cent and 13 per cent, as recommended by the State Backward Classes Commission. One of the plea filed in the apex court had claimed that the SEBC Act breached the 50 per cent ceiling on reservation fixed by the top court in its landmark judgment in the Indira Sahwney case, also known as the 'Mandal verdict'. According to the 102nd amendment to the Constitution, reservation can be granted only if a particular community is named in the list prepared by the President. On November 30, 2018, the Maharashtra legislature had passed a bill granting 16-per cent reservation to Marathas. The report submitted by the State Backward Classes Commission was based on quantifiable and contemporaneous data and was correct in classifying the Maratha community as socially and educationally backward, the high court had said in its verdict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-not-proceed-with-recruitment-process-till-sept-15-maharashtra-govt-to-sc-866420.html
27-07-2020||West||Mumbai sees fewer Covid-19 deaths, more recoveries||The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai rose by 1,033 to 1,10,129 on Monday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. At 39, the city recorded its third lowest single-day fatality count so far, it said, adding that the toll now stands at 6,119. The lowest one-day death toll at 39 had been reported on July 6 and July 11. 27 of the 39 deceased had underlying health conditions, according to the BMC. In more good news, Mumbai's recovery rate has improved to 73 per cent while the case growth rate declined to 1.03 per cent. The average case doubling rate has also gone up to 68 days, the BMC said.  With 1,706 patients being discharged in the day, the number of recovered cases increased to 81,944, the BMC said. Mumbai now has 21,812 active cases. A total of 859 new suspected patients were admitted in hospitals during the day, it said. At present, R-Central ward that includes Borivali and other Western suburbs has the highest growth rate of 1.8 per cent. H-East ward comprising Khar east and Bandra East has the lowest growth rate of 0.5 per cent, as per the civic body. K East ward comprising Andheri east and Marol has the highest caseload of 7,055 in the city whereas B ward which includes Dongriand Mohamad Ali Road areas has the lowest 937 cases. Of the total 24 civic wards, oneward has over 7,000 cases while five wards have more than 6,000 cases. There are three wards which have 5,000 cases, as per the BMC. The highest number of active cases are in P-North ward while B ward reported the lowest number of cases at 184. At 442, the highest number of deaths were reported in K-East ward comprising Andheri (East), MIDC SEEPZ, Marol, Vile Parle (East) and Jogeshwari (East). This ward is dominated by slum areas. A ward comprising posh areas like Churchgate, Colaba, and Navy Nagar has reported the lowest number of fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-fewer-covid-19-deaths-more-recoveries-866438.html
