28-07-2020||First Edit||Contempt law is anachronism, must go||The Supreme Court has not enhanced its prestige and authority by issuing contempt of court notices, suo motu, against lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan for his two social media tweets last month. Courts can invoke their contempt powers if a person by speech or by other means scandalises them, lowers their authority or interferes with judicial proceedings or administration of justice. In one tweet, Bhushan had written about the ‘’role of the Supreme Court’’ in the “destruction’’ of democracy in the last six years and about the “role of the last four CJIs’’ in it. In the other tweet, referring to a picture of CJI S A Bobde sitting on a Harley-Davidson bike, which had appeared in the media, Bhushan had raised a question about the CJI riding a bike without a helmet and a mask while “he keeps the SC in lockdown mode.”  The contempt of court law has been scrapped or toned down in many countries, including the UK from where it came to India. Courts have tended to take a liberal, magnanimous view of contempt in recent times and has been restrained in using the law. In India also, the Supreme Court has taken a lenient view in many cases involving alleged contempt. Any criticism of the court, judges or judgements should not be considered as contempt. The Supreme Court has through many judgements expanded the scope of freedom of expression, and the trend in most democratic societies is to give it more importance than ideas like contempt which have the effect of curbing free speech. India’s contempt of court provisions need to be more clearly and narrowly defined, too, if at all they should continue on the statute book.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/contempt-law-is-anachronism-must-go-866483.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada reports 119 new Covid-19 cases, 8 more deaths||Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh said a 68-year-old man from Hubballi with symptoms of refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, who was admitted to a private hospital on July 23, died on the same day. His throat swab sample confirmed he was positive for Covid-19. A 64-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from refractory hypoxemia, hypertension, asthma, diabetes, cardiac ailment, admitted to a hospital on July 20, died on July 25 and he too tested positive for Covid-19.  A 65-year-old man from Bantwal admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 22 and suffering from high BP, pneumonia and Covid-19, died on July 26. An 82-year-old man from Udupi admitted to a private hospital on July 25, suffering from hypertension, coronary artery disease and pneumonia died on July 26. A 65-year-old man from Mangaluru with severe ARDS, septic shock, acute kidney injury, diabetes, hypertension and other health complications admitted to hospital on July 19, died on July 26. A 65-year-old woman from Mangaluru with refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, septic shock, secondary bacterial infection, renal failure, acute coronary event, arrhythmias and pulmonary thromboembolism died on Monday. A 51-year-old man from Mangaluru infected with Covid-19 and pneumonia, admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 26, died on Monday. A 92-year-old woman from Mangaluru suffering from high BP, diabetes and pneumonia, admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 18, died on July 26. The district administration is awaiting confirmation of the reasons for these deaths from the district-level expert committee, said Sindhu B Rupesh. The Covid-19 graph in Dakshina Kannada showed a declining trend with the district recording of 119 new coronavirus positive cases on Monday. Sindhu B Rupesh said among the new cases, 46 are primary contacts of already infected persons, 34 are suffering from symptoms of ILI and six with symptoms of SARI, while the contact tracing of 33 other infected is underway. On the other hand, 90 infected persons recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada: Total cases: 4,930 Total active cases: 2,502 Total discharges: 2,297||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-reports-119-new-covid-19-cases-8-more-deaths-866537.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||One taken into custody for assaulting woman constable||One person was taken into custody for allegedly assaulting a woman police constable in Malavalli town, in Mandya district, on Tuesday morning. The vendors, alleging that the police had assaulted them, staged a protest in front of the Dy SP's office, demanding action against the police personnel for the assault. On Tuesday morning, there were heated arguments between the police personnel and the roadside vendors, when the police resorted to halting the roadside vendors from doing business on Pete Beedhi, in the town. The vendors were cleared from doing business here, three months ago based on the oral directions given by the judge, citing unhygienic conditions.  The vendors, however, resumed business on Monday, as the police station was sealed down after a constable tested positive for Covid-19. When they continued the business on Tuesday, the police, led by Circle inspector A K Rajesh, resorted to halting them, which led to the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/one-taken-into-custody-for-assaulting-woman-constable-866692.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports two new Covid-19 cases||Two fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded in the district on Tuesday morning. According to DC Annies Kanmani Joy, the throat swab sample of a 30-year-old woman, the primary contact of an infected from Huluse in Kushalnagar, has tested positive. The swab was tested using the RT-PCR method. While samples of another 40-year-old man with travel history from Mangaluru, suffering from the symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI), hailing from Dechur in Madikeri, were tested positive using rapid antigen kit. The total Covid-19 cases in the district have risen to 356. With the fresh cases, one more containment zone has been notified at Dechur in Madikeri. The total discharges in the district are 266 and 84 are undergoing treatment. While containment zoneS -- near rotary hall in Dandinpet, near Kusumastores in Dandinpet, Gaddige in Madikeri, Gundurao Badavane in Shanivarasanthe, HCPura in Gonikoppa, ITI Junction in Madikeri, Janata Colony in Kushalnagar, Karadigodu in Madikeri, Kodagarahalli Koorghally estate, Kudlur in Somwarpet, near Ravi Press Mill in Mahadevpet, Madappa Colony in Nellihudikeri, Mugatageri Hudikeri Road in Ponnampet, Ranipet in Madikeri, Rasalpura in Bettageri, H S Road in Old Siddapura, M G Road in Siddapura, Thalatmane in Madikeri and Thorenur in front of GP office -- have been denotified by the district administration after no fresh cases were recorded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-two-new-covid-19-cases-866702.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Death threat issued to Dakshina Kannada DC Sindhu B Rupesh||Some miscreants have issued a death threat to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B Rupesh on social media after she directed the officials and police to initiate strict action against those who take the law into their hand by assaulting illegal cattle transporters. In the backdrop of Bakrid and other festivals, the deputy commissioner had convened a meeting pertaining to the illegal transportation of cattle. The clipping of the news was shared in ‘Ram Sena Abhimanigalu’ WhatsApp group, where many had expressed displeasure at the DC. One of the members in the group said, “She should be hacked to death.” Some others in the group said, “We will not keep quiet if anyone tries to come in the way of our Hindutva, and our god. We are ready to claim life and give our life for it.” DCP (Law and Order) Arunangshu Giri said, “If the DC files a complaint, we will register a case. If she fails to submit a complaint, we will file a suo motu case and take up the investigation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/death-threat-issued-to-dakshina-kannada-dc-sindhu-b-rupesh-866738.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Flower market shifted for 3 days to JK Grounds||In view of maintaining social distance, due to the Covid crisis, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has shifted the flower market of Devaraja Market to JK Grounds, for three days from Wednesday in the wake of Varamahalakshmi Vratha celebrations, scheduled for Friday. As per the order of MCC, the flower market would see crowding, due to festive shopping — both wholesale and retail. Thus, the traders and sellers have been instructed to shift to JK Grounds near the Railway Station on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/flower-market-shifted-for-3-days-to-jk-grounds-866800.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Illegal quarrying at KRS: Mandya bandh today||Opposing unabated quarrying around Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir in Srirangapatna and Pandavapura taluks, Mandya district, Cauvery-KRS Ulivigagi Janandolana Samiti has called for a Mandya bandh, on July 29. Samiti president G T Veerappa said, “Illegal mining in the region will affect the KRS dam. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre has given a report in 2018, prohibiting mining in a radius of 20 km around the dam, as it would damage it. Even though the district administration has banned illegal mining, it has continued, violating the norms.” “Most of the operators use high-intensity explosives to extract stones, which is causing tremors. Hence, the bandh is being observed under the slogan ‘Cauvery-KRS Ulisi’. It is supported by various organisations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/illegal-quarrying-at-krs-mandya-bandh-today-866802.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||ZAK launches mobile app to ease donations||The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) is all set to launch a mobile phone application ‘Zoos of Karnataka’, to enable the people to contribute for conservation education, rescue, relief and rehabilitation of wild animals. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile royal family, will dedicate the app online, at 11 am on Wednesday, on the occasion of World Tiger Day. State Minister for Forest, Environment and Ecology Anand Singh will be present. It is a virtual event and those interested can join virtually, through smartphones or laptops, by clicking the link https://meet.google.com/fik-xrnb-hfw. B P Ravi, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, said, “The app will be useful in online animal adoption and donations to all nine zoos of Karnataka, for any amount starting from Rs 50.” He said, “Zoos are an integral parts of the national conservation strategy. Since the advent of Covid-19, all institutions and organisations, including zoos, that thrived on the support of people are badly affected. People stopped visiting zoos, the much-needed revenue, in the form of entry fee, stopped." "The zoos under ZAK used to attract about 65 lakh visitors annually. In the year 2019-2020, about Rs 60 crore was realised from the entry fee from 62.5 lakh visitors. Due to the dip in the visitors’ numbers, during the current financial year, only about Rs 50 lakh was realised. However, animal maintenance expenses and salaries of staff remain the same,” said Ravi, also member secretary of ZAK. “S T Somasekhar, Cooperation and Mysuru District In-charge Minister, took special interest in the animal adoption scheme of Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) and helped to mobilise Rs 3.5 crore from his friends, supporters and people of his constituency, as well as from the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (AKKA). So far, ZAK has collected Rs 4.25 crore as donations, in the current year, from all nine zoos,” he said. “There were queries about animal adoption and contribution on the social media. There was talk about the need for an easy mode of adoption and contribution to all zoos of the state. People often asked, how can we be a part of the conservation efforts? Can we contribute Rs 50 or Rs 100? All these years, the zoos under ZAK, survived due to the support of the people. Thus, in order to facilitate the general public and animal lovers, ‘Zoos of Karnataka’ mobile app has been developed. It is available on Google Play Store and Apple Store,” Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zak-launches-mobile-app-to-ease-donations-866803.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ayurveda immunity boosting medicine kits to be distributed in Shivamogga in Karnataka||Ayurveda-based immunity boosting tablets and decoction would be supplied to four lakh families in Shivamogga from Wednesday under an initiative by Karnataka Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa as part of the fight against coronavirus. Members of "Shivamogga Covid Surkasha Pade (Force)" formed by him and other organisations would be involved in delivering the immunity boosting potion to every household in his home town, he said on Tuesday. "The Covid-19 is causing problems for the people across the country and the globe. Hence we have decided to give the medicine to 85,000 families comprising about four lakh people in Shivamogga," Eshwarappa said. Ayurveda expert Dr Giridhar Kaje, who has developed the potion, will launch the campaign on Wednesday, he added. The Minister said this medicine can boost immunity "as you all know there are no English (allopathy) medicines available to cure coronavirus in the entire world." According to a statement issued by his office, the "Shivamogga Covid Surkasha Pade (Force)" has been formed to raise funds for the effort and distribute the kits. The cost of each kit, consisting of three components of immunity booster, was around Rs 350 and it has two types of tablet and decoction powder. "Kits are distributed for the people who are holding Aadhar cards. Those who dont have an Aadhaar card, a new Aadhaar registration will be done and then the kit will be distributed. New software is used to avoid repeated distribution of kit to make sure every family gets the kit," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ayurveda-immunity-boosting-medicine-kits-to-be-distributed-in-shivamogga-in-karnataka-866821.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nagarahole remains Karnataka most densely-populated tiger reserve||Nagarahole Tiger Reserve continues to be the most densely populated tiger reserve in Karnataka. More than 125 adult tigers are roaming in 644 sq km protected area, which is 11.82 tigers for 100 sq km range. Bandipur Tiger Reserve with 912 sq km of protected area has 126 adult tigers, however, its density of tiger population is 7.70 tigers for 100 sq km range. The two tiger reserves of Karnataka, which are part of the Nagarhole-Bandipur-Wayanad-Mudumalai-Satyamangalam-BRT block have 724 tigers, and the highest number of striped cats in the world.  These are some of the findings reported in the ‘Status of Tiger Co-predators & Prey in India’ report that was released by the Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday in Delhi. While the number of tigers is increasing in Karnataka, what is worrying the experts and forest officials is the unequal distribution of them. In 2014, the last tiger census year, Karnataka had 406 tigers, whereas in 2018 the number rose to 524.  While forest divisions such as Madekeri territorial divisions (369 sq km) and Madekeri wildlife division (388 sq km) reporting (with 10 tigers each) high density of tiger in a highly fragmented forest area that is surrounded by coffee plantation and agriculture fields, tiger reserves such as Anshi-Dandeli and Bhadra tiger reserves continues to carry lesser tigers than its carrying capacity.  The Kali Tiger reserve that covers a total area of 1,306 sq km has recorded only four tigers, where as the Bhadra tiger reserve 492 sq km has only 28 tigers (2.86 tigers for 100 sq kms).   The scientific study which was carried out in 24 Tiger reserves and forest divisions using 4,393 camera traps in 2018 has also given promising results in few of the forest divisions as movement of tigers were reported here. Bannerghatta National Park, which reported only one tiger during the survey ‘validates the importance of this forest patch as a steppingstone patch for maintaining the meta-population of the tiger in the landscape.’ Mokambika-Anshi-Mhadi-Kudremuka and Badra tiger complex has seen a remarkable increase in the tiger population with more than 150 tigers recording.  The report also posts a grim picture of human interference in the wildlife habitat as majority of the forests are under immense stress from human activities, including construction of roads, railway lines, fire, construction of dams/canals, poaching, illegal quarrying and invasive plant species.  The report also specifically mentions the high presence of feral dogs in Kali Tiger Reserve (6th at national level), Bhadra (10th), BRT Hills (27th) and Nagarhole (29th at national level). It also mentions photographic evidence of snaring of wild animals in Nagarhole. The report also suggests for ‘voluntary’ relocation of forest dwellers for better management of forest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nagarahole-remains-karnataka-most-densely-populated-tiger-reserve-866837.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Bengaluru: Congress leaders detained while trying to march to Raj Bhavan to protest against BJP||Several state Congress leaders, including its President D K Shivakumar, among others, were detained by police as they tried to march towards Raj Bhavan here against the alleged attempts by BJP to topple the party's government in Rajasthan. Shivakumar, along with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, state Congress Working President Eshwar Khandre, Salim Ahmed among others were stopped by the police midway as they marched from KPCC office towards Raj Bhavan. Congress leaders then staged a dharna at the place where they were stopped. Addressing the gathering, Shivakumar accused the BJP of trying to "murder" democracy by destabilizing and removing elected governments. "We wanted to protest against it and submit a memorandum to the President through the Governor," but the Karnataka government by using police was not letting them proceed towards Raj Bhavan, he said. "Despite our being a peaceful protest, the police stopped us," he said. Siddaramaiah, echoing similar views, said peaceful protests against injustice was the right of every citizen. Alleging that the BJP was attempting to destabilise and remove the elected government in Rajasthan as it did in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, he said the Governor's office there (Rajasthan) was being 'misused'. The Governor was working like an agent of the central government, he charged. He said, despite repeated appeals by the Rajasthan cabinet, the Governor there had not convened the assembly session, for the floor test to take place and for Congress to prove its majority. Police subsequently detained Shivakumar and some other Congress leaders and took them to a nearby police station. They were later released. Meanwhile, as the Congress' protest amid Covid19 pandemic did not follow social distancing norms, Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar hit out at that party's leaders. In a tweet Sudhakar said, for Congress leaders getting publicity was more important than social concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bengaluru-congress-leaders-detained-while-trying-to-march-to-raj-bhavan-to-protest-against-bjp-866480.html
28-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Roll back land reforms law or face protest, Deve Gowda tells B S Yediyurappa||Mounting pressure on the BJP government, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda on Tuesday threatened to launch a statewide agitation against the amendments made to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act.  Gowda’s opposition to the new law comes even as Congress leader Siddaramaiah is also doggedly pursuing it. Demanding that the state government immediately rollback the ordinance empowering these amendments, the octogenarian leader said he personally would take to streets if the government failed to budge.  The B S Yediyurappa government has liberalised the land reforms law by removing restrictions on non-agriculturists from purchasing and owning farm lands.  The government has also amended the APMC Act and has tweaked labour laws, which are all “against the interest of the state and must be rolled back,” Gowda said. Speaking to reporters here, Gowda stated that he had already written thrice to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. "The ordinances have to be taken back. The amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, by repealing sections 79-A, B and C, is an anti-farmer move. The APMC Act amendment, too, is against the interest of the state. The government has failed to speak about the impact of these amendments," said Gowda, who is now a Rajya Sabha member.  Elaborating on the amendment to the Land Reform Act, the JD(S) patriarch opined that by throwing open agricultural land ownership to anybody at all, the government was only helping real estate developers while pushing farmers into a “vulnerable” situation. Amidst all this, there are now reports of funds misappropriation in Covid-19 relief measures and in procurement of medical equipment, he said, adding that it seemed like only the corrupt became stronger over time.  Further, Gowda lambasted both national parties for creating political unrest, referring to the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan and the recent developments in Madhya Pradesh. However, he added that he would not wish to dwell on it much, while emphasising that his focus was primarily on strengthening his own party at this point in time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/roll-back-land-reforms-law-or-face-protest-deve-gowda-tells-b-s-yediyurappa-866695.html
28-07-2020||Main Article||Descent into darkness: The politics-crime nexus||“We are appalled,” the Chief Justice of India observed, “that a person like Vikas Dubey got bail despite so many cases.” The life and crimes of Vikas Dubey, culminating in his bizarre killing in broad daylight and the political doublespeak that has followed present a sordid tale of deceit and lies; and of how organised crime and politics have corroded the moral fibre of our democracy. It tells us in dastardly fashion, that in the marriage between politics and crime, some people lie every day. Each of the lies seems small enough and unlikely to hurt anyone, but when all the white lies gather together, they morph into a cancer that metastasises into the vitals of our society. This is not just about Uttar Pradesh, one criminal gang, or one political party. This is about our representative democracy descending into darkness. Guilt cannot be washed. Regardless of the outcome of the criminal justice system in this case, the political parties, the police, and the politicians have to come to terms with the roles they played in this theatre of the absurd. The culpability for the violence and the deaths in this grisly episode extends far beyond the hands that were holding the guns. But equally, we as citizens need to come to terms with our own culpability. How many times have we turned a blind eye to wrongdoing and how many times have we lacked the courage to stand up for truth in our own communities, when facing amoral politicians? By our failure to speak truth to power, and inability to mobilise collective action against wrongdoing in our communities, we enable the politics-crime nexus. Do we take this as the unfortunate fate of our democracy, or should we begin to assert how we might change this? The animated chaos that politicians and criminals together let loose in state after state, the profound escapism in people, the explosion of criminalisation of politics -- immune to the tide of change to a modern, just and equal society -- appear to be a corruption that people still cling to in vast parts of India. As citizens, we need to grapple with the corrupting nature of power; and the politician for whom power is an end in itself. In the party system that has proliferated, the elite party leaders demonstrate the same propensities and act in similar fashion. This masculine view of power and authority relies on the criminal, justifying any number of wrongs in its name. The widespread distrust of political parties, and their weak legitimacy, is therefore one of the critical questions in India’s democracy today. A common thread across the political class, regardless of the party in power, is the politician-criminal nexus of varying forms and degrees. Political parties, the institutions of public service, and big business nexus are arguably three of the most corrupt institutions in India, if measured by standards of transparency and ethics. Yet, this tarnished public image, reproduced again and again across political parties and governments, has scarcely made them recalibrate their moral compass. The extent of the corrosion of public life by the politics-crime nexus is striking and, as citizens, we should be more concerned by this phenomenon than by any other problem. This does not always manifest for material benefit, but is almost always in a parasitic relationship with the State, in which the boundaries separating political corruption and organised crime blur, and the two are not just entangled but begin to feed on each other. What we now see is the complicity between political actors seeking advantages in elections or personal aggrandisement, on one side, and criminal groups seeking protection or impunity, on the other, in a relationship that is often one of mutual consent. The consequence is that the authority, legitimacy, and capacity of the State are severely undermined; the failure to enforce the rule of law defined by a precipitous decline in its public institutions; and its security apparatus increasingly operating as a ‘state within a state’ to protect itself. The implications for policymaking of these links between politics and crime are immense. Chief among them is the challenge of identifying and confronting disparate and sometimes little-known criminal groups and the threats they pose. But it also involves strengthening the legitimate State apparatus to enforce the rule of law, rather than serve to preserve the pre-eminence of the ruling party elite. It is important to sift the evidence of interactions between criminal networks, political parties and their avaricious and self-serving political elites. Even in the most criminalised states, criminals have limited interests in everyday political life, except when their means of income have been directly threatened. There are three interventions that the Supreme Court must consider: First, direct an investigation to uncover the links between criminal networks, political finance and support, and the criminal backgrounds of political candidates. A systematic effort to track the loops connecting all these elements will be crucial first steps to understand how criminal activity connects with pre-existing circuits of patronage or influence that generate mutually beneficial relations for politicians, State officials and businesses. Such a root cause analysis will require the judiciary, the election watchdog, and the intelligence agencies to work in tandem.   Second, the judicial investigation must be followed by arrests, prosecutions, jail sentences and confiscation of assets. If these consequences result, we will begin to see the rule of law being upheld, and the fear of the long arm of the law become real for criminals and complicit State officials. However, institutional and interest group resistance is bound to be greatest against such action. The best hope of making progress is if a specially appointed and autonomous investigation unit works under the directions and supervision of the Supreme Court. Finally, the time is at hand for the Supreme Court to revisit its own 2006 order in the Prakash Singh case and crack the whip. It must examine whether the seven directives for police reforms have been implemented in their spirit or whether the states are only paying lip service. Sadly, the apex court may be the only recourse to protect our democracy from predatory politicians and their criminal friends. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/descent-into-darkness-the-politics-crime-nexus-866485.html
28-07-2020||National||Oldest living IAF fighter pilot turns 100, Air chief extends greetings||Retired Squadron Leader Dalip Singh Majithia, who holds the distinction of being the oldest living IAF fighter pilot, turned 100 on Monday. Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria extended his greetings to the centenarian who had retired in August 1947 when India achieved Independence. "IAF extends its best wishes to Sqn Ldr Dalip Singh Majithia (retd) on his 100th birthday today. He retired in Aug 1947 & holds the distinction of being the 'oldest' IAF fighter pilot now," the IAF tweeted. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria conveyed warm greetings and heartiest congratulations to Majithia on behalf of all air warriors, the IAF said. It also shared a short video clip on him on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oldest-living-iaf-fighter-pilot-turns-100-air-chief-extends-greetings-866495.html
28-07-2020||National||Centre should clear West Bengal's dues to help state tackle Covid-19 effectively: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to facilitate the clearance of the state's financial dues on the Centre, and said it would help her government fight the Covid-19 pandemic more effectively. The opposition CPI(M) and the BJP, however, criticised the chief minister for seeking more funds, contending she should rather take measures to stem alleged corruption in her party and the state government. Banerjee, during an online programme where Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated new testing facilities in West Bengal, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, also sought the creation of a separate fund for combating the viral outbreak. She reasoned that the state disaster response fund was meant for tackling devastation caused by natural disasters such as flood and cyclone. "I have two to three requests for the Centre. First, I would like to tell you (the prime minister) that the financial burden of the state is increasing every day. For Covid-19, we have spent Rs 2,500 crore so far, but have received only Rs 125 crore from the NHM (National Health Mission). "Our state is yet to receive dues of Rs 53,000 crore from the Centre. I would like to request the PM to help clear at least a portion of the dues so that we can continue doing our work," Banerjee said during the online programme. The chief minister also told the PM that the state was yet to receive Rs 4,135 crore as GST compensation for April-May. She urged Modi to allow the states to borrow more money by raising the FRBM (Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management) limits. Referring to the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan, Banerjee said her government has got no financial aid from the Centre other than the advance assistance of Rs 1,000 crore. "We have submitted our estimation of Rs 35,000 crore. A report was also submitted by the Central team which had visited the state after the calamity. We have released Rs 6,500 crore for Amphan relief but have not received anything other than the Rs 1,000 crore, which you (Modi) had provided us. So, I will request you to look into the matter," she said. "The Centre has asked us to spend money from the state disaster fund for Covid-19 expenses. What if there is a natural disaster tomorrow? Where will we get more money from? It would be better if a separate fund is created for the Covid-19 pandemic," she stated. Lauding the Centre for its efforts to open a new laboratory in the city, Banerjee requested the Union government to facilitate the setting up of more such laboratories in state-run hospitals. During the virtual event, Banerjee also said that her government is planning to increase the number of daily Covid-19 tests to 25,000 by August 15 from the current around 16,000. On University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines making it mandatory for higher educational institutes to conduct final-year exams by September 30, she requested the PM to direct the HRD ministry to take up the matter with the statutory body as the "decision needs reconsideration". "The UGC had issued guidelines on April 29 stating that there was no need to make final examinations compulsory amid the COVID-19 pandemic. We had made preparations accordingly. Now the UGC revised its guideline and made final exams compulsory. How can students sit for examination when all educational institutions are shut?" she said. Hitting out at Banerjee, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said the claims made by her were "baseless. "The allegation that the Centre is not providing funds is completely baseless. The Union government has given enough... But the state government and the TMC are more interested in siphoning off the funds rather than helping the poor," Ghosh said. Echoing him, CPI(M) legislative party leader Sujan Chakraborty said the state government should release the names of cyclone Amphan beneficiaries along with other relevant details before seeking more funds from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-should-clear-west-bengals-dues-to-help-state-tackle-covid-19-effectively-mamata-866498.html
28-07-2020||National||BJP leaders stage sit-in near Delhi CM's residence over power bills; detained by police||BJP leaders, including its Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition in the city Assembly Ramvir Bidhuri, were detained during a protest against the AAP government over the issue of electricity bills in the Civil Lines area here on Monday. The leaders staged a sit-in near the Civil Lines metro station and attempted to march towards Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence on Flagstaff Road when they were stopped and detained by the police. Addressing the protesters, Gupta said the people of Delhi are receiving electricity bills for "huge" amounts and demanded that the Kejriwal government withdraw the fixed charges and stop the disconnection notices being sent by the discoms to the consumers. Delhi BJP demands that the Kejriwal government waive fixed charges from electricity bills from March to November, he said. Subsidy on electricity bills should be restored for domestic consumers and actual bills should be sent instead of average bills. Those who have outstanding electricity bills should be allowed to pay it in installments, Gupta said. Bidhuri said the BJP would continue to demand relief for Delhi people. Delhi BJP Yuva Morcha president Sunil Yadav said the members of the outfit would ensure that the discoms do not cut the electricity connection of any consumer in the city. "If this happens, we will reconnect it," he said. The leaders, including Gupta and Bidhuri, were taken to the Civil Lines police station, from where they were released subsequently, Delhi BJP's media cell head Ashok Goel said. A senior Delhi Police officer said 31 protesters were detained and later released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leaders-stage-sit-in-near-delhi-cms-residence-over-power-bills-detained-by-police-866501.html
28-07-2020||National||Govt has assured visas to 600 Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan: DSGMC||Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa met External Affairs Ministry officials on Monday and claimed that he had been assured that 600 Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan will be issued visas by India in the coming days.   A delegation led by Sirsa met the incharge of Afghanistan and Pakistan desk of the ministry, J P Singh, a DSGMC statement said. Sirsa told reporters that he took up the issue of bringing to India the remaining Hindu and Sikh families from Afghanistan and the ministry assured him that 600 people whose list is ready will be given visas within a week. "India will issue visas to all remaining Hindu and Sikhs families to repatriate them as soon as possible. This assurance was given to the DSGMC president  Manjinder Singh Sirsa here today," the statement said. Sirsa claimed that the ministry has assured him that the Hindus and Sikhs will be issued "long term" visas.  Those left out can apply for visa and will get the same as soon as they will apply, the statement said.   "We will ensure that those Hindu and Sikh families left out in Afghanistan are brought here," Sirsa said thanking the government and Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. Eleven members of Sikh and Hindu communities from Afghanistan who were allegedly "persecuted" there reached Delhi's IGI airport on Sunday. Sirsa said he also took up the issue of conversion of Shaheedi Asthan of Bhai Taru Singh ji at Lahore, which is a gurudwara, into a mosque. India had on Monday lodged a strong protest with Pakistan High Commission over the issue, according a spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs. Sirsa was accompanied by DSGMC members Paramjit Singh Chandhok, Harvinder Singh KP, Jasmen Singh Noni and Gurdev Singh Bhola, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-has-assured-visas-to-600-sikhs-and-hindus-from-afghanistan-dsgmc-866507.html
28-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 28||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 15 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 15,29,265 as of July 28 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 34,160 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 9,17,568 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-28-866513.html
28-07-2020||National||Moderna, Pfizer start decisive Covid-19 vaccine trials, eye year-end launches||Moderna Inc and Pfizer Inc launched two 30,000-subject trials of COVID-19 vaccines that could clear the way for regulatory approval and widespread use by the end of this year, the companies said on Monday. The trials, both announced on Monday, are the first late-stage studies supported by the Trump administration's effort to speed development of measures against the novel coronavirus, adding to hope that an effective vaccine will help end the pandemic. Moderna stock rose 9%. Pfizer shares rose 1.6% in afterhours trade and its partner BioNTech, which developed the vaccine, rose 4.2%. Both vaccine candidates rely on a new technology that allows for faster development and manufacturing than traditional vaccine production methods but does not have an extensive track record. So-called mRNA, or synthetic messenger RNA (mRNA), teaches the immune system to recognize and neutralize the coronavirus by mimicking its surface. Moderna, which has never brought a vaccine to market, has received nearly $1 billion from the U.S. government, which is helping bankroll several vaccine candidates under its Operation Warp Speed program. Pfizer has an agreement to sell vaccines for 50 million people to the U.S. government for around $2 billion, if the vaccine is effective. More than 150 coronavirus vaccine candidates are in various stages of development, with some two dozen prospects already conducting human testing. Johnson and Johnson is launching clinical trials in the U.S. this week and could start a larger, late-stage trial as early as September. British drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc said it will begin large-scale U.S. trials this summer of its vaccine under development with Oxford University researchers. "Having a safe and effective vaccine distributed by the end of 2020 is a stretch goal, but it's the right goal for the American people," National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Francis Collins said in a release announcing the start of Moderna's large Phase III trial. Manufacturers are ramping up production while testing is underway in order to respond as soon as possible to virus, which is still spreading rapidly around the world. COVID-19 has killed nearly 650,000 people worldwide and battered economies. Moderna could have tens of millions of doses ready when and if the vaccine is deemed safe and effective, Collins told reporters on a call. Pfizer said that if the trial was successful, it could seek regulatory approval as soon as October and supply vaccines for 50 million patients, at two doses each, by the end of the year. Pfizer aims for about 1.3 billion doses by the end of 2021, and Moderna aims for 500 million-1 billion doses a year, beginning 2021, Moderna Chief Executive Stephane Bancel said on the call. The late-stage trials are designed to evaluate the safety of vaccines and determine if they can prevent symptomatic COVID-19. Anthony Fauci, the top U.S. infectious disease official, said a readout from the Moderna trial could come by November or even earlier. Fauci said he was "not particularly concerned" about the vaccine's safety after seeing data from earlier, smaller trials. He also said he had briefed President Donald Trump about the trial the Oval Office on Monday. As other companies ready inoculations, the COVID-19 Prevention Network, a U.S. government-funded program formed by the NIH, said it plans to roll out a large-scale clinical trial of a COVID-19 vaccine candidate with at least 30,000 participants each month through fall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moderna-pfizer-start-decisive-covid-19-vaccine-trials-eye-year-end-launches-866526.html
28-07-2020||National||Young Indian activist named by UN chief to new advisory group on climate change||Archana Soreng joins six other young climate leaders from around the world who have been named by Guterres to his new Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change. Soreng is "experienced in advocacy and research, and she is working to document, preserve, and promote traditional knowledge and cultural practices of indigenous communities," the UN said in a statement on Monday. "Our ancestors have been protecting the forest and nature over the ages through their traditional knowledge and practices. Now it is on us to be the front runners in combating the climate crisis," said Soreng, who has studied regulatory governance from the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) Mumbai and is the former TISS Students Union President. The young activists, aged between 18 and 28 years, will advise the UN chief regularly on accelerating global action and ambition to tackle the worsening climate crisis. The announcement marks a new effort by the United Nations to bring more young leaders into decision-making and planning processes, as the UN works to mobilize climate action as part of the Covid-19 recovery efforts. "We are in a climate emergency. We do not have the luxury of time," Guterres said in a video announcing the establishment of the advisory group. "We need urgent action now – to recover better from Covid-19, to confront injustice and inequality and address climate disruption," he said. Guterres said young people are on the front lines of climate action, showing nations and leaders what bold leadership looks like. "That is why I am launching my Youth Advisory Group on climate change today – to provide perspectives, ideas and solutions that will help us scale up climate action,” the UN chief said. The members of the Secretary-General’s Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change represent the diverse voices of young people from all regions as well as small island states. They will offer perspectives and solutions on climate change, from science to community mobilization, from entrepreneurship to politics, and from industry to conservation, the UN said. The initial seven members of the group have been chosen to give frank and fearless advice to the Secretary-General, at a time of growing urgency to hold government and corporate leaders to account on climate action. The other selected members of the group are climate activist Nisreen Elsaim of Sudan, Fiji’s Ernest Gibson, the co-coordinator for 350 Fiji, a regional youth-led climate change network, young economist Vladislav Kaim of Moldova who is committed to ensuring green and decent jobs for youth. Sophia Kianni of the United States who has helped organise nationwide strikes and is the founder of international nonprofit Climate Cardinals, founder and coordinator of Generation Climate Europe and spokesperson for Youth and Environment Europe, Nathan Metenier of France and lawyer and human rights defender Paloma Costa of Brazil. The establishment of the group builds on last year's successful Youth Climate Summit – the first time a Secretary-General has convened a summit for young people entirely devoted to climate action. The summit brought over 1,000 young climate champions together from more than 140 countries to share their solutions on the global stage and deliver a clear message to world leaders: we must act now to confront the climate crisis. The initiative is also aligned with the Secretary-General's vision for the UN Youth Strategy, launched in September 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/young-indian-activist-named-by-un-chief-to-new-advisory-group-on-climate-change-866582.html
28-07-2020||National||Cinema halls, international flights: What is expected to open in Unlock 3.0?||To revive the fast-deteriorating economy, a number of industrial groups have requested the government to ease the lockdown restrictions from the next month. The closure of cinema halls has hit the entertainment industry badly. A number of associations for cinema halls have asked the Ministry of Information and Broadcast to allow theatres to function with 25-30 percent capacity while following social distancing and all guidelines.  The government is also said to ease restrictions on international air travel, which came to a halt from March 23 after the national lockdown was announced. The government is planning to open some routes.  Sources told NDTV that the states will take the final decision on the reopening of gyms, school, colleges and markets even if the Central government gives the green signal. Metro rail will remain shut.  The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry said that though there has been a substantial easing of lockdown in Unlock 1.0 and 2.0, Unlock 3.0 will be a crucial decision for the country, according to ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cinema-halls-international-flights-what-is-expected-to-open-in-unlock-30-866589.html
28-07-2020||National||Ahead of Ram Temple 'bhoomi pujan' ceremony, fourth-generation tailors stitch Ram Lalla's attire: Report||Ahead of the "bhoomi pujan" ceremony of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, two brothers — Shankar Lal Srivastava and Bhagwat Prasad ‘Pahadi’ — are stitching clothes for the deity, Ram Lalla. Their shop, Babu Lal Tailors located in Badi Kutiya locality of Ayodhya, is the only shop authorised to stitch clothes for deities.  Srivastava and Lal are the fourth generation tailors from their family, who have continued the legacy of their forefathers by stitching clothes exclusively for Ram Lalla and other deities that reside in Ayodhya’s temples, according to multiple media reports.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya on August 5 at 12:15 pm. The elder brother, Bhagwat Prasad, told the publication, “The Prime Minister is coming here on a very holy day. This occasion has finally come after a long wait. The struggle for Ram temple started when he was not even born." Elated about the upcoming ceremony, the brothers reminisced how their father used to stitch clothes for Ram Lalla before he passed away in 1994. Shankar Lal said, “Earlier, when my father was alive, he used to take this sewing machine to the Ramjanmabhoomi and stitch the clothes then and there. However, now the clothes for Ram Lalla are stitched here at our shop, and then taken there.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-ceremony-fourth-generation-tailors-stitch-ram-lallas-attire-report-866607.html
28-07-2020||National||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh condemns attempts to convert gurdwara into mosque in Pakistan||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday condemned the attempts reportedly being made to convert a famous gurdwara in Pakistan's Lahore city into a mosque. "Strongly condemn attempts being made to convert holy Gurdwara Sri Shahidi Asthan in Lahore, site of martyrdom of Bhai Taru Singh Ji, into mosque. "Urge @DrSJaishankar to convey Punjab's concerns in strongest terms to Pakistan to safeguard all Sikh places of reverence," Singh said in a tweet. Gurdwara Shahidi Asthan is a historical shrine where Bhai Taru Singh made the supreme sacrifice in 1745. India on Monday lodged a strong protest with the Pakistan High Commission over reports of attempts being made to convert the gurdwara at Naulakha Bazaar into a mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-condemns-attempts-to-convert-gurdwara-into-mosque-in-pakistan-866609.html
28-07-2020||National||FIR against man for forcing two brothers into bonded labour||An FIR has been registered against a man for allegedly forcing two brothers to work as bonded labourers in Maharashtra's Thane district, police said on Tuesday. The accused, identified as Nilesh Tangdi, promised a salary of Rs 7,000 each per month to the two victims, aged 22 and 24, to work at his commercial establishment in Khardi village, but allegedly did not pay it, as per the FIR. The victims lodged a complaint on Monday following which the police registered an FIR against the accused under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, an official at Bhiwandi taluka police station said. No arrest has been made so far, he said. Bhiwandi tehsildar Shashikant Gaikwad on Monday issued certificates to the two victims which will help them avail rehabilitation benefits of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-man-for-forcing-two-brothers-into-bonded-labour-866612.html
28-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally climbs to 14,83,156, recoveries at 9,52,743||With a single-day increase of 47,703 Covid-19 cases, India's virus tally mounted to 14,83,156 on Tuesday, while the recoveries surged to 9,52,743 pushing the recovery rate to 64.24 percent, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country's death toll due to the virus rose to 33,425 with 654 deaths being reported in a 24-hour span, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 4,96,988 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently. According to the data, the recovery rate among Covid-19 patients is 64.24 percent while the fatality-rate is 2.25 percent. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the sixth consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 45,000.   Of the 654 deaths reported, 227 are from Maharashtra, 77 from Tamil Nadu, 75 from Karnataka, 49 from Andhra Pradesh, 39 from West Bengal, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 26 from Delhi, 22 from Gujarat, 17 from Telangana, 12 from Punjab, and 10 from Rajasthan. Nine fatalities each have been reported from Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, seven each from Assam and Odisha, five from Haryana, four each from Tripura and Jharkhand, three each from Puducherry and Uttarakhand,  two each from Himachal Pradesh and Kerala, and one each from Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Nagaland and Sikkim.   Of the total 33,425 deaths reported so far, Maharashtra has reported the maximum at 13,883, followed by 3,853 in Delhi, 3,571 in Tamil Nadu, 2,348 in Gujarat, 1,953 in Karnataka, 1,456 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,411 in West Bengal, 1,090 in Andhra Pradesh and 820 in Madhya Pradesh. So far, 631 people have died of Covid-19 in Rajasthan, 480 in Telangana, 397 in Haryana, 321 in Jammu and Kashmir, 318 in Punjab, 253 in Bihar, 147 in Odisha, 89 in Jharkhand, 86 in Assam, 66 in Uttarakhand and 63 in Kerala. Chhattisgarh has registered 44 deaths, Puducherry 43, Goa 36, Tripura 17, Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh 14 each, Meghalaya and Nagaland five each, Ladakh four, Arunachal Pradesh three, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu two and Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Sikkim one each. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 percent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-1483156-recoveries-at-952743-866619.html
28-07-2020||National||All you need to know about Rafale fighter jets||Five Rafale jets from the highly-controversial Rafale deal are on their way to India from France. The jets will arrive in India on Wednesday, marking the deepening of the Indian-French defence ties. The five jets are part of the 36 twin-engine aircraft purchased from Dassault Rafale at approximately Rs 59,000 crore in 2016.  With the new fighter aircraft being inducted to the IAF at a time when India is engaged in a military stand-off with China, New Delhi underlined that it was a significant step in “strengthening air power” and “defence preparedness” of the nation. Here's all you need to know about Rafale jets: What is the Rafale Jet? Where are the jets coming from? A mixture of single and two-seater, the five jets took off from Merignac airbase near Bordeaux in France on Monday and will reach Ambala Air Base on Wednesday morning with a pit stop at the Al Dhafra, the French airbase in the United Arab Emirates. The total distance covered by these jets will be 7,000 km. When will the rest of the Rafale jets be delivered? The remaining five will be delivered after the pilots go through a nine-month training by Dassault on the aircraft and weapon system. The other 26 jets will be delivered by the end of 2021. Jawed Ashraf, the Indian Ambassador in France was present when the five jets left for India. He said that the two squadrons of Rafale will add great strength to the IAF. “Our pilots tell us that they are extremely swift, nimble, versatile and very deadly aircraft. You might call them that they are both beauty and the beast,” Ashraf said.  Where will they be stationed? The Rafale jets, which have been tailor-made for the IAF, will join the resurrected ‘Golden Arrow’ squadron of the Air Force and will be stationed in Ambala. The No. 17 ‘Golden Arrow’ squadron was disbanded in 2016 after Mig-21 fighter jets were phased out from the IAF. The squadron was part of a number of operations including the Kargil War.  What was the Rafale deal scam? In 2011, IAF declared that Rafale and Eurofighter Typhoon were the two models of aircraft that met their specifications of upgrading to Multi-Role Combat Aircrafts. Next year, Rafale was chosen as the bidder that offered the lowest amount and negotiations with Dassault Aviation began. Initially, IAF placed an order of 108 aircraft but due to disagreements, the UPA Government could not place the deal at the time.  When the NDA government came to power, it said that it got significantly better terms than those quoted originally and reduced the number of orders to 36 aircraft at an estimated price of Rs 59,000 crore.  The Congress Party alleged that the deal is a ‘huge scam’ as it violates the procurement procedure. It also blamed the government for by-passing interests of public sector undertaking Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) and propagating the culture of ‘crony capitalism’ by favour Anil Ambani-owned Reliance Defence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-rafale-fighter-jets-866624.html
28-07-2020||National||ED raids multiple premises in money laundering case against GVK group, MIAL||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday launched multiple searches in connection with a money-laundering probe against the GVK group, the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) and others to probe alleged irregularities to the tune of Rs 705 crore in running the Mumbai airport, officials said. They said the raids are being carried out at nine premises in Mumbai and Hyderabad under the provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The offices of the GVK group, MIAL and the premises of GVK group promoters are being covered as part of the action, they said. The central probe agency has filed an enforcement case information report (the equivalent of a police FIR) early this month under the PMLA after studying a recent CBI FIR filed against the same entities. The ED is probing if genuine funds were laundered to amass personal assets by illegal routing of funds by the accused. The ED and CBI case pertains to the alleged siphoning off Rs 705 crore from the funds of the Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), a joint venture under public-private partnership (PPP) between the GVK Airport Holdings Limited and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) besides other investors, by showing inflated expenditure, under-reporting of revenues, fudging of records among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-raids-multiple-premises-in-money-laundering-case-against-gvk-group-mial-866626.html
28-07-2020||National||India ready to take leadership role, work with 12 other tiger range nations: Javadekar||India is ready to take a leadership role and work with other tiger range countries for the management of the reserves, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. Speaking on the eve of the Global Tiger Day, the minister said India is proud of its achievements and despite the scarcity of land and rainfall, it boasts of eight per cent of the world's biodiversity. "In 1973, there were just nine tiger reserves which have now increased to 50. It is important to know that none of these reserves are poor quality. Either they are good or the best." "Despite India's constraint of 2.5 per cent of global land, four per cent of rainfall and 16 per cent of world's human population, India is home to eight per cent of world's biodiversity which includes 70 per cent of the world's tiger population," he said. He said India is ready to work with other tiger range countries for the conservation of the big cat. "We are ready to take leadership role and work with all 12 tiger range countries in their training, capacity building and in actual management of tiger reserves," Javadekar said. There are currently 13 tiger range countries -- India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, China, Indonesia, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Russia, Thailand and Vietnam. At the event, a report on the condition of all 50 tiger reserves was released. As per the report, Madhya Pradesh has the maximum number of tigers followed by Karnataka. Besides the minister, the event was attended by Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo who said India's contribution to tiger conservation is so fascinating that the Guinness Book of World Records has acknowledged it. The prime minister had in 2019 released a tiger estimation report as per which, India recorded 2,967 tigers, more than double the number from 1,411 in 2006.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-ready-to-take-leadership-role-work-with-12-other-tiger-range-nations-javadekar-866628.html
28-07-2020||National||Fact-check | Goat 'arrested' for not wearing mask in Kanpur? Bizarre media misreports||However, IANS also carried a contradictory statement by Circle Officer, Anwarganj police station, Saifuddin Beg, who said that cops had found a youth without a mask taking the goat along. “When he saw the police, he ran away leaving the goat behind so the policemen brought the goat to the police station. Later, we handed over the goat to its owner,” the officer was quoted. IANS accused the police of “changing” its version of the story. The story contradicts common sense just by the first reading. It sounds like something one would find on satirical websites, yet was published by legitimate media organisations as “news”. The video of a goat being pushed inside a police van was floating on mainstream media and social media alike. A Twitter user claimed that a person accused Beconganj police of forcefully taking away his goat. Kanpur police replied to the user that an unclaimed goat roaming around Dada Miyan intersection during lockdown was brought to Beconganj police station and handed over to its owner Khanikujjma, son of Mohammed Ali. Alt News reached out to Beconganj police and was told that a police van was passing by when locals informed that a goat was roaming unclaimed on the streets. “We brought the goat to the police station in case it gets lost and called the owner. He came and picked it up. The news that we “arrested” the goat for not wearing a mask is completely false,” said the police. Mohammad Ali, the goat’s owner, laughed at the inane news reports when we called him for a statement. “The police helped us. Our goat would’ve gotten lost if they hadn’t brought it to the police station and informed us,” he said. We also contacted Anwarganj police station Circle Officer, Saifuddin Beg, who has been quoted by several media organisations. He said that the man accompanying the goat was roaming without a mask. The police wanted to catch him but he fled, leaving the goat behind. While his version of events differs from Beconganj police statement, CO Beg maintained that news reports claiming the goat was “arrested” for not adorning a mask are laughable. “Is that even possible?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-goat-arrested-for-not-wearing-mask-in-kanpur-bizarre-media-misreports-866635.html
28-07-2020||National||China says it will take 'necessary measures' to protect interests of its companies in India||With New Delhi contemplating more economic measures against China, Beijing on Tuesday stated that it would take “necessary measures” to protect the interests of its companies in India. A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government barred the use of 47 clones and different versions of the previously banned 59 Chinese apps in India, Beijing asked New Delhi to “correct” its “wrongdoing”. “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles,” Ji Rong, a spokesperson of the communist country’s embassy in New Delhi, said in a statement issued on Tuesday. New Delhi on June 29 banned 59 apps linked to China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The move came in response to China’s military aggression along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. The banned apps included TikTok and WeChat, owned respectively by ByteDance Limited and Tencent Holdings Limited of China. Though the ban was imposed almost four weeks back, the existing WeChat users in India were being able to access the social networking app and send and receive messages till a couple of days back. The WeChat, however, on Sunday officially restricted its users from sending and receiving messages from India, thus fully implementing the ban the Modi Government imposed on it.    New Delhi is also planning more economic offensives against China, with its security agencies identifying the communist country's companies, which have past or continuing links with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and are operating in India. The companies identified so far for having links with the Chinese PLA include Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Tencent Holdings Limited, Huawei Technologies Company Limited and the SAIC Motor Corporation Limited. The list also includes the Xinxing Cathay International Group Company Limited, which has invested in the Xindia Steels Limited that has an iron ore pelletisation facility at Koppal district of Karnataka. China on Tuesday said that it consistently asked its enterprises “to abide by international rules and local laws and regulations when conducting external cooperation”. “Practical cooperation between China and India is mutually beneficial. Deliberate interference in such cooperation will not serve the interests of the Indian side. China will also take necessary measures to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies,” the spokesperson of the Embassy of the People’s Republic of China in New Delhi said on Tuesday.  Beijing earlier opposed India’s move to ban use of 59 apps linked to China, stating that New Delhi abused the “national security exception” to the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO). China stated that the ban “selectively and discriminatorily” targeted the apps developed by the companies based in the communist country on “ambiguous and far-fetched grounds”. It also called upon India to acknowledge “the mutually beneficial nature of China-India economic and trade cooperation”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-it-will-take-necessary-measures-to-protect-interests-of-its-companies-in-india-866643.html
28-07-2020||National||India-UK tie up for new 8 mn pounds medicinal research||India and the UK will collaborate on five new research projects to tackle anti-microbial resistance that can help in the global fight against antibiotic-resistant bacteria and genes. The British High Commission in a statement said the five projects are planned for September and the UK is contributing 4 million pounds from the UK Research and Innovation Fund for International Collaboration. India will also contribute 4 million pounds. The funding awards were announced by Minister of State for South Asia and the Commonwealth Lord Tariq Ahmad of Wimbledon ahead of a virtual visit to India on Tuesday. "The UK has already partnered with India's Serum Institute to manufacture the vaccine for COVID-19, if clinical trials are successful, with plans to distribute to a billion people across the developing world. But there is more we can do together to tackle urgent global health issues in the world," he was quoted as saying in the statement. "Our thriving research and innovation partnerships will benefit people in the UK and India, and beyond," he said. During the visit to India, Ahmad will chair a virtual roundtable with senior Indian and UK-based stakeholders on cold-chain technologies that are critical for the effective transport of vaccines, ensuring they successfully reach their final destination, the statement said. He will meet Union Minister of State for External Affairs and Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan to discuss a number of subjects including multilateral cooperation, and also hold a meeting with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. Ahmad will discuss opportunities in wind power with regional governments and will have a virtual tour of a UK-funded solar plant in Rajasthan, it said. British High Commissioner Philip Barton said the UK is India's second-biggest research partner, with joint research expected to be worth 400 million pounds by the next year. "This huge investment enables us to work closely together on global health challenges such as the search for a COVID-19vaccine. Today's announcement is another demonstration of our excellent research relationship and will strengthen the important fight against anti-microbial resistance," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-uk-tie-up-for-new-8-mn-pounds-medicinal-research-866646.html
28-07-2020||National||179 professional colleges shut down this year, highest in last 9 years||Nearly 180 professional colleges, including engineering institutes and business schools, have shut down during the academic year 2020-21, the highest number of closure of technical institutions in the last nine years, according to All India Council of Technical Eduction (AICTE) data. Besides the closure of 179 institutes, at least 134 institutes did not seek approval this year in view of large number of seats lying vacant over the last 5 years thus making it unviable for continuing the institution. Also, at least 44 institutes could not get approval or their approvals were withdrawn due to punitive action by the technical education regulator. While 92 technical institutes had to close down in the 2019-20 academic session, the figures were 89 (2018-19), 134 (2017-18), 163 (2016-17), 126 (2015-16) and 77 (2014-15). Progressive closure means institute cannot admit the students for the first year during the academic year, however, the existing students will continue till completion of their course and their degrees are treated as valid. In the academic year 2020-21, a total of 1.09 lakh seats approved by AICTE have been reduced in pharmacy and architecture institutions. "As per recent Supreme Court judgement, for functioning of existing and setting up of new Architecture and Pharmacy colleges, approval of only 'Council of Architecture' and 'Pharmacy Council of India' respectively will be mandatory from academic Year 2020-2021," a senior AICTE official said. "As a result, the approval of AICTE has been made non-mandatory.Consequently, many of these colleges have withdrawn their affiliation & approval from AICTE resulting in bulk reduction of seats. Effectively, the seats of pharmacy and architecture have now been taken over by their respective regulatory bodies," he added. According to official statistics, over 69,000 seats in 762 colleges have been reduced due to reduction in intake or closure of a particular course or division. "The approval process for year 2020-2021 was a considerable departure from the previous years on several counts. Due to the imposition and subsequent extensions of lockdown, the approval process was delayed. It was initiated in the month of May and completed in June end. "Moreover, the rigorous scrutiny which was undertaken physically at various regional offices was conducted via an online process. This involved using online video-conferencing for stakeholders to connect, verification of infrastructure and campus facilities virtually and uploading digitally signed documents. Even though new Management and Polytechnic Engineering Institutes have added seats, there has been reduction in AICTE approved Seats," the official said. The AICTE has also granted approval to 164 new institutes for the 2020-21 academic season, adding up to 39,000 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/179-professional-colleges-shut-down-this-year-highest-in-last-9-years-866671.html
28-07-2020||National||Beijing says troops disengaged on most of India-China border||Chinese and Indian troops have "completed disengagement" on most parts of the disputed border between their two countries, China's foreign ministry said Tuesday, after violent clashes broke out earlier this year. Tensions soared between the world's two most populous nations in June after the deadliest fighting in decades erupted between Indian and Chinese troops on the Himalayan border. "The situation on the ground continues to cool down and de-escalate," foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a regular press briefing. "The frontline border troops of the two countries have already completed disengagement at most places," he told reporters in Beijing. Wang said the two sides were preparing for a fifth round of talks between military commanders at an unspecified date. After the clash on June 15, Chinese and Indian officials met and agreed to take steps to ease the situation. But the nuclear-armed neighbours have continued to reinforce the border between Ladakh and Tibet. India has deployed thousands more troops and is conducting extra military flights over the mountainous region. Meanwhile, anti-China sentiment has soared in India since the fight, which sparked street protests and calls for Chinese products to be banned in the nation of 1.3 billion people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beijing-says-troops-disengaged-on-most-of-india-china-border-866690.html
28-07-2020||National||Crematorium turns 'casteist' as 'upper caste' people forbid funeral of Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident reflecting prevalence of the caste system in the country, upper caste people allegedly 'forced' members of the SC community to take off the funeral pyre the body of a 'Dalit' woman in Uttar Pradesh's Agra district, about 350 kilometres from here, saying that the cremation ground was 'reserved' for them only. According to the police sources here, the members of the dead woman's family, who hailed from the 'Nat' community, whose members were 'acrobats' and also dancers and singers, had to take the body to a different cemetery for performing the last rites. ''Just as the woman's six year old son was about to light the pyre, a group of thakur community members reached there and asked us not to cremate the body there as the cremation ground was theirs,'' said a member of the 'Nat' woman's family. District police chief Babloo Kumar said that the matter was being investigated. ''The matter will be probed by a circle office....we will take stern action against the guilty,'' Kumar said. Sources, however, said that the 'Nat' family had not yet filed any written complaint with the police perhaps fearing a backlash from the upper caste members. BSP supremo Mayawtai slammed the incident and demanded a high-level probe into the same.  ''It is shameful that a Dalit woman's body was not allowed to be cremated as the cremation ground belonged to the upper castes...the government must take stern action so that such incidents did not recur,'' Mayawati said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crematorium-turns-casteist-as-upper-caste-people-forbid-funeral-of-dalit-woman-in-uttar-pradesh-866699.html
28-07-2020||National||Coronavirus pandemic forces revamp of India's food security programme||By Vrishti Beniwal The coronavirus outbreak is accelerating a push to digitize India’s food-rationing system, allowing citizens to receive entitlements anywhere in the country -- boosting labor mobility and the country’s economic recovery. The “One Nation One Ration Card” system will include about 800 million people under the world’s biggest food-security program. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration is betting that nationwide portability of rations can help bring migrants back to cities after the world’s largest lockdown -- imposed in March with just a few hours’ notice -- left many without food or money. Under the program, people are now allowed to take their quota of foodgrains from a “fair-price shop” anywhere in India by giving their ration card number and providing biometric authentication. Until now Indians could only receive the rations in their hometowns, which could discourage some from moving away in search of work. “One of the key challenges faced by the migrant workers in the cities at the beginning of the lockdowns was the lack of food security and a lack of access to foodgrains,” said Ashwajit Singh, managing director of New Delhi-based IPE Global Pvt Ltd., which advises several multinational aid agencies. “It will certainly help get our labor force back into the cities.” With India’s economy headed for its worst year in more than four decades, Modi has allowed factories to reopen even as the country grapples with the third-most Covid-19 infections in the world. India’s annual food-subsidy bill is more than 1 trillion rupees ($13.4 billion) -- almost 4% of the national budget -- as the government is required by law to provide 5 kilograms (11 pounds) of rice, wheat and coarse grains at subsidized rates as low as 1 rupee per kilogram. After the pandemic began Modi announced an additional 6 kilos a month per person until November, at a cost of 1.5 trillion rupees. “In a way, over 2.5 times the population of the United States, 12 times the population of the United Kingdom and double the population of the European Union was given a free ration by our government,” Modi said last month. Multiple challenges -- from lack of documentation to supply management to technological hiccups -- could prevent the program from being a true game changer, experts say. The ration program “is one of the measures that can reduce hardships for migrants, but they worry about other factors like decent housing, informality of employment, access to medical facilities, and the uncertainty surrounding the current pandemic,” said Rajesh Bansal, senior adviser at Carnegie India. “Incentives in the form of assured social security benefits are also essential.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pandemic-forces-revamp-of-indias-food-security-programme-866701.html
28-07-2020||National||You'll be home soon: Aaradhya told Amitabh Bachchan before leaving hospital||Megastar Amitabh Bachchan says he was left in tears as his daughter-in-law, actor Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, and granddaughter Aaradhya Bachchan were discharged from hospital after testing negative for coronavirus. Aishwarya and her eight-year-old daughter, who were shifted to the isolation ward of Nanavati Hospital on July 17, were discharged on Monday.  Amitabh, 77, and his actor-son Abhishek are still in hospital after they were admitted on July 11.  "They go home, the little one and Bahurani... and the tears flow out... the little one embraces and tells me not to cry... 'You’ll be home soon', she assures... I must believe her," he said.  On Monday, Abhishek had said that he and his father were still under the care of medical staff at the Nanavati Hospital's isolation ward. "My father and I remain in hospital under the care of the medical staff. Thank you all for your continued prayers and good wishes. Indebted forever," the 44-year-old actor tweeted. Both Amitabh and Abhishek have been sharing their health updates with fans on various social media platforms. Last week, Amitabh had dismissed reports that he had finally tested negative for coronavirus, calling the piece of news "an incorrigible lie". Mumbai's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,10,129 on Monday with addition of 1,033 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youll-be-home-soon-aaradhya-told-amitabh-bachchan-before-leaving-hospital-866706.html
28-07-2020||National||DST selects Bengaluru start-up for developing Covid-19 risk assessment app||The Centre for Augmenting WAR with Covid-19 Health Crisis (CAWACH), an initiative by the Department of Science and Technology (DST), has selected a Bengaluru based start-up to develop a Covid-19 risk assessment mobile application, an official statement said on Tuesday. The 'Lyfas' Covid score has been developed by start-up Acculi Labs with support from the DST and will detect the possible infection in an asymptomatic individual to prioritise the conventional testing queue as well as carry out a risk assessment of an asymptomatic individual to become symptomatic and risk assessment of an asymptomatic individual for recovery. According to Acculi Labs, Lyfas is a clinical-grade, non-invasive, digital functional biomarker smartphone tool for screening, early detection, root cause analysis, acute event risk assessment, prognosis, and home monitoring of chronic diseases which they have repurposed to 'Lyfas Covid score'. CAWACH, an initiative by the National Science & Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB), DST, is supporting market-ready innovations for the control of Covid-19 and startup ideas to address associated challenges. In March, the DST collaborated to support technologies that are solving Covid problems. Acculi Labs was selected after several rounds of screening for a solution towards mass screening. Lyfas is an Android application in which, when one keeps the index finger on the rear camera of a mobile phone for 5 minutes, captures the capillary pulse and blood volume change and derives 95 biomarkers with proprietary algorithms and signal processing techniques. It uses the power of smartphone processor and smartphone sensors to capture a bunch of body signals. The signals are subsequently processed on the principle of Photoplethysmography(PPG), Photo Chromatography(PCG), Arterial Photoplethysmography(APPG), mobile spirometry, and Pulse Rate Variability (PRV). Lyfas then provides cardio-respiratory, cardio-vascular, hematology, hemorheology, neurology based parameters that are capable of tracking minute pathophysiological changes in the body. These changes are further profiled into organ system-wide response. The technology is focused on population screening, monitoring of quarantined individuals, and surveillance at the community spreading phase. It has been proved to detect asymptomatic individuals with an accuracy of 92 per cent, specificity of 90 per cent, and a sensitivity of 92 per cent in a study conducted with Medanta Medicity hospital. Witnessing the success of the study, Medanta ethics committee has approved it for a larger population study. This study is currently registered in Clinical Trials Registry- India (CTRI) and is acknowledged by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the statement said. The clinical trials and regulatory proceedings are expected to be completed by the end of September, after which the testing facility will be made available for the general public. While AarogyaSetu works on contact tracing where one has to enter your symptoms, Lyfas is a proper medical screening test which purely depends upon test results, it added. It has received a grant of Rs 30 lakh from DST and is now virtually supported by IIT Madras, Healthcare Technology Innovation Centre (HTIC), MedTech Incubator. “Inexpensive, accessible, point-of-care smart phone based diagnostics is a powerful tool that would tremendously help in screening the high risk cases, sustained monitoring of quarantined cases and general surveillance," said Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, DST said. "Lyfas is an interesting example of the rising power of technology startups in innovating relevant and creative solutions for the emergent challenges with speed and efficacy,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dst-selects-bengaluru-start-up-for-developing-covid-19-risk-assessment-app-866719.html
28-07-2020||National||India’s Covid-19 fatality rate declines to 2.25%; recovery rate rises over 64%: Ministry of Health||India's Covid-19 fatality rate is progressively falling from 3.33 per cent on June 18 to 2.25 per cent as on date, while the recovery rate increased from around 53 per cent in mid-June to more than 64 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. With 35,176 patients discharged in a 24-hour span, the total recoveries surged to 9,52,743 and exceed the active coronavirus cases by 4,55,755, it said. "The Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) has reduced from around 3.33 per cent in mid-June to 2.25 per cent today,” the ministry said. "India continues its march as a country with one of the lowest fatality rates in the world," it said while underlining that the achievement was a result of effective implementation of containment strategy combined with house-to-house surveys, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard of care approach. The ministry said such an approach ensured that hospitals were left unburdened with supervised home isolation for asymptomatic patients. Under the guidance of the central government, the state and Union territory (UT) governments have focused on reducing fatalities by effectively managing severe cases and prioritising care of the high-risk population using field healthcare workers, leading to decrease in the Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) across the country. The ramped up three-tier hospital infrastructure along with prompt and seamless patient management has helped in consistent increase in the recoveries, it said. For the fifth day in a row, India has seen more than 30,000 recoveries per day. The recovery rate among coronavirus infected patients has seen a sharp increase from around 53 per cent in mid-June to 64.24 per cent as on Tuesday, according to the ministry data. The actual active case load is presently 4,96,988 and all are under medical supervision. The focused efforts on early detection and isolation along with handholding of states and UTs by expert teams of AIIMS, New Delhi for efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases and periodic visits of central teams, have borne results with continuously improving recovery rate, the ministry said. With a single-day increase of 47,703 Covid-19 cases, India's infection tally mounted to 14,83,156 on Tuesday, while the death toll due to the disease rose to 33,425 with 654 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-covid-19-fatality-rate-declines-to-225-recovery-rate-rises-over-64-ministry-of-health-866724.html
28-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: India contemplating more economic measures against China||In today’s episode, India contemplating more economic measures against China. Karnataka High Court has directed the state government to reconsider the dates of KCET (Karnataka Common Entrance Test) 2020, scheduled on July 30 and 3. Flipkart kicks off the new hyperlocal service Flipkart Quick in Bengaluru. Karnataka has unveiled its plans to set up a Rs 5,000 crore Bengaluru Lifesciences Park and chapter on Tipu Sultan taken off from the textbooks of Class 7.  Here is the top news of today, Tuesday: July 28, 2020: With New Delhi contemplating more economic measures against China, Beijing has stated that it would take “necessary measures” to protect interests of its companies in India. A day after Modi government barred the use of 47 clones and different versions of the previously banned 59 Chinese apps in India, Beijing asked New Delhi to “correct” its “wrongdoing”.  Ji Rong, a spokesperson of the Chinese embassy in New Delhi, said: “The Indian government has the responsibility to protect the legitimate rights and interests of international investors in India, including Chinese businesses, in accordance with market principles.” India on June 29, banned 59 apps linked to China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”.  The move came in response to China’s military aggression along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. The banned apps included TikTok and WeChat, owned respectively by ByteDance Limited and Tencent Holdings Limited of China. Though the ban was imposed almost four weeks back, the existing WeChat users in India were being able to access the social networking app and send and receive messages till a couple of days back. The WeChat, however, on Sunday officially restricted its users from sending and receiving messages from India, thus fully implementing the ban imposed on it.     New Delhi is also planning more economic offensives against China, with its security agencies identifying the communist country's companies, which have past or continuing links with the People’s Liberation Army and are operating in India.  The companies identified so far for having links with the Chinese PLA include Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Tencent Holdings Limited, Huawei Technologies Company Limited and the SAIC Motor Corporation Limited. The list also includes the Xinxing Cathay International Group Company Limited, which has invested in the Xindia Steels Limited that has an iron ore pelletisation facility at Koppal district of Karnataka.  Karnataka High Court has directed the state government to reconsider the dates of KCET (Karnataka Common Entrance Test) 2020, scheduled on July 30 and 31. The High Court has asked the state government to place its decision by 2.30 pm on Wednesday. A division bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice H P Sandesh observed orally that unlike in the SSLC examination, the students do not have a second CET test. The Rajasthan government has forwarded a revised recommendation to Governor Kalraj Mishra for calling an assembly session from July 31 after the Cabinet discussed the points raised by the governor on the issue. The Cabinet meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Meanwhile, back in Karnataka, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said that "Congress is another name for horse trading". The former Chief Minister said Congress is an expert in dividing political parties and purchasing MLAs and added that In fact, the term horse trading in politics came to be in use because of it. He said:  "Congress has launched a nation-wide Save Democracy, campaign against the BJP which is buying MLAs to topple democratically elected governments. What has the Congress done? Haven't they lured all BSP MLAs who supported the Congress to form the government in Rajasthan? Is this not a buyout?"  Leading e-commerce firm Flipkart kicked off the new hyperlocal service Flipkart Quick in Bengaluru. As part of the first phase, Flipkart Quick will offer to deliver 2,000 products in categories varying from Grocery, Fresh, Dairy, Meat, Mobiles, Electronics Accessories, Stationery Items and Home Accessories. Customers can expect the ordered goods to be delivered within 90 minutes and also get an option to book a 2-hour slot as per their convenience. Also, there are no time restrictions to place the order and get it delivered between 6:00 am and 12:00 am. However, they have to pay a minimum delivery fee of Rs 29. Karnataka has unveiled its plans to set up a Rs 5,000 crore Bengaluru Lifesciences Park that promises to be a major centre for research and innovation in the biotechnology sector. Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who is the IT/BT minister, said that the park will come up on a 9 million sqft space in Electronics City. The foundation stone for the park will be laid tomorrow  by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa. Narayan said: “There is totally 86 acres, which includes the Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology (IBAB) on 10 acres, the Centre for Human Genetics on 10 acres and the Bengaluru Bioinnovation Centre (BBC) on 10 acres. Our demand initially was for 4 lakh sqft, but by December 2022, we will have a building on 10 lakh sqft in the first phase.” Karnataka government's decision to trim the textbooks for this academic year 2020-21 in the backdrop of delay in commencing the academic year due to Covid-19 pandemic has led to the exit of chapter on Tipu Sultan--the 'Tiger of Mysuru' from the textbooks of Class 7. However, the government has decided to retain similar chapters on Tipu Sultan in 6th and 10th Classes. Coping with the pandemic and trying to balance the syllabus with the remaining period of the academic year, the education department has recently trimmed the syllabus in text books for all classes from 1 to 10th. Currently text books in 6th, 7th and 10th grades have chapters on Tipu Sultan. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-contemplating-more-economic-measures-against-china-866729.html
28-07-2020||National||Majority not in support of opening theatres, gyms, metro, international flights amid Covid-19: survey||With the government preparing to issue Unlock 3.0 guidelines during the Covid-19 pandemic, a survey has shown that a very few people are willing to visit theatres, multiplexes and gymnasium or board a metro or local train in the next two months even if these services are permitted. Also, a majority are also not in a mood to support any move to start international air travel. Since June 1, the government has opened up several sectors in a phased manner through two guidelines on unlocking the country from restrictions. According to the survey conducted by Local Circles, only 6 per cent are willing to visit a theatre or a multiplex while only 9 per cent have expressed their eagerness to hit the gyms in the next 60 days. The survey also said that 71 per cent of the citizens were not willing to take a metro or a local train in the next month. When it comes to starting international flights from August 1, 62 per cent are opposed to any such move. The survey was conducted among around 34,000 people in 255 districts. To the question on whether they would visit a theatre or a multiplex to which 9,301 responded, 72 per cent said a definite no while 18 per cent said they haven't been watching movies in theatres. Among those surveyed, 3 per cent said they would go to movies multiple times during this period while another 3 per cent said they might go once or twice. This comes against the backdrop of a proposal to allow cinema theatres to open next month. Reportedly, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has written to the Ministry of Home Affairs favouring the opening of theatres with restrictions like people sitting in alternate rows. "The majority feel that opening them is extremely risky, given the Covid-19 situation. Although cinema hall owners have been asking for the reopening of theatres with 50 per cent seating capacity, concern remains about the air-conditioning inside theatres leading to spread of the virus from asymptomatic but infected individuals," the survey said. On the opening of gymnasium, 6 per cent said they would frequent the fitness centres while 3 per cent said they would go less frequently than pre-Coivd-19 times. However, 32 per cent said they will skip the gym till the situation is completely under control while 59 per cent were not going to gymnasium previously. To this query, 9158 people had responded. "Earlier, restaurants across the country were allowed to restart operation but the number of customers visiting these restaurants for dining in have been very small. This shows that the majority of the people are not in a mood to be irresponsible when it comes to Covid-19 and the fate of gymnasiums and multiplexes might end up being the same, were they opened as part of Unlock 3.0," it said. Though states like Delhi are ready to start metro operations, the survey showed that only 29 per cent of the 7,992 respondents answered in the affirmative while 63 per cent answered in the negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-not-in-support-of-opening-theatres-gyms-metro-international-flights-amid-covid-19-survey-866741.html
28-07-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: FIR filed against Rhea Chakraborty||In a sudden and surprising development, family of Sushant Singh Rajput lodged anFIR against the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family members on Tuesday. Sushant (34), who had acted in films like MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, Shuddh Desi Romance, PK, Detective Byomkesh Bakshi, Raabta, Kedarnath, Sonchiriya, Chhichore, died by suicide on June 14. His body was found in his rented duplex flat at Bandra, one of the upmarket locations in Mumbai.  Rajput’s father KK Singh filed the FIR against Rhea and six others in Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna for abetment to suicide. “An FIR registered against actor Rhea Chakraborty under various sections, including abetment of suicide, on the complaint of Sushant Singh Rajput's father,” Patna Central Zone’s Inspector General Sanjay Singh was quoted saying. Hours after the FIR, a four-member team of Bihar police, landed in Mumbai and met senior officials. There has been a demand to hand over the case from the Bandra police station in Mumbai to the CBI. According to his post-mortem report, the cause of death was asphyxia due to hanging. Foul play was ruled out – but what exactly has compelled the actor to die by suicide is yet to be ascertained. The campaign for a CBI probe is spearheaded by actor and TV presenter Shekhar Suman. Veteran filmmaker Shekhar Kapur had said that the actor was in pain. Actress Kangana Ranaut too has raised suspicion over the way Sushant ended his life. Several Bollywood celebrities have raised the nepotism and favouritism angle and alleged that he was being sidelined by some big names and production houses of the Hindi film industry. Rhea, whose statement had been recorded by the Mumbai police, had too demanded a CBI probe. “I’m Sushant Singh Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, it is now over a month since his sudden demise. I have complete faith in the government, however in the interest of justice, I request you with folded hands to initiate a CBI enquiry into this matter. I only want to understand what pressures prompted Sushant to take this step,” she had posted on social media tagging Home Minister Amit Shah. During the investigation, the expenses of actress Rhea Chakraborty from the past 11 months were probed.  According to reports, in 2019, Rhea travelled to Europe to shoot an advertisement and Sushant had incurred all her expenses including her travel tickets. Besides, the family has said that Rs 15 crore has been taken out from the accounts of the actor since last one year.  The case has been lodged under various sections of IPC including 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 306 (abetment of suicide). Late in the evening, lawyers were seen going into the Mumbai residence of Rhea Chakraborty. The family of Rajput has accused Rhea of trying to influence the life of the actor. The Mumbai police has so far recorded the statements of over 35 persons including his househelps, friends, filmmakers, doctors and psychiatrists who were treating him.  Who is Rhea Chakraborty? Rhea Chakraborty first came into limelight when her photos along with veteran filmmaker Mahesh Bhatt were splashed in social media a couple of years ago. Later she got into a relationship withactor Sushant Singh Rajput after he broke up with actress Ankita Lokhande. In 2013, she made her Bollywood acting debut with the film Mere Dad Ki Maruti. Rhea Chakraborty was born into a Bengali family in Bengalaru and she did her schooling from Army Public School, Ambala Cantonment. Rhea started her television career in 2009 with MTV India's TVS Scooty Teen Diva where she was the first runner-up. Later, she has hosted several MTV shows, including Pepsi MTV Wassup, TicTac College Beat and MTV Gone in 60 Seconds. She also did cameo appearances in Half Girlfriend and Dobaara: See Your Evil and Jalebi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-fir-filed-against-rhea-chakraborty-866742.html
28-07-2020||National||Employees stuck due to lockdown will be treated as working if they intimated govt||Central government employees, who were on official tour or on leave and unable to rejoin duty due to lockdown, will be considered to have started attending office on the expiry of their tour or leave if they have intimated to the authorities about difficulty in attending office due to non-availability of public transport or flights. This was clarified in an office memorandum issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) issued an office memorandum while clarifying on the regularisation of absence during Covid-19 lockdown. The office memorandum was issued after the DoPT received several queries from employees who proceeded on leave but could not report for duty due to non-availability of public transport or flights and restrictions on inter/intra state movement of persons. For those who were on official tour and were unable to return to their headquarters due to non-availability of public transport, the government servants will be deemed to have joined duty on the date of expiry of official tour if they have intimated the "difficulty in joining duty due to non-availability of public transport or flights. Similarly, for government servants who were on leave prior to the lockdown orders issued on March 25 and the leave ended during the lockdown period, they will be deemed to have joined duty if they have intimated the office regarding their difficulty. "In case of leave on medical grounds, this is subject to production of medical/fitness certificate," the order added. However, the order made it clear that application for curtailing leaves running into lockdown period would not be entertained. "Curtailment of sanctioned leave may not be agreed to, unless allowed by the leave sanctioning authority only in rare cases based on official exigency," it said. For those employees who left the headquarters on the weekend prior to the lockdown (March 20, Friday) but could not return on March 23 (Monday) due to non-availability of transport, the order said they would be considered as joined duty on March 23 if they had intimated the same to the office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employees-stuck-due-to-lockdown-will-be-treated-as-working-if-they-intimated-govt-866751.html
28-07-2020||National||Rafale jets en route to India refuelled in mid-air by French Air Force tanker||Rafale jets were refuelled in mid-air by a French Air Force tanker whilst on their way to the Ambala air base. The Rafale jets are travelling from the Merignac airbase near Bordeaux in France to the Ambala air base camp, where they will be part of the number 17 or ‘Golden Arrow’ squadron. They were refueled mid-air before a stopover in the UAE at the Al-Dhafra air base. The refuelling was done by an Airbus A330 multi-role tanker transport (MRTT) aircraft of the French Air Force. “Indian Air Force appreciates the support provided by French Air Force for our Rafale journey back home,” wrote the IAF on Twitter, thanking them for their assistance.   Photos of the refuelling were taken at 30,000 feet and shared on Twitter by the official Twitter handle of the Indian Embassy in France. The Rafale jets have been custom made for the Indian Air Force (IAF). Pilots would especially have to undergo a special, nine-month long training provided by Dassault itself. The Rs 59,000 crore deal for 36 jets was made with Dassault Rafale in 2016. Out of these, ten jets have been delivered as per schedule. It is a twin-engine jet that is fitted with Meteor beyond-visual-range air-to-air missiles, multi-mission air-to-air missiles, deep strike cruise missiles and much more. All jets are expected to be delivered by the end of next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-jets-en-route-to-india-refuelled-in-mid-air-by-french-air-force-tanker-866753.html
28-07-2020||National||Version of accused not refuted by prosecution can't be ignored: SC||The Supreme Court has held that a statement of the accused, recorded at the end of the trial against the evidence, could not be lightly brushed aside as false and untrustworthy since prosecution's failure to refute it on material grounds would affect the conviction. A bench of Justices N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Krishna Murari said the opportunity given to the accused under Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code is "a valuable right of the accused to seek justice and defend oneself. Failure of the trial court to fairly apply its mind and consider the defence could endanger the conviction itself." The court added that unlike the prosecution, which needs to prove its case beyond the reasonable doubt, the accused merely needs to create reasonable doubt or prove her version by a preponderance of probabilities. "Thus, once a plausible version has been put forth in defence at the Section 313 CrPC examination stage, then it is for the prosecution to negate such defence plea," the bench said. The court passed its judgement while allowing an appeal filed by Parminder Kaur, represented by advocate Dushyant Parashar, against the concurrent judgement of a trial court and Punjab and Haryana High Court. It acquitted her in the 24-year-old case of forcing a minor girl into illicit intercourse with her rich tenant and criminal intimidation. The court noted a reasonable doubt in prosecution's case was created as the woman claimed that there was no male tenant at all in her house and no one except for her child and mother lived with her, and second, that she was being falsely implicated for filing a rape complaint against a person with whom the girl's father used to work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/version-of-accused-not-refuted-by-prosecution-cant-be-ignored-sc-866767.html
28-07-2020||National||France sends ventilators, test kits to assist India in Covid-19 fight  ||France on Tuesday handed over to India ventilators, test kits and other medical equipment as part of its assistance in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The medical equipment was handed over to the Indian Red Cross Society by French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain at the Palam Air Force Station after the assistance material was flown here on board a French Air Force aircraft. "Delighted to hand over Covid-19 medical equipment from France to Shri RK Jain, Secy General @IndianRedCross," Lenain tweeted along with pictures of the handover. "France earlier granted 200 million euros in financial aid to India through @AFD_en (French development agency). With @IFCCI1 CSR committee, French companies, too, have contributed to relief efforts in India," he said.  President Emmanuel Macron had recently announced the donation of medical equipment to India, as well as provision of technical expertise, according to a statement by the French embassy. As part of this medical assistance package, France is donating to India 50 Osiris-3 ventilators and 70 Yuwell 830 ventilators with BiPAP mode, it had said. Osiris ventilators are particularly useful for emergency transport, intra-hospital transfer and recovery. They have different ventilation modes, including non-invasive ventilation, it said. The Yuwell 830 ventilators have bi-level positive airway pressure (BiPAP) -- a non-invasive technique to supply oxygen to the lungs without intubation. These high-quality ventilators meet the needs of Indian hospitals, the embassy had said. The donation by France also includes 50,000 high-quality serological IgG/IgM test kits and 50,000 nose and throat swabs and modes of medical transport, the statement said. The equipment was transported on a French Air Force A330 MRTT equipped with a Morpheus kit, which enables the transport of critically ill patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/france-sends-ventilators-test-kits-to-assist-india-in-covid-19-fight-866774.html
28-07-2020||National||Uncertainty looms over status of Ram Janmabhoomi time capsule||Contradictory reports of a time capsule being placed 2,000 feet deep into the ground at the site of the temple have been given by members of the temple trust  It was previously reported that the The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust would put a time capsule or a “Kaal Patra”, 2,000 feet into the ground, within the foundation of the temple. The ‘Kaal Patra’ is to carry details about Lord Ram and Ayodhya. The idea was that the time capsule would prevent the temple from being embroiled in further legal disputes. On July 26th, Kameshwar Chaupal, trust member, said that the capsule would carry a message that would last “thousands of years.” However, within two days, the General Secretary of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, refuted these claims. “All reports about placing of a time capsule under the ground at Ram Temple construction site on 5th August are false. Do not believe in any such rumour,” he said, according to news agency ANI. The 'bhoomi pujan' of the Ram Mandir will take place on August 5th. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation of the temple. It is expected that the temple will be 161-feet tall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uncertainty-looms-over-status-of-ram-janmabhoomi-time-capsule-866786.html
28-07-2020||National||PM Modi to join brain-storming session with heads of banks, NBFCs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet heads of large banks and NBFCs on Wednesday to take stock of the economy that has been hit hard by the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. According to an official statement, the prime minister will join stakeholders from banks and NBFCs on Wednesday to discuss and deliberate on vision and roadmap for the future. "The topics on agenda include credit products and efficient models for delivery, financial empowerment through technology, prudential practices for stability and sustainability of financial sector," it said. The banking sector plays an important role in economic growth through financing infrastructure, agriculture, local manufacturing including MSMEs. Financial inclusion can play a big role in financial empowerment through technology, it said. Senior officers from the government will also be a part of the interaction, it added. This is part of a series of meetings that the prime minister is holding for the last few weeks on various sectors of the economy, sources said. Discussion is likely to be around reviving the economy which is expected to contract by 4.5 per cent in the current fiscal, according to some estimates. Banks and other financial institutions are implementing the bulk of the measures announced under the Rs 20.97-lakh crore economic package to deal with the COVID crisis in May. The government announced one of the world's biggest stimulus packages with a focus on the survival of the business and setting a roadmap for the revival of the economy. The five-part stimulus package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman beginning May 13 comprised Rs 5.94 lakh crore in the first tranche that provided credit line to small businesses and support to shadow banks and electricity distribution companies. The second tranche included free foodgrain to stranded migrant workers for two months and credit to farmers, totalling Rs 3.10 lakh crore. Spending on agri infrastructure and other measures for agriculture and allied sectors in the third tranche totalled to Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The fourth and fifth tranches that dealt mostly with structural reforms including relaxation of foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in defence, privatisation of six more airports, and fully opening up coal mining to the private sector. As a result of all these measures, green shoots are visible in the economy, a fact acknowledged by both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, the release noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-join-brain-storming-session-with-heads-of-banks-nbfcs-866788.html
28-07-2020||National||China's latest outreach to Nepal, Pakistan, Afghanistan makes India worried||China’s latest move to build a four-nation coalition with Nepal, Pakistan and Afghanistan has set the alarm bells ringing in India. The move to build the coalition was initiated when Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi had a video conference with his counterparts in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Nepal on Monday. Though the video conference was held to discuss cooperation among the four countries to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, New Delhi anticipates that Beijing might try to turn it into a loose coalition of the four nations and use it beyond its professed objective of responding to the pandemic – in order to spread its tentacles in the northern and western neighbourhood of India. China’s latest move came amid aggressive expansionist moves by its People’s Liberation Army along its disputed boundary with India. Wang and his counterparts – Shah Mahmood Qureshi of Pakistan, Haneef Atmar of Afghanistan and Pradeep Gyawali of Nepal – agreed “to work together to fight the Covid-19 and resume economy”, according to a report by the state-owned Xinhua News Agency of China. The Chinese Foreign Minister proposed that the four countries should consolidate consensus of solidarity against the pandemic as well as step up cooperation to speed up economic recovery and development in the post-Covid-19 era. The foreign ministers of Afghanistan, Pakistan and Nepal expressed willingness to deepen cooperation with China to fight Covid-19, ensure the flow of trade and transport corridors, facilitate people-to-people and trade connection, build a “silk road of health” and community of a shared future for humanity, reported Xinhua. The video conference came amid a renewed attempt by China to expand its geo-strategic influence in the neighbourhood of India – be it in Sri Lanka and Maldives in south, Bangladesh and Myanmar in east and Nepal in north. Beijing already nudged Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s Government in Kathmandu to sour its relations with New Delhi by ratcheting up Nepal-India boundary dispute. Even as its PLA is engaged in a military stand-off with the Indian Army in eastern Ladakh, China’s “iron brother” Pakistan’s border guards have been flouting ceasefires along its Line of Control with India in Jammu and Kashmir. Islamabad also sought to block New Delhi’s bid to breathe fresh life into the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and mobilize a regional response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Beijing has of late stepped up its outreach to yet another friendly neighbour of India – Afghanistan, where it is keen to take advantage of the imminent exit of the United States. It wants to extend the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) – a flagship project of Chinese President Xi Jinping’s controversial cross-continental Belt and Road Initiative – to Afghanistan and Iran. New Delhi has been opposing China’s BRI, primarily because the CPEC runs through the Jammu and Kashmir areas India accuses Pakistan of illegally occupying. India is also cautious about China’s proposed deal with Iran for a whopping $400 billion investment in the Islamic republic in West Asia over the next 25 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-latest-outreach-to-nepal-pakistan-afghanistan-makes-india-worried-866791.html
28-07-2020||National||Efforts to clean banking system cost former RBI governor Urjit Patel his job, claims Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday claimed that efforts by former RBI chief Urjit Patel to clean the banking system cost him his job. Gandhi used a news report that quoted Patel saying that the insolvency law caused a rift with the government to buttress his claim. "'Efforts to clean the banking system cost him his job'. Why? PM didn't want him to go after wilful defaulters," Gandhi said on Twitter while tagging the news report. The BJP, however, hit back at the former Congress chief. Its IT department in-charge Amit Malviya tweeted a picture of Gandhi's post and said: "Writing sensational one-liners doesn't make you an expert on economics." "There is little doubt that Rahul Gandhi's advisors are as daft as him if not more...," he said. The new report quoted Patel as saying that moves to dilute a new bankruptcy law caused disagreements between the Modi government and the central bank. Patel's erstwhile deputy Viral Acharya was also quoted as saying that efforts to clean the banking system cost Patel his job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/efforts-to-clean-banking-system-cost-former-rbi-governor-urjit-patel-his-job-claims-rahul-gandhi-866794.html
28-07-2020||National||Priyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas donate to Assam relief fund||On Monday night, the actor Priyanka Chopra shared a series of tweets, detailing the plight of the state of Assam, the impact of the floods on human life, wildlife, and more. She also tweeted that she, along with her husband, Nick Jonas, had each made donations to a few organisations that have aided the relief effort. The actor had been on the receiving end of social media anger after fans pointed out that she had not commented on the Assam floods, despite being a tourism ambassador for the state. “While we are all still dealing with the effects of the global pandemic, the Indian state of Assam has been grappling with another major crisis. It has been devastated by floods triggered by heavy monsoon showers affecting the lives of millions. The impact to life and land/property is unimaginable. The rapidly rising water level has also flooded the Kaziranga National Park, one of the finest wildlife sanctuaries in the world,” wrote the actor on Twitter. The couple also made donations towards the Bihar flood relief effort. Chopra herself was born in the state of Bihar. The actor will next be seen in an adaptation of  The White Tiger with Rajkummar Rao.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-chopra-and-nick-jonas-donate-to-assam-relief-fund-866801.html
28-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally spikes past 15 lakh-mark; nearly 10 lakh recover||India on Tuesday crossed the grim landmark of 15 lakh Covid-19 cases, with Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh reporting new infections at a faster pace. According to the DH Covid-19 Tracker, India had 15,22,858 confirmed cases of Covid-19, an increase of 40,497 by 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday. The spread of infection appeared to have slowed down in Delhi, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, with Mumbai recording 700 new cases, the lowest in three months. States such as Gujarat and West Bengal tightened measures to reign in the spread of the infections. Gujarat government increased the fine for not wearing a mask in public places from Rs 200 to Rs 500 from August 1, when the country would move to the third phase of emerging from the lockdown. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee extended the bi-weekly lockdown in the state till August 31. On Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh reported 7,948 new infections, Karnataka (5,536), Uttar Pradesh (3,458), Bihar (2,408). States such as Maharashtra reported 7,717 new infections, Tamil Nadu (6,972) and Gujarat (1,108). However, these states which had a high caseload, have been reporting faster recoveries. India was on the threshold of reporting 10-lakh recoveries from Covid-19 with more than 34,000 patients getting discharged every day for the past few days. At 8:30 pm, 9,85,632 persons had been cured of Covid-19 and discharged from healthcare facilities. India has gradually increased testing for Covid-19 and has been testing more than five lakh samples for the past two days. On Sunday, July 26, the ICMR's network of 1,310 labs had tested 5.15 lakh samples for Covid-19, while the number increased to 5.28 lakhs on Monday. India had reported 34,147 deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, with the government noting that the case fatality rate (CFR) was progressively declining in the country. “With a CFR of 2.25%, India has one of the lowest fatality rates in the world,” a health ministry official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-spikes-past-15-lakh-mark-nearly-10-lakh-recover-866809.html
28-07-2020||National||Indian Navy's message to Beijing after escalation of border tension 'registered' by China||The Indian Navy's clear message to Beijing through its aggressive deployment of almost all frontline warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean Region following escalation in the border row in eastern Ladakh has been "registered" by China, top defence sources said on Tuesday. The Indian Navy deployed a range of its frontline warships and submarines in the Indian Ocean Region(IOR) to send a clear message to China when the border tension escalated manifold in the wake of the Galwan Valley clashes on June 15. The sources told PTI that the government adopted a multi-pronged approach involving the Army, the Indian Air Force(IAF) and the Navy as well diplomacy and economic measures to send a clear signal to China that its misadventure in eastern Ladakh was not acceptable at all. They said the three service chiefs are engaged in deliberations on almost a daily basis to ensure a coordinated approach in dealing with the situation as well as to make China understand about India's clear message. The sources said the three services are coordinating on the military response to the border row. The Navy has significantly expanded its deployment in the IOR deploying a plethora of warships and submarines to create pressure points on China as the maritime space around the Malacca Strait is very critical for its supply chain through sea routes. "Yes, our message has been registered by China," said a source without elaborating. Asked whether China has responded to India's deployment, the sources said there was no visible increase in forays by Chinese ships in the IOR. They said the reason could be the PLA Navy's excessive deployment of resources in the South China Sea following the strong opposition by the US to Beijing's expansive territorial claims in the region. The US sent a number of its warships to the South China Sea to demonstrate freedom of navigation and rallying support to countries who have territorial disputes with China over the region. The Indian Navy is also ramping up its operational cooperation with various friendly naval forces like the US Navy and Japan Maritime Self Defense Force in view of the fast evolving regional security landscape. Following the Galwan Valley clashes, the IAF deployed almost all its frontline fighter jets like Sukhoi 30 MKI, Jaguar and Mirage 2000 aircraft in the key frontier air bases in eastern Ladakh and elsewhere along the Line of Actual Control(LAC). The IAF has been carrying out night time combat air patrols over the eastern Ladakh region in an apparent message to China that it was ready to deal with any eventualities in the mountainous region. The Army significantly enhanced deployment after the clashes in Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead. The Chinese side also suffered casualties but it is yet to give out the details. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. Following the Galwan Valley incident, the government has given the armed forces "full freedom" to give a "befitting" response to any Chinese misadventure along the LAC. After the last round of military talks, government sources said the Indian side conveyed a "very clear" message to the Chinese army that status quo ante must be restored in eastern Ladakh and it will have to follow all mutually agreed protocols for border management to bring back peace and tranquillity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navys-message-to-beijing-after-escalation-of-border-tension-registered-by-china-866813.html
28-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Govt relaxes export norms for face shields, surgical masks, medical goggles||The government on Tuesday relaxed norms for the export of face shields, certain kind of surgical masks and medical goggles which are in demand due to coronavirus pandemic. The government has made export of face shields free and permitted outward shipments of 2/3 ply surgical masks and medical goggles with certain conditions. Earlier export of 2/3 Ply surgical masks, medical goggles and face shields were banned in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The export of these masks and goggles is moved from banned category to restricted one, under which an exporter has to seek a permission or licence from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). A notification is "amended to the extent that the export policy of 2/3 Ply surgical masks, medical goggles is amended from prohibited to restricted category and export of face shields has been made free," the DGFT said in a notification. It said that a monthly export quota of four crore units has been fixed for 2/3 Ply surgical masks, and 20 lakh units per month for medical goggles for issuing licenses to eligible applicants as per the criteria to be separately issued. These products are in huge demand on account of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-relaxes-export-norms-for-face-shields-surgical-masks-medical-goggles-866833.html
28-07-2020||National||Pandemic turns smartphones from luxury to must-have as India's schools go online||Kuldip Kumar, a farmer from northern India, sold his only cow to buy a smartphone so his children could keep up with lessons that shifted online when the coronavirus lockdown closed schools four months ago. Kumar was already in debt and the cow was his only asset. He sold it last week for 6,000 rupees ($80), almost all of which he spent on the device. "My neighbours had a smartphone but my children were reluctant to go there every day to study," Kumar, 36, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from the hill town of Palampur. "I was worried about their education, so I sold the cow," he added. India is the world's second-biggest smartphone market after China, and nearly half of the country's almost one billion mobile users already have a phone with internet access. For Kumar and his family, the smartphone is a novelty. Neither he nor his wife have ever been online, and so far only their children have been making use of it. With no clear sign of schools reopening soon, internet access has become a must for children to follow classes, prompting more low-income families to scrape together the money to buy a cheap or second-hand smartphone for the first time. And with a school population of some 240 million, it could prove a boon for sales of low-cost devices to new users, industry analysts say, noting signs of an increase in purchases of used handsets in rural areas. India's smartphone market has grown in the last two or three years mainly due to replacement purchases, said Navkendar Singh, research director with International Data Corporation. For many basic phone users, the leap to digital is still prohibitively expensive: "Basic phones cost less than 1,000 rupees so how will their users buy a smartphone for 3,000 or 4,000 rupees. Even a screen replacement would cost them over 1,000 rupees," Singh said. Digital Divide Only Indonesia is digitizing at a faster pace than India, according to a Mckinsey study of 17 countries. But despite the rapid gains in internet access, the advent of remote schooling under lockdown has shone a light on the country's persistent digital divide. The suicide of a teenage girl who was unable to attend online classes because she did not have a television or smartphone drew attention to the plight of families who cannot afford even the cheapest smartphone. In Pune district in western India, teacher Nagnath Vibhute published a blog post asking for donations of old smartphones for his students, many of whom are from poor families. India started to ease its strict weeks-long coronavirus lockdown in June, but restrictions remain in many parts of the country as the number of confirmed cases rises relentlessly, exceeding one million last week. In the meantime, teachers are sending homework via WhatsApp or giving virtual classes on Zoom, but the lack of a smartphone is not the only obstacle to online schooling. In Panchgani in western Maharashtra, chemistry teacher Moumita Bhattacharjee works around poor connectivity by recording her lessons - complete with a blackboard to give a classroom feel - so her students can download them later. Bad connections, the cost of phones and data plans, as well as concerns about excessive screen time, are spurring authorities and campaigners to consider ways of taking teaching back offline. Customised lessons for first to 12th grade students will be aired on television and radio in a "one class-one channel" initiative planned by the federal human resource department. "The government is committed to ensuring learning for all... so as to cover all students at all levels of education and in all geographical locations," Indian Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a statement. Some states are already broadcasting televised lessons, and a federal official - who asked not to be identified -- said the government was working on solutions that would last "even when everything is normal". Education non-profit Pratham, which works with more than 12,000 communities across 19 Indian states, started sending lessons and homework via SMS instead of videos on WhatsApp so families with conventional mobiles could benefit too. Smitin Brid, programme director at Pratham, said members of his team had phoned parents and given them instructions for educational tasks like counting kitchen utensils. They also enlisted volunteers in villages to relay lessons on loudspeakers. 'Stay Connected' But millions of children, especially those from the poorest families, have discontinued their education. A recent study of more than 600 migrant workers by non-profit Caritas India showed that 46% of their children had stopped their schooling during the lockdown. Vibhute, the teacher in Pune, said he had lost contact with the children of migrant brick kiln workers who had travelled to their home states when the lockdown left them jobless. Despite his daily struggle with blurry, interrupted videos due to patchy connectivity, Vibhute said it was important to persist with virtual classes until offline solutions emerged. "It's important for us to stay connected with (the students) or they will be sent to farms to work and once parents start getting money from their children, they will consider schools unimportant," he said. Sitting cross-legged on the floor of his family's sparse one-room shack in Mumbai, Gautam Suresh, 10, stared at the smartphone his parents had bought him and his two siblings for 15,000 rupees as his teacher gave a class. Suresh's father, who works as a security guard, spent more than a month's salary on the new phone, the family's second smartphone, which he aims to pay off in six monthly instalments. "I never thought I would get a branded phone. Our parents bought it for our studies, but I understand their trouble," said Suresh as his mother cooked rice. The family's three children had been using their father's phone for classes, but calls often interrupted their lessons, prompting the costly purchase. For Suresh, however, even the gleaming smartphone is a poor replacement for the classroom. "I can't ask my teacher questions like I could in school," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pandemic-turns-smartphones-from-luxury-to-must-have-as-indias-schools-go-online-866836.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Crisis: Congress stages protests outside Raj Bhavans against BJP across nation||The Congress on Monday staged protests outside Raj Bhawans across the country against what it called the BJP's attempts to topple state governments led by opposition parties. Congress general secretary K C Venugopal alleged the BJP was using "money power and intimidation" in its bid to topple governments in states. The protests came amidst a power tussle in Rajasthan where the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress dispensation in facing a crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs. The Congress has accused the BJP of being behind the rebellion. The BJP has denied the allegation and said the crisis in Rajasthan was an outcome of infighting within the Congress. The protesters demanded that the Rajasthan Governor convenes a session of the Assembly as advised by the state cabinet, it said. However, there was no protest outside the Raj Bhawan in Rajasthan. Venugopal said Monday's protests were aimed at underlining the BJP's "subversion" of the Constitution and "murder" of democracy, especially at a time when the entire country is reeling under the onslaught of Covid-19 pandemic and unprecedented difficulties caused by an economic meltdown. "Unfortunate as it would have been at any other time, it was downright dastardly for the BJP to be going all out to unsettle democratically elected governments during such times," he said in a statement. He said party leaders and workers assembled in several state headquarters and marched to the Raj Bhawans to lodge their protest. Many sat on a dharna outside Raj Bhawans observing social distancing norms, he said, adding the protesting leaders spoke against the conduct of the Governor of Rajasthan. Social media handles of state Congress chiefs and leaders put up videos of such protests. Protests were held in front of the Raj Bhawans in Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Ranchi, Guwahati, Simla, Panchkula and many other state capitals. State Congress presidents, along with party workers, were arrested in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and many other places during the protests, Venugopal claimed in the statement. Today's protests followed the "Speak Up For Democracy" digital campaign launched by the Congress on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-crisis-congress-stages-protests-outside-raj-bhavans-against-bjp-across-nation-866471.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||‘Congress needs a young leader, Rahul is ideally suited: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Q. How is the Covid-19 situation in the state, as other states experience a surge in infections? A. Punjab ranks 18th among all states in terms of number of cases. While this might look good on the face of it, we are worried as the numbers are going up. What is also worrying is that experts are projecting a peak in Punjab by September, which means the crisis will deepen over the next two months. We are preparing for the worst-case scenario, though we do hope and pray that things will not come to that and we are able to reverse the trend sooner. Q. We are now in ‘Unlock’ mode. How is Punjab’s industrial belt faring? A. My priority has always been to save lives but after around two-and-half months, it was becoming critical also to revive business and industry. We were the first state in the country to request the central government to allow industry to operate with on-site labour. Since ‘Unlock’ began, industries have gradually reopened. Currently, 90% of our total industry is operational, with both internal and migrant labour. This is a good sign, though real on-ground revival will take time, especially given the continuing rise in Covid-19 cases in India. The Centre needs to intervene more actively to support industry and also to push up demand. Q. Do you think the Covid-19 outbreak could have been handled differently by the Centre? A. There’s a lot the Centre could and should have done better to manage the pandemic. For one, the lockdown should have been better planned so that proper arrangements could have been made for migrants. Then, there is the matter of total lack of support to the states for handling the pandemic. There has been no effort on the Centre’s part to help us out in this difficult time, when our fiscal resources have completely dried up. Q. During the lockdown, the Centre promulgated three ordinances to usher in reforms in the agriculture sector. How do you view them? A. By no stretch of imagination can they be called ‘reforms’. These ordinances sound the death knell for our farmers and will destroy our well-established marketing system, which has served Punjab and our farmers well for all these decades. By all indications, they will pave the way for the end of the minimum support price and procurement system. It is clear that the Centre, having exploited Punjab’s farmers to the maximum to build India’s food sufficiency, no longer finds them of use and have decided to throw them to the wolves. These ordinances cannot be legally or constitutionally tenable, as agriculture is a state subject and the Centre has absolutely no authority over it. I will be leading an all-party delegation to meet the Prime Minister on this issue. Unfortunately, the BJP and the Akalis are not supporting our efforts. Q. Congress has been criticising the Modi government’s handling of the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh, with Rahul Gandhi making some sharp comments. Is it working well for Congress? Other Opposition parties have been muted or have chosen to back the Centre on the China issue. A. The question is, why, after Doklam, when Chinese aggression came totally out in the open, did we continue to stick to the 1993 agreement. It is not that we are not supporting the Modi government. Of course, Congress is supporting the Centre on this issue of national security. But they need to answer questions: How come the Chinese were building infrastructure? Was it intelligence failure? And all Rahul is doing is asking relevant and pertinent questions in the interest of the nation’s security, so that we don’t make the same mistake again. Q. The Congress Working Committee is expected to meet to extend the tenure of Sonia Gandhi as party chief. Is the absence of a full-time president affecting the party? A. There is no question of Sonia Gandhi being a part-time leader. She has led the party earlier but did not want to take over on a long-term basis and hence, she made it clear that she would only fill in as an interim president. So, there is no question of the party functioning being affected in any way. Q. Congress appears unable to hold on to power in states it won after a long time. Now, there is trouble in Rajasthan which is blamed on the inter-generational fight in the party. What is the solution to this? A. There is no inter-generational fight in Rajasthan. There are some differences between the youth and seniors everywhere. But unfortunately, the gaps (in numbers of MLAs) were narrow in Madhya Pradesh, and so the BJP took advantage of it. I remember becoming a minister for the first time around 16-17 years after entering politics. But the problem is, nowadays everyone wants to become minister in their first term. Things don’t work like that. Everyone has to wait for their turn. There are calls for Rahul Gandhi to return as Congress president, but he is still said to be reluctant. This is a decision that will be taken by consensus by the Congress Working Committee. But Rahul is ideally suited for the job. He is young, which is what the country needs today, given that the majority of India’s population is under 40. The younger generation needs to take over. Congress needs a youth leader with whom the country’s majority population can relate and who understands their vision and dreams and can help realise them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-needs-a-young-leader-rahul-is-ideally-suited-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-866487.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||DH toon: Will not lie about Chinese transgressions in Ladakh even if it costs me politically, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said he is not going to lie about Chinese transgressions in eastern Ladakh even if it costs him politically, asserting he will say the truth as far as Indian territory is concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-will-not-lie-about-chinese-transgressions-in-ladakh-even-if-it-costs-me-politically-says-rahul-gandhi-866524.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra calls for rethink on B. Ed entrance exam amid rapid spread of Covid-19||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday urged the Uttar Pradesh government to have a rethink on holding B Ed entrance examination on August 9 in wake of the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases. There have been coronavirus cases in different educational institutions and in such a situation, it does not seem appropriate to put 4.5 lakh students at risk without assessing their safety, she said. "B Ed entrance examination is going to be held on August 9 in UP. The speed of coronavirus spread in the state is increasing rapidly," the Congress general secretary said in a Facebook post. "The UP government is requested that keeping in mind the prevailing circumstances, a rethink should be done over the schedule of the examination," Priyanka Gandhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-calls-for-rethink-on-b-ed-entrance-exam-amid-rapid-spread-of-covid-19-866594.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||CPI(M) legislators will support Ashok Gehlot government: Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Monday alleged that efforts are being made to destablise the Left-led Kerala government by the Congress and the BJP on the pretext of the gold smuggling case. He, however, said the two legislators of his party will support the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. Addressing a virtual press conference at the end of a two-day meeting of the party’s central committee, Yechury alleged the assaults on state governments have intensified during the pandemic. “At a time, when we should be working together to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, the opposition led by the Congress is working in tandem with the BJP and using disruptive politics to destablise the Left government, but people of Kerala will never allow it,” he said. He said efforts are being made to “target the Left front government in Kerala” using the excuse of the gold smuggling case, which he said is “already under investigation by the NIA on the request of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan”. “And appropriate action will be taken against the guilty,” he said. The case pertains to an attempt to smuggle gold through diplomatic baggage using the name of a person in the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The Customs seized the gold, weighing over 30 kg and valued at around Rs 15 crore, on July 5. The matter took a political turn after senior IAS officer M Sivasankar, principal secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and IT secretary, was reportedly found to have close links with some of the accused in the case. He was later suspended. The CPI(M) leader hit out at the BJP for “engineering” governments in various states. “The efforts to destabilise the state governments have in fact intensified during the pandemic. We have seen how the BJP has engineered the governments in Goa, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and now what they are doing in Rajasthan,” he said. Yechury also criticised Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra for “not abiding by the constitutional principle” in the current political situation in the state. “Despite the council of ministers seeking a vote of confidence, in the light of efforts to topple the government through large-scale horse-trading of MLAs, the constitutional authority--the Governor--is not abiding by the constitutional principle that he will work on the basis of advice of council of ministers,” he said. He clarified that both the legislators of CPI(M) in Rajasthan assembly will "defeat the BJP in its attempts to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in the state". “Both our MLAs are adhering to this understanding. Whenever the question arises, we will take a position to defeat BJP’s machinations,” Yechury added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cpim-legislators-will-support-ashok-gehlot-government-sitaram-yechury-866598.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Cabinet sticks to its demand of holding Assembly session||The Rajasthan Cabinet on Tuesday discussed the points raised by Governor Kalraj Mishra for calling the state assembly session and said it is sticking to its demand for holding the session from July 31. Transport Minister Pratap Singh said a discussion was held for the reply to be sent regarding the three points raised by the governor. "The Cabinet wants the assembly session from July 31. The proposal which was sent earlier for calling the session is our legal right and we are sending it again to the governor," he told reporters. "The governor's questions are simple and we discussed their reply. He has no right to be raising queries yet we are giving the reply," he said. Singh also said that the government wants no confrontation with the governor and hoped Mishra will now accept the cabinet proposal for calling the session.  "We want permission to call the assembly session which is our right. We do not want any confrontation with the governor. If he does not accept this now, then it is clear that there is no Constitution in the country," he said. On the issue of 21-day notice required for calling the session, the minister said that 10 days have already passed and asked why did the governor not give a date if he is talking the notice. He said that if the governor rejects the proposals now, the further course of action will be decided. "We have no competition with the governor, he is the head of our family," Singh said. When asked about the agenda of the session, he said that it is for the Business Advisory Committee of the assembly to decide. Regarding seating arrangement as per social distancing norms in the assembly, the minister said that it was for the speaker to look after. Targeting the BJP, the minister said that the party has made it a prestige issue. "They want to topple the state government and have made it a prestige issue," he said. "The BJP stands exposed. They are changing their statements," he said. After Rajasthan, the minister said the party wants to target West Bengal, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. The Rajasthan governor has returned cabinet recommendations for calling the assembly session twice with some points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-cabinet-sticks-to-its-demand-of-holding-assembly-session-866600.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||BSP whip to MLAs: Priyanka Gandhi says it is clean chit to those who murdered democracy||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday took a veiled dig at the BSP, alleging that the whip issued by it to its MLAs in Rajasthan is a clean chit to those who "murdered" democracy and the Constitution. The BSP on Sunday issued a whip to six MLAs, who had left the party to join the Congress last year, to vote against the ruling party in the state in case of a trust motion in the Assembly. "Undeclared spokespersons of the BJP have issued a whip in support of the BJP. But, this is not a whip but a clean chit to those who murder democracy and the Constitution," she said in a tweet in Hindi. While the BSP MLAs have claimed that they have joined the Congress of their own will, the BSP has been claiming that since theirs is a national party, the local unit cannot merge on its own. The Congress government in Rajasthan led by Ashok Gehlot is facing a crisis after 19 of its rebel MLAs including Sachin Pilot revolted against it. Gehlot is now keen to prove his majority on the floor of the House and is now demanding a session of the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bsp-whip-to-mlas-priyanka-gandhi-says-it-is-clean-chit-to-those-who-murdered-democracy-866645.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Jharkhand has become byword for 'lawlessness': BJP President JP Nadda||Attacking the JMM-Congress government in Jharkhand, BJP president JP Nadda on Tuesday said the state has become a byword for "lawlessness" under its rule, with Naxalism rife and corruption becoming an "industry".  Addressing state BJP leaders at a digital event to inaugurate party office in eight districts, he asked them to work democratically to remove the coalition government, which had come to power in December last, " lock, stock and barrel". "When I read news of Jharkhand now, reports of Naxalism, daylight kidnapping and murder, and robbery are rife. Jharkhand has become a byword for lawlessness. The menace of Naxalism, which was almost over, has become rampant," Nadda said. Corruption has become an industry with rates fixed for transfers, he alleged.  Good governance has ended in the state because the government is weak and careless, he charged.  The BJP, he said, has now built its offices in over 500 organisational districts, and work is on in constructing 400 more offices.  While the coronavirus pandemic brought to stop activities of all parties, the BJP carried on with its relief measures and stayed in touch with its members through digital technology, he said. He also spoke about the Modi government's relief measures and programmes for making India self-reliant and asked party members to publicise them among the masses.  In the 2019 assembly polls in the state, the BJP had lost power to the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/jharkhand-has-become-byword-for-lawlessness-bjp-president-jp-nadda-866651.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Bhoomi pujan: Owaisi opposes Modi's 'participation'; VHP calls for celebrations||AIMIM Chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's possible attendance to the 'Bhoomi pujan' ceremony of the Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5 would mean violation of his constitutional oath, even as VHP called for celebrations on that day. In a tweet, Owaisi said, "Attending Bhoomi Pujan in official capacity will be a violation of @PMOIndia's constitutional oath. Secularism is part of the Basic Structure of Constitution." According to members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the "bhoomi pujan" (ground breaking ceremony) to begin the construction of the Ram temple. Veteran BJP leaders LK Advani, MM Joshi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat are among those who have been invited to the ceremony. "We can't forget that for over 400 years Babri stood in Ayodhya & it was demolished by a criminal mob in 1992," the Hyderabad Lok sabha member said in another tweet. International Joint General Secretary of Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Surendra Kumar Jain in a Facebook live address said that the 500-year old struggle of Hindu society would soon fructify. "Lakhs of people sacrificed for the Ram Temple construction. The whole country is determined to construct a temple at Ram Janmabhoomi. Bhoomi Pujan will be held on August 5. The Prime Minister will take part in that Bhoomi Pujan," he said. Jain appealed to the people to face towards Ayodhya at 10.30 AM on August 5 and chant Ram's name offering 'Aartis' with determination in mind for construction of the temple. The day should be celebrated as Diwali by lighting lamps in every house, he added. He made an appeal to the Muslim community to respect the sentiments of Hindus. The Supreme Court had in a unanimous verdict last year cleared the way for the construction of a Ram Temple at the disputed site in Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot a 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a mosque. In one of the most important and most anticipated judgements in India's history, a 5-judge Constitution bench headed by Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi put an end to the more than a century old dispute that has torn the social fabric of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bhoomi-pujan-owaisi-opposes-modis-participation-vhp-calls-for-celebrations-866707.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Congress starts 'Get Well Soon Governor' campaign||The Congress on Tuesday started an online campaign '#GetWellSoonGovernor' as the party urged Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra to come out of his “oppressive thinking” and call the state Assembly session without any delay. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande, in a series of tweets, accused the Governor of “bias” and “oppressive thinking” and wished that he recovers from it soon. "The political developments in Rajasthan reflect that our Governor is also influenced by the oppressive thinking of the BJP, and he does not seem healthy with his biased thinking," he tweeted in Hindi with #GetWellSoonGovernor hashtag. In another tweet, Pande said, "It is my appeal that the Governor may recover from the infection of biased thinking so that he can give his consent to convene an immediate Assembly session to protect the Constitution and democracy without any partiality." This is the second online campaign started by the Congress amid the political crisis in Rajasthan. The party had on Sunday carried out the "Speak Up For Democracy" campaign that sought to "expose" what it called the saffron party’s "designs" to topple the Ashok Gehlot dispensation in Rajasthan and other state governments run by non-BJP parties. The Rajasthan government on Tuesday sent a revised proposal for an Assembly session to the Governor, sticking to its demand that the sitting should begin on July 31 and refusing to mention if it would seek a trust vote. Amid nationwide protests by Congress workers over the Governor’s apparent reluctance to call a session, Mishra had on Monday said he had no such intention. But he sought a redrafted proposal, the second time in the past few days, including three points - a 21-day notice for calling a session, live broadcast of the proceedings if there is a trust vote, and social distancing. In addition, the Governor had written that a session can be called at a short notice if the government says in its new proposal that it planned to seek a vote of confidence. Pande also said that the country is battling the coronavirus pandemic and Rajasthan lacked financial support from the Centre. He said the Governor should give first priority to the issues of the Rajasthan Cabinet and not to any particular party, as the state is facing scarce rains and multiple locust attacks. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan also questioned the Governor for not calling the state Assembly session. “Kalraj Mishra is identified as a skilled administrator and a seasoned leader who respects political integrity, and holds a dignified post of the Governor of Rajasthan. His image has always been that of an idealistic leader,” he tweeted. “But in the context of the crisis in Rajasthan, the Governor of Rajasthan is adopting a biased approach to fulfil the interests of a particular party, which is violation of the rules mentioned in our Constitution,” he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-congress-starts-get-well-soon-governor-campaign-866781.html
28-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan Governor exploring ways to impose President’s rule in state: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Criticising Rajasthan Governor’s decision to turn down a proposal for an assembly session, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Tuesday said his actions suggested that he was “exploring ways to impose President’s rule" in the state. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra has returned the cabinet recommendations for calling an Assembly session twice in the Congress-ruled state. He sought a redrafted proposal, the second time in the past few days, including three points - a 21-day notice for calling a session, live broadcast of the proceedings if there is a trust vote, and social distancing. Taking to Twitter, Chowdhury said the Governor’s move would offer the BJP a chance to consolidate its position. "Rajasthan governor stalls the House for another 21 days which certainly offers BJP party to consolidate its position... "Cong & allies are steadfast to thwart any conspiracy. Kalraj Ji ke kala kaabil-e-tareef zarur hai (His skills are praiseworthy)," the Lok Sabha MP from West Bengal's Baharampur constituency said. He also claimed that the Governor is "hell bent upon grabbing Rajasthan". "Hon'ble Governor, Rajasthan, your actions suggest that you are exploring the ways and means to impose (Article) 356 (President's Rule) in Rajasthan, and hell bent upon grabbing Rajasthan, Don't forget that Rajasthan is a land of warriors, Rana Pratap to Panna dai were born there,” the Congress leader said on Twitter. The Rajasthan Cabinet on Tuesday discussed the points raised by Mishra for calling the state Assembly session, and said it is sticking to its demand for holding the session from July 31. Rajasthan plunged into a political crisis earlier this month after Sachin Pilot was removed from the posts of deputy chief minister and the state Congress president, amid a tussle for power with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Pilot has declared an open rebellion against the leadership of Gehlot, triggering a crisis in the state, which the Congress alleged was the handiwork of the BJP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-governor-exploring-ways-to-impose-president-s-rule-in-state-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-866835.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Crisis: Plea in HC seeks removal of Governor Kalraj Mishra||A Jaipur-based lawyer has filed a petition in the Rajasthan High Court seeking directions to the central government to advise the President to remove Governor Kalraj Mishra. The petition comes amid a power tussle in the state. The petitioner, Shantanu Pareek, claimed that the governor has failed to fulfil his constitutional obligations by not calling a session of the Assembly as recommended by the state cabinet. The Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government, which is facing a political crisis after a rebellion by the now sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs, says it wants to hold an Assembly session and has forwarded its recommendations to the governor. Governor Mishra has returned the cabinet recommendations for calling an Assembly session twice with queries and suggestions to the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-crisis-plea-in-hc-seeks-removal-of-governor-kalraj-mishra-866477.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||DU teachers stage protest over delay in release of grants to 12 colleges funded by city govt||Delhi University teachers staged a protest outside the Vidhan Sabha on Monday against the "continuous inordinate delays" in release of adequate grants to 12 colleges that are fully funded by the city government. "Despite the denial of the mandatory police permission for today's protest, the DUTA went ahead as the employees did not have any other option but to take this drastic, medically unwise step to come out and physically protest," the Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) said. Employees of some of these colleges have not been paid salaries since the month of May, it said. "It is ironic that on the day the Delhi government announced the launching of 'Rozgaar Bazaar' for job seekers, employees of Delhi University were protesting against the non-disbursal of grant-in-aid," the DUTA said. For more than a year now, the Delhi government has been very irregular with the release of grants to these 12 colleges, it said, adding since these colleges are fully funded by the government, employees can be paid salaries only if grants-in-aid are released timely. "However, not only has the Delhi government been irregular with release of grants, but the sporadic grants released have been found to be utterly inadequate. So much so that in some colleges, employees have been paid only part-salaries since April. "These grants are the only source of funding for these 12 colleges. Thus, not only salaries but even crucial bills like medical bills are not reimbursed till adequate funding arrives," the body said. The DUTA had written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on July 21 informing him about the protest. The Delhi University and the city government have been locked in a tussle over the formation of governing bodies in the colleges with both accusing the other of delaying the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-teachers-stage-protest-over-delay-in-release-of-grants-to-12-colleges-funded-by-city-govt-866491.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Crisis: Congress will deploy all democratic means to resolve deadlock, says Party’s general secretary||Congress general secretary Avinash Pande on Monday claimed that many among the 19 rebel MLAs, led by ousted deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, was in the touch with the party leaders. Pandey, also the party’s state’s in charge, said the Congress will use all available democratic means to resolve the current political deadlock in the state. "We will use all the Gandhian weapons of democracy in a peaceful manner," Pande said at a press conference. "As Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot indicated if the need arises, he along with all the people’s representatives would plead before the President to protect the democracy," said Pande. He also said it never happened in the last 70 years that a government having the majority and wanting to call a session is being stopped by the Governor on various pretexts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-crisis-congress-will-deploy-all-democratic-means-to-resolve-deadlock-says-party-s-general-secretary-866494.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistani troops shell forward areas along LoC, International Border in J&K||Pakistani troops engaged in heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch and Kathua districts on Monday, officials said. It was seventh consecutive day that Pakistani troops engaged in cross-border firing in violation of a ceasefire agreement. "At about 2200 hours tonight, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Mendhar sector of district Poonch," a defence spokesman said. The Indian Army is retaliating to the cross-border fire befittingly, he said. "At about 1030 hours today, Pak army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling with mortars along LoC in Mankote sector of district Poonch," he said. Pakistan Rangers opened fire at Indian villages along the International Border (IB) in Hirangar sector of Kathua district, they said. In the firing, one animal was injured and a house was damaged, they said. Pakistani troops had shelled areas along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-shell-forward-areas-along-loc-international-border-in-jk-866497.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||J&K Congress bats for restoration of 4G, treating permanent resident certificates as domicile proof||Jammu and Kashmir Congress president G A Mir on Monday batted strongly for the restoration of 4G internet and treating permanent resident certificates as domicile documents. After a party meeting, Mir said, "The government should review its decision with regard to 4G (internet) and restore it immediately so that all urgent and essential documentary activities can be done online to minimise physical contacts to check the spread of the disease." He said that since the government has now admitted the feasibility of restoring 4G services, there is no justification for delaying its restoration. He said the government should have accepted the demand for treating permanent resident certificates (PRCs) as domiciles certificates. "The BJP is unsympathetic to the plight of people facing avoidable hardships for again getting proof of residence in the shape of domicile, who already hold a validly issued PRC," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-congress-bats-for-restoration-of-4g-treating-permanent-resident-certificates-as-domicile-proof-866502.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi’s Covid-19 recovery rate increased to 88%: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said the city’s Covid-19 recovery rate has gone up to 88 per cent, and expressed happiness that there was no need to reimpose lockdown in the national capital unlike several other cities. He also claimed that the city’s virus management model is being discussed around the world. He said when the pandemic outbreak was at its peak, the Delhi government advocated lifting of the coronavirus-induced lockdown at the earliest. “When the lockdown was lifted and cases began rising, the Delhi government worked towards improving the situation instead of placing a lockdown again. "We are hearing that several cities are rushing to impose 2-10 days lockdown, but I am happy that there was no need to reimpose lockdown in Delhi," Kejriwal said in a virtual briefing. He said the situation has improved significantly due to the hard work and prudence of Delhiites. "The Delhi model (of fighting Covid-19) is widely discussed and appreciated across the country and the world," he said. Delhi's recovery rate is 88 per cent and only nine per cent are active patients of Covid-19, he said. On one hand, the Covid-19 cases in the country and the world are rising exponentially, but in Delhi they are declining at a consistent rate, he said. The chief minister said around 2 to 3 per cent of people have lost their lives due to the disease, but the most important thing is that such deaths have seen a drastic decline in the last few days in the city. "Yesterday, there were just 21 deaths, and this figure used to be more than 100 in June. Earlier, a sample testing collection of 100 people showed 35 of them to be positive, which has now come down to only five people testing positive. The positivity ratio has also seen a huge decline,” he said. Kejriwal said currently there are around 15,500 beds in hospitals across Delhi, out of which, only 2,800 beds are occupied and 12,500 beds remain vacant. "In June, we were at the second position in terms of coronavirus cases in Delhi. Today, your Delhi is at the 10th position. When the situation got much worse in June, we did not lose hope," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-increased-to-88-cm-kejriwal-866503.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court dismisses Tahir Hussain's plea seeking legal action against police for alleged false info||A Delhi court has dismissed an application moved by suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, who was arrested in a case related to rioting in north east Delhi in February, accusing police officials of abusing their power and filing a false and fabricated report about pending cases against him. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Purushottam Pathak rejected the application seeking necessary legal action against the investigating officer or the Station House Officer or Deputy Commissioner of Police of North East and Deputy Commissioner of Crime Branch of Delhi police. Hussain had levelled the allegation while pointing out that the police had not furnished information to the court on a sixth FIR filed against him. But the court, in its July 25 order, said that there was no merit in the application and "not providing information is a bonafide mistake on the part of investigating agency". During the hearing held through video conferencing, advocate Javed Ali, appearing for Hussain, told the court that initially Hussain had filed an application in March, seeking necessary directions to the police to provide copies of FIRs in which he has allegedly been booked along with the status report. The police had informed in its report filed before the court on March 19 that Hussain was booked under five cases, said Ali. Thereafter he was arrested in another FIR which was registered in February but the details were not provided in their March 19 report, Hussain's lawyer further said. He claimed that this created doubt and showed that the sixth FIR was "ante dated, forged and fabricated" or the report dated March 19 was "manipulated". The police told the court that there was absolutely no intent to furnish wrong information before the court as alleged and the Station House Officer may have inadvertently missed out on mentioning the sixth FIR. The court noted that "non-disclosure of accused in the sixth FIR was not deliberate and there was no point assuming that the DCP-North East and DCP-Crime/SHO concerned have deliberately withheld the information and that too for causing any harm to Hussain... It seems that not providing the information is a bonafide mistake on the part of Investigating Agency". Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-dismisses-tahir-hussains-plea-seeking-legal-action-against-police-for-alleged-false-info-866505.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||UP: 'Miscreants kidnap and kill boy, proceed on to demand ransom from father, 5 arrested'||In a gruesome act, a class 6 student was kidnapped and killed within hours of his abduction with the miscreants proceeding on to demand a ransom of Rs 1 crore from his father. The body of the 14-year-old boy was recovered from a jungle area near a canal here on Monday evening, said police. The 14-year-old son of a grocery and ‘paan' shop owner, Mahajan Gupta, was kidnapped from Pipraich area on Sunday and killed by the kidnappers the same night, they added. They said a total of five persons have been arrested for their alleged role in the kidnapping-cum-murder of Gupta’s son and police are looking for two more. Upset over the crime, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered stringent action against the culprits. Expressing his deep condolence to the slain boy’s family, the chief minister also announced an ex gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh to the family. The son of Gupta, who runs his shop near his house at Jungle Chhatradhari area, was kidnapped on Sunday afternoon and the family had also received a ransom call. “After taking lunch on Sunday afternoon, my son had gone outside to play. In the evening I received a phone call from an unknown number and the person on the line asked me to pay a ransom of Rs 1 crore for my son,” said Gupta, adding the matter was immediately reported to the police. Gorakhpur SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta said soon after getting the information, the police swung into action and nabbed one Dayanand of Jungle Dhoosar area. During interrogation, Dayanand confessed he along with some of his accomplices kidnapped the boy and killed him on Sunday evening itself. After killing the boy, the miscreants packed his body in a bag and threw it near Kewatia nulla in the area, said the SSP, adding the police recovered the body on Monday. Dayanand named Ajay Gupta of Jungle Dhoosar area and Nikhil Bharti of Mishroulia village as his partners in the crime, prompting the police to arrest the duo too, the SSP said. Prime accused Dayanand has also named two other residents of Jungle Dhoosar -- Nitin Chauhan and Ajai Chauhan, said the SSP, adding the police have launched a manhunt for their arrest. Police have also arrested two other residents of the same area -- Rinku Gupta and Nitesh Paswan -- for selling mobile SIM to the miscreants to use it for making ransom call. The SSP said Nikhil Bharti knew Gupta’s son and he and his accomplices were planning to kidnap him for the last eight to ten days. Gupta had bought some land and Dayanand was also into property dealing, the SSP said, making the accused believe that the trader was quite rich and would easily pay them the hefty ransom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-miscreants-kidnap-and-kill-boy-proceed-on-to-demand-ransom-from-father-5-arrested-866506.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police busts gang involved in stealing licences of export firms||The Delhi Police's Cyber Cell has busted a gang involved in allegedly stealing licences of multiple export companies by fraudulently using their information, officials said on Monday. The police had initiated a probe after receiving complaints last year from four different garment export firms alleging that their licences of duty rebate on garment exports (RoSCTL) had been stolen from the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) website and transferred to multiple beneficiaries using fake Digital Signature Certificate (DSC) keys, they said. The accused made DSC keys of more than 100 export firms and licences worth Rs 3.4 crore were siphoned off from multiple export firms, the police said. As per government guidelines, export firms are entitled to certain benefits which are offered as incentives for encouraging inflow of foreign exchange and the same can be claimed by the exporter. The entire process is done online on DGFT's website. "Based on the technical analysis, we have arrested seven people. One of the accused, a certified chartered accountant, who operates from Pune, was arrested from Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh while others are residents of Delhi-NCR," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said. The gang operated across the country through a network of Export-Import Bank of India agents and around 107 instances of generating DSC key by fraudulent means have been observed during investigation, he said. Elaborating on the modus operandi, the officer said the accused used the Import Export Code (IEC Code) of a firm to extract information about the company's directors, its activities and the duty rebate due. Using the details, they applied for DSC key of the company. "They used fake documents and during video verification, impersonated the company directors to get the key. The fraudulently obtained DSC key was used to log into the DGFT website and generate the rebate licence. This licence was then transferred to fictitious firms," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-busts-gang-involved-in-stealing-licences-of-export-firms-866508.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Tablighi Jamaat: Foreigners not deported due to seven more pending FIRs, claim their representatives||At least 70 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, who were ordered to be deported on payment of fine by a Delhi court after they accepted mild charges related to various violations during the COVID-19 lockdown, have not been able to return to their countries as seven other FIRs are pending against them, their representatives claimed on Monday. Police has moved the court for proceedings in these seven FIRs against the Tablighi members, who had participated in a religious congregation herein March, and the court will hear the matter on Tuesday, they said. These foreigners from different countries including Djibouti, Kenya, Tanzania, Brazil, Sudan and Afghanistan, who were charge sheeted by the Crime Branch of the Delhi police in the case, have also been booked under the same charges in the seven FIRs filed by the local police, they said. These seven FIRs were lodged at different police stations including Sadar Bazar, Seelampur, Jahangirpuri, Wazirabad, Dayalpur, but no summons were served to them or any charge sheet filed in the cases, claimed the representatives. According to the FIRs, they have been booked for offences under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The foreigners and their representatives came to know about the seven other FIRs when they reached the airport, a source said. Till date only 108 people have returned to their countries after the court's deportation order, the source said. The court had passed their deportation orders after completion of their plea bargain proceedings in the case in which 955 foreigners were charge sheeted. The foreign nationals were earlier booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic and regulations regarding Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They were also booked under sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. The Centre has cancelled their visa and blacklisted them. At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. An FIR was registered against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 on a complaint of the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to COVID-19, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tablighi-jamaat-foreigners-not-deported-due-to-seven-more-pending-firs-claim-their-representatives-866511.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Kashmir domicile law raises fears of losing land, culture||At 75 years old, Zareef Ahmad Zareef has been witness to several major events that have shaped Kashmir - for the worse, he says - since it became part of India in 1947. Now, the historian and poet worries for the future of Kashmir's culture and its people, after India passed a new law in May that allows non-locals to become permanent residents of the Muslim-majority territory. "Our Kashmir is a garden. The new laws have thrown the doors open for plunderers to ruin it," said Zareef in a phone interview from Srinagar, Kashmir's main city. "The days are not far when we will be left with no job opportunities or economic resources, including land and forests," he added. "Kashmiris will become second-class citizens in their own homeland." The law makes it possible for people from outside Kashmir to become permanent residents, sparking fears among locals that non-locals will get priority when it comes to housing, jobs and education. It follows India's removal of special status for the state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019, which opened the door for non-Kashmiris to buy land and property, get government jobs and attend institutes of higher education. Those receiving domicile certificates include war refugees from Pakistan, Gurkha soldiers from Nepal who had served in the Indian army and marginalised groups such as sanitation workers from the state of Punjab, noted Haroon Reshi, a freelance journalist based in Srinagar. "Our distinct social and cultural identity, whether it's our languages or traditions - everything is in danger," Reshi told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. The office of Kashmir Divisional Commissioner Pandurang K. Pole did not respond to several requests for comment. Speaking to reporters this month, Girish Chander Murmu, lieutenant governor for Jammu and Kashmir, said the aim of the law is to encourage investment in the region. "Our one-point agenda is the development and creating (job) opportunities for the youth. Our target is a prosperous Jammu and Kashmir," he said. In another move officials said would generate jobs and boost development, the Indian administration on July 24 approved setting aside 488 hectares (1,205 acres) of state land to build industrial estates in about 35 locations across the region. Raja Muzaffar Bhat, chairman of the J&K RTI Movement, an anti-corruption charity, described the decision as "disastrous" in a statement on Monday, saying the government should instead focus on establishing more agricultural land and creating green jobs. Fears for land and property Kashmir is claimed in full by India and Pakistan and both rule parts of it. India's portion has been plagued by separatist violence since the late 1980s. The new domicile rule states that any Indian national who has lived in Jammu and Kashmir for at least 15 years or has studied for seven years and taken certain exams can become a permanent resident. India's government has said applications must be issued or rejected within 15 days and has introduced a fine of 50,000 rupees ($670) to be deducted from the salary of any official in the territory who delays the process. Zareef, the historian, said one fear among many Kashmiris is that rich non-locals will use their new residency status to buy up land and property from financially struggling Kashmiris, taking away the only permanent asset that most locals have. Some civil society groups in Kashmir have been forming committees to warn people not to sell their land to non-locals, he added. Investors Some Kashmiris look to India's coastal state of Goa as a sign of things to come. In 2008, India placed strict restrictions on non-Goans owning land in the state, a popular tourist destination. At the time, Goans complained that those rules were routinely flouted and blamed illegal homeowners for an erosion in local culture and rising crime. Real estate experts have said that, for now, fears that the same could happen in Kashmir are unfounded. Showkat Ahmad Anim, managing director of Arco InfraCon, a commercial construction company based in Srinagar, said his company has not received a single query from non-locals since the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir's special status. "No one wants to own land or property here due to the turmoil. Everyone would prefer to go to America, Dubai or Sharjah," he said. Even with the real estate sector at a standstill, the Jammu and Kashmir State Industrial Development Corporation has been creating a bank of state-owned land to sell to outside investors, according to officials who requested anonymity because they were not authorised to talk to the press. Economic pain Along with possibly losing land and property, Kashmiris say they fear that giving non-locals the rights of residents will make it harder for locals to get access to jobs, spaces at schools and universities, and public housing. Khurram Pervez, a prominent human rights activist based in Srinagar, noted that currently, residents living in slum areas in Jammu and Kashmir are entitled to affordable housing. The new law could make "tens of thousands" of migrant labourers from other Indian states eligible for public housing, too, he warned. Sheikh Ashiq Ahmad, president of the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry, noted that the territory's economy is struggling. Since the August lockdown, he said, Kashmir's economy has suffered a loss of more than $5.3 billion. "I have been associated with the Chamber for the last 10 years and this is the worst time that I have ever witnessed," he said. Ashiq worries that an influx of non-locals will prolong and complicate Kashmir's recovery efforts. "Adding more people to the union territory will only aggravate the economic crisis and increase the burden of unemployment," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-domicile-law-raises-fears-of-losing-land-culture-866559.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||5 Army jawans among 94 new Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh; active cases tally crosses 1000-mark||Himachal Pradesh reported 94 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, including four Army jawans and two CAPF personnel, taking the state's tally to 2,271, officials said. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 1,025. Among the fresh cases, 31 were reported from Sirmaur, 16 from Kangra, 15 from Solan, 11 from Bilaspur, 10 from Mandi, five from Shimla, three from Chamba, two from Una and one from Hamirpur, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) R D Dhiman said. In Kangra, five Army soldiers, their three contacts, two central armed police forces (CAPF) personnel and a woman who recently returned from Punjab's Radha Soami Satsang Beas are among the fresh cases, Deputy Commissioner Rakesh Prajapati said. In Hamirpur, after former Nadaun MLA and HRTC vice-chairman Vijay Agnihotry tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday, Hamirpur MLA Narinder Thakur went into home quarantine on Monday. District officials stated that Agnihotry's sample was taken on July 24 and he was found positive on July 26. The district Congress leaders criticised Agnihotry alleging he attended many functions and met a large number of people even after his sample was taken. Agnihotry has been shifted to a dedicated Covid care centre in NIT-Hamirpur. An official spokesman stated that the samples of Agnihotry's primary and secondary contacts are being taken in Nadaun, Galore and Hamirpur. Meanwhile, a 75-year-old home quarantined man tested positive on Monday, Hamirpur CMO Dr Archna Soni said. Covid-19 has so far claimed 13 lives in the state, while 1,216 people have recovered and 15 migrated out of the state. In the last 24 hours, eighteen patients -- six in Kullu, four in Una, three in Mandi, two each in Shimla and Chamba and one in Solan -- recovered from the infection, Dhiman said. Solan has the highest number of active cases in the state at 380, followed by 210 in Sirmaur, 110 in Kangra, 88 in Shimla, 77 in Mandi, 55 in Una, 25 in Chamba, 33 in Bilaspur, 21 in Hamirpur, 17 in Kinnaur and 9 in Kullu.  In Shimla, the five new cases are family members of a police personnel residing in Bharai who tested positive a few days ago, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-army-jawans-among-94-new-covid-19-cases-in-himachal-pradesh-active-cases-tally-crosses-1000-mark-866569.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Covid-19 patient alleges molestation by doctor at Noida hospital||A 20-year-old woman here alleged that she was molested by a doctor in the isolation ward of a private hospital where both were undergoing treatment for Covid-19, police said on Monday. The woman, in her complaint to the police, alleged that the incident took place on Monday and based on that an FIR was lodged at the local expressway police station, they said. A senior police officer said an investigation was underway and there appeared to be lapses on part of the hospital which allegedly admitted a man and a woman in the same isolation ward in violation of the norms. The complainant and the accused both tested positive for Covid-19 last week, just a day after one another, according to officials. "The woman was in the isolation ward of the private hospital. There was a man, a medical practitioner, who too was infected with coronavirus and was sharing the ward with her," Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police, Noida, Ranvijay Singh said. He said the woman alleged molestation and upon being informed the police immediately lodged an FIR and initiated a probe into the matter. "There appears to be some irresponsibility on part of the hospital too. We are communication with the medical departments to check whether the patients were being kept in accordance with the guidelines," Singh said. He said the accused is still in isolation but the police will reach out for his statement following due protocols of Covid-19. "All necessary action will be taken as per the truth that will emerge after a thorough investigation," Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-patient-alleges-molestation-by-doctor-at-noida-hospital-866576.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Partially decomposed body fished out from canal in Greater Noida||A partially decomposed body of a man was fished out from a canal in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida, police said on Tuesday. It was spotted by locals in a canal near Chachli village, under Jewar police station area, on Monday evening, officials said. "The body appears to be four to five days old and it reached here after flowing from some other location. The deceased appears to have been between 25 and 35 years," an official from the local Jewar police station said. Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the deceased and find out details of the incident, the official said. The body has been sent for post-mortem and further probe is underway, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-partially-decomposed-body-fished-out-from-canal-in-greater-noida-866590.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||A school with no walls, blackboards, students learn lessons via loudspeakers: Report||The loudspeakers are also used to disseminate information on malnutrition and other community issues, Nikhilesh Hari, a development assistant of the district mineral fund, who spearheaded the idea, told the publication.  These classes are being held twice a day since June 14 in the village, which is 20 km from the district headquarters of Jagdalpur and 266 km from state capital Raipur. And each session runs for around 90 minutes, and includes storytelling and conversation, according to  the report.   The teachers recite stories in Halbi, the tribal language spoken in the village, and translate the words and sentences into English.  “Instead of taking classes in a school, we have earmarked houses with literate members, where children can gather in groups of 8-10. The teachers teach in the houses, and children do their homework under the supervision of adults,” Shailendra Tiwari, one of the teachers, told the publication.  The loudspeakers, which are operated from the panchayat bhawan, are placed in a manner that they can be heard from every part of the village. This enables children to sit at home and follow the lesson. A lot of effort goes into creating these sessions as English teachers write the script in Hindi and submit it to another team, which converts Hindi into Halbi. Then a group of theatre artistes give voice to the script.  “It takes a day to make one session, and we do it non-stop,” Hari said. The idea, which popped up while looking for alternatives to accessible distant learning, has benefitted not just students but also residents. “We learn English words for animals, tools, etc. It is fun to work like this,” Suresh Bhagat, a local resident told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-school-with-no-walls-blackboards-students-learn-lessons-via-loudspeakers-report-866599.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Pakistan army shells two sectors along LoC in Poonch||The Pakistan army resorted to heavy firing and mortar shelling in forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, prompting Indian troops to retaliate effectively, officials said on Tuesday. The ceasefire was violated by Pakistan for the eighth consecutive day on Tuesday, officials said, adding that there have been more than 20 incidents of ceasefire violation by Pakistan troops in the last more than a week. "At about 1000 (10 am) hours today (Tuesday), Pakistan Army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Degwar and Qasba sectors of district Poonch," a defence spokesperson said. The Indian Army is retaliating befittingly, he added. Pakistan troops had shelled forward areas of Mankote and Mendhar sectors of Poonch district and resorted to firing along the International Border (IB) in Hirangar sector of Kathua district on Monday resulting in injuries to an animal and damage to a house, they said. Pakistani troops had shelled areas along the LoC in Rajouri and Poonch districts on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday last week as well as on Monday in Balakote, Subderbani, Nowshera, Qasba, Kirni, Mendhar, Mankote, Degwar, Krishnagati and Hiranagar sector of Kathua district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-army-shells-two-sectors-along-loc-in-poonch-866621.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Nitrogen dioxide levels fell by more than 70% during Covid-19 lockdown in New Delhi||Levels of nitrogen dioxide fell by more than 70 percent during the lockdown in New Delhi, a UN policy brief said on Tuesday, warning that the environmental gains could be temporary if the cities re-open without policies to prevent air pollution and promote de-carbonisation. The UN Secretary-General's Policy Brief on 'Covid-19 in an Urban World' said that with an estimated 90 percent of all reported Covid-19 cases, urban areas have become the epicentre of the pandemic. It also pointed out that several new scientific studies suggest that poor air quality is correlated with higher Covid-19 mortality rates. The size of their populations and their high level of global and local interconnectivity make them particularly vulnerable to the spread of the virus. The brief said that while pollution and greenhouse gas emissions have fallen sharply during the pandemic when countries halted their economies to contain the spread of the virus, these environmental gains are expected to be temporary if economies reopen without policies in place that prevent air pollution and promote decarbonisation. "Levels of nitrogen dioxide fell by more than 70 percent during the lockdown in New Delhi (India), 40 percent in urban areas in China, 20 percent in Belgium and Germany, and 19–40 percent in different areas of the US," the brief said. A small increase in the fine particulate matter has been associated with an eight percent increase and up to 21.4 percent increase in death rates in the US and the Netherlands, respectively, it said. New evidence also points to impacts on pregnant women and newborn babies as well as maternal mortality, particularly among populations already facing socio-economic stress due to marginalisation. On Covid-19 outbreaks in informal settlements, the brief said that in Mumbai, as of mid-April 2020, 30 percent of designated containment zones — which are areas with large outbreaks — were in slums, while 60 percent were within 100 metres of an informal settlement, it said. In his message, UN chief Antonio Guterres said urban areas were ground zero of the Covid-19 pandemic, with 90 percent of the reported cases. "Cities are bearing the brunt of the crisis – many with strained health systems, inadequate water and sanitation services, and other challenges. This is especially the case in poorer areas, where the pandemic has exposed deeply rooted inequalities," he said. "We must act with the same urgency and resolve to transform cities and address the climate and pollution crises. Now is the time to rethink and reshape the urban world," he said. The brief said that recognising the differentiated exposure to risks and impacts, some governments have designed tailored measures for vulnerable groups. It cited the example of Pune where a collective of waste-pickers has been distributing gloves and masks to informal waste-pickers. "In many cities, informal waste-pickers make an important contribution to waste management but are at heightened risk during the pandemic without adequate protection,” it said. The brief noted that urban density does not inevitably correlate with higher virus transmission. Cities are largely vulnerable as a result of choices about how they are organised and how people live, work and travel in and around them. The pandemic has also exposed deep inequalities in how people live in cities, and how cities serve their residents. The already vulnerable have suffered most - 24 percent of the world's urban population lives in slums and less than half the global population can access open public spaces within 400 metres’ walking distance of their homes. The UN chief said the policy brief recommends that there is a need to ensure that all phases of the pandemic response tackle inequalities and long-term development deficits and safeguard social cohesion. "We must prioritise those who are the most vulnerable in our cities, including guaranteeing safe shelter for all and emergency housing to those without homes," he said, adding that access to water and sanitation is also vital. He said the inadequate state of public services in many cities requires urgent attention, particularly in informal settlements. "Nearly one-quarter of the world's urban population lives in slums. Local governments are already taking action – from prohibiting evictions during the crisis to put in place new clean water stations in the most vulnerable areas,” the UN chief said. There is a need also to strengthen the capacities of local governments and this requires decisive action – and deeper cooperation between local and national authorities, he said. "Stimulus packages and other relief should support tailored responses and boost local government capacity," Guterres said. The brief also recommends that nations must pursue a green, resilient and inclusive economic recovery. "By focusing on high ecological transformation and job creation, stimulus packages can steer growth towards a low-carbon, resilient pathway and advance the Sustainable Development Goals," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitrogen-dioxide-levels-fell-by-more-than-70-during-covid-19-lockdown-in-new-delhi-866627.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Vikas Dubey encounter: SC dismisses pleas seeking removal of members of inquiry commission||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed the pleas seeking removal of former high court judge, Justice (retd) Shashi Kant Agarwal and retired Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) K L Gupta, from the three-member inquiry commission set up to probe into the encounter killing of gangster Vikas Dubey. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said it would not allow the petitioners to cast aspersion on the members of the inquiry commission, which would probe into the killing of eight policemen and the subsequent encounters of Dubey and five of his alleged associates. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, perused the media reports pertaining to interviews by Gupta and said the inquiry would not be vitiated as there are former judges of the apex court and the high court as part of the commission. The top court was hearing two applications filed by petitioners Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Prakash Awasthi seeking removal of members of the commission. Eight policemen, including DSP Devendra Mishra, who were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter in the morning of July 10 when a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area, the police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vikas-dubey-encounter-sc-dismisses-pleas-seeking-removal-of-members-of-inquiry-commission-866648.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||BJP MLA files fresh plea in Rajasthan High Court challenging speaker's decision on BSP MLAs joining Congress||BJP MLA Madan Dilawar on Tuesday filed a fresh writ petition in the Rajasthan High Court challenging the decision of the state assembly speaker to reject his complaint over six BSP MLAs joining the Congress. The high court on Monday dismissed Dilawar's writ petition as "having become infructuous" as the speaker had passed an order on the complaint. In the petition, he had questioned speaker's inaction on his complaint which he had filed in March this year, asking for the BSP MLAs to be disqualified from the membership of the Rajasthan Assembly as they had incurred disqualification under para 2 of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. In the fresh plea, the MLA on Tuesday challenged the validity, legality and correctness of the order passed by the speaker on July 24 on the complaint. Dilawar alleged that he was not heard by the speaker while taking a decision. On Monday, the MLA staged a dharna in the chamber of assembly secretary to get a copy of the order. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha had contested and won the2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets and they defected to the Congress in September 2019. They submitted an application for a merger on September 16, 2019 and the speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019. The merger of BSP MLAs with the ruling Congress was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-files-fresh-plea-in-rajasthan-high-court-challenging-speakers-decision-on-bsp-mlas-joining-congress-866655.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||If detected early, Covid-19 not incurable: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who tested positive for coronavirus, on Tuesday chaired the first virtual cabinet meeting from hospital and said if the infection is detected early, then it is not incurable and is like any other cold, cough and fever. Sharing his experience with his ministerial colleagues while chairing the cabinet meet from hospital through video conferencing, Chouhan said there is no need to panic about coronavirus and it can be controlled by remaining alert. "If it is detected soon, then it is not an incurable disease and is like cold, cough and fever only. The infection becomes dreaded only when it reaches the lungs of the affected person, the 61-year-old BJP leader said. He said if a person develops any symptom of the disease, then he or she should immediately consult a doctor. Informing about his own health, Chouhan said, "Since Monday, there is no complaint of fever and coughing is also under control." "I am washing my own clothes as others are not supposed to do so. With this, I am also getting relief in one of my hands which was operated sometime back, and now even my fist is getting properly closed. I am also making my own tea," he said. Chouhan was on Saturday shifted to a private hospital in Bhopal after he tested coronavirus positive. Since the chief minister is in hospital, he has been reviewing the status of Covid-19 situation in the state and holding other departmental meetings every day through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-detected-early-covid-19-not-incurable-chouhan-866662.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||State government portal to tackle unemployment crisis in Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government launched a job portal on Monday that will bring together employers and applicants in an effort to solve the city’s unemployment crisis, multiple news outlets reported. Addressing a virtual press briefing the Delhi CM said, “There are people who want jobs and there are traders, businessmen, professionals, contractors who are not getting the right person for their work. This portal will fill this gap by bringing them together on one platform.” The portal, named Rozgar Bazaar, will register an applicant’s name, qualification and work experience and will match it with the range of jobs available for that qualification. The applicants will be able to connect with potential employers over call or WhatsApp.  During the press briefing, he also mentioned that the state government’s focus will be on improving the wrecked economy now that the spread of Covid-19 has lessened. Recovery rate in Delhi has gone up to 88 per cent whereas the positivity ratio dropped from about 35 per cent to 5 per cent in the last month. Only 2,850 hospital beds are occupied by Covid-19 patients while 12,500 beds are empty. 613 new Covid-19 cases have been reported till July 27 taking the number of active cases up to 14,847. India, for the sixth day in a row, recorded more than 45,000 Covid-19 cases with 47,704 new cases, taking the country's tally to over 14.83 lakh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/state-government-portal-to-tackle-unemployment-crisis-in-delhi-866668.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Police head constable shoots himself dead||A Delhi Police head constable allegedly shot himself dead with his service pistol on Tuesday in south Delhi’s Lado Sarai area, officials said. Head constable Sanjay (34) was posted at the Saket Police Station. He shot himself with his service pistol. No suicide note was found from the spot, police said. Sanjay hailed from Alwar district of Rajasthan. A preliminary enquiry revealed that he was depressed over the illness of his elder brother, they added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-head-constable-shoots-himself-dead-866684.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court allows Centre to verify statement by Jammu and Kashmir L-G on restoration of 4G||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to verify the statements by Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir on restoration of 4G internet services in the Union Territory. A bench led by Justice N V Ramana allowed a plea by Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the Centre, and Tushar Mehta for Jammu and Kashmir to ascertain the facts. Senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi, representing a NGO-petitioner Foundation for Media Professionals, pointed out that the Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu has recently said that 4G  should be restored. Senior BJP leader Ram Madhav, the interlocutor also said internet can be restored. He sought a direction from the court to the law officers to look into this. On this, the law officers said they would verify the reported statements in the media. They sought also to file rejoinder in the matter. Following this, the bench posted the matter for August 5. However, Mehta asked the court to fix the matter for hearing on another date as August 5 is the date of imposition of internet curbs and withdrawal of special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The court then fixed the matter for hearing on August 7. The NGO filed a contempt plea alleging no special committee was formed to decide on restoration of 4G network, in terms of the top court's judgement of May 11, within the Union Territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-allows-centre-to-verify-statement-by-jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-on-restoration-of-4g-866685.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Shoe-sellers's daughter stands 3rd in MP 12th boards, says studied for 8-10 hours every day||Scoring 97% and securing third place in the stream in the Madhya Pradesh Higher Secondary School Certification examination, Madhu Arya has shown dedication and diligence. Enjoying the fruits of her labour, she told the news agency, “I have worked hard. I used to wake up at 4 am and studied for 8-10 hours every day. I want to be a doctor. I am preparing for NEET.” She appealed to the government for support as her father would not be able to afford higher studies.  Expressing her happiness, Arya’s mother said, “We provided her education with great difficulty but she worked hard. We are very happy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shoe-sellerss-daughter-stands-3rd-in-mp-12th-boards-says-studied-for-8-10-hours-every-day-866698.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: Ashok Gehlot's government insists on July 31 for session, won’t mention trust vote in agenda||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday sent a revised proposal for an assembly session to Governor Kalraj Mishra, sticking to its demand that the sitting should begin on July 31 and refusing to mention if it would seek a trust vote. Sources said the Cabinet took the stand after discussing the suggestions made by Mishra when he returned a proposal from the state government to summon a Vidhan Sabha session. Amid nationwide protests by Congress workers over the Governor’s apparent reluctance to call a session, Mishra had on Monday said he had no such intention. But he sought a redrafted proposal, the second time in the past few days, including three points – a 21-day notice for calling a session, live broadcast of the proceedings if there is a trust vote, and social distancing. In addition, the Governor had written that a session can be called at a short notice if the government says in its new proposal that it planned to seek a vote of confidence. But sources said the Ashok Gehlot government has not mentioned in its new proposal whether it is seeking a vote of confidence in the assembly session, which it is still insisting should begin on July 31, the date it gave in its last recommendation. Asked about the agenda of the proposed session, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said it was for the Business Advisory Committee of the assembly to decide. On social distancing in the Vidhan Sabha to fight coronavirus, the minister said it was for the Speaker to make the arrangements. "The BJP stands exposed. They are changing their statements," he said, in an apparent reference to the Speaker’s last note. The minister was also dismissive of the 21-day notice requirement. He said “10 days” have already passed since the government proposed a session and asked why the Governor hadn’t given a date himself. "We want permission to call the assembly session, which is our right. We don’t want any confrontation with the Governor and we hope that he will give his approval this time,” Khachariyawas told reporters after the cabinet meeting. “He has no right to be raising queries. Yet we are giving a reply," the minister said. He said there was no rivalry with the Governor. “He is the head of our family.” In his note, Governor Mishra had said media statements by the state government indicated that it wanted to prove its majority through a vote of confidence, but this has not been mentioned in its proposal. "If the government wants to win a vote of confidence, then it can become a reasonable ground for calling the assembly session on a short notice,” a press note said Monday, quoting the Governor. This is the third time Ashok Gehlot government has sent a proposal to the Governor for an assembly session, amid the crisis the Congress faces in the state after a rebellion by Sachin Pilot and 18 other dissident MLAs. The minister alleged that after Rajasthan, the BJP wants to target West Bengal, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. The Congress has alleged that the Mishra is acting “under pressure” from the BJP government at the Centre. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande in a series of tweets questioned the Governor for not calling the assembly session. “Kalraj Mishra is identified as a skilled administrator and a seasoned leader who respects political integrity, and holds a dignified post of the Governor of Rajasthan. His image has always been that of an idealistic leader,” he said. “But in the context of the crisis in Rajasthan, the Governor of Rajasthan is adopting a biased approach to fulfil the interests of a particular party, which is violation of the rules mentioned in our Constitution,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-ashok-gehlots-government-insists-on-july-31-for-session-won-t-mention-trust-vote-in-agenda-866730.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Babri mosque case: Special CBI court completes recording of statements||A special CBI court here completed on Tuesday the recording of statements of the accused in the 1992 Babri mosque demolition case. Deposing before CBI special judge S K Yadav through video conferencing from Thane in Maharashtra, former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case due to political vendetta and maintained that he was completely innocent. Of the 32 accused in the case, Pradhan was the penultimate on the list. The judge separated the case against the last accused Om Prakash Pandey, who is not traceable as his family told the CBI that he had become a monk 15-16 years ago and did not return home since then. The court has already declared him an absconder and has initiated proceedings to attach his property. It inferred from a CBI report that Pandey was neither traceable nor was there any possibility of him being traced in the near future. The court, however, directed the CBI to produce him if he is nabbed. The court separated Pandey's file, as otherwise the trial proceedings would have to be halted. Since the court has to conclude the trial by August 31, 2020, in compliance with a Supreme Court order, it took the decision. As the proceedings under Section 313 of CrPC were completed on Tuesday, during which they got an opportunity to record their statement, the court has now fixed July 30 to enable the accused to furnish their defence, including producing witnesses to support their contention. After the exercise is over, final arguments will be held followed by the judgement of the court. The special court has been recording the statements of the accused since July 4 under section 313 of CrPC. The mosque in Ayodhya was demolished on December 6, 1992 by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that an ancient Ram temple stood at the same site. Former deputy prime minister LK Advani and BJP veteran MM Joshi, who were among those leading the Ram temple movement at that time, had deposed last week through video conferencing. The court has also recorded statements of BJP stalwarts like Kalyan Singh and Uma Bharti,  both of whom appeared in person. Advani's statement was recorded barely days before the groundbreaking event on August 5 for a Ram temple at Ayodhya. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other political leaders, including Advani, have been invited to attend the event. Last year, a five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court had ruled that the 2.77 acre land claimed by both Hindus and Muslims would be handed over to a government-run trust for the building of a temple. The court had also announced allocation of a five-acre plot at another site in Ayodhya to build a mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/babri-mosque-case-special-cbi-court-completes-recording-of-statements-866733.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court rejects plea to exclude Uttar Pradesh DGP K L Gupta from panel probing Vikas Dubey encounter||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a plea for removing ex Uttar Pradesh DGP K L Gupta from the judicial panel probing killings of eight policemen in Kanpur and subsequent encounter of gangster Vikas Dubey and his six associates on July 10, due to his statement to the media. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde dismissed the applications filed by petitioner-advocates Ghanshyam Upadhyay and Anoop Prakash Awasthi, for excluding Gupta for his press statements purportedly giving clean chit to police in the encounter. The petitioners apprehended bias in the retired police officer's version. The court noted the objection arose because of an "incomplete reading and understanding of Gupta’s statement, made to the media". "These statements were made by him as an ordinary citizen. In our view, it cannot be assumed that Gupta has made up his mind one way or the other," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said. The court's order was passed as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government cited the article by Gupta where he emphasised the importance of magisterial enquiry and punishment of the guilty into the entire episode. He also submitted that his statements should not be read selectively. On July 22, the top court had approved a proposal by Uttar Pradesh government to allow former top court judge, Justice B S Chauhan to head the inquiry panel to probe into incidents of July 2 leading to killings of eight policemen in Kanpur and subsequent encounter of gangster Dubey, who faced 64 criminal cases, and his henchmen on July 10. On a suggestion by the court, the state government had then reconstituted the previously-formed panel headed by former judge of Allahabad High Court, Justice Sashi Kant Agarwal. It had also included Gupta in the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-rejects-plea-to-exclude-uttar-pradesh-dgp-k-l-gupta-from-panel-probing-vikas-dubey-encounter-866745.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||No arrangement here: Man pleads to be shifted from UP Covid-19 hospital in viral video, hours before death||A disturbing video in which a man pleads to be shifted from a government hospital in Uttar Pradesh, prepared barely a few hours before his death, went viral on the social media on Tuesday. The man, who was on oxygen support, appeared to be gasping for breath as he narrated his plight from the hospital bed at the government medical college at Jhansi. He pleaded that he be shifted elsewhere as there was "no arrangement" there. He claimed in the video that there was no water in the hospital, and there was no arrangement—only negligence. Sources said the man who made the video died in the hospital on Monday evening.  On Monday, an infected patient escaped from a Covid-19 hospital in Prayagraj allegedly after his pleas to improve the services fell on deaf ears. The man was found dead in the evening in the bushes near the hospital. Another disturbing video showing a kid mopping the floors at a government hospital in UP's Deoria district went viral. District officials said they would probe the video. Several other videos showing the pathetic conditions of the Covid-19 hospitals in the state have been circulated on social media. The officials have always assured of looking into them and taking necessary measures. However, things seem to have remained the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-arrangement-here-man-pleads-to-be-shifted-from-up-covid-19-hospital-in-viral-video-hours-before-death-866748.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Policeman stabs key in man's forehead in Uttarakhand; 3 cops suspended||A policeman allegedly jabbed a key into the forehead of a man following an argument over not wearing a helmet in Rudrapur area of Uttarakhand, leaving him injured. People gathered at the spot after the incident late on Monday evening and created a ruckus demanding action against the policemen. DG (Law and Order) Ashok Kumar said three police personnel, including a sub-inspector, have been suspended in connection with the incident. Dipak, a resident of Rampura area, along with his friend Prem Prakash was going to a petrol pump on his motorcycle at around 8 pm when the police personnel intercepted them at Indira Chowk for not wearing a helmet. This sparked an argument between Deepak and policemen, who pulled out the key of the motorcycle and jabbed its tapering end in Deepak's forehead. As the news reached Rampura, a crowd gathered at the spot and began a protest. The mob was pacified after the intervention of senior police officials and local MLA Rajkumar Thakral.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/policeman-stabs-key-in-mans-forehead-in-uttarakhand-3-cops-suspended-866749.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Omar Abdullah’s assertion on statehood to Jammu and Kashmir creates rumblings in NC||Rumblings in Kashmir’s grand old party—National Conference (NC)—arose on Tuesday, after its vice-president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah spoke about the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir while skipping the demand of restoration of Article 370. In response to Omar’s statement, former MLA and influential Shia cleric Agha Ruhullah on Tuesday resigned as the Chief Spokesperson of the party. He announced this on Twitter too. “I have sent across my resignation from the post of Chief Spokesperson of @JKNC. From here on none of my statements should be considered as such,” Mehdi tweeted.   In an article in a national daily on Monday, Omar wrote out for the first time on Kashmir politics since his release in March from the detention. He censured the Centre for scrapping Article 370, and announced he would return to electoral politics only after J&K’s statehood was restored. Notably, he didn’t demand the restoration of Article 370. Reacting to Omar’s assertions, Mehdi said what happened on August 5, 2019, is beyond statehood and it should be the last demand. “I feel for what happened to my fellow citizens on August 5 as it was a coup on the population of J&K. The restoration of statehood should be the last demand while our main demand should be the restoration of special status,” he told Deccan Herald. Asked whether he was planning to quit the NC, in case the party skips restoration of Article 370 demand, he evaded a direct answer. “If NC working committee (the decision-making body) endorses the same policy to move ahead, then it is reconciliation, unfortunately, to which I personally may not subscribe to.” The articulate leader who plunged into politics following his father’s assassination in 2000 had in May questioned the silence of party leaders vis-à-vis August 5 decisions. Omar reacts Later in the day, Omar in a series of tweets tried to clear the confusion over his remarks. “I’ve simply said that having been CM of the STATE of J&K I will not fight an assembly election to the assembly of the UT of J&K. That’s it. No more no less! That’s a far cry from saying I’m demanding statehood be restored,” he said. In another tweet, he blamed journalists for putting words in his mouth. “Haters will hate, nothing will change that. There are a few people from whom I expected better but disappointment is part of politics and one has learnt to live with it. Life goes on,” Omar added. Over the decades, Article 370 has been the bedrock of the NC’s politics and Omar’s fresh stand is a far cry from his public outburst in March last year when he said that Kashmir would not have been a part of India had there been no special provisions like Articles 370 and 35A.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdullah-s-assertion-on-statehood-to-jammu-and-kashmir-creates-rumblings-in-nc-866754.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||High altitude, high UV rays keep Ladakh’s Covid-19 numbers low, say experts||With 1,327 cases and six fatalities in four months, the trajectory of  Covid-19 in the cold desert region of Ladakh validates the view that people living at altitudes of 3,000 metres and above are less likely to get infected compared to those in lowland areas, say experts here.   The recovery rate of the disease in the union territory is 82 percent, substantially higher than the national average of 64.24 percent. While 1,067 have recovered, there are 254 active cases, according to the Directorate of Health Services on Tuesday. All are under medical supervision in hospitals, corona care centres or in home isolation and none are on ventilator.   “The good news and the most surprising finding was the timely recovery of all infected patients despite the fact that majority of the patients belong to an area where environmental silicosis is prevalent which impairs lung defence mechanism,” said Tsering Norboo, retired physician and MD of the Ladakh Institute of Prevention.   This, he said, led researchers to look at the epidemiology of Covid-19 in other high altitude regions such as Lhasa in Tibet and Wuhan in China.   A recent study, ‘Does the pathogenesis of SAR-CoV-2 virus decrease at high-altitude?’, by researchers at the University Institute of Cardiology and Respirology of Quebec, Canada, backed the finding.  “The finding of COVID-19 pandemic appears to indicate a decrease of prevalence and impact of SARS-Cov -2 infection in populations living at high altitude over 3000m. The result possibly could relate to both physiological and environmental factors,” it said.   High altitude environment, it added, is characterised by dry climate, drastic change in temperature between day and night, and high ultraviolet radiation at heights may act as a sanitiser. UV rays are capable of producing alterations in the molecular bonds of the DNA and RNA (the genetic material of the viruses).   “All together, these factors may dramatically reduce ‘survival’ capacity of the virus at high altitude and its virulence. Furthermore, due to lower density of the air and the greater distance between molecules at high altitude, the size of the airborne virus inoculum must be smaller than at sea level," the study said.    Norboo added that the findings vindicated the belief that studies of high altitude natives, its environment and high altitude adaptation process can give clues to understanding the disease and therefore its treatment.   “The recovery rate in Ladakh is very good. The patients we receive have mild symptoms and are not serious ones. Also, we do not have any patient who is on a ventilator,” said Tashi Thinlas, consultant physician at Leh’s SNM Hospital.   Of the recovery rate of 82 percent, Leh district counts for 64 percent and Kargil district 94 percent. Of the six deaths, three have taken place in Kargil and three in Leh. The total number of samples tested till July 28 is 17,976. Since January 31, 73,016 people were screened at airport, intradistrict and inter-district checkpoints.   According to Phuntsog Angchuk, director, Health, Ladakh, the first confirmed positive case of Covid-19 in was reported on February 28 in Chushot Gongma village. It was also the first containment zone in the country.   “In the initial stages, the patients were all pilgrims returning from Iran. Up to mid- May, only 45 positive cases were reported out of the total sampling of about 3,700. The surge occurred due to the heavy influx of local residents, students and labourers from different parts of the country,” he said.    Though the incidence of the disease is less compared to many other states and union territories in the country – India’s virus tally has mounted to 14,83,156 with 33,425 deaths -- there are challenges aplenty.   Thinlas said there is a shortage of manpower and quarantine facilities in his hospital.   “We never thought that this virus will hit Ladakh but it came so quickly. There are many administrative lapses,” he said.   There is one testing lab in Chushot Gongma. A second one in DIHAR, Leh, is yet to start functioning fully.   “At present, the DIHAR laboratory is not fully functional. Analysis and trials are going on. It’s almost set up and will be functional within a week," said Sonam Angmo, in-charge of the Chushot lab.   Ladakh has also been sending samples to NCDC, Delhi, and PGI Chandigarh to ease the load.    Discussing the challenges ahead, she said winters will be tough. Laboratories need heating facilities as temperatures drop down to below freezing point and machines are very sensitive.   According to Norboo, this is the most opportune time for Ladakh to establish a state of the art Molecular Biology Laboratory with the support of the Indian Council of Medical Research and links with institutes such as Pune’s National Institute of Virology and Delhi’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-altitude-high-uv-rays-keep-ladakh-s-covid-19-numbers-low-say-experts-866755.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan: BJP MLA files 2 fresh petitions in HC against speaker decision on BSP MLAs joining Congress||BJP MLA Madan Dilawar on Tuesday filed two writ petitions challenging the assembly Speaker's decision to reject his complaint against the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress. The first petition was filed this morning against a communication received from the assembly secretariat Monday that the complaint has been decided and rejected by the Speaker, the counsel for Dilawar said.  "Today, we got a detailed order of the Speaker (about the rejection of the complaint). Thereafter, we filed a second petition challenging the detailed order,” the counsel said. Dilawar had filed his complaint to the Speaker in March, and on July 24, he moved the high court alleging inaction by the Speaker on the issue he raised. The High Court had on Monday dismissed his petition as “having become infructuous” as the Speaker passed the order later on July 24. In the fresh petitions filed on Tuesday against the Speaker’s order, the MLA has challenged the validity, legality and correctness of the Speaker’s July 24 order on his complaint filed in March. In his complaint to the Speaker, he had prayed that the BSP MLAs be disqualified from the Rajasthan Vidhan Sabha under para 2 of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. Dilawar has alleged he was not heard by the Speaker before he decided his complaint on July 24. On Monday, he had staged a dharna in the chamber of the assembly secretary to get a copy of the order and was given a communication saying that his complaint had been rejected. A detailed order was given to him Tuesday. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha successfully contested the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets, but they all defected to the Congress in September 2019. They submitted an application for merger on September 16, 2019 and the Speaker issued an order two days later. The Merger of BSP MLAs with the ruling Congress was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-bjp-mla-files-2-fresh-petitions-in-hc-against-speaker-decision-on-bsp-mlas-joining-congress-866761.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||EC issues rare snub to Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor G C Murmu for statements on Assembly polls||Irked by repeated statements by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu on the assembly polls in the Union Territory, the Election Commission (EC) on Tuesday asked him to refrain from infringing upon its constitutionally mandated prerogative. "It would be proper for (the) authorities other than (the) Election Commission to refrain from making such statements,” the poll-panel said, reacting to Murmu’s purported statements that the assembly polls in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) would be held after delimitation of the constituencies. The EC said that such statements by the Lieutenant Governor of the Union Territory “virtually tantamount to interfering with” its “constitutional mandate”. The commission issued a press release referring to several media-reports quoting J&K Lieutenant Governor saying that the assembly polls in the Union Territory would be held after the process of redrawing the boundary would be completed. The poll panel stated that it took exception to such statements by Murmu. It also underlined that scheduling elections was the “sole remit” of the EC in accordance with the Constitution of India. Murmu joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1985. He was Expenditure Secretary in the Union Ministry of Finance before being appointed as the Lieutenant Governor of J&K on October 31, 2019. “Before deciding the timing, the Commission takes into consideration all the relevant factors including topography, weather, sensitivities arising out of regional and local festivities in the area(s) where the election is to take place,” the EC stated. “For example, in the current times, (the) Covid-19 (pandemic) has introduced a new dynamic, which has to be and shall be taken into consideration at the due time.” The commission, however, noted that the outcome of the delimitation process was also “germane” to the decision on timing of assembly polls in the Union Territory. “Similarly,” it said, “availability of central forces and railway coaches for transportation of the central paramilitary forces are important factors. All this is done after meticulous homework by the senior officials of the commission and a detailed assessment in due consultation with concerned authorities.” The assembly election in J&K was not held after the coalition Government of the Bhraratiya Janata Party (BJP) and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) collapsed in 2018. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government had on August 5, 2019 moved to strip the special status guaranteed to the then state of J&K under Article 370 of the Constitution of India. The government had also initiated the process to reorganize the state into two new Union Territories – J&K and Ladakh, with only the former having a legislative assembly. The Union Government had on March 6 last constituted a commission headed by the former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Desai to redraw the boundaries of the parliamentary and the assembly constituencies in the newly constituted Union Territory in accordance with the provision of the J&K Reorganization Act 2019. The Act provides for raising the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Union territory of J&K from 107 to 114, with 24 seats to be reserved for India's territory in J&K currently under illegal occupation of Pakistan. Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra represents the poll-panel in the commission set up for delimitation of the constituencies as an ex-officio member.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ec-issues-rare-snub-to-jammu-and-kashmir-lt-governor-g-c-murmu-for-statements-on-assembly-polls-866766.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||Militant killed, infiltration bid foiled along Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir||A militant was killed as the Army foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. Sources said as the Army noticed movement of four to five militants in Samhani Bagsar area opposite to Kalal in Nowshera sector of Rajouri, they challenged the infiltrators. ”Amid engagement with militants, an explosion took place in the area after one of the infiltrators stepped over a landmine or an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and died on the spot,” they said. “The body of the killed militant was taken along by his associates who returned back to the launch pad,” the sources said and added the group of militants was possibly a fidayeen squad and were heavily armed. Sources said a massive search operation has been launched in the area and is still in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-infiltration-bid-foiled-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-and-kashmir-866773.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||13-year-old Indore girl clears Class 12 exams||A 13-year-old girl from Indore, who recently lost her father to the Covid-19 pandemic, became the first student clear to the Class 12 board examinations after appearing for it directly after Class 10 exams in Madhya Pradesh. The results of the Class 12 examinations were declared by the Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education on Monday, in which Tanishkaa Sujit scored 62.8 percent in Commerce stream. Tanishkaa, who appeared for the exams as a private student, also obtained a distinction in English (special) and Hindi (general). "We met government officials several times in Bhopal and persuaded them to grant special permission for Tanishkaa to appear for Class 12 exams directly after Class 10," said the girl's mother Anubha Chandran, who along with her late husband Sujit, homeschooled the teen. Tanishkaa lost her father Sujit to coronavirus infection on July 2. Tanishkaa is possibly the first student in Madhya Pradesh to clear Class 12 examination directly after appearing for Class 10 exams at just 13 years of age. Unlike other children, Tanishkaa did not attend pre-primary classes, she was directly admitted to Class 1 by a private school when she was just three, Chandran said. "My daughter has been homeschooled since 2015. My late husband felt that if taught properly, any child can acquire better knowledge at home than in a school and also learn many additional skills," she said. Meanwhile, Tanishkaa wishes to become an Indian Police Service (IPS) officer and earn a PhD in dance and plans to challenge herself by appearing for the B.Com final year examinations next.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-year-old-indore-girl-clears-class-12-exams-866777.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||With 489 new Covid-19 cases, J&K tally reaches 18,879||Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday reported 489 new Covid-19 positive cases, including 79 travelers, taking the overall tally in the Union Territory (UT) to 18879. Among the new cases, 134 were reported from Jammu and 355 from Kashmir. In Srinagar, the trend of high number of cases continued today as well with 138 new cases added to the cumulative total of the district. Among these, a health official said, around 25% of cases were self-reported patients.  Five travelers from the district also tested positive today. The district has 29% of the total Covid-19 cases of Kashmir division. Srinagar is the largest district in Kashmir in terms of population. In Jammu region, Jammu district reported the highest number of cases today with 43 persons testing positive for Covid-19. So-far 10885 patients have recovered in J&K including 483 that were discharged from hospitals today. Officials said 12 more people succumbed to the virus on Tuesday taking the total toll in the UT to 333. While 309 deaths have been reported from Kashmir valley, 24 who died due to the Covid-19 were from Jammu region. The UT, particularly Kashmir valley, is witnessing an increase in death toll and daily-new-cases in July. 232 persons have died in the first 28 days of July alone. With the high numbers testing positive for Covid-19 in the past fortnight, the doubling time of cases has reduced to 19 days from 23 days previously.  The reduction in case doubling time is reflective of the rapid increase in the number of cases in the UT. The rapid rise, a health official said, has put burden on the health facilities which are unable to accommodate the growing needs of space and infrastructure, especially with the high number of cases requiring oxygen beds. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 1500 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is almost 1100. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Kashmir also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-489-new-covid-19-cases-jk-tally-reaches-18879-866779.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||CBI takes over search of Haryana girl, two years after she went missing||The CBI has taken over the search of a 12-year-old girl from Haryana after the Centre referred the matter to it nearly two years after she went missing, officials said on Tuesday. The daughter of a labourer in Mohanpur village in Rewari district of the state had gone missing on June 27, 2018 after she went out to purchase some snacks. "There is no news of my daughter since then. I had approached the ‘Lambardar’ who had suggested a CBI probe. I do not know much. Has the CBI started its probe?" the girl’s father told PTI over phone. The case has reached the investigation agency with a sluggish pace, with the Haryana government’s home department recommending a CBI probe in the matter on September 18, 2019, nearly 15 months after the girl went missing. It took another six months for the Centre to refer the case to the CBI on March 11, 2020. The agency finally registered an FIR in the case on Monday. The girl’s father had told the Haryana Police that he had tried to find his daughter by enquiring among friends and relatives but in vain. He also said that he does not suspect anyone in the case. The CBI has tasked its Special Crime Unit to trace the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-takes-over-search-of-haryana-girl-two-years-after-she-went-missing-866790.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||IPS officer Kala Ramachandran moved out of IB, sent back to cadre state Haryana||Senior IPS officer Kala Ramachandran has been moved out of the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and repatriated to her cadre state Haryana, according to an official order issued on Tuesday. Ramachandran, a 1994-batch officer of Indian Police Service, had recently returned from the North Eastern Police Academy and was yet to get a posting in the IB. She is a joint director-level officer. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) has approved the proposal of the Ministry of Home Affairs for repatriation of Ramachandran to her cadre with immediate effect under the provision of para 6.5 of IPS tenure policy, the Personnel Ministry order said. The relevant para has provision for repatriation of an officer "when the professional utility of a hard-core officer may visibly decline or when, for acute administrative reasons". An officer once inducted into the "hard-core" would continue in the IB and would not be repatriated to his/her parent state cadre, according to the policy, until "when the professional utility of a hard-core officer may visibly decline or when, for acute administrative reasons, it may be necessary to repatriate him/her to the State cadre". Such cases shall be examined by a committee comprising the Home Secretary, Secretary (Personnel) and the IB Director and its recommendations will be submitted for approval of the ACC, the para 6.5 reads. Sources close to the officer said she had wanted to return to her cadre state. Her husband is posted as the Additional Director General of Police in Haryana||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ips-officer-kala-ramachandran-moved-out-of-ib-sent-back-to-cadre-state-haryana-866820.html
28-07-2020||North and Central||ED summons Rajasthan CM Gehlot's elder brother for questioning in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate has summoned Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's elder brother for questioning in a money-laundering case linked to alleged financial irregularities in exporting fertiliser, officials said Tuesday. Agrasain Gehlot has been asked to depose before the investigating officer on Wednesday in Delhi under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), they said. On July 22, the central agency raided Agrasain Gehlot's premises in Jodhpur and a few other places in connection with the case filed under the criminal charges of PMLA. Officials said the agency seized a number of documents during the raids and Agrasain Gehlot will be confronted with these during his questioning. Some other people involved in the case are also understood to have been summoned by the probe agency. The raids happened after the agency filed an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), the ED equivalent of a police FIR, in the 2007-09 Customs department case registered for alleged irregularities in the procurement and export of subsidised Muriate of Potash (MOP) meant for farmers and investigation in this case was finalised in 2013. The ED took cognisance of the Customs FIR and a July 13 charge sheet to press money-laundering charges to probe a "smuggling syndicate" allegedly run by Agrasain Gehlot, his firm Anupam Krishi and others, officials said. The agency said the case pertains to fraudulent export of MOP in the guise of industrial salts to buyers based in Malaysia and Taiwan. The MOP is a restricted commodity for exports so that it is easily available to farmers in the country. The raids happened at a time when a political slugfest was on between CM Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot. Pilot, a former Union minister, was sacked as Rajasthan deputy CM and PCC chief recently. Responding to the raids, Congress leader Randeep Surjewala told reporters in Jaipur, "Prime Minister Modi has created 'raid raj'  in the country but we are not going to be scared." When the Centre's "gimmicks" failed to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan, ED raids started at the premises of Gehlot's elder brother, he had said. Agency sources had said Agrasain Gehlot and his firm were slapped with over Rs 60 crore penalty by the Customs department for these alleged export irregularities in 2013. It is alleged that Gehlot's company "diverted" 35,000 metric tonnes of MOP that had a value of Rs 130 crore in the international market. The ED alleged Agrasain Gehlot, in his capacity as a dealer, was the custodian of the MOP and was "solely responsible" for its proper distribution to farmers, and his alleged connivance with the company Saraf Impex Pvt Ltd and others resulted in the diversion of MOP that was imported by Indian Potash Limited at a concessional rate of duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-summons-rajasthan-cm-gehlots-elder-brother-for-questioning-in-pmla-case-866849.html
28-07-2020||Opinion||Mainstreaming agroforestry for Atmanirbhar Bharat||The Covid-19 pandemic is a game-changer of sorts. For India, it became evident in the form of the largest reverse migration, unhinging cities from their habitual labour participation while sharply boosting rural employment. Neither was a surprise, especially after the rapid pumping of liquidity into the rural sector – the latest being the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Yojana (GKRY), a Rs 50,000-crore relief package for the six states that received the maximum number of returnees. With an extra Rs 40,000 crore resourced into its well-matured sibling, the MGNREGS, the 125 days of the GKRY envisions immediate employment of 67 lakh migrant workers in public works including roads, sanitation complexes and water conservation activities. Kickstarting the ambitious Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the GKRY is about a month old, getting its operational designs and priorities sorted. In the interest of swift implementation, the contemporaneity of the scheme and the monsoon prompts a focus on ‘green’ tasks – plantation, compensatory afforestation, and horticulture – nudging infrastructure projects away. How can we leverage this opportunity to avert a surge in unimaginative tree plantation programmes often displacing food crops and appropriating ecological commons? Answers lie in reorienting afforestation to ‘agroforestation’ in building back and going resilient Agroforestry is the technique of maintaining trees on farmlands, practiced worldwide. Appropriate tree-crop combinations and their synergistic interactions optimise farm productivity in highly fragmented tropical landholdings. When crops fail, tree products such as timber, fruits, fodder, and fuelwood help supplement income, acting as safety nets for farmers. Factoring in major global goods and services including habitat patches for wild species, water cycle regulation, soil protection, and climate impact mitigation, agroforestation is a win-win for people and planet. In 2014, India became the first country to adopt a National Agroforestry Policy, with the goal of expanding areas under agroforestry for enhancing agricultural productivity and rural subsistence. Subsequently, the rationale of the policy has been enunciated in the context of reducing import dependence of raw materials for wood-based industries and achieving the national tree-cover target of 33%, steering India’s efforts to create an additional carbon sink of 2.5-3 billion tonnes by 2030 as Intended Nationally Determined Contribution under the 2015 Paris Climate Agreement. Thus, a significant bolstering of tree growth on farmlands is imperative sooner than later. However, what we learn from looking around is that the explicit policy focus on timber productivity and carbon sequestration fast-tracks ‘fast-wood’ forestry, often of exotic species including Eucalyptus and Casuarina. Groundwater-sucking monocultures dubbed as carbon farms, in place of native trees that serve fuel, fodder, fertiliser, and fiber needs of the community, could be the perverse local consequences. The Covid-driven massive rural influx of human and financial resources coincident with the monsoon is the opportunity to reimagine ‘Green India’ via well-calibrated diverse agroforestation. Taking Cinderellato the ball So, what to keep in mind during the GKRY-facilitated tree-plantation? Not all trees are equal. It is crucial to give precedence to locally suited, multipurpose tree species during agroforestation. Duly named ‘Cinderella’ species, native trees are treasure troves of ecological, social and cultural benefits, snubbed by our modern forestry-agriculture programmes in favour of a few fast-growing, quick-buck species. Such Cinderellas exist for each part of India, be it Khejri in Rajasthan, Babul in Central India, or Arjun in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. ‘Investing’ the wide genetic variations of these species into participatory domestication programmes would help propagate their locally optimal varieties. Giving these Cinderellas a fair chance would turn the agro-ecosystems diverse and resilient. The GKRY proposes skill-mapping of returnee labourers. Skills here imply indigenous knowledge of tree varieties and managing tree-crop combinations, both to be drawn into mapping exercises. Most returnees would have a considerable understanding of the local landscapes, having lived there before migrating and keeping in touch for years. In cases where prolonged absence necessitates reskilling, in situ collectives including experienced locals can enable knowledge-sharing. Mobilisation of women as skilled workforce is equally vital for effective afforestation programmes. Uncountable examples across the world, including Padma Shree Rahibai’s herculean efforts to conserve hundreds of indigenous seeds, are ample proofs that women possess rich traditional knowledge and are more cognizant about domesticating trees rendering dietary supplements, fuelwood, and fodder. The ability of agroforestation programmes to appreciate the plurality of values that diverse stakeholders attribute to trees is a crucial determinant of their success, positively influencing future reforms. While the GKRY can provide the much needed dose of labour, several other incentives such as secure rights over land and trees, relaxation of restrictive rules on harvest and timber transport, marketing support for tree products and pricing mechanisms accounting for multiple ecosystem services are critical to make agroforestry appealing to individual farmers. If the scheme indeed succeeds in the retention of a considerable fraction of rural workforce as it hopes to, subsequent scaffoldings can perpetuate greening of India’s rural employment. The self-sufficiency of rural livelihoods is intertwined with the multi-functionality and resilience of landscapes themselves. If agroforestry is the path to sustainable landscapes and livelihoods, it is the path to atmanirbhar Bharat. (Dhanya Bhaskar is a faculty member at School of Development, Azim Premji University; Charuta Kulkarni is an environmental scientist, currently a European Union Marie Curie Fellow)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/mainstreaming-agroforestry-for-atmanirbhar-bharat-866484.html
28-07-2020||Opinion||As India, US get tougher on China, Japan is developing cold feet||Earlier this year, as it became clear that the coronavirus pandemic was not going to pass quickly, the Japanese government delayed plans for what would be the first state visit by a Chinese leader to Tokyo since 2008. Now, with Chinese military aggression rising in the region and Beijing cracking down on Hong Kong, Japan is considering canceling Xi Jinping’s visit altogether — but very gingerly. “We are not in the phase of arranging a concrete schedule now” was how Toshimitsu Motegi, the foreign minister, put it this month. While its top allies have taken a harder line on China — especially the United States, which dramatically escalated tensions this past week by closing the Chinese Consulate in Houston — Japan has pursued a delicate balancing act, mindful of the economic might of its largest trading partner and its own limited military options. So as Chinese ships have engaged in the longest series of incursions in or near Japanese waters in several years, Japan has offered a restrained response, vowing to be firm but “calm.” It did not join several Western nations in an initial statement criticizing the draconian security law that Beijing imposed on Hong Kong. It has abandoned plans to purchase an American missile defense system, which in part had been considered a shield against China. And the government has continued to tiptoe around the issue of the state visit by Xi, even as polls show that most Japanese believe it should be scrapped. For other world powers, this kind of middle ground on China, in the face of its growing authoritarianism and heightened bellicosity, has become less and less tenable. The United States has approved sanctions against Chinese companies and officials and pushed back on China’s broad territorial claims in the region’s seas. Australia led the call for a global inquiry into the origins of the pandemic, which began in China, and announced an investment of nearly $1 billion in cyberweapons and defenses to counter Beijing. Britain and Canada, along with Australia, have suspended extradition agreements with Hong Kong because of the national security law. China has responded by curbing Australian imports and threatening an array of retaliatory actions against any countries that move to punish it. On Friday, China responded to the closure of its Houston consulate by ordering the United States to shut its consulate in the southwestern city of Chengdu. To some extent, Japan’s mild-mannered response to China echoes its broader approach to foreign policy, in which it tends to avoid direct conflict or public rebukes of other nations. It has also sometimes sought a mediating role, as when Prime Minister Shinzo Abe met last December with Iran’s president, Hassan Rouhani, to try to ease tensions in the Middle East. Not so long ago, China and Japan — the world’s second- and third-largest economies — were engaged in a diplomatic thaw as a hedge against an unpredictable Trump administration. In 2018, Abe became the first Japanese leader to visit China in seven years, and the two leaders pledged deeper economic and political cooperation. The invitation to Xi to visit Japan followed soon afterward. Now, given China’s muscle-flexing as the world is preoccupied with the pandemic, some have expressed disappointment that Japan has not rebuffed its neighbour more vigorously, such as by definitively cancelling Xi’s visit. In recent weeks, China has engaged in deadly clashes on its border with India in the Himalayas, and it has sent ships for 100 straight days — the longest period in years of such incursions — to patrol waters around the Senkakus, islands administered by Japan but contested by China. Japan “should just say ‘we cannot have him if China continues with this sort of behaviour,’” said Jeffrey Hornung, an analyst at the RAND Corporation, referring to Xi. But Hornung acknowledged that Tokyo would not want to draw China’s full ire, either. On Hong Kong, Japan did not join the United States, Australia, Canada and Britain in an initial statement criticizing the national security law. It subsequently led an effort to draft a statement by the foreign ministers of the Group of 7 countries expressing “grave concern” about the law, and Japan’s governing Liberal Democratic Party passed a resolution this month saying it could not “just remain on the sidelines seeing the situation” in Hong Kong. In response to the Chinese incursions in the East China Sea, Japan has mobilized Self-Defense Forces fighter jets to patrol the area. It continues, though, to use mild language in its protests to the Chinese government. Yoshihide Suga, chief cabinet secretary to Abe, told reporters that the Japanese government had “strongly requested” that Chinese ships “stop approaching Japanese fishing boats and quickly leave Japanese territory.” He added, “We would like to continue responding firmly in a calm manner.” Parts of the Japanese government have highlighted China’s growing hostility. Earlier this month, the defense ministry warned that China was trying to “alter the status quo in the East China Sea and the South China Sea,” and it ranked China as a more serious long-term threat than North Korea. Yet Japan’s recent decision to abandon its plan to buy an American missile defense system, known as Aegis Ashore, led some to wonder if it would now be more exposed to potential attacks from both North Korea and China. The decision may have looked to some like a genuflection to Beijing. But soon afterward, the defense committee of the governing party discussed whether Japan could acquire weapons that would enable it to strike a missile launch site, if it detected signs of an imminent attack by a neighbor. Those discussions are in the early stages, and they would require extensive examination by constitutional experts to determine if such a capability would violate the pacifist clause in Japan’s Constitution. “While the cancellation of Aegis Ashore might put Japan in a more vulnerable position, if Japan uses this opportunity to pivot to acquisition of other capabilities, then the result could be even more worrying for China,” said Kristi Govella, an assistant professor in the department of Asian studies at the University of Hawaii at Manoa. One area where Japan has taken steps against China is the economy. Earlier this year, it passed a law restricting foreign investment in industries that the government designates as important to national security, a move that many viewed as targeting China. It has also offered financial incentives to companies — especially those in crucial sectors — to move operations out of China and into Japan or Southeast Asia. Still, Japan does not want to push too hard. In addition to being Japan’s largest trading partner, China sent more tourists to Japan than any other nation before the pandemic shut borders. Last year, close to 115,000 Chinese students were studying at Japanese universities. The government, which has imposed entry bans on nearly 150 countries during the pandemic, is now discussing admitting travelers from several Asian countries, including China. “A couple of years ago, it seemed like there was space for Japan to be seen as a mediator because relations between the U.S. and China had become so bad,” Govella said. But with China’s increasing aggression, it “really is an actor that has different values and dubious intentions in the region,” she said. As China pursues this more belligerent policy, Japanese analysts say they hope that Beijing might learn from Japan’s own history and not try to expand its power too far, particularly by repressive means. China’s efforts to dominate the South China Sea, for example, are “one step toward kicking out the Western elements from their sphere of influence, which they have been dreaming of for the past century and a half,” said Kunihiko Miyake, a former Japanese diplomat who is now teaching at Ritsumeikan University in Kyoto. “At that time, the more pressure we had, the more adamant and arrogant and self-assertive we became, because we were too nationalistic and too undemocratic, and that was our destiny,” Miyake said. “China is following the same path.” International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/as-india-us-get-tougher-on-china-japan-is-developing-cold-feet-866488.html
28-07-2020||Opinion||'A Trumpless future is hard to get your head around'||The NYT's new conversing day with Bret Stephens and the host, on a future without Trump The host, Gail: This week Congress is trying to work out a second-stage coronavirus relief program. But the president has been stalling in an attempt to get them to cut payroll taxes. If I remember correctly, you’re a big champion of cutting the tax, which is used to help fund Social Security. Does that put you on the Trump side? Bret Stephens: Gail, my feelings about tax cuts are basically the same as my feelings about ice cream. It’s not that I dislike any particular flavor, but I like some more than others. In the case of a temporary payroll tax cut, the good thing about it is that it’s money in people’s pockets when they may need it the most. Just think of all the parents who’ll need child care because their kids can’t go to school in the fall. The bad thing about it is that because it’s temporary it doesn’t give people or businesses a motive to hire and invest. Most of the Republican caucus in Congress doesn’t seem particularly enthusiastic. Gail: We don’t need to be losing sleep over it. No rational politician is going to mess with Social Security. Even the Senate Republicans aren’t keen about Trump’s idea. Bret: The best thing Trump could do to improve the economy is eliminate all the tariffs he’s imposed, which are a direct tax on the consumer and a huge burden on any importer. But of course he won’t. Gail: Can I confess that I’m not really into tariffs? But a hike clearly isn’t in the interest of the average consumer. Bret: Think of tariffs as what happens nine months after an ardent xenophobe and a failing businessman get hitched. Gail: Let me ask you about something I’ve been obsessing about recently: the polls. I see all the polls showing that the public is never, ever, going to reelect Trump. But then I remember how the polls seemed to show the same thing last time around. Hillary was a shoo-in! Until election night. Are you as insecure about this as I am? Bret: The same fear spins around in my head like a scene in a horror movie — the one in which the evil ax murderer has a knife in his back and seems to be dead, but you know he’s coming back for one last terrifying chop. Gail: I hate when that happens. Bret: I can think of all kinds of things that could derail a Biden bid. He stumbles really badly in an interview. Police officers get massacred at a protest, as they were in Dallas in 2016. His veep pick is too far to the left. China shoots down an American surveillance plane. Fed-up parents start a movement to send their kids back to school, and Biden opposes them to take sides with the teachers' unions. Covid-19 fatality rates reach a plateau and then fall; unemployment comes down; crime shoots up. In other words, a lot can happen. On the flip side of this is the likelihood, or at least the prayer, that most Americans have really soured on Trump, and they’re just waiting for Biden and his VP pick to give them a sense of reassurance that they’ll be the right mix of harmless and hopeful. Gail: Well, things look so good for Biden now there are only two possible worries. Yours is the classic Joe Screws Up, and I am not going to try to convince you that’s impossible. Mine is a suspicion of polls. I’ve always suspected that when people get called by a poll taker, they want to say something they think will make them look good. There was a period in which some Black candidates did better in the polls than they did in the actual votes on Election Day, and one thought was that respondents just wanted to seem tolerant. Bret: I think you’re referring to the Bradley effect, after the African American LA Mayor Tom Bradley, who lost a governor’s race in California to a white opponent even though preelection polls had him ahead. Gail: I’ve wondered if the polls showing Hillary way ahead four years ago were the product of people not wanting a stranger on the telephone to know they were a Trump kind of voter. And now we’re back again, except supporting Trump is even more embarrassing. Could we be seeing the same thing? Bret: It’s a good question. My guess is, probably not. I think the main reason the polls failed to predict the outcome in 2016 wasn’t so much that people lied to pollsters. It’s that swing voters who hated both candidates decided late in the day that they hated Hillary more. The release of James Comey’s letter saying he had reopened the investigation into Clinton’s emails was a big deciding factor. And Trump was, unquestionably, the “change” candidate, whereas Hillary ran as the candidate of the status quo. Gail: And I must admit a friend who knows a lot about such things told me the embarrassed-by-Trump voters I was describing wouldn’t say they were voting for Biden. They’d just claim “undecided.” Bret: My main doubt about the current polling is that Trump is basically running against a candidate named “Not Trump.” Remember how “Doonesbury” used to depict George H.W. Bush as an invisible figure? That’s Biden today. But eventually he’s going to have to become more visible, and that’s when the polls will really start to count. Can I switch the subject? I know we’ve often discussed this before, but this is probably our last conversation before Biden names his running mate. How about we place a small bet — a glass of wine — on who he chooses? Gail: Hey, I’ll bet you a bottle of good zinfandel it’s Kamala Harris. Bret: OK, and I’ll bet you a reasonably priced Sancerre that it’s Val Demings. Give me your thinking on Harris. Gail: Well, he’s promised to nominate a woman, and there’s a growing expectation it’ll be a woman of color. There’s quite a talent pool for him to choose from, but Harris has some of the strongest national political experience. She can point to her work in the Senate, and she’s usually good on TV. Her own presidential campaign wasn’t very well-run, but that shouldn’t be a problem if she’s on Team Joe. Plus, she’s got a lot of experience in criminal justice, which will be a big topic this fall. Now you. Bret: My thinking about Harris is that she comes from a state, California, that Biden doesn’t need to win. Demings comes from Florida, which Biden really would like to win. Harris is a senator, and Biden an ex-senator, so there isn’t a good mix of legislative and executive experience. Demings was a police chief, meaning she’s inhabited the sphere most Americans think of as the real world. Harris attacked Biden pretty viciously in the early debates, and those attacks will be used against them both. Demings has, as far as I know, stayed out of the intramural Democratic squabbles. I suspect that many white voters feel that Harris projects establishmentarian entitlement while making them feel uncomfortable on subjects like busing. Demings’ life story is a classic tale of pulling herself up every step of the way, from deep poverty to the floor of Congress. Harris’ background as a tough-on-crime prosecutor may haunt her. But Demings’ background as a police officer will refute the GOP attack line that the Democratic Party hates the cops. Gail: You’ve made a good argument about why Demings should get the nomination. But when it comes to who will I just feel Democrats may be more comfortable with Harris, who they’ve known a lot longer. Bret: Then again, our colleague Frank Bruni made a compelling case for Illinois’ heroic Tammy Duckworth. And I know Susan Rice would make the case that she knows her way around the White House and would be ready for the job, though some of her poor judgments, her notoriously brusque manners and her lack of normal political experience will be big strikes against her. Anyway, that’s my bid for the Sancerre. If we’re both wrong we can just trade bottles. Gail: I can think of a lot worse ways to spend an evening. Cheers!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-trumpless-future-is-hard-to-get-your-head-around-866520.html
28-07-2020||Opinion||The cult of selfishness is killing America||America’s response to the coronavirus has been a lose-lose proposition. The Trump administration and governors like Florida’s Ron DeSantis insisted that there was no trade-off between economic growth and controlling the disease, and they were right — but not in the way they expected. So we’re failing dismally on both the epidemiological and the economic fronts. But why? On the face of it, the answer is that Trump and allies were so eager to see big jobs numbers that they ignored both infection risks and the way a resurgent pandemic would undermine the economy. As I and others have said, they failed the marshmallow test, sacrificing the future because they weren’t willing to show a little patience. And there’s surely a lot to that explanation. But it isn’t the whole story. For one thing, people truly focused on restarting the economy should have been big supporters of measures to limit infections without hurting business — above all, getting Americans to wear face masks. Instead, Trump ridiculed those in masks as “politically correct,” while Republican governors not only refused to mandate mask-wearing, but they prevented mayors from imposing local mask rules. Also, politicians eager to see the economy bounce back should have wanted to sustain consumer purchasing power until wages recovered. Instead, Senate Republicans ignored the looming July 31 expiration of special unemployment benefits, which means that tens of millions of workers are about to see a huge hit to their incomes, damaging the economy as a whole. So what was going on? Were our leaders just stupid? Well, maybe. But there’s a deeper explanation of the profoundly self-destructive behaviour of Trump and his allies: They were all members of America’s cult of selfishness. You see, the modern US right is committed to the proposition that greed is good, that we’re all better off when individuals engage in the untrammelled pursuit of self-interest. In their vision, unrestricted profit maximization by businesses and unregulated consumer choice is the recipe for a good society. Support for this proposition is, if anything, more emotional than intellectual. I’ve long been struck by the intensity of right-wing anger against relatively trivial regulations, like bans on phosphates in detergent and efficiency standards for light bulbs. It’s the principle of the thing: Many on the right are enraged at any suggestion that their actions should take other people’s welfare into account. This rage is sometimes portrayed as the love of freedom. But people who insist on the right to pollute are notably unbothered by, say, federal agents tear-gassing peaceful protesters. What they call “freedom” is actually the absence of responsibility. Rational policy in a pandemic, however, is all about taking responsibility. The main reason you shouldn’t go to a bar and should wear a mask isn’t self-protection, although that’s part of it; the point is that congregating in noisy, crowded spaces or exhaling droplets into shared air puts others at risk. And that’s the kind of thing America’s right just hates, hates to hear. Indeed, it sometimes seems as if right-wingers actually make a point of behaving irresponsibly. Remember how Sen. Rand Paul, who was worried that he might have Covid-19 (he did), wandered around the Senate and even used the gym while waiting for his test results? Anger at any suggestion of social responsibility also helps explain the looming fiscal catastrophe. It’s striking how emotional many Republicans get in their opposition to the temporary rise in unemployment benefits; for example, Sen. Lindsey Graham declared that these benefits would be extended “over our dead bodies.” Why such hatred? It’s not because the benefits are making workers unwilling to take jobs. There’s no evidence that this is happening — it’s just something Republicans want to believe. And in any case, economic arguments can’t explain the rage. Again, it’s the principle. Aiding the unemployed, even if their joblessness isn’t their own fault, is a tacit admission that lucky Americans should help their less-fortunate fellow citizens. And that’s an admission the right doesn’t want to make. Just to be clear, I’m not saying that Republicans are selfish. We’d be doing much better if that were all there were to it. The point, instead, is that they’ve sacralized selfishness, hurting their own political prospects by insisting on the right to act selfishly even when it hurts others. What the coronavirus has revealed is the power of America’s cult of selfishness. And this cult is killing us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-cult-of-selfishness-is-killing-america-866610.html
28-07-2020||Opinion||Are we seeing the beginnings of an ‘Indian internet’?||Almost a month ago, the Ministry of Information Technology took the unprecedented step of banning 59 apps/services on the purported grounds that these services were prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India. At the time it was unclear what a ban entailed and how it would be implemented and/or enforced. However, the subsequent weeks between companies voluntarily suspending their services, Apple and Google de-listing them from their respective app stores and telecom service providers being ordered to block these apps, the ban has been 'technically' enforced from the perspective of an average user that may not want to navigate the world of Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) and TOR. So, for now, it appears that we have the answer to the second question. Reports now suggest that 47 more apps could be facing a ban with another 275 being monitored closely. Forests, trees and branches of the internet Thus, as far as the future of the internet in India (and even the world) goes, these developments cannot be viewed in isolation. And must be looked at in combination with recent events in India, its stated position on cyber sovereignty as well as global trends. Though imperfect, it is evident that the capacity to execute these block-lists is improving. Media reports referencing an increase in apps being banned also indicate that a 'framework' for 'constant scrutiny' of the apps operating in India is being developed. With these developments, the groundwork for what can evolve into a separate Indian internet could well be in place. There have also already been experiments with allow-lists as in the case of Jammu and Kashmir in response to the Anuradha Bhasin judgement in the Supreme Court. It is also important to note that India's actions have seemingly enabled countries like Australia and the United States to elevate the pitch of their criticism. In July, there have been instances of members from the executive and legislative branches of their governments advocating for bans on TikTok. Breaking the internet Whether intentional or not, the tendency to pin the blame for disinformation on foreign actors also strengthens the narrative that a domestic or national internet will address disinformation/misinformation. This is likely to result in calls to link real-world identification with presence on the internet and further cleave domestic from international/global spaces. In fact, we have already seen representations to this effect made in Indian courts as recently as May. And the current publicly available draft of the personal data protection bill also proposes ‘voluntary verification’.  With the second largest (and still growing) internet user-base, India's actions will play a significant role in shaping the future of the internet. If one were to try and read the tea leaves at this juncture, it appears we are on a trajectory to break the internet, just not in a good way. (Prateek Waghre is a Research Analyst at The Takshashila Institution) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/are-we-seeing-the-beginnings-of-an-indian-internet-866658.html
28-07-2020||Opinion||West Bengal & Rajasthan: Two extremes of the anti-defection law||Of late, the anti-defection law has become the subject of a major controversy, thanks to developments in Rajasthan. The experts are divided, so are the columnists and the common man. The bitter truth, however, is that the law, since its inception, has been interpreted by Speakers in a way that is suitable to the party that they belong to. Ironically, like other legislators or Parliamentarians, Speakers too are dependent on the whims of the party leaders, and cannot use their own conscience to decide on matters. If someone tries to act independently, like Somnath Chattehrjee (the Speaker of Lok Sabha from 2004-2009), they are destined for political oblivion. That is why we still do not have an instrument that can balance between honest dissent and dishonest ‘aya ram, gaya ram’ politics. In a wider sense, we need a law that will seek balance between conscience and greed. What we have today is a law that is insufficient, ineffective, and  unproductive. If we consider the example of Bengal, things will come clear. In Bengal, many legislators have crossed over to other parties in the last ten years, but none of them have faced any action. Thus Bengal and Rajasthan assemblies stand at two opposite poles. In Rajasthan, the Speaker desired to initiate action even before the rebel legislators, under the aegis of Sachin Pilot acted against the party inside the legislature, while in Bengal no action is ever taken, despite the MLAs' flagrant violation of the will of the electorate. This new trend in Bengal was started by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after it made history by ending the 34-year-long run of the Left in 2011. This was in alliance with the Congress, but soon after, the Congress broke away. Even then TMC had a solid majority (184 in an assembly of 294 members) in the house. But it started luring the opposition MLAs to its fold. By the middle of 2014, when it had completed three years in power, altogether 13 MLAs from different Opposition parties like the Congress, Forward Bloc, RSP and CPI(M) left their mother parties and formally joined TMC. Ironically, the main engineer of this process was Mukul Roy who is in the BJP now. Some more legislators joined the TMC between mid-2014 and the next Assembly election in May 2016. None of them faced any action despite their mother parties’ complaint to the Speaker. After the 2016 election, it was assumed that the game would end. But it was not so. Mamata Banerjee’s TMC had 211 seats out of 294, but the party continued to take MLAs of other Opposition parties. The trend summarily changed before and after the 2019 Loksabha elections, when three TMC legislators joined the BJP and fought Lok Sabha elections. Since then six other MLAs crossed over from other parties, including TMC, to the BJP, though not all of them are with the Saffron party now. However Biman Banerjee, the Speaker of the Assembly, has not acted even against the TMC deserters. The TMC leadership was not keen to disqualify them either, probably because it would have given Opposition partiess reason to go to the court to seek action against their MLAs too. Now there is fresh speculation about the possibility of a large number of TMC MLAs leaving the party (to bring down the government so that election is held under President’s rule). If it ever becomes the reality, it will be interesting to observe whether the Speaker tries to thwart it using the Rajasthan model. The moot question about the law is whether it can be made immune to the whims of the political leadership of the parties. In an ideal democracy, the people’s representatives should be free from having to follow a whip so that they can act according to their conscience. Take the case of a debatable law on a disputed subject like the NRC (National Register of Citizenship). Ideally, every single MP should have the freedom to decide on it according to her/his conscience and the wishes of the people who elected her or him. That is the ideal situation. But in reality, the ideal is most often marred by the corrupting influences of different kinds. So we also need to defeat amoral ‘aya ram gaya’ ram politics. The system has failed us so far in being able to strike an ideal balance. In the early 90s, when far less than one-third of the MPs (the required strength then to make a split valid) broke away from the Janata Dal to vote for the PV Narasimha Rao government, Lok Sabha Speaker Shivraj Patil waited for months to decide on the case. Over the next few months more MPs joined the splinter group, and when it achieved the required number, Patil declared the split valid, arguing that the ‘split is a continuous process’. Thereafter, many Speakers have played with the law in a similar way. The BJP has now emerged as more notorious than the Congress in foul play. Decades have passed like this, and we have not been able to strike the balance between conscience and greed. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of books including, A Naxal Story. He is a deputy editor at the Bengali daily, Aajkal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/west-bengal-rajasthan-two-extremes-of-the-anti-defection-law-866711.html
28-07-2020||Panorama||Nutrition boosts your immunity||Immunity is the buzzword of 2020, thanks to the prevailing pandemic. Here are some basics that can help you build your immunity. Immunity is the ability of an organism to resist an infection or toxin with specific antibodies or sensitised blood cells. This means your body contains adequate defences to fight infection, allergy or any form of invasion. The first line of defence comes from the skin, mucus membrane, acid in the stomach, sweat, tears and immune cells that attack all foreign cells that enter the body. This is called innate immunity. Acquired or adaptive immunity, on the other hand, is learnt by the body. When a foreign substance enters your body, the immune cells that are specific to that harmful substance attack and destroy it.  There are natural and lifestyle causes for a reduction in immunity. Age is a natural cause. As you grow older, your immune system becomes less able. A diet that is high in refined foods, ultra-processed foods, sugar, trans fat, and low in whole grains, fruits, vegetables, can result in chronic inflammation of the gut and suppress immunity. Many nutrients play a role in building and maintaining immune health.  Vitamin A is found in yellow/orange coloured fruits and vegetables, leafy greens, organ meat. Examples – mango, papaya, carrot, pumpkin, amaranth leaves, drumstick leaves, liver, egg yolk. Vitamin C is found in Indian gooseberry (amla), guava, citrus fruits, leafy greens, coloured peppers. Examples – orange, lemon, sweet lime, drumstick leaves, parsley, green capsicum. Vitamin D is in sunlight, fish, egg yolk, fortified milk. Vitamin E – nuts such as almonds. Vitamin B6 is in meats, seeds, whole grains. Examples – fish, egg yolk, chicken, brown rice, maize, wheat germ, sesame seeds, sunflower seeds. Vitamin B12 is in animal foods. Examples – fish, meat, egg, milk. Folate comes from leafy greens, whole grains. Examples – colocasia leaves, spinach, parsley, maize, pearl millet (bajra), foxtail millet, channa, horse gram, field beans. Zinc comes from seeds, dals, meats. Examples – amaranth seeds, sesame seeds, channa dal, urad dal, poultry, mutton. Iron is in dry fruits, pulses, dark green leafy vegetables. Examples – dry dates, black currants, horse gram, soybean, fenugreek leaves, coriander leaves, curry leaves, mint leaves. Selenium is in millets, pulses, leafy greens, papaya, egg, chicken. Examples – pearl millet (bajra), little millet, rajma, beet greens, mustard leaves, radish leaves, curry leaves, mint leaves. Protein comes from pulses, dals, dairy, nuts, seeds, egg, meats. Examples – channa, rajma, tur dal, moong dal, milk, curd, almonds, chia seeds, chicken, fish. Bioactive molecules present in spices are involved in immunity and regulation of inflammation. Some of the common spices that play a role in maintaining immunity are turmeric, onion, garlic, ginger, cardamom, cinnamon, chillies and capsicum. Nutrition experts and organisations have always advocated well-balanced meals. A balanced meal provides all the necessary nutrients (carbohydrates, proteins, vitamins, minerals, fat, fibre), which are derived from natural food sources like cereals, millets, pulses, dals, vegetables, fruits, nuts, seeds, dairy, fats and oils, eaten in the right proportion. Exercise influences the functioning of the immune system. It is believed that prolonged periods of intense exercise can depress immunity and lead to inflammation, but regular moderate-intensity exercise is beneficial as it reduces inflammation. In a nutshell, follow a healthy lifestyle to maintain immune health – eat a well-balanced diet, sleep 7-8 hours daily, exercise for 45-60 minutes daily, include small bursts of physical activity throughout the day, cut stress and get direct sunlight on your skin daily. (The writer is a nutrition and wellness consultant)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nutrition-boosts-your-immunity-866489.html
28-07-2020||Right in the Middle||The morning lesson||“Shocking, shocking,” my friend Hari huffed, ignoring my good morning greeting.  “What on earth is going on. Is this the education our children and grandchildren will be getting?” he continued, before I could get a word in edgewise.  Before setting out on his daily constitutional, Hari had read the newspaper report about the CBSE’s decision to reduce the syllabus of classes IX to XII by about 30% by scrapping some key topics to reduce the burden of the students due to the pandemic. “Isn’t that good, I’m sure students would be delighted,” I exclaimed. “No good. CBSE has cut out very important chapters such as democratic rights, federalism, secularism, citizenship, gender, religion and caste,” he babbled on until I interjected. But we are anyway the largest democracy; our constitution guarantees citizenship, asserting we are a secular nation and provides us right to freedom of religion, I rationalised, adding all that’s part of our fundamental rights and no one can take that away. Hari turned red in the face.  “If all these concepts are not taught in school, how will students know what their democratic rights are.  Education my friend, education,” he roared.  “There are some people in this country who are mortally scared of educated people.” “Listen, my father, along with hundreds of patriotic Indians, participated in several protest movements against the British. It is because of such people we attained independence.  Shouldn’t future generations be enlightened and inspired by these struggles?” he demanded to know. Indeed, was my quick riposte. “Tomorrow, if there are threats to our secularism or democratic rights, our children and grandchildren can take a leaf out of the Quit India Movement and launch a Quit Government Movement,” he pontificated. I quietly nodded as he made his final point, “CBSE has not spared science subjects too; they have shelved topics like reproduction in organisms, anatomy of plants and animals, pollution and so on,” he mentioned. “Don’t our children need to know about reproduction? Do they want the future generation to remain bachelors or ascetics?” he thundered, causing some heads to turn. Thanking him for his early morning lesson, I beat a hasty retreat saying I can’t wait to read the newspaper and we can continue our discussion tomorrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-morning-lesson-866486.html
28-07-2020||Second Edit||IS threat must be taken seriously||India’s security establishment must take serious note of a recent United Nations report warning of the growing threat posed by global jihadist groups. According to the report, Hind Wilayah, as the Islamic State’s Indian affiliate is known, has 180-200 members. There is reason for Karnataka and Kerala to be particularly concerned. There are “significant numbers” of IS terrorists in the two states, according to the 26th report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team concerning the IS, the al-Qaeda and associated individuals and entities. As for the al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), it has 150-200 members in India, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Pakistan and is planning attacks in the region, the report warns. While the AQIS has been active in the region for over a decade, the IS’ entry has been more recent; it was only a year ago that the IS announced its arrival in India with the formation of Hind Wilayah, its so-called Indian province. The presence of IS modules in India came under the scanner soon after the Easter Sunday bombings in Sri Lanka last year that were carried out by a Sri Lankan Islamist terror outfit with help from global jihadists. Several jihadist modules were unearthed in the South Indian states. While some locals left the country to fight in jihadist battlegrounds, others were active locally. Karnataka’s Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the report cites police figures, which means it has nothing new to say. He has also said that the state police has been co-ordinating with the National Investigating Agency to arrest jihadist suspects and monitor modules. However, there can be no room for complacency. Terrorist outfits are like icebergs; just a fraction of their activity is evident to the outside world. Hence, state authorities must remain vigilant to ensure that the potential attacks mentioned in the UN report are averted. In convincing itself and the world that Pakistan is the only source of anti-India terrorism, which incidentally is politically convenient, the Indian establishment has tended to downplay, even overlook, the growing threat of jihadist violence. It must shed its ostrich-like approach to jihadist groups. Importantly, it needs to address the anger and alienation among targeted minorities that could drive them into the arms of global jihadi outfits. Majoritarianism may be popular and fetch electoral victories for the ruling party, but it also endangers national security by pushing alienated youth towards radicalisation and extremism. This cannot be fought by simply arresting a few jihadists every now and then. Only a pluralist and secular India can keep IS and AQIS at bay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/is-threat-must-be-taken-seriously-866482.html
28-07-2020||South||Kerala CM's former secretary M Sivasankar questioned for the third time||Kerala Chief Minster's former principal secretary M Sivasankar was further quizzed for around ten hours by the NIA on Tuesday in Kochi in connection with the terror links of the gold smuggling case. Sources said that so far there was no evidence of Sivasankar intentionally helping the gold smuggling racket involving former employees of the UAE consulate. Hence he is unlikely to be arraigned in the case, but might be made a strong witness in the case registered by the customs and NIA. It was for the third time that Sivasankar was being questioned in length by the NIA. The Customs had also quizzed him. He had admitted his close relationship with the smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh, who was a former executive secretary at the UAE consulate, but maintained that he was unaware of her smuggling activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-former-secretary-m-sivasankar-questioned-for-the-third-time-866602.html
28-07-2020||South||Nine deaths, 1,610 new Covid-19 cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 1,610 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine more deaths, pushing the tally of infections in the state to 57,142. Out of the 1,610 new cases, 531 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) , followed by Ranga Reddy 172, Warangal Urban 152 and Medchal-Malkajgiri 113, a state government bulletin said on Tuesday, providing data as of 8 PM on July 27. With nine more fatalities, the coronavirus toll mounted to 480. The Covid-19 fatality rate in the state was 0.84 per cent, while it was 2.26 per cent at the national level, it said. As many as 42,909 people recovered from the infectious disease so far, while 13,753 were under treatment. The number of individuals in home and institutional isolation was 8,479. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 per cent, it added. According to the bulletin, 15,839 samples were tested on July 27 taking the cumulative to 3.79 lakh. It said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent while the percentage of death due to Covid-19 was 46.13 per cent. The bulletin also said 320 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up in the government sector. The government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. People can contact 9154170960 on whatsapp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals and laboratories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-deaths-1610-new-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-866620.html
28-07-2020||South||Dental, AYUSH doctors to join Kerala's Covid-19 fight; home care also being initiated||Anticipating further spike of Covid-19 in Kerala, the state government is making measures like home care and pooling the service of doctors of other streams like dental and ayurveda for managing the Covid first line treatment centres (CFLTCs). Already 101 CFLTCs with 12,801 beds were set up in the state. In the second phase 229 CFLTCs with 30,598 beds are planned and 480 CFLTCs with 36,400 beds are planned in the third phase. With the manpower availability becoming a major issue, the government decided to make use of service of dental doctors and doctors of the AYUSH department for the CFLTCs. They will be posted as co-team leaders of the health teams in CFLTCs. Service of students who complete medical courses would be also used. They would be given special training. So far around 5,000 patients were admitted to the CFLTCs. The government also decided to start home care for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms patients with mild symptoms. A protocol would be issued soon. Some private hospitals were also planning to offer home care packages for Covid-19 treatment as being done in some other states, said a health department official. A major chunk of the Covid-19 patients in Kerala were asymptomatic or having mild symptoms only. Hence home care option would help in reducing the stress of the health care sector. Moreover the CFLTCs were also having basic infrastructure only like common toilets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dental-ayush-doctors-to-join-keralas-covid-19-fight-home-care-also-being-initiated-866718.html
28-07-2020||South||Customs gets custody of Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair in Kerala gold smuggling case||Two key accused in the sensational Kerala gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair, were on Tuesday sent to five-day Customs custody by a court here. Considering the petition by the Customs department, the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court of Economic Offences here granted it custody of Suresh and Nair till August 1. It directed the Customs to keep Swapna Suresh under the surveillance of a lady Customs officer not below the rank of Superintendent during custody. The Court also observed that it found no harm in positively considering a request by the woman that she may be given an opportunity to interact with her children at least by electronic means in the supervision of an Investigation Officer subject to feasibility. The duo was formally arrested by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate on July 24 when they were produced before the Special NIA Court here as their custody period ended. Suresh and Nair, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Bengaluru on July 11, were subjected to custodial interrogation by the agency earlier. In its plea seeking the custody of the accused, the Customs said the investigation is at infant stage and arrest of more persons named Faizal Fareed and Rabins, who allegedly control smuggling operation, is required for the purpose of future successful investigation. Noting that statements of some high profile people were being recorded by Customs as well as NIA, the Customs said the cross-checking of those statements are essential to test the credibility and also unravel the truth. In a related development, the NIA special court here on Tuesday sent Ramees K T, one of the kingpins in the gold smuggling case, to seven day NIA custody. Ramees, arrested by the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate on July 11 in connection with the case, was formally arrested by the NIA on Monday. Filing the application for 10-day custody of Ramees, the NIA said his custodial interrogation is required to unearth the truth in the case. A detailed probe regarding the gold and money trail of the case is to be conducted in a larger conspiracy in the case. Considering the plea, the NIA Court granted the investigation agency seven-day custody of the accused. Central agencies, including NIA and Customs, are conducting a separate probe into the seizure of gold worth nearly Rs 15 crore from a "diplomatic baggage" at the Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-gets-custody-of-swapna-suresh-sandeep-nair-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-866720.html
28-07-2020||South||The village that went dark to save a bird’s nest, and its hatchlings||For 45 days, a nondescript village in Tamil Nadu’s Sivaganga district went dark without streetlights, setting a new example for kindness. Potthakudi, a village with 120 houses, switched off all 35 streetlights in the hamlet to save the hatchlings of an Indian Robin which built its nest in the main switchboard. The villagers also disconnected power connection from the switchboard to the streetlights to ensure that the bird and its hatchlings do not suffer in any manner. As the bird and its hatchlings left their nest on Saturday, the village got its streetlights back on Sunday after 45 long days. The kindness displayed by the villagers towards a bird and its hatchlings has won over the internet and animal lovers who have been lavishing praise on the people who made this happen. Karuppu Raja, who has been switching on the streetlights at 6 pm every day for over a decade as the switchboard is installed close to his home, was the first to notice the nest that was built by the Indian Robin. A diploma holder, Raja returned to his native village from Singapore, where he was working, in January. A bird lover from his childhood, Raja took pictures and videos of the nest inside the switchboard and shared it on the village WhatsApp group seeking opinion of the villagers on how to save the bird and its hatchlings. “I wrote on WhatsApp that switching off the lights was the only solution because the bird will fly once it realises there is a human touch or contact near its nest. I also told the group that we should save the bird and its hatchlings at any cost,” Raja told DH. Though some people opposed the move saying switch off street lights would cause inconvenience to those villagers, especially women, stepping out in the evening, Raja said majority of the people agreed to his suggestion. “I explained to women and children that so many bird species have become extinct and we should not let Indian Robin go the same way. Women were very cooperative and agreed to the suggestion of switching off the street lights. We also cut off the power supply to ensure nothing happens to the nest,” Raja added. Raja clicked pictures and videos of the Indian Robin and its hatchlings every day and posted them on the WhatsApp group to apprise people on the condition of the bird. That Raja’s father is the president of the gram panchayat also helped him in switching off the street lights. “After 45 days, the Indian Robbin and its hatchlings left their nest. Since Sunday, the lights have been switched on. We are happy that our village could set an example on kindness,” Raja added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/the-village-that-went-dark-to-save-a-bird-s-nest-and-its-hatchlings-866723.html
28-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu to implement biometric system before boarding Centre's One Nation-One Ration Card scheme||The Tamil Nadu government will implement the biometric system at its fair price shops across the state before getting on board the Centre's "One Nation-One Ration Card" scheme, state food and civil supplies minister R Kamaraj said. The biometric system would be launched a month before the implementation of the central scheme, he noted. In May this year, the minister during an interaction with Union Food and Public Distribution Minister Ram Vilas Paswan through video conferencing, had informed the Centre that works for "One Nation One Ration Card" scheme would be completed by September. Kamaraj had said procurement of biometric devices and its integration with PoS (Point of Sale) devices used at ration shops is in advance stage of approval. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a Covid-19 medical camp at Pondi Bazaar in Kodambakkam Zone, the minister said all the employees at the ration shops across Tamil Nadu were being screened for coronavirus once in 14 days. Later, he distributed masks and Siddha 'Kabasura' concoction to the public and sanitary staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-implement-biometric-system-before-boarding-centres-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-866737.html
28-07-2020||South||Seven CBI officers, two accused policemen in Thoothukudi custodial deaths case test positive for Covid-19||Covid-19 has struck the probe into the alleged custodial deaths of a father and his son in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi district. So far, seven sleuths from the CBI, which is investigating the case, and two accused policemen from the Sathankulam police station have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. CBI took over the sensational case from the Tamil Nadu police’s CB-CID wing early this month and swung into action immediately. However, seven sleuths of the central agency are under treatment for Covid-19 after their swab samples returned positive. With this, only one officer handling the case is unaffected by Covid-19. Two accused policemen – one head constable and a constable – who are currently in Madurai Central Jail have also tested positive for the coronavirus, sources said. The CBI admitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday that seven officials of the agency have tested positive for coronavirus. This piece of information was told to the court by a law officer representing the agency during a hearing of the suo motu case on Tuesday. The agency has been asked to file a status report of the case in a sealed cover on August 17. Meanwhile, the CB-CID which handled the investigations initially filed a status report before the court on Tuesday. Jeyaraj and his son Bennix were arrested by police in Sathankulam town, 635 km from here, in Thoothukudi district over an argument on June 19. The father-son duo was allegedly tortured during police custody leading to their deaths, three days later. While Bennix breathed his last on June 22, Jeyaraj died a few hours later in the early hours of June 23. After the Madurai Bench took suo motu cognizance of the case, 10 policemen have been arrested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-cbi-officers-two-accused-policemen-in-thoothukudi-custodial-deaths-case-test-positive-for-covid-19-866739.html
28-07-2020||South||Former Karnataka minister passes away due to coronavirus||Former Karnataka Minister Raja Madangopal Naik has died of Covid-19 at a hospital in Kalaburagi, a health department official said on Tuesday. He was 69 and is survived by his wife and two sons. "He was admitted to the ESIC hospital in Kalaburgi about a week ago and passed away on Monday," the official told PTI. Naik, who had stints in Congress, BJP and the JD(S), was a minister in the Congress government headed by M Veerappa Moily. About a week ago, Naik developed health complications and tested positive for Covid-19, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-karnataka-minister-passes-away-due-to-coronavirus-866752.html
28-07-2020||South||Covid-19 tally in Kerala crosses 20,000-mark, active cases cross 10,000||After a slight decline in fresh Covid-19 cases for two days, Kerala witnessed a higher number of new cases of 1,167 on Tuesday taking the total number of cases to over 20,000 and active cases above 10,000. Four more persons died of Covid-19 in the state taking the total deaths to 67. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that state capital Thiruvananthapuram was facing the most severe situation with a high test positivity rate. One out of every 18 who were tested was found positive, while it was 36:1 in the state. Covid-19 spread was noticed over parts of the district. With 227 more were tested positive on Tuesday, the total Covid-19 cases in the district reached 2,936. The total  Covid-19 cases in the state reached 20,894, of which 10,091 were active now. Though the recovery rates were almost on par with or even higher than the fresh cases during the last few days, on Tuesday the number of Covid-19 patients recovered was comparatively low, 679. Wayanad district that had been able to contain the local spread of Covid-19 till recently was now under the grip of a local spread as over 50 got infected through contacts with persons who attended a funeral. All the four Covid-19 deaths reported on Tuesday, including Kasargod native Abdul Rahman, 70, were aged above 65.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-tally-in-kerala-crosses-20000-mark-active-cases-cross-10000-866762.html
28-07-2020||South||'Patient not provided bed in 30 minutes at Covid-19 hospitals to be treated as grave crime'||Denial of admittance to patients in a Covid-19 care hospital will be treated as a very serious crime, warned Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy. Reddy ordered that a bed to the needy person should be provided within half an hour of approaching the hospital. Last week, a meagre wage earner died at the Anantapuram government general hospital, after allegedly refused admission by the staff. The middle-aged person having breathing difficulty and his wife, daughter who brought him there took shelter under a tree. Deprived of medical attention, the man died a few hours later. On Tuesday, the chief minister appealed to the hospital authorities, doctors to show compassion in this pandemic situation. At the same time, Reddy forewarned that the collectors, joint collectors of the respective districts where such complaints arise, would be held directly accountable.     Andhra Pradesh crosses one lakh Covid-19 cases Andhra Pradesh has been adding new cases and deaths in shocking numbers lately. It surpassed the one lakh mark in Covid-19 cases on Monday. The death tally breached the 1000 figure a day before. The record high addition was 8,147 cases, on 24 July. With 7,948 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, total cases in the state are 1,10,297, out of which 56,527 are active. 1,148 people have succumbed to the virus and co-morbidities, till now. Reddy’s Tuesday review of the Coronavirus scenario comes in the wake of these alarming statistics. “A patient saying that he is rejected a bed questions our humanitarian, societal conscience. No hospital should ever say that there is no bed. I am very categorical about this,” the chief minister instructed officials. Health officials informed that, as of now, about 32,000 beds are made available in 128 district Covid-19 hospitals, and 8,000 odd beds in the state level hospitals. Despite the absence of major corporate hospitals in AP, the death rate is under control with only 1.04% mortality, whereas the national average rate is 2.25%, officials said. Andhra Pradesh has conducted 17.5 lakh Covid-19 tests till Tuesday morning, with an average of 32,761 tests per a million population.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/patient-not-provided-bed-in-30-minutes-at-covid-19-hospitals-to-be-treated-as-grave-crime-866797.html
28-07-2020||South||Last surviving daughter of Nizam of Hyderabad no more||Sahebzadi Basheerunnisa Begum, the last surviving daughter of Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, the last ruler of the erstwhile Hyderabad State, passed away at her residence here on Tuesday. She was 93 and is survived by her only daughter. She died of natural causes, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, the Nizam's grandson said. "The last of all the surviving children of the seventh Nizam of Hyderabad, HEH Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan Bahadur has passed away. It is a big loss to the family as Sahebzadi Basheer Unnissa Begum Saheba was an epitome of Hyderabadi culture, tradition and values," Khan, also the president of Nizam Family Welfare Association, said in a statement. Born in September 1927, Basheerunnisa Begum was married to Nawab Kazim Nawaz Jung, better known as Ali Pasha", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/last-surviving-daughter-of-nizam-of-hyderabad-no-more-866807.html
28-07-2020||South||Weddings, funerals increasing Covid-19 case load in Kerala||With weddings and funeralsturning out to be Covid-19 spreaders in some places, the Kerala government on Tuesday said a maximum of 20 people would only be allowed to participate in these events. Taking a serious view of over 70 people being infected after attending a marriage and a funeral in Kozhikode and Wayanaad districts recently, the government has decided to restrict the number of those attending such events, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Hereafter, only 20 people can participate in marriages and funerals, he told reporters here. Earlier, the cap on attendees at marriages and funerals was 50. In Chekkiad panchayat in Kozhikode, more than 30 people who had participated in a wedding of a doctor onJuly9 tested positive later, Vijayan said.  The groom was among those who had tested positive. Vadakara MP, K Muraleedharan, had also attended the previous day's functionand was asked by the Kozhikode Collector to go on quarantine. In Wayanad's Thavinhal panchayat, eight members of a family, who had participated in a funeral, were found positive for the virus on July 19. Following this, authorities tested 210 other people who came in contact with them and totally 43 were found infected, the chief minister said. The tests are continuing and would be held on Wednesday also, district health department sources told PTI. The panchayat has been declared as a containment zone. Vijayan also said three health workers of Kozhikode Medical College Hospital tested positive following which it has been decided to test all workers. Noting that 12 migrant workers who had returned to the state were found infected in Kozhikode district, he said those coming back should give their details to the district labour officer. Instructions had been issued in this regard, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/weddings-funerals-increasing-covid-19-case-load-in-kerala-866839.html
28-07-2020||State||Rajugouda unlikely to accept KUWSDB chairman||Surpur MLA Rajugouda is unlikely to accept the chairmanship of Karnataka State Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board as he is keen on becoming minister, said a source.  Rajugouda said, "he is under self-quarantine after seven people in Kodekal tested positive for Covid-19.  After quarantine period came to an end, I will meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and will discuss with him", he told media persons.  "I am unaware of appointing me as chairman of a board. It should have been given to a leader of the constituency", he opined giving an hint to reject his appointment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rajugouda-unlikely-to-accept-kuwsdb-chairman-866512.html
28-07-2020||State||Karnataka government drops chapter on Tipu Sultan from Class 7 book||The state government's decision to trim the textbooks for this academic year 2020-21 in the backdrop of delay in commencing the academic year due to Covid-19 pandemic has led to the exit of chapter on Tipu Sultan--the 'Tiger of Mysuru' from the textbooks of Class 7. However, the government has decided to retain similar chapters on Tipu Sultan in 6th and 10th Classes. Coping with the pandemic and trying to balance the syllabus with the remaining period of the academic year, the education department has recently trimmed the syllabus in text books for all classes from 1 to 10th. Currently text books in 6th, 7th and 10th grades have chapters on Tipu Sultan. The trimmed textbooks uploaded on the website of the Department of State Education Research and Training (DSERT) by Karnataka state Textbook Society revealed removal of chapters on Tipu Sultan for the seventh grade. Justifying the decision, officials said, "students study similar chapters in Class 6 and more in the 10th grade." Yet another senior official from the Text Book Society said, "Trimming does not mean we have removed half of the syllabus from textbooks. It is only keeping in mind the repetition we have condensed the chapters. In case students study about a particular dynasty in higher grades, then the same had been removed from lower grades." A few months ago, there was an uproar over dropping of content on Tipu Sultan and MLAs from the ruling BJP also demanded the same and petitioned to the Chief Minister. Even an expert committee led by Prof Baraguru Ramachandrappa suggested to not drop any content on the historic figure. However, the department still decided to drop lessons from one of the classes while keeping the syllabus short for the next 120 active academic days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-drops-chapter-on-tipu-sultan-from-class-7-book-866603.html
28-07-2020||State||Congress is another name for horse-trading: H D Kumaraswamy||"Congress is another name for horse-trading" said JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Tuesday as he slammed the party's erstwhile state ally for its nationwide "Save Democracy" campaign against the BJP, accusing it of trying to topple democratically elected governments. The former Chief Minister said Congress is an expert in dividing political parties and purchasing MLAs. In fact, the term horse-trading in politics came to be in use because of it, he said. "Congress has launched a nation-wide Save Democracy, campaign against the BJP which is buying MLAs to topple democratically elected governments. What has Congress done it? Haven't they lured all BSP MLAs who supported the Congress to form the government in Rajasthan? Is this not a buyout?" Kumaraswamy asked. In a statement, he sought to know whether luring MLAs of the party which supported them through political shenanigans and merging the party which supported them was democratic behaviour. "If you are dividing like-minded party MLAs supporting (you) through deceit, who would support you? Are these mistakes not visible to you?" he asked the Congress. In a politically significant development in Rajasthan, all six Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs had merged the legislative party with the Congress in September last year. Kumaraswamy also reminded the Congress, which was crying hoarse about purchase of MLAs, that it had divided the JD(S) in Karnataka in the past. "Haven't they made attempts to divide? Is it not a fact that for the sake of one Rajya Sabha seat, the Congress government in Karnataka purchased eight JD(S) MLAs? Is this democracy? Both parties (Congress and BJP) are criminals in purchase matters." Eight JD(S) MLAs had voted against the party's official candidate and supported Congress in the biennial elections to Rajya Sabha from Karnataka in 2016. "When S M Krishna was the CM (of Karnataka), didn't the Congress buy our MLAs? Didn't the Congress conspire to form a government after the 2018 Assembly polls by buying our MLAs? Does Congress have the moral courage to answer these questions?" Kumaraswamy asked. In 2004, the Congress tried to divide JD(S), he said, adding that to avoid the party being hijacked by them, he had to oust the Dharam Singh led Congress-JD(S) coalition government through a political coup. Noting that the Anti Defection Law is not effective because of which these "anti-democratic farces" are being enacted, Kumaraswamy said it is imperative to make those who defect and their family members not contest elections at least for two terms, besides disqualifying them from holding any office. "Let there be a debate on this. Let democracy survive," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-is-another-name-for-horse-trading-h-d-kumaraswamy-866714.html
28-07-2020||State||HC notice to govt on 25% domicile reservation in NLSIU||The Karnataka High Court has issued notice to the state government in a writ petition challenging 25% domicile reservation in the National Law School of India University (NLSIU). Justice Krishna S Dixit also issued notices to the Ministry of Human Resources Development, The Bar Council of India and the NLSIU. The petitioner is Balachandar Krishnan (17-year-old) who had applied to appear for the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The petitioner has challenged the provisions in the National Law School of India (Amendment) Act 2020. The Act was published in the official gazette on April 27, 2020.   The Act provides 25% horizontal institutional preference for students from any recognised institution in Karnataka. The petitioner contended that the Act was arbitrary and ultra vires the constitution of India. “The Act fails to satisfy the twin test of reasonable classification within the contours of Article 14 of the constitution,’’ the petition stated. The petitioner contended that the National law School was neither a government educational institution nor was it receiving any aid from the government, and thus cannot be subject to reservation. The petitioner stated that as per the orders of the Supreme Court’s constitution bench, the state cannot reserve any seats in unaided educational institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-notice-to-govt-on-25-domicile-reservation-in-nlsiu-866780.html
28-07-2020||State||Female corona warriors to get two sarees||The state government will procure six lakh sarees from the weavers and distribute two each to women corona warriors, Handloom and Textile Minister Srimanth Patil hassaid. “The weavers in the state are in trouble as they could not to sell their products during lockdown. The government has decided to purchase this stock and distribute two sarees to anganwadi workers, Asha workers and woman corona warriors,” the minister said. He was speaking to reporters here onTuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/female-corona-warriors-to-get-two-sarees-866782.html
28-07-2020||State||High court dismisses plea to transfer Amulya case to NIA||The Karnataka High Court has dismissed a PIL seeking transfer of the investigation against student Amulya Leona to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The city police are investigating a case of sedition against Amulya on charges of raising the ‘Pakistan Zindabad’ slogan at an anti-CAA protest last year. The petition was initially filed before a single judge bench of the High Court after a Magistrate Court granted default bail to Amulya since the police had not filed the chargesheet within the stipulated time. The matter was placed before a division bench. The petition contended that the investigation has not been properly conducted and therefore, it should be entrusted to NIA. “Looking into the nature of allegations made in the FIR, we do not think that this is a case where extraordinary jurisdiction is to be initiated and entrusted to NIA. In a writ petition in the nature of the PIL, it is not possible to consider the prayer enjoining the respondents to apply for cancellation of bail of the accused,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/high-court-dismisses-plea-to-transfer-amulya-case-to-nia-866784.html
28-07-2020||State||Ban on tourist stay in Kodagu lifted||The resorts, homestays, hotels and lodges in Kodagu will be open for tourists from Wednesday as the district administration has relaxed the restrictions on hospitality sector. However, visit to Abbey Falls, Raja Seat, Irpu Falls and other tourist spots is banned. Tourism activities were banned in the district during the lockdown imposed for curbing the spread of Covid-19. Though hospitality sector was opened for tourists after the unlock, the district administration banned tourist stay in homestays and resorts after Covid cases went up in the district. An order issued by the deputy commissioner said that visitors from other districts should not travel to any place in the district without proper reason. Further, visitors from other states and foreign countries shall have to be in quarantine for 14 days compulsorily. The tourists can stay only in the registered homestays. Meanwhile, Mysuru deputy commisioner Abhiram G Sankar said that restrictions on tourists visiting HD Kote and surrounding areas have been withdrawn, with effect from July 24. "In accordance with a recent government order, it is decided to restart activities in areas outside containment zones," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ban-on-tourist-stay-in-kodagu-lifted-866785.html
28-07-2020||State||Quota in promotions: SC to hear review plea tomorrow||The Supreme Court has now fixed July 30 as the date to consider a review plea of the May 10, 2019 judgement, which has upheld the validity of the Karnataka’s 2018 law for granting reservation in promotion to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees. A bench of Justice U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud was earlier scheduled to take up the review petitions by B K Pavitra and KPTCL General Category Association and others in their chamber on June 16. However, the order posted on the Supreme Court’s website on Tuesday, indicated that the matter would now be taken up on Thursday, July 30. According to the SC Rules, a review petition is considered inside judges’ chamber through circulation of documents sans presence of counsel. In their plea, over 100 general category petitioners led by B K Pavitra contended the judgement by the two-judge bench of Justices Lalit and Chandrachud has “totally upset and diluted” the settled criteria to determine the nature, extent and purpose of reservation in the entire state of Karnataka. It was also contrary to the law laid down by the Constitution benches in the Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018) cases. The petition drawn by advocate Kumar Parimal and settled by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan stated that the court has overlooked the individual right of equality as envisaged under Article 14 and 16(1) of the Constitution by deducing the conclusion by combining together the data of representation in different groups and services. ‘Merit as a principle’ Among others, the petitioners stated Pavitra II totally ignored the submissions on efficiency, saying “Merit as a principle of selection between all candidates including SC and ST inter se is quite different from meritocracy. As a principle of selection it simply underlines best person for thejob.” On May 10, the top court dismissed a batch of petition filed by Pavitra and others against the validity of ‘the Karnataka Extension of Consequential Seniority to Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (To the Posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, 2018’, passed to “circumvent” the 2017 verdict, then delivered on petitions by Pavitra and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/quota-in-promotions-sc-to-hear-review-plea-tomorrow-866787.html
28-07-2020||State||Denied hospital bed, woman dies in Kalaburagi||Close on the heels of two people of Kalaburagi breathing their last after they failed to get ventilator in hospital, a 46-year-old woman died on Tuesday after struggling to get a bed with ventilator. The deceased has been identified as Shantabai Akushakhane, a resident of the town. The family members said the deceased who was suffering from breathlessness, was taken to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (Gims). But the staff allegedly denied admission saying there is no bed with ventilator. "We got the same reply from the ESIC hospital also. We made rounds of some private hospitals only to be turned away. Finally, the woman breathed her last. The hospitals are sending the patients back citing lack of ventilators as a reason. The woman could not get treatment till afternoon," the kin alleged. Throat swab sample of the woman has been collected for Covid-19 test. The result is yet to arrive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/denied-hospital-bed-woman-dies-in-kalaburagi-866829.html
28-07-2020||State||Rumblings of leadership change in Karnataka, state to get new CM?||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa — who has his back to the wall battling the pandemic — is in the centre of political chatter as attempts are said to be underway to dethrone him, with his ambitious deputy Laxman Savadi camping in Delhi to meet the BJP top brass to set the ball rolling.  Though Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar dismissed the talk, another BJP leader said, "There is no smoke without fire." Savadi landed in Delhi on Monday when Yediyurappa celebrated one year in office, and has been meeting party senior leaders to impress upon the need to replace the CM. He is not alone in the race as Union Minister Pralhad Joshi also met party leaders and huddled with over 45 north Karnataka MLAs at Hubballi recently, sources said. Savadi — who is said to have the backing of BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh, Yediyurappa’s bete noire — has claimed to have the support of a sizable number of MLAs. That Savadi, who lost the 2018 assembly polls, was made deputy CM was seen as the party trying to nurse him as its Lingayat face to succeed Yediyurappa. Indeed the party top brass here also caught by surprise when Yediyurappa to appointed 24 MLAs as chairpersons for boards and corporations on Monday. One faction of north Karnataka MLAs, who are miffed with the administration, is said to be pushing for Joshi, a Brahmin, as a ‘consensus candidate’ for the top post. However, the caste equation is still under scrutiny, especially if it is to rub Yediyurappa the wrong way.  Yediyurappa, who sensed possible attempt by Laxman Savadi to dislodge him, appointed MLAs to key posts who are not loyal to him. "By appointing some of MLAs, who are not loyal to him, the CM tried to keep legislators in good book," said a leader in the BJP. While Joshi was not available for comment, Savadi, the transport minister, claimed that he came to meet union ministers to get various pending projects cleared.  There is also speculation that the party might ask Yediyurappa to step down as the CM in exchange for a gubernatorial position and a key post for his younger son B Y Vijayendra. It was to preempt any possible coup that Yediyurappa appointed 20 legislators to various boards and corporations, hoping to keep them in good books. "No smoke without fire. There is a talk of change in leadership," said a leader from Yediyurappa’s camp.  Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who also figures in speculation as a CM contender, ruled out the possibility of any such development. "The post of chief minister is not vacant," said Shettar, a Lingayat and a former CM. He added that social media messages projecting Savadi as the next CM should not be taken seriously. He also played down the disgruntlement over boards/corporations appointments. Sources say that though the central leadership is keen on changing the CM, removing Yediyurappa is tricky. “Doing so especially in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic will send a wrong message,” a senior leader said.  Some manoeuvring to placate disgruntled leaders will be likely during the impending Cabinet rejig — some ministers might be dropped to make way for others. Eight-time MLA Umesh Katti, who led the rebellion threat over the past year, is expected to find a place in the Cabinet. Though 77-year-old Yediyurappa crossed 75- year age limit fixed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold any administrative post in central or state governments, the party top brass earlier said there will be some exceptions. When Yediyurapa appointed as Chief Minister last year July after toppling JD (S)-Congress coalition government, the party top leaders indeed said Lingayat leader will continue to complete his entire term as the CM. Even Yediyurappa during his interaction with media on completion of one year on Monday also insisted that he will continue as the CM till his term ends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rumblings-of-leadership-change-in-karnataka-state-to-get-new-cm-866834.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka Postal dept takes rakhi online||To ensure that the Covid-19 pandemic in the state does not dampen the Raksha Bandhan celebrations on August 3, the Karnataka Postal Department has launched an online 'Rakhi Post'. By registering online and paying Rs 100, one will now be able to send rakhis to different destinations across the country from the state without stepping out. “India Post has arranged to deliver rakhis and personalised messages in a special Rakhi cover by speed post anywhere in the country. Attractive designs are available to choose from and options for a standard message (personalized with your name) can be picked. A photo of your own message, in any language, can also be uploaded. A colour print of your message will accompany the Rakhi,” said N Sriharsha, Mangaluru Division Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (SSPO). There is also an option of sending rakhis to the brave soldiers guarding India's borders in Ladakh using the option “Message for Soldier". People can track the status of their Rakhis through the speed post tracking number that will be communicated after dispatch, he added. There is only limited stock of rakhis available and bookings are open till July 31. The payment can be made using internet banking, IPPB of the postal department, Google Pay, Bhim App, PhonePe, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-postal-dept-takes-rakhi-online-866578.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks Karnataka government to reconsider KCET dates amid rising Covid-19 cases||The Karnataka High Court has directed the state government to reconsider the dates of KCET (Karnataka Common Entrance Test) 2020, scheduled on July 30 and 31. The High Court has asked the State Government to place its decision by 2.30 pm on Wednesday. A division bench of the High Court comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice H P Sandesh observed that unlike in the SSLC examination,  students do not have a second CET test. Two PILs challenged the May 13, 2020 notification announcing CET 2020 examinations. The bench asked the state government whether any provision in the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) allows students living in Containment Zones to venture out. The bench said that there has been a drastic change in the situation after May 13, the day the notification was e-gazetted. More than 5,000 positive cases are reported across the state daily and more than 2,000 cases are being detected in the city of Bengaluru in a day. The bench also asked the state government to consider that there are more than 5,000 Containment Zones (CZ) in Bengaluru city alone, besides CZs in other cities. "There is drastic change in the situation every day. We direct the state to immediately re-consider the decision of conducting the CET considering these aspects….We are sure that the state will take into considerations various aspects and possibilities of some of the students missing the examination due to serious situation prevailing in the state and in the city of Bengaluru in particular,’’ the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-karnataka-government-to-reconsider-kcet-dates-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-866649.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC to consider review plea on July 30 on verdict upholding Karnataka law on quota in promotion for SC/STs||The Supreme Court has now fixed July 30 as the date to consider a review plea of the May 10, 2019 judgement, which has upheld the validity of the Karnataka's 2018 law for granting reservation in promotion to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees. A bench of Justice U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud was earlier scheduled to take up the review petitions by B K Pavitra and KPTCL General Category Association and others in their chamber on June 16. However, the order posted on the Supreme Court's website on Tuesday, indicated that the matter would now be taken up on Thursday, July 30. According to the SC Rules, a review petition is considered inside judges chamber through circulation of documents sans presence of counsel. In their plea, over 100 general category petitioners led by B K Pavitra contended the judgement by the two-judge bench of Justices Lalit and Chandrachud has “totally upset and diluted” the settled criteria to determine the nature, extent and purpose of reservation in the entire state of Karnataka. It was also contrary to the law laid down by the Constitution benches in the Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018) cases. The verdict has sought to “re-write the law of reservation defying the reasonable balance which the Supreme Court followed for the last 70 years”, their plea has stated. The petition drawn by advocate Kumar Parimal and settled by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan stated that the court has overlooked the individual right of equality as envisaged under Article 14 and 16(1) of the Constitution by deducing the conclusion by combining together the data of representation in different groups and services.  “The relevance of transformative constitutionalism in the present context is entirely unclear unless it was towards a new interpretation to unsettle binding decisions. Pavitra II has done a dis-service to the principles of constitutional transformation in quota reservations by invoking them as rhetoric,” they said. Among others, the petitioners stated Pavitra II totally ignored the submissions on efficiency, saying “Merit as a principle of selection between all candidates including SC and ST inter se is quite different from meritocracy. As a principle of selection it simply underlines best person for the job.” On May 10, the top court had dismissed a batch of petition filed by Pavitra and others against the validity of 'the Karnataka Extension of Consequential Seniority to Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (To the Posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, 2018', passed to “circumvent” the 2017 verdict, then delivered on petitions by Pavitra and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-to-consider-review-plea-on-july-30-on-verdict-upholding-karnataka-law-on-quota-in-promotion-for-sc/sts-866705.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||IAS transfers: Labour Department chief M Maheshwar Rao transferred again, replaced with Rajkumar Khatri||In a major reshuffle in the bureaucracy, the state government transferred over a dozen IAS officers on Tuesday. Yet again, the post of labour secretary has become a musical chair with the government transferring M Maheshwar Rao out to bring in Rajkumar Khatri. This is the third time Rao has been transferred out as the labour secretary. He was first appointed to the post in May, only to be moved again and replaced by Khatri. In June, Rao was brought back. The latest transfer of Rao, who is also MSME secretary, comes after the government approved an ordinance to make industry-friendly amendments to labour laws. In fact, activists had cried foul, saying Rao holding charge of MSMEs and labour was a conflict of interest. Khatri, the additional chief secretary for agriculture, will hold concurrent charge of the labour department. Additional Chief Secretary (women & child development) N Nagambika Devi has been placed in concurrent charge of social welfare, replacing G Kumar Naik who is in charge of enforcing Covid-19 SOPs for containment zones in Bengaluru. In other transfers, the government appointed Rajendra KV as the deputy commissioner of Dakshina Kannada, Pommala Sunil Kumar of Vijayapura and Kavitha S Mannikeri of Chitradurga districts. Other postings are as follows: Manoj Jain, special commissioner (planning), BBMP; Rajendra Cholan P, special commissioner (finance & IT), BBMP; R Vinoth Priya, director, MSME; BR Mamatha, additional mission director, Sakala Mission; Sindhu B Rupesh, director, electronic delivery of citizen services; Darshan HV, CEO, Belagavi Zilla Panchayat; HN Gopala Krishna, managing director, Mysuru Sugar Company Ltd; Patil Yalagouda Shivanagouda, joint director, Administrative Training Institute, Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ias-transfers-labour-department-chief-m-maheshwar-rao-transferred-again-replaced-with-rajkumar-khatri-866734.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Postal dept takes online route to deliver rakhis||With Raksha Bandhan falling on August 3, the postal department has launched an online ‘Rakhi Post,’ to deliver rakhis anywhere in India amid Covid-19. Now one can pay Rs 100 using a mobile phone and can send rakhi to various destinations in the country. “The India Post has arranged to deliver rakhis and personalised message in a special Rakhi Cover by speed post anywhere in India,” said Mangaluru Division Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (SSPO) N Sriharsha. The platform offers attractive designs to choose from and options for a message (personalised with your name) or a photo of your message, in any language, to be uploaded. A colour print of the message and the Rakhi will be delivered to the address you want it to be sent. It also offers an option ‘Message for Soldier’ through one can send Rakhis to soldiers in Ladakh. “People can also track the status of the post through the tracking number, which will be communicated to after dispatch, he said. To book Rakhi, use the link: https://karnatakapost.gov.in/Rakhi_Post/Bookings are open till July 31, and the payment can be made using internet banking, IPPB of the postal department, Google Pay, Bhim App, PhonePe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/postal-dept-takes-online-route-to-deliver-rakhis-866814.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Zoo authority to launch mobile app for donations||The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) is all set to launch a mobile phone application ‘Zoos of Karnataka’, to enable the people to contribute for conservation education, rescue, relief and rehabilitation of wild animals. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile royal family, will dedicate the app online, at 11 am on Wednesday, on the occasion of World Tiger Day. State Minister for Forest, Environment and Ecology Anand Singh will be present. It is a virtual event and those interested can join virtually, through smartphones or laptops, by clicking the link https://meet.google.com/fik-xrnb-hfw. B P Ravi, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, said, “The app will be useful in online animal adoption and donations to all nine zoos of Karnataka, for any amount starting from Rs 50.” He said, “Zoos are an integral parts of the national conservation strategy. Since the advent of Covid-19, all institutions and organisations, including zoos, that thrived on the support of people are badly affected. People stopped visiting zoos, the much-needed revenue, in the form of entry fee, stopped.” “The zoos under ZAK used to attract about 65 lakh visitors annually. In the year 2019-2020, about Rs 60 crore was realised from the entry fee from 62.5 lakh visitors. Due to the dip in the visitors’ numbers, during the current financial year, only about Rs 50 lakh was realised. However, animal maintenance expenses and salaries of staff remain the same,” said Ravi, also member secretary of ZAK. “S T Somasekhar, Cooperation and Mysuru District In-charge Minister, took special interest in the animal adoption scheme of Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) and helped to mobilise Rs 3.5 crore from his friends, supporters and people of his constituency, as well as from the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (AKKA). So far, ZAK has collected Rs 4.25 crore as donations, in the current year, from all nine zoos,” he said. “There were queries about animal adoption and contribution on the social media. There was talk about the need for an easy mode of adoption and contribution to all zoos of the state. People often asked, how can we be a part of the conservation efforts? Can we contribute Rs 50 or Rs 100? All these years, the zoos under ZAK, survived due to the support of the people. Thus, in order to facilitate the general public and animal lovers, ‘Zoos of Karnataka’ mobile app has been developed. It is available on Google Play Store and Apple Store,” Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/zoo-authority-to-launch-mobile-app-for-donations-866815.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid care train coaches will be govt’s last option||As many as 320 railway coaches that were converted into Covid care centres with a capacity of 2,560 beds will remain idle for two more months as the state government has decided to use them only in the worst-case scenario.  The South Western Railway (SWR) spent Rs 30,000 on each coach, and readied 320 of them by the first week of May. Each coach can accommodate eight to 16 patients depending on how many tiers are used.  The government had to only appoint nodal officers to requisition the trains and the necessary manpower. But not a single coach has been used so far.  The SWR had agreed to depute paramedics and provide oxygen cylinders and other necessary items in the coaches, besides planning the segregation of biomedical waste.  An official in the SWR said they were ready to deploy the coaches whenever the government wanted them. “But as of now, we haven’t received any official request. We can make the necessary arrangements within a few hours of getting the request,” the official added.  Asked why the government was not utilising the coaches, a senior official attributed it to the “reluctance” of doctors and healthcare workers. “Many doctors say it’s difficult to access, and move around in, the coaches while wearing the PPP equipment. We have told the government that the coaches should be used only when we exhaust the beds elsewhere,” he said.  Meanwhile, a task force headed by IAS officer Rajender Kumar Kataria has been taking over public halls and hostels so as to convert them into Covid care centres.  Apart from setting up nearly 3,000 beds in nine centres, the government opened the country’s largest Covid facility at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC) on Monday. About 5,000 beds are available in the initial phase, and there’s room for scaling up the infrastructure as and when the need arises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-care-train-coaches-will-be-govt-s-last-option-866816.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Special filters suck out virus in cabin, assure airlines||How safe is air travel in Covid times since the cabin is a confined space? As this anxiety lowers flight occupancy rates, international airlines are now beckoning travelers with a safety fix: High Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filters that are claimed to suck out 99% of airborne contaminants in the cabin. Leading the information campaign is Emirates with this statement: “Cabin air is extracted into the air conditioning unit through HEPA filters that remove 99.9% of microscopic particles such as bacteria viruses, and fungi from the air-as effective as the filters used in hospital operation theatres.” Much before the Covid-19 outbreak, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) had come out with a briefing on HEPA in 2018: “The risk on airplanes is probably lower than in many confined spaces as modern airplanes have cabin air filtration systems equipped with HEPA filters. These have similar performance to those used to keep the air clean in hospital operating rooms and industrial clean rooms.” Despite the resumption of domestic flights on May 25, occupancy rates in most Indian airlines have remained low. Uncertainty and anxiety over the virus presence in enclosed spaces and the complex safety precautions were contributing factors. So, how does the HEPA filters work? Once the cabin air is sucked into the AC unit through HEPA filters, the contaminants are removed. “The cleaned and filtered cabin air is then mixed with fresh air drawn in from out. This mixed air is circulated back into the cabin at the right pressure and temperature for passenger comfort,” explained an Emirates statement. The air circulates downwards from the ceiling to the floor to minimise the movement of particles along the cabin. “The air is completely changed every two to three minutes even more frequently than in a hospital.” Based on inputs from Airbus and Boeing, IATA had explained earlier that the cabin air system is designed to operate most efficiently by delivering approximately 50% outside air and 50% filtered, recirculated air. “This normally provides between 15 to 20 cubic feet of total air supply per minute per person in economy class.” The majority of modern, large, and commercial aircraft that use the recirculation-type cabin air system have HEPA filters. According to Emirates, the Boeing 777 has eight filters, while the Airbus 380 has 18 or 19 filters based on configuration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/special-filters-suck-out-virus-in-cabin-assure-airlines-866817.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Clinical trial of Coronavirus herbal drug to begin at Bengaluru hospital||A herbal drug repurposed for Covid-19 will soon be tested on 45 mildly and moderately symptomatic patients in the city.  HCG Hospital is collaborating with ayurvedic drug maker Dyuthi Biosciences for the clinical trial in which three Bengaluru hospitals have shown interest.  Four Covid patients who were given the drug on a compassionate basis in the past two weeks are said to have become asymptomatic at the end of the day, and tested negative four days later. They were given nine doses of three tablets at an interval of six hours between each tablet.  Dr Vishal Rao, co-author of the study and Associate Dean, Research and Academics, HCG, said the hospital was being helped by Elsevier, an international publisher of scientific journals, in the pursuit of a Covid drug. “It’s easier to repurpose drugs than to invent new ones that would take years to hit the market,” he explained.  According to Dr Rao, they collaborated with a UK-based intensivist to repurpose the drug, especially herbs, and studied molecules that target the spike protein of SARS-Cov-2 or the ACE2 receptor. The spike protein is the tentacle that the novel coronavirus uses to enter the human body. An active ingredient in common drugs, such as paracetamol and complex oncology drugs, is one or the other herb. Certain herbs have anti-Covid properties, he said.  The UK-based intensivist said on the condition of anonymity: “The trial has three control arms with 15 patients each. The drug is effective in nine doses or three tablets. The patient’s symptoms went away in a day and s/he became negative at the end of four days.”  The first woman to take nine tablets for three days tested negative on the fourth day. “The package has 60 tablets, so we asked her to finish the course. All four patients tested negative on the fourth day and their symptoms drastically reduced in a day,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/clinical-trial-of-coronavirus-herbal-drug-to-begin-at-bengaluru-hospital-866818.html
28-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hike subsidy for electric buses under FAME- II: K'taka to Centre||Transport Minister Laxman S Savadi on Monday requested Union Environment, Forests and Heavy Industries Minister Prakash Javadekar to restructure and increase FAME II subsidy to procure electric buses for BMTC. Savadi met Javadekar here and submitted a memorandum, requesting him to reduce the sanctioned 300 electric buses under FAME-II scheme to the state and increase the subsidy amount to Rs 1 crore on the lines of FAME-I. FAME (Faster Adoptation and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicle in India) is a centrally sponsored scheme, implemented by Ministry of Heavy Industries, to promote electric and hybrid vehicles in public transport system. The scheme was implemented in two phases FAME-I and FAME-II. Under FAME-II, the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) was selected to receive the capital expenditure subsidy to procure 300 electricbuses. Despite the BMTC issuing Request For Proposal (RFP) to procure buses, due to high quotation for the bid, the transport company was forced to reissue tender, making it more attractive, Savadi said in a memorandum. Like FAME I, the subsidy amount should be increased to Rs 1 crore in FAME-II also, the minister said in the memorandum. Later speaking to reporters, Savadi said the government has decided to instal GPS system in all buses to improve efficiency and for better monitoring of their movement. Several steps have been taken to reduce expenditure on diesel, including giving incentives to drivers for saving diesel, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hike-subsidy-for-electric-buses-under-fame-ii-ktaka-to-centre-866819.html
28-07-2020||West||Maharashtra CM calls for integrated Covid-19 treatment protocol||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed health officials to form an integrated Covid-19 treatment procedure by discussing Allopathy, Homeopathy, Ayurveda and Unani medicine streams. Thackeray gave these directions after representatives of various medicine streams made a presentation before him. Besides the CM, Health department principal secretary Pradeep Vyas, Ayush treatment committee chairman Tatyarao Lahane and other officials were present. "Two sets of instructions can be formed for the state task force, which will issue them for public usage. Prevention and treatment will be the two categories in which inputs from various treatment methods will be included," Thackeray said. The COVID-19 case tally in Maharashtra stood at 3,83,723 as on Monday with 13,883 fatalities so far, according to state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-calls-for-integrated-covid-19-treatment-protocol-866504.html
28-07-2020||West||As cases mount, Pune to get three massive hospitals||With Covid-19 positive cases and fatalities rising in Pune, the Maharashtra government has decided to open three massive hospitals in the city.  The total cases in Pune city and district combined now stands over 78,000 and deaths around 1,850. At a review meeting, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar,  who is the Guardian Minister of Pune district, asked the authorities to set up three jumbo hospitals on the lines of the ones in Mumbai. Pune's divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar made a detailed presentation to Pawar. "We need to break the chain. Considering the scenario we have to take rapid steps. We need to have more Covid facilities...patients should get the beds," said Pawar who is also the Finance and Planning Minister. An 800-bed facility is coming up at the Balewadi Sports Complex that is being constructed by the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The other places that are being considered are Baburao Sanas Sports Ground, College of Engineering and Sangvi.  According to officials, each facility will have 800 beds, of which 600 will have oxygen facilities and 200 ICU beds. Saurabh Rao, the officer on special duty in divisional commissioner's office, said that while scouting for locations several factors are being taken into account like power and water supply, connectivity and gradient level. Officials said that there are a total of 24,194 beds that are available without oxygen. Nearly 3,500 beds have oxygen facilities and/or ventilators. By the end of the month,  the projection is nearly 27,000 new cases and it may go up in the first fortnight of August. In view of this, the bed strength is being ramped up. The first Covid-19 positive case in Maharashtra was reported on 9 March in Pune,  when a couple with travel history to Dubai had tested positive. The Pune district, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) which form the Pune metropolitan region (PMR) is a Covid-19 hotspot like Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-cases-mount-pune-to-get-three-massive-hospitals-866593.html
28-07-2020||West||Covid-19: 1st mother-child vertical transmission case in Pune||The Sassoon General Hospital here in Maharashtra has claimed to have reported the country's first case of 'vertical transmission' of the coronavirus infection from a mother to her child through the placenta. Vertical transmission takes place when the baby is in the uterus. If the mother is infected, the transmission of the virus takes place through the placenta- an organ that develops in the uterus during pregnancy and provides oxygen and nutrients to your growing baby. Explaining the phenomena, Sassoon General Hospital's paediatrics department head Dr Aarti Kinikar told PTI on Tuesday that when a person contracts the infection, it is mainly because of some contact with fomites. If the mother is infected, the baby can be infected post-natally because of breastfeeding or any other contacts. So, in layman's language, the baby does not have an infection at birth, but acquires it after three to four days, she said. "Whereas vertical transmission means when the baby is in the uterus itself and the mother has an infection, (she may be) either symptomatic or asymptomatic, and she can transfer the infection through the placenta to the baby," she said. Dr Kinikar said in the present case, which was quite challenging for them, the woman had symptoms for a week before her delivery. "Since the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has made it mandatory to test all pregnant women, the woman here was tested but her reports were negative," she said. After the baby girl's birth, swabs of the child's nose, the umbilical cord and placenta were tested and the reports came out positive, she said. "The baby was then kept in a separate ward. After two to three days of birth, the baby also developed strong symptoms like fever and there were signs of cytokine storm, suggesting severe inflammation," said Dr Kinikar. A cytokine storm is a physiological reaction in which the immune system causes an uncontrolled and excessive release of pro-inflammatory signalling molecules called cytokines. Dr Kinikar said the baby girl was kept in intensive care and after two weeks, she settled down and recovered. Both the mother and the child have been discharged. "During the investigation, it was confirmed that it was a vertical transmission. We waited for three weeks and tested the blood samples of both the mother and child for antibody response," Dr Kinikar said. Both had developed antibodies, she said, adding that while the antibodies were high in the mother, the baby had less. Dr Kinikar said this was a very challenging case for them. "The baby developed a severe coronavirus infection and it required a lot of attention and efforts to successfully treat the baby." She said they are in the process of documenting the case in a reputed international journal. Sassoon General Hospital's Dean Dr Murlidhar Tambe claimed this is the first case of vertical transmission of coronavirus infection in India. "I congratulate the doctors who worked hard to treat the mother and the baby," he said. The baby was born at the hospital in the last week of May. Both the child and her mother were discharged three weeks later, another hospital official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-1st-mother-child-vertical-transmission-case-in-pune-866631.html
28-07-2020||West||Bombay High Court questions purpose of disclosing names of coronavirus patients||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said if a person takes all necessary precautions, then he or she need not worry about contracting Covid-19 and asked what purpose would be served by disclosing the names of persons who tested positive for the disease. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Sarang Kotwal was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by two persons, seeking disclosure of names of Covid-19 patients to enable contact tracing and to save others from being infected. The PIL, filed by law student Vaishnavi Gholave and Solapur-based farmer Mahesh Gadekar, claimed the fundamental right to life and the right to lead a healthy life stand above the fundamental right to privacy in the present situation where public interest and morality are important. The high court, however, asked what purpose would be served by disclosing the names of Covid-19 patients. "There is always a risk of ostracisation, Chief Justice Datta pointed out. "Everything depends on each person...if a person takes necessary precautions like avoiding congregations, washing hands, using head shields and sanitisers, then the person is at a lesser risk of being infected, he said. The court further said when people come in contact with a person who they know has later tested positive for Covid-19, then they know that they should also get themselves tested or lookout for symptoms. But then there are persons who are asymptomatic or are silent carriers of coronavirus. With such persons, people tend to get a bit complacent and meet them and talk to them without masks, the court said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Union government, told the court that there are judgments passed by high courts of Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Madras and Orissa dismissing similar pleas seeking disclosure of the names of Covid-19 patients. The bench directed the petitioners advocate Yashodeep Deshmukh to peruse those judgments and posted the matter for further hearing next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-questions-purpose-of-disclosing-names-of-coronavirus-patients-866640.html
28-07-2020||West||Gujarat: 60 inmates test positive for coronavirus in Vadodara jail||At least 60 inmates of Vadodara Central Jail in Gujarat have tested positive for coronavirus infection in the last two days, an official said on Tuesday. The jail authorities are in the process of setting up an 80-bed Covid-19 care centre inside the premises to ensure proper treatment for infected prisoners, the official said. "We have tested over 150 inmates so far. While 17 of them were found positive on Sunday, another 43 inmates, all asymptomatic, tested positive on Monday," said Vinod Rao, an officer on special duty, who has been overseeing Covid-19 operations in Vadodara. At present, a team of six doctors is serving full-time at the jail, he said.  Of the 82 infections detected in Vadodara on Monday, 43 cases were reported from the central jail alone, the official said. According to a release issued by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation, Rao visited the premises on Monday and discussed ways to contain the viral spread in the central jail, which houses at least 1,000 inmates. "An 80-bed Covid-19 care centre will be set up inside the jail premises to treat infected inmates, who are asymptomatic. This centre will become operational by the end of the week and will be run under the supervision of government-run SSG Hospital," Rao said. The in-house facility will "ensure proper care without compromising on security and bandobast requirements", as transporting prisoners in and out of the jail for treatment is a risky affair, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-60-inmates-test-positive-for-coronavirus-in-vadodara-jail-866691.html
28-07-2020||West||Mumbai records lowest Covid-19 figures in 3 months||In what comes as a shot in the arm in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, Mumbai has recorded the lowest figures in nearly three months. On Monday, Mumbai, the financial capital of India, recorded 1,033 cases taking the total to 1,10,120. The death toll in Mumbai stands at 6,129. State environment, tourism and protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted that on Tuesday the new cases were of the order of 700. He also said that the government is currently working in bringing the cases down in the entire Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and elsewhere in Maharashtra. "The good news: Only 700 cases today in Mumbai & that too with highest testing till date in Mumbai in a single day, 8776. This is 'Chase the Virus' in full capacity. A major relief after 3 months," Aaditya said. However, he asked people of Mumbai not to lower the guard and must wear masks. "Mumbai will see more testing with chase the virus initiative of the BMC. It is also the only city to have liberalised testing and allowed citizens to “test at will”," he said. Aaditya said that the 'Chase the Virus' model of Mumbai is being implemented in MMR actively that has seen a ramping up of facilities in the past few weeks. Along with MMR, rest of Maharashtra too is taking all efforts to tackle Covid-19 pandemic effectively, he said. According to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai now has over 21,000 active cases. The recovery rate is 73 per cent while doubling rate is 68 days. So far, over 4.85 lakh tests have been done. The overall growth from 20-26 July is 1.03 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-records-lowest-covid-19-figures-in-3-months-866708.html
28-07-2020||West||Even if Sena and BJP come together, won't contest jointly: Chandrakant Patil||Senior BJP leader Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday appeared reaching out to the estranged ally Shiv Sena, a day after the party president J P Nadda asked state cadre to endeavour to form a government in Maharashtra on its own strength. Patil also said the BJP, being a national party, can't share the post of chief minister with any regional party, because if it does so then it will have to replicate the same formula in states like Bihar and Haryana. "If the BJP's parliamentary body recommends the state unit to forge an alliance with the Shiv Sena to protect the interest of the state...I must make one point clear that even if both the parties (the BJP and the Sena) come together, we will not contest any election jointly in future," Patil, who heads the state BJP unit, told a Marathi news channel. The BJP and its old ally Sena fell out over sharing the post of chief minister in Maharashtra after the 2019 Assembly elections. The Sena then went on to join hands with the NCP and the Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government with Uddhav Thackeray as chief minister. Patil seemed to underline compulsions of the BJP vis-a-vis sharing the post of chief minister. "We had been liberal with the Shiv Sena in the last five years. We were even ready to share more portfolios after the 2019 Assembly polls, but the BJP, being a national party, can't share the post of CM with any regional party. If we do so, we will have to replicate the same formula in states like Bihar, Haryana and others, he said. The BJP shares power with regional allies in these states. In a virtual address from Delhi, Nadda on Monday told the party workers from Maharashtra to get ready to "bring the party to power on its own" in the state. He had also asked the Maharashtra party unit to strengthen its IT cell and expose the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government's "failure".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/even-if-sena-and-bjp-come-together-wont-contest-jointly-chandrakant-patil-866712.html
28-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Man held for raping and killing teenage girl||A 22-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping and killing a 14-year-old girl in Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Tuesday. The accused had demanded lift from the victim on Sunday evening when she was headed to her family farm in Tamhanshet village near Roha on her two-wheeler, an official said. As the girl didn't return home till night, members of her family and neighbours began looking for her. They found her naked body on a hill in Tamhanshet Budruk area while her two-wheeler was found lying roadside, he said. The accused was arrested on Monday after his alleged role in the crime came to light during investigation. Prima facie, he took the victim to an isolated area after taking lift from her, smashed her head with a stone and raped her, the official said. A case has been registered under charges of rape and murder under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO), the official said. The accused has been remanded in police custody till July 3. Leaders of the NCP and the BJP have visited the residence of the victim and consoled her parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-man-held-for-raping-and-killing-teenage-girl-866740.html
28-07-2020||West||Maharashtra SSC results to be declared on Wednesday||Results of Class 10 examinations conducted by the Maharashtra state education board will be declared on Wednesday, an official said on Tuesday. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) had conducted SSC (Class 10) exams in all its nine divisions in February and March. The Pune-headquartered board will declare SSC results on Wednesday (July 29), said its secretary Ashok Bhosale in a press release. "As per our standard operating procedure, we will announce the results on the board's website at 1 pm," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ssc-results-to-be-declared-on-wednesday-866744.html
28-07-2020||West||NIA arrests Delhi University professor Hany Babu in Elgar Parishad case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested Delhi University professor Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil in connection with the Elgar Parishad Bhima-Koregaon case. With this the total number of arrests in the case has shot to 12. Hany Babu (54), a resident of Gautam Buddha Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, is working as an associate professor with Department of English in Delhi University. The nine human rights activists and civil rights defenders who were arrested in the case earlier are Surendra Gadling, Shoma Sen, Rona Wilson, Mahesh Raut and Sudhir Dhawale (arrested in first round) and P Varavara Rao, Sudha Bharadwaj, Vernon Gonsalves and Arun Ferreira (arrested in second round). In April this year, Dalit scholar Prof Anand Teltumde and Gautam Navlakha were arrested by the NIA. Prof Teltumbde is the brother-in-law of Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi founder Prakash Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. The 12 activists, who have been arrested, are linked to CPI (Maoist). Hany Babu is a member of the committee formed to defend GN Saibaba, a former Delhi University professor, who is currently serving a life term in Nagpur for his links to the Communist Party of India (Maoist). All of them were arrested in the backdrop of the 31 December, 2017 meeting at the historic Elgar Parishad Shaniwarwada in the heart of the Pune city and the subsequent 1 January, 2018 caste riots in Bhima-Koregaon in the Shirur tehsil of Pune district.  The NIA had taken over the case from Pune Police and registered a case on January 20 this year. The Pune Police had filed an FIR in 2018. In September, Babu told DH that the searches were part of tactics of intimidation towards those who raise their voice on issues. "This is a message that if you get involved in issues, you can be arrested. Even if they don't arrest me, this itself is a punishment. All my work over the years is in my laptop. Now, I don't have access to it. I don't know whether I will get back all those in full. For an academic, what can be worse," he said.  Babu is also part of the defence committee formed to fight for another DU professor N Saibaba, who is sentenced to life imprisonment for Maoist links in March 2017 and presently lodged in Nagpur Central Jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-arrests-delhi-university-professor-hany-babu-in-elgar-parishad-case-866764.html
28-07-2020||West||Enforcement Directorate raids multiple premises in money laundering case against GVK group, Mumbai International Airport Limited||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided multiple locations in connection with a money laundering case against GVK group, Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) and others to probe alleged irregularities to the tune of Rs 705 crore in running the Mumbai airport, officials said. The raids were carried out at nine locations in Mumbai and Hyderabad under a provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to collect evidence, they said. Offices of GVK group, MIAL and the premises of GVK group promoters were raided, the officials said. The central probe agency had filed an enforcement case information report (equivalent of a police FIR) earlier this month under the PMLA after studying a recent Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) First Investigation Report (FIR) filed against the same entities. The ED is probing if genuine funds were laundered to amass personal assets by the accused by illegally routing funds. The ED and the CBI cases pertain to the alleged siphoning off Rs 705 crore from the funds of the MIAL, a joint venture under public-private partnership (PPP) between the GVK Airport Holdings Limited and the Airports Authority of India (AAI), besides other investors, by showing inflated expenditure, under-reporting of revenues, fudging of records, among others. The CBI had booked Gunupati, a director in MIAL, his son GV Sanjay Reddy, managing director at MIAL, the companies MIAL, GVK Airport Holdings Limited (a GVK group company) and nine other private companies that were allegedly used to camouflage inflated figures through sham deals and unidentified AAI officials. The AAI entered into an agreement with MIAL on April 4, 2006, for the modernisation, upkeep, operation and maintenance of the Mumbai airport. It is alleged that the promoters of the GVK group in MIAL, in connivance with their executives and unidentified AAI officials, resorted to siphoning off funds in multiple ways, the CBI had said. The CBI had also carried out raids in Mumbai and Hyderabad after filing its FIR. It had alleged that the accused siphoned off funds showing execution of bogus work contracts to nine companies in 2017-18, causing a loss of Rs 310 crore. The promoters of the GVK group allegedly misused the reserve funds of MIAL to the tune of Rs 395 crore to finance their group companies, the CBI alleged. The agency also alleged that the group inflated the expenditure figures of MIAL by showing payments to employees at their headquarters and group companies, who were not involved in the running of MIAL, causing a revenue loss to AAI. The promoters allegedly under-reported the revenue earnings of MIAL by entering into contracts with related parties and meeting their personal and family expenses using MIAL funds, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/enforcement-directorate-raids-multiple-premises-in-money-laundering-case-against-gvk-group-mumbai-international-airport-limited-866805.html
28-07-2020||West||Gujarat HC criticises Vijay Rupani govt for 'appeasing' religious heads at time of coronavirus pandemic||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday criticised the Vijay Rupani led BJP government for "appeasing" religious leaders instead of taking "bold and firm" decisions to cancel religious events in view of the coronavirus infection. Making several critical observations, the court held that "the government cannot and should not follow a policy of appeasing the cultural and religious heads." The court's order came on a bunch of litigations which were filed against and in favour of holding annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra. The state government remained "indecisive" and moved court a few hours before the yatra was to be carried out, requesting to allow the temple to take out a symbolic yatra. The hearing had been conducted on June 23 midnight while the yatra was to begin on June 24. The high court refused permission to take out the 143rd yatra citing rising pandemic and especially the condition of Ahmedabad as one of the worst-hit cities and sought an answer from the government for being indecisive. The temple trust had moved an application before the city police more than a month in advance but no decision was conveyed which led to scores of litigations. Based on court's order, the Ahmedabad police commissioner Ashish Bhatia and additional chief secretary, home, Sangeeta Singh filed affidavits recently. The division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and justice J B Pardiwala didn't find the response satisfactory and remarked, "We are a bit disappointed with the stance of the state government as reflected from the two affidavits..." The bench held that faith, spirituality and religion play an important role for some individuals during the pandemic but the problem emerges when large gatherings happen. Over the last few decades, the Rath Yatra has become the largest religious gathering in the state. "To ensure the safety of ourselves, our family and our neighbours during this pandemic it is mandatory to make the choice of health over religion," the order states while adding that by not allowing the yatra, "we (court) avoided a major catastrophe that could have completely derailed the state government's fight against Covid-19." The order notes that "What was disappointing was the passive and yielding approach of the state government." It says that the state government should focus on protecting the health of people as a secular body "even if it means hurting the religious sentiments of some religious leaders." It adds that "Instead of taking a firm stance and boldly refusing to allow the Rath Yatra procession citing public health reasons, the government chose to follow a policy of appeasement and coaxing to convince the religious leaders...During a pandemic we do not have time for blandishment. We need action. Strong, pragmatic and robust action." The court has observed that such issues shouldn't have reached court as such religious function should be permitted or not is a matter that falls within the domain of the executive wing of the state government." "Gujarat is a state where we have occasions to celebrate every other weekend. While it is emotional to see these cultural festivals not be celebrated, there is nothing more important than the safety and health of our people. The government cannot and should not follow a policy of appeasing the cultural and religious heads. This is not the time to sit, negotiate and persuade. A policy of appeasement sends out a very wrong message to the public," the order notes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-hc-criticises-vijay-rupani-govt-for-appeasing-religious-heads-at-time-of-coronavirus-pandemic-866808.html
