29-07-2020||First Edit||Social security key to labour reforms||The need for labour reforms in India has been widely pointed out and emphasised, and governments, both at the Centre and in the states, have been enthusiastic about them. The first-generation economic reforms of the 1990s did not achieve their full potential because of the absence of supporting reforms in the factor markets comprising capital, labour and land. The central government has been keen and supportive, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently talked of reforming all “land, labour, liquidity and laws.” So the steps taken by some state governments in the last several weeks to amend their labour laws and regulations should be considered welcome initiatives, though done disparately and haphazardly. The Karnataka government last week decided to make important changes in laws relating to closure, retrenchment and layoffs, contract regulations, registration and overtime work. The number of workers required for the laws to apply to their employer has been raised so that fewer companies will come under their purview. In a system where provisions for legal protection had actually created rigidities over the years, some relaxations are called for.  Some other states have also sought to implement similar changes. BJP-ruled states like UP, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, Congress-ruled states like Rajasthan and Punjab and states ruled by other parties, like Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, have gone in for such changes. The changes were largely effected in the last several weeks, in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. But the method of bringing in the reforms was more jarring than the timing. The governments made the changes through ordinances or administrative orders. The right course should have been to frame and enact the necessary legislation in the legislatures after due consideration. Labour is in the concurrent list, and the Centre is already seized of the matter. There should be consultations between the Centre and the states, which should go by that process rather than try to work and rework individual laws.  All initiatives for labour reforms in India should also take into consideration the fact that there is no social security net or unemployment benefits for workers in the country. Many proposals have been made to ensure that workers are not left without support when the labour market is made more flexible, and those ideas should not be ignored. A well-regulated labour market is in the interest of all stakeholders — the workers, the employers and the government — and will aid the economy. The economy, which was limping before the pandemic struck and is crippled now, can recover and revive only with major reforms, but those reforms must have a human face and intent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/social-security-key-to-labour-reforms-866862.html
29-07-2020||In Perspective||States were doing well by students, but then came the UGC diktat||Having managed to take a look at the "well thought of" and "considerate" measures taken by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to boost the morale of students, one needs to examine the gift of the circular of July 6. One of the key points in the circular is the direction (read, diktat) that all students in their final year ought to appear for examinations "mandatorily". In consonance with this directive, the kind-hearted Ministry of Home Affairs has published an additional directive to bolster the administrations of universities to conduct these examinations by the end of September. The UGC circular goes on to state that the mode of examinations could either be online or offline or a combination of the two  Can the exams be conducted online then? Reliable and stable internet connectivity in India is a challenge and only a very small percentage of households have such connectivity for such high-stake events like online exams. Hence, examination software applications that work with limited internet connectivity pre- and post-exam and with limited or no connectivity during the exam session are needed. Students should ideally be able to log in, start, and finish their exam session without internet connectivity. Internet connectivity would only be required to download question papers and to upload answers scripts. Both activities could be done a few hours pre- and post-exam on the availability of reliable connectivity. Data security in disconnected mode can be ensured through advanced encryption mechanisms. This approach could ensure the conduct of exams at home and would address the security concerns as well. To further secure the exam environment, a two-factor authentication would need to be part of the exam software application. A laptop camera and microphone can record the entire exam session. Post-exam, red-flagging can also be done on patterns of suspicious activity. One can add advanced data encryption, leading to zero tampering of data and zero threat of question paper leakage. With data integrity validations at multiple levels, the exam software provider must ensure that there is no compromise on security, even without continuous internet connectivity.   But does the infrastructure exist? A substantial percentage of students, even in urban and semi-urban India are missing out on online classes (requiring high-speed unlimited data for video conferencing). Neither are many able to download videos. Worse, what about the students of Kashmir? Having screamed their lungs out and abrogated Article 370, vowing to make Kashmir an integral part of the country, the authorities have since shut it down since last August, with only 2G telecommunication services prevailing there. As an Indian citizen, I feel that overlooking the clear disadvantage that Kashmiri students would face if the exams were to be conducted online would be sheer apathy and callousness on the part of the government and the UGC. Compounding the already bleak situation is the fact that most of us students are having to grapple with some form of emotional, mental or economic issue which has unexpectedly hit us.  An analysis of the decisions taken by various states on the matter of the examinations held out some hope for students. When the idea of holding exams online and arranging for remedial classes was first mooted, universities started directing their constituent colleges to start conducting online classes and exams immediately, throwing students off balance. After the media highlighted the bizarre state of affairs in colleges of the Kumaun University in Uttarakhand whose students refused to comply with the direction saying that neither were internet facilities available nor were colleges well-prepared to go online, governments across several states took note and did a U-turn on the matter, providing respite for students. In Madhya Pradesh, for instance, all students, including final year students, were promoted, with the highest grades they had so far obtained for the current semester as well. Exams were called off in Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and West Bengal due both to the rising Covid-19 curve as well as the infeasibility of the online mode in those states.  Those decisions, coupled with the model of giving 75% weightage to marks obtained in the previous semesters and 25% weightage to marks obtained in the internal assessments conducted by the universities before the colleges shut down, seemed to be the best possible solution to help final-year students to transition smoothly into either higher studies or jobs. However, with the publication of the July 6 circular by the UGC, the efforts of the state governments may have come to nought. As a student and someone who exercises his vote, I really wish that the Union government would rethink its decision and direct the UGC to stop issuing diktats to states and to consider what’s in the best interest of the students in the current situation. (The writer is a student of National Law University and Judicial Academy, Assam)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/states-were-doing-well-by-students-but-then-came-the-ugc-diktat-866864.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||'900 barbers, washermen receive Rs 5,000 relief in Dakshina Kannada'||A total of 1,213 barbers and washermen (dhobis) in Dakshina Kannada have applied for the one-time relief of Rs 5,000 announced by the state government. Already, 900 barbers and washermen have received the amount and the remaining applications are being processed for the relief amount, said Wilma Tauro, District Labour Officer to DH. Of the 1,213 applicants, 910 are barbers and 303 are washermen. The last date for submitting the applications for barbers and washermen has been extended to August 10. The applications of APL card applicants, who had applied, were rejected as they failed to meet the criteria. The applicants should be BPL cardholders and only one member of the card is eligible for the relief amount, she said. According to officials, 53,000 building construction workers and labourers registered under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) too have received the relief amount of Rs 5,000 each in the district. There are over 3,000 men’s saloons in the district with nearly 1,500 in Mangaluru taluk alone. Members of Savitha Samaja in Dakshina Kannada said that the stringent guidelines to avail the relief had posed a hindrance for many in claiming the amount. To claim the amount, one needs to have a BPL card and the age limit is restricted to 65. As only one member in the BPL card can claim the amount, many could not apply for the same. Since the lockdown on March 24, the saloons remained closed till May 19 and the barbers in the district are in distress. The barbers said that even barbers with APL cards were in distress due to Covid-19. Many barbers, who are 70 years old, also carry out their profession. However, they are not included in the relief package.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/900-barbers-washermen-receive-rs-5000-relief-in-dakshina-kannada-866937.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kodagu reports 12 fresh Covid-19 cases||Of the fresh positive coronavirus cases, five are suffering from ILI, one from SARI and the remaining are the primary contacts of the already infected persons, said DC Annies Kanmani Joy. Following today's cases, six more additional containment zones have been notified by the district administration. The total containment zones notified in the district is 80. There are 92 active Covid-19 positive patients who are undergoing treatment at designated Covi-19  hospital The DC said that the recovery rate is 76 percent in the district. The ICU beds have been increased to 53 in the designated Covid-19 hospital. The additional staff nurses have also been trained for the purpose. As many as five Covid-19 patients are in the ICU.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kodagu-reports-12-fresh-covid-19-cases-866994.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya bandh against illegal mining evokes lukewarm response||The Mandya bandh call given by Cauvery-KRS Ulivigagi Janandolana Samiti, on July 29, against illegal mining activities around Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir, evoked a lukewarm response, on Wednesday. The bandh was not a total shutdown, as most of the shops and business establishments were open on the day and normalcy was not disrupted. The bandh call was limited only to the protest staged by the organisation members.   The Samiti alleged that the operators of the crushing units were using high-intensity explosives to extract stones, that has been causing tremors and will affect the KRS dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-bandh-against-illegal-mining-evokes-lukewarm-response-867056.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid effect: Milk procurement stalled in 23 societies||With Covid spreading fast in rural areas of Hassan district, the Health department has issued directions not to procure milk from the villages reporting high cases, for the next 10 days. As a result, around 23 milk producers cooperative societies of the district, have stopped procuring milk from dairy farmers. This has come as a blow to hundreds of families depending on dairy farming. They are left with litres of milk, as they cannot supply it to the societies. Though they are utilising the milk to prepare buttermilk, curds and butter, they are still left with surplus milk. The societies in 23 villages, including Hagare of Belur taluk, Chinnenahalli in Channarayapatna and Kyanahalli in Sakleshpur, have been closed. Hassan Milk Union Limited (Hamul) Managing Director Gopalaiah said that Hassan Milk Union collects 11.5 lakh litres of milk every day. Milk procurement has been stopped at villages where positive cases have been reported. The Health department has directed not to procure milk from these village for 10 days. As the decision will affect dairy farmers, we have decided to reduce it to five days. The dairies are totally sanitised, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-effect-milk-procurement-stalled-in-23-societies-867188.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Tiger a majestic animal, no cunning nature’||Bandipur Tiger Reserve Director, also Chief Conservators of Forest, T Balachandra highlighted the unique features of tigers and said that Tiger is a majestic animal as it has no cunning nature and the animal plays a vital role in terms of preserving the ecosystem, environment and climate change. Balachandra was delivering a talk on ‘Tigers, the majestic predators’, organised by the Department of Studies in Genetics and Genomics, University of Mysore, to mark International Tiger Day, here. Tiger is the pride of India and it has unique features, compared to other animals. Tiger is perfectly designed to handle its prey and no other animal has such a feature. Crab to gaur is the prey for tigers, he said. Many think that tigers hunt successfully, but their success rate is only from 5 to 10%. For instance, many tigers die due to starvation. Tigers can be severely injured by spotted deer and there are such examples. A group of gaurs chased away a tiger, which was waiting to hunt in Bandipur, recently, the director said. Tigers fear human beings and stay away. A tiger consumes 3,500 to 4,000 kg of meat per year. The big cat kills an average of 60 to 70 spotted deer a year. The tiger has an unique communication system and one tiger communicates to another for a few kms, he said. According to the director, in many cases, male tigers go out of the forests to establish their territory. Male tigers look for territories which can be acquired easily. Young male tigers are not capable of fighting with adults to establish their territory, he said. The director said, "Bandipur National park has 150 plus tigers and the department has photographs of 139 of them. The national park has a total of 13 ranges and there are 13 tigers in Bandipur Forest Range alone. The authorities have the photographs of 11 of them. The Bandipur range measures 55 sq km and one tiger is present for every 7.5 sq km." Claiming that human disturbance to tigers is less in Bandipur, the director said, "The tigers avoid coming out during the day, due to fear of human beings. But, one can see tigers hunting and dragging prey in Bandipur forest." Deputy Conservator of Forests, Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, V Yedukondalu delivered a talk on 'Corridors and Confinements, the struggle for survival of Asiatic Elephants'. Earlier, Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar released a video and slogan created by the department. Registrar R Shivappa and the Department of Studied in Genetics and Genomics chairperson Suttur S Malini were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tiger-a-majestic-animal-no-cunning-nature-867191.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Was Iftar parties by presidents, CMs secular? BJP MP to Owaisi||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya has joined issue with AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi over his objection to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's participation in the Ram Temple "Bhumi pujan", asking whether it was secularism when Iftar parties were hosted by presidents and chief ministers. Surya, the BJP's Karnataka Youth Wing general secretary, also said they did not need lessons in 'Constitutionalism' from 'Razakars'. "When Presidents of India & CMs of states were organising Iftaar parties in an official capacity, in official residences where was your secularism? Masjid was built by razing the temple. That mistake is now reversed. P.S We don't need lessons in constitutionalism from Razakars," he tweeted. The Bengaluru South Lok Sabha member was reacting to Owaisi's remarks on Tuesday that the PM should not attend the 'Bhoomi pujan' ceremony of the Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5 in his official capacity, but can participate as an individual. The Hyderabad MP had claimed Modi's possible attendance at the ceremony would mean a violation of his constitutional oath. "Attending Bhoomi Pujan in official capacity will be a violation of @PMOIndia''s constitutional oath. Secularism is part of the Basic Structure of Constitution," Owaisi had tweeted. According to members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the "bhoomi pujan" (ground breaking ceremony) to begin the construction of the Ram temple||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/was-iftar-parties-by-presidents-cms-secular-bjp-mp-to-owaisi-867147.html
29-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Shashikala Jolle claims she will continue as Minister in cabinet rejig||Amidst reports of an impending cabinet reshuffle, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle on Wednesday said she is confident that she will continue in the cabinet and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will not drop her. Jolle arrived at Delhi apparently to lobby BJP top brass to retain her during the rejig. "Since Yesterday there is a news in media that I will be dropped from the cabinet. These are just rumours and there is no truth in it. There was no such discussion held in the party or government level to drop me," she told reporters. While claiming that she came here to meet the Union Ministers regarding official work, she also said there may be a cabinet reshuffle in the state soon. She would meet party leaders as well during her stay in Delhi, she said. "Visit to Delhi was long overdue. Due to corona, I could not come here to meet union ministers. I have worked hard and implemented several developmental works as minister," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shashikala-jolle-claims-she-will-continue-as-minister-in-cabinet-rejig-867194.html
29-07-2020||National||Indian, Chinese troops complete disengagement at most localities of border, says China||China on Tuesday claimed that its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and the Indian Army had pulled back troops from “most” of the face-off scenes along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese government said that Beijing and New Delhi were now “actively preparing” for the fifth round of talks between the senior commanders of the PLA and the Indian Army “to resolve the outstanding issues on the ground”.  “As border troops have disengaged in most localities, the situation on the ground is de-escalating and the temperature is coming down,” Wang Wenbin, the spokesperson of Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in Beijing.  The border troops of China and India have "completed" the disengagement in most locations in eastern Ladakh after "intensive communication" through military and diplomatic channels and the situation on the ground is easing, the official translator quoted Wang as saying. Indian government sources of PTI in New Delhi said this statement is not correct. Later, an English translation of Wang's remarks in Mandarin put up on the Chinese foreign ministry website which read as, “As border troops have disengaged in most localities, the situation on the ground is de-escalating and the temperature is coming down." At the briefing, Wang said, “We have held four rounds of commander level talks and three meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC)." “Currently the two sides are actively preparing for the fifth round of commander-level talks to resolve outstanding issues on the ground. We hope the Indian side will work towards the same goal with China, implement the two sides' consensus and jointly uphold peace and tranquillity along the border," the spokesman added. Asked when the next commanders level meeting will be held, Wang said the information will be released in due course. The Indian Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said that India and China agreed on "early and complete" disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh and may hold more military talks soon so as to work out further steps to ensure "expeditiously" complete “disengagement and de-escalation" and restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, is likely to have another round of meeting with his counterpart Maj Gen Liu Lin of the Chinese PLA at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC soon. India had also asked China to “sincerely implement” the understanding on troop withdrawals reached by senior military commanders of the two sides. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a nearly two-hour-long telephonic conversation on July 5 to bring down tension between the armies of the two countries in eastern Ladakh. They earlier had four meetings to resolve the issues, on June 6, June 22, June 30 and July 14.  New Delhi is concerned over the Indian Army’s reports that the Chinese PLA had not yet withdrawn troops from some of the face-off points, including the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake. India is also worried as China has not yet shown signs of thinning out the large number of troops deployed over the past few weeks in the “depth areas” on its side of the LAC. Beijing, however, claimed that the PLA and the Indian Army had completed disengagement in most of the locations. “We hope India will work towards the same goal with China, implement the two sides’ consensus and jointly uphold peace and tranquillity along the border,” said the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson. The senior diplomats of India and China last Friday held another round of video conference within the framework of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Border Affairs (WMCC), which was instituted in 2013. The two sides then had agreed on holding another round of talks between the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-troops-complete-disengagement-at-most-localities-of-border-says-china-866880.html
29-07-2020||National||Indian scientists have made valuable contributions to ITER project: PM Modi||Indian scientists have made valuable contributions to the ITER project and have demonstrated India's capabilities of design and manufacture at the most advanced levels, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said as the assembly of the world's largest fusion device commenced in France on Tuesday. The International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project aims to replicate the energy of the sun. On Tuesday, it reached a critical phase as scientists and technicians in southern France began assembling huge parts of a nuclear fusion device. Leaders of many countries attended the event virtually. Jawed Ashraf, Indian envoy to France, read out Modi's message. "Delivered @narendramodi message on international ITER project in France for energy from thermonuclear fusion. PM's message says India's key contribution underlines: 1. India works for good of humanity. 2. We can Make in India at highest global level,” Ashraf tweeted. Modi said the beginning of ITER assembly activities is an extraordinary journey of many years of commitment, dedication and hardwork by scientists, engineers and technicians. "They have successfully developed and fabricated a wide range of entirely new components that represent design, innovation and engineering of great complexity and precision. They have done this while adhering to schedules and timelines,” the prime minister said on his message. He also lauded Indian scientists and engineers involved in the project. "Indian scientists have also made valuable contributions to the development and fabrication of the cryostat, the cooling system, the cryo distribution system and several kilometres of cryo lines. They remain involved in other aspects of the project," he said. "They have demonstrated India's capabilities of design and manufacture at the most advanced levels. Equally, our institutions, scientists and engineers have benefited enormously from collaborating with their peers from around the world. India is proud to be part of the global enterprise that is at the frontier of science and engineering,” he said. India is responsible for delivery of the cryostat, in-wall shielding, cooling water system, cryogenic system, ion-cyclotron RF heating system, electron cyclotron RF Heating System, diagnostic neutral beam system, power supplies, diagnostics.  India formally joined the ITER Project in 2005 and the ITER Agreement between the partners was signed in 2006.  ITER Organisation (IO) is the central team responsible for construction at the site and operation, while the ITER partners created their own domestic agencies to deliver their commitments to ITER. ITER-India is the Indian domestic agency. Its partners are the European Union, China, India, Japan, South Korea, Russia and the United States. The European Union being the host party contributes 45 per cent while the rest of the parties contribute nine per cent each. Most of these contributions are through 'in-kind' procurement of ITER components. Modi said ITER is a project of an extraordinary vision and ambition and of unparalleled scale and complexity and by seeking to simulate the sun's energy production on earth it is attempting a task of cosmic proportions. "This shared endeavour for our common good is a perfect symbol of the age old Indian belief -- Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam -- the entire world is one family,” the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-scientists-have-made-valuable-contributions-to-iter-project-pm-modi-866889.html
29-07-2020||National||2 Pakistani terrorists killed as Indian Army foils infiltration bid along LoC||Two Pakistani terrorists were killed and another was injured on Tuesday night as Indian Army personnel foiled a major infiltration bid along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, officials said. They said Indian troops opened fire when they intercepted movement of a group of terrorists near the LoC in the Nowshera sector, they said. They said there was a brief exchange of fire. Subsequently a blast took place, probably after an intruder stepped on a landmine. In the gunfight and blast, two terrorists were killed and another was injured, they said. The bodies of the slain terrorists were yet to be recovered. There is apprehension that their accomplices, who were pushed back, might have taken these with them from the spot. "The entire area along the LoC has been cordoned off and searches are going on," a source said. On June 1, Army personnel had foiled a similar infiltration bid and killed three heavily-armed intruders in the same area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-pakistani-terrorists-killed-as-indian-army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-loc-866891.html
29-07-2020||National||Covid-19: Maharashtra highest single day recovery||In an encouraging trend, Maharashtra on Tuesday reported highest single-day recovery of 10,333 Covid-19 patients. With this, the total patients who have recovered now stands at 2,32,277. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, 7,717 new cases and 282 deaths were recorded. This has taken the total positive cases to 3,91,440 and deaths to 14,165. So far, 19.5 lakh plus tests have been conducted in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-maharashtra-highest-single-day-recovery-866893.html
29-07-2020||National||Atmanirbhar Bharat: Govt unveils amended draft acquisition procedure for defence products||The government issued an amended draft Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP) on Tuesday, wherein it elaborated on how to use "leasing" method to get various defence products and on procedure to procure information and communication technology (ICT) systems for the armed forces. The first draft of the DAP, which was then called Defence Procurement Procedure, was issued on March 20 this year. In a statement, the Defence Ministry said on Tuesday it received suggestions from various stakeholders running into more than 10,000 pages on the first draft. Therefore, after analysing those suggestions and holding meetings with stakeholders, the ministry said, the amended DAP was issued. The ministry said there are four new chapters in the amended DAP -- leasing; simplified capital expenditure procedure; acquisition of systems products and ICT systems; procurement from DRDO (Defence Research and Development Organisation), DPSUs (Defence Public Sector Units) and OFB (Ordnance Factory Board). "The amended second draft (known as DAP) has since been finalised by the review committee driven by tenets of defence reforms announced as part of the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan' and has been placed in the public domain," the ministry said. The stakeholders can send their comments on the amended draft by August 10, 2020. In March this year, the first draft of the DAP had introduced "leasing" as one of the categories to get defence equipment at affordable rates. The second draft has a whole chapter on it explaining the terms, conditions and procedure for procurement under the "leasing" method. The DAP is issued to ensure timely procurement of best military equipment and platforms for the armed forces through optimum utilisation of budgetary resources. Moreover, the DAP's focus is also on promoting self-reliance in defence equipment production, with an ultimate aim to develop India as a global defence manufacturing hub. The DAP remains in place for a period of five years. The last DAP was issued in 2016. According to the Department of Defence Production, India aims to export defence products worth Rs 15,000 crore in 2020-21. Between April 1 and July 23, India has been able to export defence equipment and platforms worth Rs 1,892 crore, it said on its website. In 2019-20 and 2018-19, India's defence exports stood at Rs 9,115 crore and Rs 8,320 crore, respectively, the department noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-bharat-govt-unveils-amended-draft-acquisition-procedure-for-defence-products-866916.html
29-07-2020||National||Javadekar holds review meeting on Pune's Covid-19 situation, assures help from Centre||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday held a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation in Pune via video conferencing and assured all help from the Centre in the fight against the pandemic. Javadekar, who hails from Pune in Maharashtra, urged the people to take all precautions, particularly wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing. "Today I held a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in Pune via video conferencing with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar in the presence of State Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and other senior officials," the Information and Broadcasting Minister said. "I assured Centre's all possible help for providing ventilators and testing kits. I appeal to all Punekars to take all precautions particularly wearing masks and maintaining social distancing," he said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/javadekar-holds-review-meeting-on-punes-covid-19-situation-assures-help-from-centre-866920.html
29-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 29||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 15 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 15,73,201 as of July 29 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 34,885 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 9,17,568 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-29-866921.html
29-07-2020||National||DH toon: Due to 'right decisions taken at right time' India better placed in Covid-19 fight, says PM Modi||India is in a much better position than other countries in the fight against Covid-19 as a result of "right decisions taken at the right time", Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, asserting that the country has expanded its health infrastructure at a rapid pace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-due-to-right-decisions-taken-at-right-time-india-better-placed-in-covid-19-fight-says-pm-modi-866922.html
29-07-2020||National||Maharashtra SSC 10th Result 2020: Where and how to check result||Results of Class 10 examinations conducted by the Maharashtra state education board were declared on Wednesday. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) had conducted SSC (Class 10) exams in all its nine divisions in February and March. Maharashtra SSC 10th Result 2020: How to check result on websites How to check Maharashtra SSC 10th Results 2020 on the official website: Step 2: Click on “SSC Examination Result 2020” Step 3: Enter your credentials and login Step 4: The result will appear on the display screen You can then take a print out of your results for future reference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-ssc-10th-result-2020-where-and-how-to-check-result-866936.html
29-07-2020||National||Section 144 imposed near Ambala airbase ahead of Rafale jets' arrival||The first batch of five Rafale jets are scheduled to land at the Ambala air base here on Wednesday afternoon with police tightening the security around the air force station. The squadron of Rafale jets will be stationed at the Ambala air base in Haryana. Haryana: First batch of five Rafale aircraft will arrive in Ambala today to join the India Air Force (IAF) fleet. Visuals from Ambala city. To ensure maximum security, people of these four villages in Ambala will not be allowed to click pictures of the landing from their roofs. The highly-controversial deal to purchase the Rafale jets finally saw the light of day on Monday as the first five of them took off from Merignac airbase in France. The IAF pilots were seen off by the Indian Ambassador Jawed Ashraf. The jets will be inducted into the IAF as part of its No 17 Squadron, also known as the 'Golden Arrows'. The five jets are part of the 36 twin-engine aircraft purchased from Dassault Rafale at approximately Rs 59,000 crore in 2016.  The fleet of five jets comprises three single-seater and two twin-seater aircraft. Authorities have imposed prohibitory orders near the Ambala Air Force Station, banning shooting of videos and photography. The Ambala district administration has also prohibited people from flying private drones within the three-km radius of the air base, officials said earlier. Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Wednesday said the people of Ambala are very enthusiastic about the arrival of the jets. “This is a very proud and a historic moment for us that the Rafale jets will be stationed in Ambala Cantonment area. Rafales are IAF's 'Sikandar', which will significantly boost our combat capabilities,” he said.      He said had there not been the threat of coronavirus pandemic, thousands would have gathered in the streets to welcome the jets. The aircraft is capable of carrying a range of potent weapons. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile and Scalp cruise missile will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. Of the 36 jets, 30 will be fighter jets and six will be trainers. The trainer jets will be twin-seater and they will have almost all the features of the fighter jets. The IAF has undertaken major infrastructure upgrades at the Ambala base for the deployment of the first Rafale squadron. Built in 1948, the air base is located on the east side of Ambala and is used for military and government flights. The air base has two squadrons of the Jaguar combat aircraft and one squadron of the MIG-21 'Bison'. Air Force Marshal Arjan Singh was the first commander of the base. The Mirage fighters that were used for the air strike in Balakot in Pakistan in February 2019 after the Pulwama terror attack had taken off from here. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/section-144-imposed-near-ambala-airbase-ahead-of-rafale-jets-arrival-866946.html
29-07-2020||National||Kerala church, masjid allow funeral of Covid-19 victims with protocols||While a Catholic Diocese at Alappuzha decided to allow cremation of bodies of Covid-19 victims, a mosque in Wayanad district allowed the burial of the body of a Covid-19-infected woman who hailed from another district. The Diocese of Alappuzha decided to allow cremation of bodies of believers who died due to Covid-19 at church cemeteries. Practical difficulties involved in the burial of bodies following Covid-19 protocol due to waterlogging at many parts of the region prompted the diocese to take the decision. Once the bodies are cremated, the ashes would be buried in respective tombs. Bishop James Raphael Anaparambil issued the guidelines in this regard after holding a discussion with priests and others concerned. Mobile crematoriums could be also used for cremation and the last rites could be also performed at public crematoriums and ash be deposited in the church cemetery. The Varambatta Juma Masjid at Vallamunda in Wayanad had allowed the burial of the body of a Covid-19-infected woman hailing from Thalasserry in Kannur district. The woman tested Covid-19 positive after she travelled from Bengaluru to her native place and was undergoing treatment in Wayanad. Owing to the practical difficulties involved in taking the body of the Covid-19 victim to the native place, the Varambatta mahal committee allowed to bury the body at the mosque's burial ground. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the novel gestures of the Alappuzha diocese and the Varambatta mahal committee in Wayanad were worth appreciating as the state witnessed protests against cremation of bodies of COVID-19 victims. Kerala had witnessed many instances of local resistance towards cremating bodies of Covid-19 victims even as experts clarified that cremation of bodies following the Covid-19 protocol did not pose any threats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-church-masjid-allow-funeral-of-covid-19-victims-with-protocols-866967.html
29-07-2020||National||Plea in SC to remove 'socialist' and 'secular' words from Constitution's Preamble||A plea has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking to remove from the constitution's preamble the words “socialist” and “secular” which were added through the 42nd constitutional amendment. The PIL said that the amendment made in 1976 was “antithetical to the constitutional tenets as well as the historical and cultural theme of India.“ The move was “per se illegal for violating the concept of freedom of speech and expression enumerated in Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution and the right to freedom of religion guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution”, it said. It said the amendment was also against the historical and cultural theme of the “great republic of Bharat, the oldest civilization of the world, having a clear concept of 'Dharma' different from the concept of religion”, and that the communist theory of State cannot be applied in the Indian context which was not in tune with the religious sentiments and socio-economic conditions of India. “Issue appropriate direction striking down the words 'Socialist' and 'Secular' inserted in the Preamble of the Constitution by section 2 (a) of the Forty Second Constitution Amendment Act, 1976,” the petition, filed by advocates Balram Singh and Karunesh Kumar Shukla and an individual Pravesh Kumar, said. It sought a direction the Union of India to declare that the concept of 'socialism' and 'secularism' referred to the nature of the republic and was limited to the working of the sovereign function of the State and same is not applicable to the citizens, the political parties and the social organizations. The petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, has also challenged the insertion of the words 'secular' and 'socialist' in section 29 A (5) of the Representation of People (RP) Act that makes it compulsory for the political parties, applying for registration before Election Commission of India, “to make specific provision in its memorandum or rules and regulations that the association or body shall bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established and to the principles of 'Socialism' and 'Secularism' and democracy and would uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India.“||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-sc-to-remove-socialist-and-secular-words-from-constitutions-preamble-866986.html
29-07-2020||National||Manipur records its first Covid-19 death||Manipur reported first Covid-19 death on Wednesday after a 56-year-old man died at RIMS hospital in Imphal amid the week-long lockdown. Officials said Sapam Basanta, a resident of Thoubal district was admitted to the hospital on July 26 but his condition deteriorated on Tuesday. He died at around 5.30 am on Wednesday. Basanta's son, who accompanied him to the hospital also tested positive for the virus and is being provided medical aid at the hospital. Although cases are low compared to other states, positive cases emerging among persons without travel history have become a worry for the state health department. The state cabinet clamped week-long lockdown in the state from July 23 and said it could be extended by another one week based on the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manipur-records-its-first-covid-19-death-866987.html
29-07-2020||National||Indian-origin brothers succumb to Covid-19 in South Africa||Abbas Sayed and Osman Sayed, the Chairman and President of the Saaberie Chishty Society, died on Friday and Saturday respectively and were buried side-by-side, as condolences continued to pour in from all over the world, including India, where the idea of the humanitarian work was sparked by a visit to Ajmer when Abbas was a teenager. After their return from Ajmer, a small religious commemoration at their home in Lenasia soon transformed into a variety of charity and welfare projects for all communities in the apartheid era. The brothers were among the six siblings who continued and expanded the work of the society started by their father, uncles and aunts to include feeding schemes, building mosques and madrassahs, and a free ambulance service when there were no such facilities from the government in Lenasia where they lived. "Like their forefathers, they worked tirelessly throughout their lives to serve the community with dedication. Tears flow as we remember their smiles and our insightful conversations with them," said a message from religious leaders from Lucknow. "They were men of dignity, honesty, truthfulness and simplicity," said another message from Panipat in Haryana, when in 2009 the organisation helped restore an ancient mosque 30 years after it had been closed down by raising funds in South Africa. The novel coronavirus that first surfaced in China's Wuhan city in December last year has claimed 7,257 lives and infected 459,761 people in South Africa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-brothers-succumb-to-covid-19-in-south-africa-866989.html
29-07-2020||National||India's Covid-19 tally crosses 15-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 tally went past 15 lakh on Wednesday, two days after it crossed the 14-lakh mark, with 48,513 fresh cases recorded in a day while the recoveries surged to 9,88,029, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The total coronavirus cases climbed to 15,31,669, while the country's death toll due to the disease rose to 34,193 with 768 deaths being reported in a 24-hour span, the data updated at 8 am showed. There are 5,09,447 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients has risen to 64.51 per cent. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. This is the seventh consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 45,000.   According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 1,77,43,740 samples have been tested up to July 28 with 4,08,855 samples being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-15-lakh-mark-866992.html
29-07-2020||National||Cabinet approves new education policy, renames MHRD||After over three decades, the government on Wednesday approved a new education policy that seeks to revamp all aspects of education structure and aims to achieve universal access to education to all between age groups of 3-18 years by 2030. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the New Education Policy that also proposed to change the name of the Ministry of Human Resource Development to the Ministry of Education. According to the draft policy, there will be no hard separation of learning areas in terms of curricular, co-curricular or extra-curricular areas and all subjects, including arts, music, crafts, sports, yoga, community service, etc. will be curricular. It also promotes active pedagogy that will focus on the development of core capacities and life skills, including 21st-century skills. The policy also aims at increasing the exposure of students to classical languages of India in a bid to preserve these languages and their artistic treasures. "Every student in the country will take a fun course on “The Languages of India" sometime in Grades 6-8 ... with the option to continue through secondary education and university," the draft policy had said. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank is scheduled to address a press conference at 4:00 p.m. to formally announce the New Education Policy. The Prime Minister had reviewed the NEP, 2020 at a meeting with HRD Ministry officials on May 1. The draft of the policy was prepared by a panel of experts led by former Indian Space Research Organisation Chairman K Kasturirangan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-new-education-policy-renames-mhrd-866997.html
29-07-2020||National||Hetero gets approval to launch Covid-19 drug favipiravir, to be priced at Rs 59||India's Hetero Labs Ltd has received regulatory approval to sell its version of anti-viral drug favipiravir to treat COVID-19, the drugmaker said on Wednesday, as coronavirus infections in the world's third worst-hit nation crossed 1.5 million. The drug, priced at 59 rupees (79 cents) per tablet, is approved to treat mild to moderate COVID-19 and will be available at drug stores from Wednesday, privately held Hetero said in a statement. Favipiravir and another anti-viral treatment, remdesivir, have emerged as the most sought after medicines to treat COVID-19 in India, which had already approved the drugs as emergency treatments to fight the outbreak. India reported about 48,000 fresh cases on Wednesday. Globally, coronavirus cases have crossed 16.7 million, resulting in more than 659,000 deaths. Favipiravir was originally developed by Japan's Fujifilm Holdings Corp under the brand name Avigan for treating influenza. Hetero is also among the drugmakers that have a license with U.S.-based Gilead Sciences Inc to make remdesivir. Other Indian drugmakers developing or selling favipiravir include Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Cipla Ltd , privately held Brinton Pharma and Jenburkt Pharmaceuticals Ltd.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hetero-gets-approval-to-launch-covid-19-drug-favipiravir-to-be-priced-at-rs-59-867001.html
29-07-2020||National||5 Rafale jets, first batch from France, land at Ambala air base||The first five of the 36 Rafale fighter jets India procured from the Dassault Aviation company of France arrived in Haryana's Ambala Indian Air Force (IAF) station on Wednesday. The aircraft landed nearly three-and-a-half hours after they took off from Al Dhafra airbase of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The fighter jets had taken off from Bordeaux-Merignac airbase in France on Monday and had a stopover at the airbase in Abu Dhabi before taking off for Ambala on Wednesday. The new fighter aircraft are inducted to the recently resurrected 17 Golden Arrows squadron of the IAF – at a time when India is engaged in a military stand-off with China. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government highlighted it as a significant step in “strengthening air power” and “defence preparedness” of the nation. “The Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC,” tweeted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. “I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity,” said Singh. “This aircraft has very good flying performance and its weapons, radar and other sensors and Electronic Warfare capabilities are amongst the best in the world. Its arrival in India will make the IAF much stronger to deter any threat that may be posed on our country.” “Welcome home 'Golden Arrows'. Blue skies always,” the IAF posted on Twitter, after the Rafale jets entered the airspace of India. Two Su-30 MKIs of the IAF escorted the new fighter aircraft.  In view of China’s belligerence along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh, the IAF decided to immediately make the new aircraft deployable and hence opted to arm them with French HAMMER (Highly Agile and Manoeuvrable Munition Extended Range) air-to-ground precision-guided weapon systems, instead of the Israeli Spice 2000 bombs. Unlike the HAMMERs, which were already used on Rafale fighter jets in Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria, the Spice 2000 would have required trials and the process of integration would have needed more time. The HAMMERs have a range of 60-70 kilometers. The IAF’s Rafale fighter jets will also be armed with Meteor, Scalp and MICA missiles. The first set of the five aircraft included three single-seaters and two twin-seaters. The fighter jets were flown to the airbase at Ambala in Haryana by the IAF pilots, who were trained on the aircraft and the weapon systems by the Dassault Aviation and the French Air Force. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had ceremonially taken delivery of the first Rafale aircraft from the Dassault Aviation in a ceremony in France in October 2019. The delivery of the first 10 aircraft, including the five flying from France to India, has been completed on schedule. Five more Rafale aircraft, which were already delivered, stayed back in France for further training of the IAF pilots and support personnel. The delivery of all the 36 aircraft will be completed on schedule by the end of 2021, the Embassy of India in Paris stated in a statement. New Delhi's Rs 59,000 crore government-to-government deal with Paris to procure the 36 Rafale fighter jets “off the shelf” had turned into a major political controversy in India, with the BJP-led Government being accused by the opposition Congress of nudging the Dassault Aviation to choose Reliance Defence as its offset partner, brushing aside state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. The Supreme Court, however, in December 2018 concluded that no irregularities were found in the deal. It also dismissed review petitions in November 2019. Before their arrival, the jets were welcomed by the Indian Navy warship INS Kolkata. Ahead of their arrival, areas around the Ambala airbase were put under tight scrutiny and Section 144 was imposed in some areas. “The Rafale jets were purchased when they fully met the operational requirements of the IAF. The baseless allegations against this procurement have already been answered and settled,” tweeted the Defence Minister. The Rafale jets were purchased when they fully met the operational requirements of the IAF. The baseless allegations against this procurement have already been answered and settled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-rafale-jets-first-batch-from-france-land-at-ambala-air-base-867025.html
29-07-2020||National||Tobacco use accelerates transmission of Covid-19: Health ministry||Smokers are likely to be more vulnerable to Covid-19 as smoking increases the possibility of transmission of the virus from hand to mouth, the Union Health Ministry has said, warning that use of tobacco products can increase the severity of respiratory infections and make people susceptible to coronavirus. In its document 'Covid-19 Pandemic and Tobacco Use in India', the ministry said experts have confirmed that smokers are more likely to develop severe symptoms or die from Covid-19, as it primarily attacks the lungs and warned against the use of any such products. Smokers, it warned, are likely to be more vulnerable to Covid-19 as the act of smoking means that fingers (and possibly contaminated cigarettes) are in contact with lips which increases the possibility of transmission of the virus from hand to mouth. "Further smoking products such as water pipes or hookah often involve the sharing of mouth-pieces and hoses, which could facilitate the transmission of Covid-19 in communal and social settings," the ministry said. Tobacco use is a major risk factor for the four main Non-communicable Diseases (NCDs) — cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic lung disease and diabetes, which puts people with these conditions at higher risk for developing severe illness when affected by Covid-19. NCDs are estimated to account for 63 pc of all deaths in India and these are expected to rise further.  The chemicals in tobacco smoke suppress the activity of different types of immune cells that are involved in general and targeted immune responses. "Smoking impairs lung function, thereby reducing the immunity and making it harder for the body to fight off various diseases. Smoking, e-cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, pan masala and the like products use can increase risk and severity of pulmonary infections because of damage to upper airways and a decrease in pulmonary immune function," it said. Evidence from countries reporting coronavirus infection-related fatalities has highlighted that the people with pre-existing non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are more susceptible to becoming severely ill with Covid-19, the document stated. Tobacco use poses a significant risk by accelerating the transmission of Covid-19 because the virus spreads primarily through droplets of saliva or discharge from the nose when an infected person coughs or sneezes.  Chewing tobacco products (khaini, gutkha, paan, zarda) increases the urge to spit. Spitting in public places increases health risks especially those of spreading the infectious and contagious diseases like, Covid-19, tuberculosis, swine flu, encephalitis, etc, the ministry underlined. "The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare warns against the use of any tobacco products," it said, adding within 12 hours of quitting, the carbon monoxide level in the bloodstream drops to normal.  Within 2-12 weeks, circulation improves and lung function increases. After 1-9 months, coughing and shortness of breath decreases, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tobacco-use-accelerates-transmission-of-covid-19-health-ministry-867027.html
29-07-2020||National||Delhi HC directs Facebook, Google to remove offending material on Sasikala Pushpa||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed Facebook and Google to remove alleged derogatory material related to BJP leader Sasikala Pushpa who claimed that her image was being tarnished by purported morphed photos and videos with a man on social media. A bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh also stayed the June 2 judgement of a single judge relating to the direction to Sasikala to pay a cost of Rs 2 lakh each to Facebook Inc as well as Google LLC and YouTube LLC. The division bench, which was hearing the plea through video conferencing, issued notice on the appeal filed by Sasikala, former AIADMK leader, challenging the June 2 judgement and directed the social media platforms to file their responses to it. It listed the matter for September 3, before the registrar for completion of pleadings in the matter. “In the meantime, respondents (Facebook, Google and YouTube) are directed to remove forthwith the offending material...,” the high court said in its interim order. Facebook, Google and YouTube contended before the bench that they are only intermediaries and do not upload any content on their platforms and that they also do not judge the uploaded material. Senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Arun Kathpalia, representing Facebook and Google respectively, said they will comply with the high court’s order and will immediately remove the content. Sasikala, through advocate Richa Kapoor, has challenged the single judge’s judgement and urged the division bench to direct the social media platforms to remove the objectionable photographs and also to set aside the cost imposed on her. Sasikala’s counsel has also provided the list of URLs which are required to be removed from the platforms. Google’s counsel has said that he was protesting the practice of impleading only intermediaries in a suit and not the one who has uploaded the content on the Internet. “Intermediaries have no interest in defending the content. You cannot sue us without impleading the party who has uploaded the content,” he argued. The single judge, in its June 2 verdict, had observed that people have a right to know with whom their electoral representative is meeting behind closed doors and hobnobbing with. It had said the politician was not entitled to any relief against the social media giants to remove the photographs and to block access to them and directed her to equally pay the cost. Sasikala, who was an expelled AIADMK MP (Rajya Sabha) at the time of filing of suit in 2016, joined the BJP in April this year. In an interim order in September 2018, the high court had restrained Facebook, Google and Youtube from publishing or showing any alleged derogatory photographs of her after she claimed that some unknown persons were threatening to tarnish her image by uploading her morphed photos and videos. She had sought an injunction order against the social media platforms on the ground that they have not made any attempt to verify the authenticity of the photographs before uploading it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-directs-facebook-google-to-remove-offending-material-on-sasikala-pushpa-867035.html
29-07-2020||National||NGOs fear rise in human trafficking in post-lockdown period: Study||About 89 per cent of NGOs surveyed for a study have said that trafficking of both adults and children for labour will be "one of the biggest threats" in the post-lockdown period as household incomes of the most vulnerable deplete. The study conducted by the Kailash Satyarthi Children Foundation said the non-governmental organisations voiced the concern that "there is a very high likelihood" of an increase in human trafficking in the post-lockdown period for the purpose of labour. "Seventy-six per cent of the NGOs anticipate human trafficking for the purpose of sexual abuse and child trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation to see an upsurge post the lockdown," it said. The study recommended greater surveillance at village level and alertness on the part of law enforcement agencies. Titled Impact of Lockdown and Economic Disruption on Low-Income Households with Special Reference to Children, the study is based on responses of 53 NGOs (phase-1) and 245 households from the trafficking-prone states (phase-2). Phase 1 was carried April 27-May 5 and the phase-2 from May 17 to 24.  The responses of NGOs were sought because of their close links at the grassroots level while the household survey was conducted to develop an in-depth understanding of the impact of lockdown on households from the lowest economic strata. Eighty-one per cent of the NGOs said families may take cash on credit from local money lenders on high-interest rates in the post-lockdown period and as a result, a large number of them may get into the trap of debt bondage. "Sixty-four per cent of all respondent NGOs expressed the opinion that the incidence of child marriages would increase post the lockdown period. That child marriages post lockdown will increase was stated more strongly by NGOs operating in the north-central zone (71 per cent) than those operating in eastern (61 per cent) and south-west zone (57 per cent)," it said. The north central zone has states: Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh while eastern region comprises Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam and Sikkim. The south-west zone comprises Gujarat, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka. About 85 per cent of all respondent NGOs felt that school dropouts are likely to increase in the post-lockdown period. About 93 per cent NGOs said the families will soon run out of money and 85 per cent believed they may not even get enough food in a day to fill their bellies, the study said. During the household survey, it was found that "21 per cent of the households are potentially ready to send their children into child labour due to their increased economic vulnerability". "Nearly 85 per cent of the surveyed households reported having absolutely no income at the time of the survey. Before the lockdown, 47 per cent households were in the income range of Rs 3,001-10,000 which came down to 3 per cent during the lockdown," the study said. It highlighted that the proportion of those getting less than Rs 1,000, dropped from 12 per cent before the lockdown to 5 per cent at the time of the survey. "The reduction in income has been the least for agricultural labour who ironically were earning little even before the lockdown. The farmers and non-agricultural labour have suffered a substantial reduction in income. Household savings have also been severely impacted. Before the lockdown, 28 per cent of the respondents reported having no savings which increased sharply to 68 per cent at the time of the survey," it said. About 6 per cent of the respondents reported that due to their poor financial condition they would not hesitate to withdraw their children from school. "Another 14 per cent household respondents stated that they were 'not sure' as to what will they do. Hence, potentially school going children of 20 per cent households are at the risk of dropping out from schools," the study said. The household survey also found that the lockdown has seriously dented the average household savings of most respondent households. "Before the lockdown, 28 per cent of the respondent households reported having 'no savings' this increased sharply to 68 per cent at the time of the survey," it said. Out of all those households who reported having food shortage during the lockdown (176 out of 245), 43 per cent said it was 'severe' (exhausted all food reserves but managing to get daily meals), while 10 per cent said it was 'very severe' (exhausted all food reserves/do not have anything to eat) and for another 13 per cent, it was 'somewhat severe' (exhausted all food reserves at some point of time but managed to refill), the study pointed out. “We anticipate that trafficking is going to be one of the biggest threats post pandemic for the most vulnerable. The children of families who have lost their means of livelihood and are facing hunger and starvation are extremely susceptible to all forms of exploitation, including trafficking. We strongly recommend through our report that a wide safety net (must) be spread in source areas of trafficking to protect children from being trafficked," said Rakesh Senger, Executive Director,Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngos-fear-rise-in-human-trafficking-in-post-lockdown-period-study-867038.html
29-07-2020||National||Son slits mother's throat and shoots a video: Report||The body of the woman was found in a nearby jungle on Sunday morning, the police said, adding that she was killed using a sharp-edged weapon.  The police were informed about the incident by the woman’s husband, Kripashankar Pandey (46), who later raised suspicion that his younger son, Dhirendra Pandey, might be involved. He said that his son had threatened to kill Savitri a number of times. On Tuesday, the police detained the son from his home and interrogated him. Dhirendra confessed to have committed the crime and stated that he had recorded it on his phone, the police said. “The video was later retrieved from his mobile phone. In the video, Dhirendra was seen slitting the throat of her mother with a sharp-edged weapon and the mother is seen writhing in pain and helplessly pleading before her son to let her go. When the crime was committed, there was no one else in the house except the accused and his mother,” the district’s superintendent of police, Rakesh Singh told the publication. Upon further enquiry, it was revealed that Savitri lost her elder son last year. Shattered by her son’s death, she became mentally unstable and cried often.  “Savitri’s younger son, Dhirendra, who is jobless, started hating her mother as he thought his mother loved her elder son far more than she loved him. Dhirendra used to fight with his wife, mother and father too on trivial issues,” Singh said. Police registered a first information report (FIR) at Jawa police station under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sent him to jail after producing him before a local court on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/son-slits-mothers-throat-and-shoots-a-video-report-867050.html
29-07-2020||National||SC closes plea against detention of former Minister in J&K on Centre's denial||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider further a plea by former Union Minister Prof Saifuddin Soz's wife against his detention in Jammu and Kashmir with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019. A bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra took into consideration an affidavit by the Special Secretary, Home, Jammu and Kashmir, stating that neither has he been detained, nor has any restrictions imposed on his movement. The administration also claimed that the charges of detention and house arrest of Prof Soz are "false, frivolous and baseless". It also submitted that none of the fundamental or constitutional or statutory of his has been violated. It also pointed out Prof Soz has in fact travelled outside Jammu and Kashmir several times and visited Delhi as well during the period. Though senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for the petitioner, contended that the assertion was contrary to fact, the court preferred to dispose of the matter.  On June 8, the court sought a response from the Union government and Jammu and Kashmir administration on the petition filed by Mumtazunnisa Soz.   In the petition filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes, Mumtazunnisa Soz contended the octogenarian leader has been illegally and arbitrarily detained for over past ten months purportedly under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 without having been provided with the materials indicating grounds for it. "All efforts by him to obtain a copy of the detention order have been of no avail due to the illegal, arbitrary exercise of powers by the Jammu and Kashmir administration," she claimed in the petition. Her plea claimed that the detention was not only illegal, malafide and unconstitutional, it was also extremely appalling. The petitioner contended that the house arrest ordered against Prof Soz was also "arbitrary, whimsical and fanciful deserves to be quashed on the anvil of Articles 14, 21 and 22 of the Constitution". She also pointed out Prof Soz has not committed a breach of peace, neither has he disturbed the public tranquility, nor is he likely to do any wrongful act that will occasion a breach of peace or cause any disturbance of public tranquility.  Several senior politicians of Jammu and Kashmir were put under detention in August, last. Former Ministers Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were subsequently released. Former Chief Minister Mahbooba Mufti's daughter Iltija has also challenged her mother detention before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-closes-plea-against-detention-of-former-minister-in-jk-on-centres-denial-867057.html
29-07-2020||National||Anti-Doping measures at IPL: NADA might outsource sample collection||In charge of dope control at the IPL for the very first time, the National Anti-Doping Agency (NADA) might have to outsource the task of sample collection given the high cost of handling the exercise when the event is held in the UAE. The next best option for NADA will be using the services of UAE's National Anti-Doping Organisation (NADO) or contact Sweden's International Dope Test and Management (IDTM) which has done sample collection and testing for the last 12 seasons of the IPL. The BCCI came under NADA's ambit from the third quarter of 2019, making this year the first time that the agency will handle sample collection during the IPL, to be held from September 19 to November 8. "It is expected that the approved schedule will be out next week and once we send it to NADA, they can take a call. It's completely their call as they will have to bear the cost of sample collection and transportation," a senior BCCI official told PTI on conditions of anonymity. When PTI approached NADA DG Navin Agarwal on the issue, he didn't divulge much apart from "we will let you know once we decide on the issue". Till the 2019 IPL, BCCI bore the cost of sample collection and testing with the World Anti-Doping Agency-approved IDTM in charge. There are a few options that NADA has according to those who are well abreast with the workings of the agency. Outsourcing sample collection to UAE NADO This is the most cost-effective measure where NADO will collect the sample and transport it to the WADA-accredited laboratory in Doha. NADA has been sending collected samples to this lab ever since the National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL) was suspended by WADA. "This is the most convenient option in terms of checking the cost and sample transportation. NADA foots the bill which will be much lower," a source privy to the developments said. In any case, the Dope Control Officers (DCOs) employed by NADA is not the organisation's staff and are hired on a contractual basis. NADA sends DCOs to UAE Another option is that NADA sends at least 3 to 4 DCOs to the UAE at its own cost for sample collection. It is expected that these DCOs will stay at the bio-secure facility created by the BCCI, which will be different from the ones created by the franchises for their players. The tab has to be picked by NADA as cost will run into lakhs. With the agency already short of target-testing during an Olympic year due to the pandemic-forced lockdown and working on a specific budget, spending a huge amount on testing players at the IPL may not be a wise idea, according to experts. "When Indian athletes train in Europe or the USA, does NADA send DCOs for sample collection in those countries?" asked one of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-doping-measures-at-ipl-nada-might-outsource-sample-collection-867079.html
29-07-2020||National||Parenting during pandemic: 'First-timers' navigate lockdown hurdles to embrace parenthood||Parenthood can be daunting at the best of times but when it happens for the first time and that too in the middle of a pandemic without the family-friends support structure, well that’s when it takes on a whole new dimension – exciting but oh-so-scary. And sometimes there is no domestic help either. Just ask Vinolia and Ravi Sadrani, a Mumbai couple who had their first baby during lockdown when they were not stepping out of their homes and no one was coming in either. In March this year, when the lockdown to stem the spread of the disease was imposed, Vinolia was nine months pregnant, just days away from becoming a mother. It was a tense, anxious and physically exhausting time. "Right after conceiving, we were told it is going to be a complicated pregnancy and we would have to go for caesarean delivery. So obviously we knew we would need a lot of assistance. This was our first child and we knew nothing," Vinolia, who gave birth to their daughter Ruhi on April 27, told PTI. In a classic case of so near and yet so far, Vinolia's mother who lives in another part of Mumbai couldn’t come and she couldn’t go either. "Once the lockdown was announced, not only did the possibility of getting some extra help from our parents disappears but whatever little help we had in the form of the maid was also gone," the 29-year-old said. Her mother has come to her place now but the first two months were harrowing. The couple was cooking and cleaning all on their own, and for everything else there was Google. Whether it was reaching out to their parents through video calls for advice on what to eat before delivery and what to feed the baby or watching videos about pregnancy and parenting, Google was their go-to guide. The process of having a child in itself is trying, and the stress increased exponentially due to the pandemic and the lockdown. "Access to nutritional food like fresh vegetables and fruits became challenging. We were always worried if anything we consumed would infect us and then jeopardise the baby's health. The lack of enough knowledge about the spread of the virus was very frustrating,” Vinolia said. It has been worse for couples with parents in other cities and countries. Like Canada-based Baanipreet Kaur and Tanveer Singh who had their baby last month, without any clue about the basic dos and don’ts of looking after a new-born and without parental help from back home in India. Banipreet said they tried everything they could to fly her parents from Gurgaon, across the Atlantic to North York, but in vain. “The plan was that my parents would come to Canada... but the visa got rejected because of Covid-19. Two months back we applied again, but the application is still in process," the 28-year-old new mother said. Banipreet, who gave birth to a son, Ranveer Singh, on June 2, said she was relying on her parents to help her navigate through the taxing times, but had to make do with the internet. "It was all new to me. So whether it was about my food habits or the correct position to sleep or sit, all of it was a challenge. It was worse after the delivery. Questions like 'How do we take care of the baby?' 'What should I eat now?' 'How often should I feed him?' and 'Why is he crying?' kept flooding our minds. "I would constantly be on video calls with my mother for every little query, and when she wasn't available, I looked up information on YouTube and called up friends who have children for advice," she said. UNICEF in May said that an estimated 20 million babies were expected to be born in the country under the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, between March and December 2020. Due to strained health systems and disruption in the availability of medical assistance, it is important that parents take care of themselves as well as their infant, say medical experts. While maintaining hand hygiene before touching the baby is non-negotiable, paediatrician Manish Mannan also warns parents against deferring routine immunisation due to fear of Covid-19. "Regular visits to the paediatrician should not be deferred either. Many neonates develop jaundice around day four-five of life and a few may need medical intervention. Hence, review after discharge is of utmost importance," said the HOD of Paediatrics & Neonatology, Paras Hospitals (Gurgaon). Mannan also advised against the use of traditional products like kajal, or digestive liquids like 'jamam ghutti' and gripe water for the baby. As for managing the stress of becoming new parents in these unprecedented times, life coach Tiesta Duggal agreed that not having their parents physically around themselves to help out is likely to create an "emotional void", but it is important for couples to make the best of what they have. According to her, couples must remember why they decided to get into parenthood, and that the current problem at hand is a temporary one. "This is an extremely good time to bond with their partner, as well as the child. The couple will get an opportunity to rediscover their relationship, and learn how to give each other enough space, while at the same time communicating with each other, because they are the only ones who are dealing with the situation at hand," Duggal said. The problems are not confined to first time parents. Even those having their second child and expected to know the drill find themselves a bit lost. Noida-based Satyendra Kumar and his wife Sushma had their second child, a daughter, on June 12. "On our second check-up, my wife was told she was ready to give birth -- 10 days before the due date, and I just did not know what to do. I wasn't ready. I wanted more time, but obviously I didn't get to decide," Satyendra said. The last time Satyendra and Sushma had a child was in 2015, and almost everything was taken care of by their families. So they tried everything -- getting their parents to their house, travelling to their hometown in Patna, first by road and then by flight – but nothing worked. He said the last pregnancy felt like a breeze, but this time was an eye-opener. Between March and June, the two rediscovered their relationship. He even learnt to cook samosas to meet his wife's pregnancy cravings. "I have learnt so much through this experience that I can answer practically any query on pregnancy. Someday I might even write a book about this," Satyendra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parenting-during-pandemic-first-timers-navigate-lockdown-hurdles-to-embrace-parenthood-867081.html
29-07-2020||National||Pak summons senior Indian diplomat over 'ceasefire violations'||Pakistan on Wednesday summoned a senior diplomat from the Indian High Commission here to register its protest over the alleged ceasefire violations by the Indian forces along the Line of Control (LoC). In a statement, the Foreign Office said that due to "indiscriminate and unprovoked firing" in the Rakhchikri Sector of the LoC on Tuesday, three civilians sustained serious injuries. The Indian forces along "the LoC and the Working Boundary (WB) have continuously been targeting civilian populated areas with artillery fire, heavy-calibre mortars and automatic weapons,” the statement alleged. It claimed that 14 people have been killed and 138 others injured in 1,823 incidents of ceasefire violations this year. The Indian side was called upon to respect the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding; investigate this and other such incidents of ceasefire violations and maintain peace along the LoC and the WB, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-ceasefire-violations-867082.html
29-07-2020||National||India approves plan to boost state spending on education to 6% of GDP||India's cabinet on Wednesday approved a plan to increase public spending on education to nearly 6% of gross domestic product from around 4% now, a top government official said, while also capping fees charged by educational institutions. The decision follows nationwide consultations, Information & Broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters after the cabinet meeting. The new policy seeks to expand access to higher education for 50% of high school students by 2035, and achieve universal adult literacy before that date. Education is among sectors Prime Minister Narendra Modi aims to reform in an effort to strengthen India's economy following the impact of the coronavirus pandemic. Critics say his reforms fall far short of stated objectives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-approves-plan-to-boost-state-spending-on-education-to-6-of-gdp-867092.html
29-07-2020||National||Govind Singh Dotasra takes charge as Rajasthan Congress president||Govind Singh Dotasra on Wednesday formally took over as the new chief of the Rajasthan Congress. "I would like to thank Sonia Gandhi ji and Rahul Gandhi ji for giving the responsibility to a small worker like me who comes from a farmer's family," the newly-appointed state unit chief said at the Pradesh Congress Committee office here. He thanked the people of his constituency (Laxmangarh) and said he would live up to the expectations of farmers, Dalits and youths, adding that he would work to bring the Congress to power again in the 2023 state polls. Addressing the party workers, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said Dotasra had played his role well as a member of the assembly and deputy chief whip when the party was in opposition. He said people are well-versed with the working style of Dotasra and a positive message has gone to the block level with his appointment. AICC general secretary and Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande said the appointment has come at a time when the political situation in the state is not good and the entire country is looking at the happenings in Rajasthan. He said people are also looking at the role of the Governor in the present crisis. Pande said Dotasra, state education minister and former party district president, has now been given the responsibility to run the organisation. He added that “Dotasara knows the work”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govind-singh-dotasra-takes-charge-as-rajasthan-congress-president-867095.html
29-07-2020||National||Covid-19 fatality rate declining progressively, total recoveries 9.88 lakh: Health ministry||The total number of recoveries from Covid-19 is fast approaching the 10-lakh mark, while the case fatality rate has been falling progressively due to coordinated implementation of the 'test track treat' strategy by the Centre, states and Union Territories, the health ministry said on Wednesday. India's Covid-19 case fatality rate (CFR) is lower than what it is globally. On Wednesday, the CFR stood at 2.23 percent, the lowest since April 1, the health ministry said in a statement. "Not only has the CFR been kept low, but successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on a holistic standard of care approach have in tandem resulted in a consistent trend of more than 30,000 recoveries per day for the sixth consecutive day," it said. With 35,286 patients discharged in 24 hours till Wednesday morning, the total number of recoveries has jumped to 9,88,029. The recovery rate among Covid-19 patients too has increased to 64.51 percent. The ministry said, "With such consistent increase in recoveries, the gap between the number of recovered patients and active Covid-19 cases currently stands at 4,78,582." The number of active cases stood at 5,09,447 and they are under medical supervision. India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 15,31,669 with 48,513 fresh cases recorded in a day, while the country's death toll due to the disease rose to 34,193 with 768 fatalities being reported in the same period, the health ministry data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fatality-rate-declining-progressively-total-recoveries-988-lakh-health-ministry-867101.html
29-07-2020||National||As Rafale jets start arriving, India warns those who covet its land||As the first five of the 36 Rafale fighter jets it is procuring from the Dassault Aviation company of France arrived on Wednesday, India sent out a tacit message to China and Pakistan, saying whoever covets its territory should be worried about its new warbirds. The five aircraft landed at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Ambala in Haryana a little more than four hours after they took off from Al Dhafra air base of United Arab Emirates (UAE). The fighter jets had taken off from Bordeaux-Merignac airbase in France last Monday and had a stopover at the airbase in Abu Dhabi before flying to Ambala on Wednesday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to welcome the new fighter aircraft, which started arriving amid China’s aggressive moves to alter the status quo along the disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh. He posted a ‘shloka’ in Sanskrit, which meant “no vow is holier and no deed is greater than protecting the nation”. “Touch the sky with glory. Welcome,” he tweeted along with a video of the landing of the aircraft. The new fighter aircraft are being inducted to the recently resurrected 17 Golden Arrows squadron of the IAF. “The Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircrafts in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC,” tweeted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. New Delhi is worried as the Indian Army last week reported that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has not yet withdrawn troops from some of the face-off scenes in eastern Ladakh, where the communist country’s unilateral move to change the status quo along the disputed boundary between the two nations resulted in a stand-off. The soldiers of China’s “iron-brother” Pakistan have also been persistently flouting ceasefire along the Line of Control with India, apart from facilitating infiltration by terrorists. “I would like to add, if it is anyone who should be worried about or critical about this new capability of the Indian Air Force, it should be those who want to threaten our territorial integrity,” the Defence Minister said. He not only sent out a message to China and Pakistan, but also took a dig at the opposition Congress, which had criticized the Rs 59000 crore India-France deal that the Modi Government had inked in September 2016 to buy 36 Rafale fighter jets “off the shelf”. The Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday tweeted to congratulate the IAF for its latest acquisition. He, however, also reiterated the questions he had earlier asked the Bharatiya Janata Party’s government at the Centre, like why each aircraft costs Rs 1670 Crore instead of Rs 526 Crores and why 36 jets were bought instead of 126 as was originally planned and why Reliance Defence was given a Rs 30000 crore contract instead of the state-own Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. Gandhi’s party had earlier accused the Modi Government of nudging the Dassault Aviation to choose Reliance Defence as its offset partner, ignoring the HAL. The Supreme Court, however, in December 2018 concluded that no irregularities were found in the deal. It also dismissed review petitions in November 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-rafale-jets-start-arriving-india-warns-those-who-covet-its-land-867112.html
29-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Govt revamps education structure||In today’s episode, The first five of the 36 Rafale fighter jets India procured from the Dassault Aviation company of France arrived in Haryana's Ambala Indian Air Force (IAF) station on Wednesday, the government has approved a new education policy that seeks to revamp all aspects of education structure and aims to achieve universal access to education to all between age groups of 3-18 years by 2030 and Laxman S Savadi has clarified that  Chief Minister Yediyurappa will continue as CM for next 3-years.  Here is the top news of today, Wednesday: July 29, 2020: The first five of the 36 Rafale fighter jets that India procured from the Dassault Aviation company of France arrived in Haryana's Ambala Indian Air Force (IAF) station on Wednesday. The aircraft landed nearly three-and-a-half hours after they took off from Al Dhafra airbase of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The fighter jets had taken off from Bordeaux-Merignac airbase in France on Monday and had a stopover at the airbase in Abu Dhabi before taking off for Ambala on Wednesday. The new fighter aircraft are inducted to the recently resurrected 17 Golden Arrows squadron of the IAF – at a time when India is engaged in a military stand-off with China. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government highlighted it as a significant step in “strengthening air power” and “defence preparedness” of the nation. “The Birds have landed safely in Ambala. The touch down of Rafale combat aircraft in India marks the beginning of a new era in our Military History. These multirole aircrafts will revolutionise the capabilities of the @IAF_MCC,” tweeted Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The country's largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India on Wednesday reported its first-ever quarterly loss since becoming public 17 years back with a consolidated net loss of Rs 268.3 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, hit hard by coronavirus pandemic. The auto major, which got listed way back in July 2003, had posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,376.8 crore in the April-June quarter of 2019-20. Net sales declined to Rs 3,679 crore in the first quarter as against Rs 18,738.8 crore in the year-ago period, MSI said in a statement. On a standalone basis, the company reported a net loss of Rs 249.4 crore for the first quarter ended June 30. It had posted a net profit of Rs 1,435.5 crore on a standalone basis in April-June of 2019-20. The auto major's net sales during the period under review declined to Rs 3,677.5 crore, as compared to Rs 18,735.2 crore in the year-ago period. After over three decades, the government on Wednesday approved a new education policy that seeks to revamp all aspects of education structure and aims to achieve universal access to education to all between age groups of 3-18 years by 2030. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, approved the New Education Policy that also proposed to change the name of the Ministry of Human Resource Development to the Ministry of Education. According to the draft policy, there will be no hard separation of learning areas in terms of curricular, co-curricular or extracurricular areas and all subjects, including arts, music, crafts, sports, yoga, community service, etc. will be curricular. It also promotes active pedagogy that will focus on the development of core capacities and life skills, including 21st-century skills. The policy also aims at increasing the exposure of students to classical languages of India in a bid to preserve these languages and their artistic treasures. "Every student in the country will take a fun course on “The Languages of India" sometime in Grades 6-8 ... with the option to continue through secondary education and university," the draft policy had said. Amidst buzz that BJP top brass may effect a change of leadership in Karnataka, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman S Savadi has clarified that  Chief Minister Yediyurappa will continue as CM for next 3-years. Savadi,  who is camping in Delhi for the past three days,  told reporters that "there is no truth in media reports that I am trying to become the CM." He said: "This news initially spread in social media after I met the Karnataka Governor. There is no truth in it. I came to the national capital to meet union ministers about my department works. Yediyurappa is my leader. He will continue as CM for the remaining three years." Savadi, who also holds the Transport Department portfolio, said that he met BJP National President J P Nadda on Tuesday. Terming the visit was a courtesy call he said, " I have explained achievements of the state government headed by Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa which completed one year. Nadda also told me to convey his greetings to Chief Minister Yediyurappa." He also said he tried to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah yesterday but it did not happen as Shah was busy. Savadi’s arrival in the national capital on Monday, the day Yediyurappa is organising a function to mark his one-year completion of the government,  triggered speculation that the BJP top brass may appoint him as CM by replacing Yediyurappa. Savadi, who has a strong backing of BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh, has been meeting the party leaders in Delhi for the past three days. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch-up show From the Newsroom every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-govt-revamps-education-structure-867113.html
29-07-2020||National||36 Rafale fleet will be a game changer for India: Experts||The Rafale jets, known globally as one the most potent strategic platforms with unmatched capability in carrying out a variety of roles, will significantly bolster India's air combat capabilities when it is facing hostile neighbours like Pakistan and China, defence experts said on Wednesday. The timing of induction of the 4.5 generation combat jets assumed significance as it came in the midst of India's tense border row with China, they said. They said the Rafales could be a game-changer for India after all the 36 jets join the Indian Air Force as no aircraft in possession of any country in the neighbourhood will be able to match their superior kinematic performance and powerful electronic warfare systems. The Rafale jet, which is often compared with the US’ stealth F-35 aircraft and F-22, is able to carry out all combat aviation missions like air superiority and air defence, close air support, in-depth strikes, reconnaissance, anti-ship strikes and nuclear deterrence at varied speed limits of up to 1.8 Mach. The aircraft proved its unmatched capabilities in air combat missions in Afghanistan, Libya, Mali, Iraq and Syria in the last few years. India is the fourth country to have the strategic platform after France, Egypt and Qatar. The Rafale, manufactured by French defence giant Dassault Aviation, entered service with the French Navy in 2004 and with the French Air Force in 2006. According to Dassault Aviation, the aircraft has a whopping 30,000 flight hours in operations. In comparison to F-35, experts said the Rafale jet is more agile as it has long-endurance to fly at a higher speed while carrying a range of weapons for a longer period of time. However, the F-35 scores much ahead of Rafales in terms of on board avionics and electronic warfare systems. "It is one of the finest combat aircraft available in the global market. It is much more advanced and lethal then the current fighter aircraft available with China. It is definitely a boost to India's defence preparedness. The timing of the arrival of the jets is perfect," said defence expert De Laxman Behera. When asked about China's fighter jet J-20, he said it cannot be compared with Rafale as the French manufactured jet is much more potent than the Chinese aircraft. Former Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal (retd) Fali Homi Major too echoed Dr Behera's observations. "There was no comparison between Rafale and the J-20s. The world does not know about the J-20s. The Rafale jets will give the IAF superior air dominance capability," the former IAF chief told PTI. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile, Scalp cruise missile and MICA weapons system will be the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. The Indian Air Force is also in the process of procuring a new generation medium-range modular air-to-ground weapon system Hammer to integrate with the Rafale jets. The Hammer (Highly Agile Modular Munition Extended Range) is a precision-guided missile developed by French defence major Safran. The missile was originally designed and manufactured for the French Air Force and Navy. "India will have unmatched air power in the region when it has all the 36 Rafale aircraft. It will be a game changer for India" said Dr Behera, who is a leading expert at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses. He said both Pakistan and China must have taken note of induction of the fighter jets. The government on Monday said that the delivery of all 36 aircraft will be completed by the end of 2021. India on Wednesday received its first batch of new multirole combat fighter aircraft in nearly two decades with the arrival of five Rafale jets. The NDA government had inked a Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the UPA regime. The emergency acquisition was made primarily to check the depleting combat capability of the IAF as the number of its fighter squadrons had come down to a worrying 31 against the authorised strength of at least 42. The fleet, comprising three single seater and two twin seater aircraft, is being inducted into the IAF as part of its Ambala-based No 17 Squadron, also known as the ''Golden Arrows''.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/36-rafale-fleet-will-be-a-game-changer-for-india-experts-867117.html
29-07-2020||National||New education policy 'unilateral' drive to destroy Indian education: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) on Wednesday opposed the new National Education Policy introduced by the government and termed it an "unilateral drive to "destroy Indian education". The party alleged that Parliament has been completely bypassed in the process of forming the policy. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the new National Education Policy (NEP) and renamed the HRD Ministry as Education Ministry, officials said. A panel led by former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chief K Kasturirangan had submitted the draft of the new policy to Union Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' when he took charge last year. The draft was then put in public domain to seek feedback from various stakeholders and over two lakh suggestions were received by the HRD Ministry about the same. "The Polit Bureau of the CPI(M) strongly denounces the Union Cabinet decision to unilaterally impose a New Education Policy and rename the Ministry of Human Resource Development," the CPI(M) said in a statement. "Education is in the Concurrent List in our Constitution. It is a gross violation by the Central government to impose a New Education Policy unilaterally bypassing all the objections and opposition recorded by various state governments,¨ it said. It also said that any new policy of such nature needs to be discussed in Parliament and this was assured by the government earlier. ¨This unilateral drive is to destroy the Indian education system with a policy that seeks greater centralization, communalization and commercialization of Indian education. "The Polit Bureau of the CPI(M) strongly protests against this move by the BJP Central government. The Polit Bureau demands that a thorough discussion in Parliament be held before implementation begins," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-unilateral-drive-to-destroy-indian-education-cpim-867118.html
29-07-2020||National||Truth wins, says Ankita as cops zero in on Rhea Chakraborty||Truth wins, says actress Ankita Lokhande, former companion of Sushant Singh Rajput, as police intensified investigations against the actor’s relationship with Rhea Chakraborty. Sushant (34), who had acted in films like MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, Shuddh Desi Romance, PK, Detective Byomkesh Bakshi, Raabta, Kedarnath, Sonchiriya, Chhichore, died by suicide on June 14 at his rented duplex flat in Bandra. The four-member team from Bihar police continues to camp in Mumbai after the late actor’s father Krishna Kumar Singh lodged an FIR against Rhea and her family members. On a black wall, Ankita, a TV actress, with whom Sushant had a long relationship, just wrote – “Truth Wins”. Speaking out for the first time after the latest development, Sushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti, wrote on Instagram: “If truth doesn’t matter, nothing ever will! #justiceforsushantsinghrajput” – and posted a picture from her Patna home, where a portrait of the actor is kept. "Everyone's statement will be recorded as an FIR is lodged. We went to Sushant's Bandra residence. Cannot share more details as the investigation is underway. Things are moving in the right direction,” a police official said in Mumbai. The team may record Sushant's sister Mitu Singh's statement in connection with the actor's alleged suicide. Mitu Singh’s husband is a senior police officer based in Haryana. “An FIR registered now (in Patna) as the family was in shock and the  Mumbai Police wasn't registering FIR, but forcing them to give names of big production houses and get them involved. It was heading in a different direction,” said Vikas Singh, former solicitor general and lawyer,  who is representing Sushant’s family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/truth-wins-says-ankita-as-cops-zero-in-on-rhea-chakraborty-867123.html
29-07-2020||National||People must not pay more fares when booking tickets via travel agents on Vande Bharat flights: Govt||Passengers booking tickets through travel agents on international flights operating under the Vande Bharat Mission must not pay more than the fares mentioned on Air India's website, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Wednesday. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. However, since May 6, international charter flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission. "Passengers booking tickets for #VBM flights through travel agents, may please note that they should not pay more than the fares mentioned on the Air India website. Passengers facing issues of overcharging by travel agents may write to gmsm@airindia.in," the ministry said on Twitter. India had on July 16 formed bilateral air bubbles with countries like the US, Germany and France that allows airlines of both the countries in the pact to operate special international charter flights. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to conserve cash. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. The airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. However, occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-must-not-pay-more-fares-when-booking-tickets-via-travel-agents-on-vande-bharat-flights-govt-867127.html
29-07-2020||National||Unlock 3.0: MHA releases guidelines; night curfew to end||There will be no night curfew from August 1 and yoga schools and gymnasiums can open from August 5 while schools and colleges will remain shut throughout the next month, the government said in Unlock 3.0 issued on Wednesday. The wait for starting operations of Metro and international flights, barring those under ‘Vande Bharat’ and those permitted by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), will take more time, as it remains suspended. So will be a visit to cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums and assembly halls, according to the guidelines that will come into effect from August 1. There has been pressure from cinema hall owners and multiplex operators to allow the functioning of these facilities with 50% capacity and other restrictions. With states and union territories expressing reservations about opening educational institutes, the guidelines issued by the MHA said schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31. Several states had been hesitant to open schools with many indicating that they could think of allowing institutions to function only in September.  However, the MHA has now allowed yoga institutes and gymnasiums to start opening from August 5 for which the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will be issuing Standard Operating Procedure.  In a measure that could provide relief to the common man, restrictions imposed on the movement of individuals during 10 PM and 5 AM (night curfew) have also been removed. Independence Day celebrations at national, state, district, sub-division, municipal and panchayat levels and at home functions will be allowed with social distancing norms in place and by following health protocols. Lockdown measures in containment zones will be strictly enforced while all kinds of large gatherings -- social, political, religious, academic, cultural and others -- are continued to be in the negative list. According to the order, states have been given powers to prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones or impose such restrictions as deemed necessary based on their assessment of the situation. "However, there shall be no restriction on inter-State and intra-State movement of persons and goods. No separate permission/ approval/ e-permit will be required for such movements," the order said.  Wearing face covers in public places continue to be in place while shops will ensure physical distancing among customers. The earlier restriction of allowing only five customers at a time in smaller shops has been lifted. The restriction of the number of guests at marriages and funerals remains at 50 and 20 respectively. For offices, the guidelines said that work from home should be followed as far as possible. Staggering of work/business hours should be followed at offices, shops, markets and industrial and commercial establishments. "Vulnerable persons, i.e., persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, are advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes," the order added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unlock-30-mha-releases-guidelines-night-curfew-to-end-867136.html
29-07-2020||National||New education policy: Discontinuation of MPhil courses, change in board exams, other major reforms announced||The New Education Policy (NEP), has been approved by the Union Cabinet and it proposes major educational reforms after the last reforms made in 1992.  To begin with, the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) has been renamed as the Ministry of Education.  Along with this, a National Educational Technology Forum (NETF) would be set up that will aim to revamp the digital education sphere and provide learning opportunities in eight regional languages.  1) The nature of board examinations would change as board exams will be based on knowledge application. 2) A major change would be that the medium of instruction would shift to regional language or mother tongue till 5th grade. 3) MPhil courses to be discontinued under new the National Education Policy. 4) Top universities from across the world will be allowed to operate in India. 4) Early childhood care and education (ECCE) would be universalised. EECE traditionally aims to provide emotional, social, cognitive learning to children till third grade.  5) The traditional grading system of 10+2 would also change. The new pedagogical structure would be 5+3+3+4.  6) All higher education institutions, except legal and medical colleges, to be governed by single regulator. 7) Common entrance exams to be held for admission to universities and higher education institutions. 8) School curriculum to be reduced to core concepts; integration of vocational education from class 6. 9) The distinction between humanities and sciences, curricular and extracurricular activities, and vocational and academic pursuits would be blurred.  10) A gender inclusion fund would also be set up. Along with this, transparent online self-disclosure would be ensured to encourage public accountability.  11) Along with these major reforms, the introduction of a Book Promotion Policy and popularising digital libraries would take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-discontinuation-of-mphil-courses-change-in-board-exams-other-major-reforms-announced-867139.html
29-07-2020||National||Rafale deal: A saga of political dogfight to celebratory touchdown||The touchdown of five Rafale jets on Indian soil on Wednesday caps years of intense political dogfight, with the ruling BJP projecting the purchase as a huge boost to national security and the Congress alleging corruption, before a clean chit by the Supreme Court to the deal removed any hurdle in its acquisition. Senior BJP leaders were jubilant as the multirole combat jets arrived at the Ambala Air Base, but this denouement marked by celebrations follows a long saga of political fights, with detractors of the deal taking their battle to the apex court and losing it there. Even the Supreme Court's dismissal in December 2018 of PILs demanding a court-monitored probe into the Rs 59,000 crore purchase of 36 fighter jets and assertion that it found nothing wrong in the deal, could not douse the political fire as the then Congress president Rahul Gandhi made his allegations of graft in the transaction a poll issue in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The BJP led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the opposition of compromising national interest by making "baseless" corruption charges and asserted that the French aircraft will bolster Indian Air Force capabilities manifold in a hostile neighbourhood. Most political observers believe that Gandhi's charges did not find much traction with voters as the saffron alliance retained power at the Centre with a bigger mandate, taking the wind out of the opposition's sails in its campaign against the deal. His diatribe against the prime minister with slogans like "chowkidar chor hai" (watchman is a thief) ended up boom-ranging, as the Congress was decimated in the elections. The political row had erupted after the NDA government inked the Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the Congress-led UPA regime. The emergency acquisition was made primarily to check the depleting combat capability of the IAF as the number of its fighter squadrons had come down to a worrying 31 against the authorised strength of at least 42. However, opposition parties, primarily the Congress, accused the Modi government of bypassing the due process and alleged that the cost per aircraft had turned out to be much more than what was being negotiated by the UPA dispensation. The then defence minister Arun Jaitley had asserted amid relentless protests in Parliament by the Congress that in reality the deal signed by the Modi government was 20 per cent cheaper than being negotiated by the UPA. The government, however, declined to reveal price breakdown of the deal, saying it will compromise national interest by disclosing the details of the aircraft's security features. A CAG report in February last year also vindicated the government's position to a large extent, saying it secured a 2.86 per cent cheaper price for the fighter jets than what was negotiated by the UPA regime. Earlier, the Supreme Court had on December 14, 2018 rejected plea for a probe into the deal, saying there was no occasion to doubt the decision-making process in the Rafale's procurement. In November last year, the court rejected pleas for a review of its decision, putting a closure to the political controversy over the deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-deal-a-saga-of-political-dogfight-to-celebratory-touchdown-867145.html
29-07-2020||National||Indians must support local products for Aatmaninbhar Bharat: Sri Sri Ravi Shankar||Indian consumers must support local products to make Aatmanirbhar Bharat or Self Reliant India campaign a success, spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar has said. He also opined that linking a product to its manufacturing province can be a possible exploration point to promote local products globally and this will aid in marketing and brand creation. "If Indian consumers do not support local products then it will be difficult to progress. We need to support our own products, buy local and think global. This is an idea we need to follow thoroughly," Ravi Shankar said at an event. He then went on to give examples of products like Mysore sandalwood, Muradabad brass business, Bangalore silk, Agra and Mathura's petha and others. “In this manner, each province of our nation was linked to a product in the past. One reason for China to have progressed economically so well as per my understanding is that they too have tied a province to a product in a similar manner. This would be a great way of going about Aatmanirbhar Bharat," said Ravi Shankar. Commenting on the current economic situation and how Aatmanirbhar Bharat can play a role in recovery, he said, “I believe that we will come out of this pandemic situation much stronger though right now it may seem like a far-fetched reality. "For this, we need a strong mind and unshakeable faith and we have to hold on to the hope that when the mind is strong, human beings can achieve anything.” He also highlighted the importance of exercising mental hygiene during this time through meditation and yoga to keep stress at bay and observed that positive thinking can also boost one's immunity. “Doubts about the future can be draining not only our energy but also breaks down our immune system. It is not the time to lower our immunity. So positive thinking, meditation and anything that will help us to keep our mind strong and uplift our spirits must be done,” he said. Ravi Shankar made the remarks while virtually addressing the inaugural session of the 'Wisdom Series' organised by Assocham in association with ITC Sunfeast on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-must-support-local-products-for-aatmaninbhar-bharat-sri-sri-ravi-shankar-867146.html
29-07-2020||National||Cabinet approves memorandum of understanding between India & Zimbabwe on cooperation in traditional medicine, homeopathy||The Cabinet on Wednesday gave ex-post facto approval to an agreement between India and Zimbabwe on cooperation in the field of traditional systems of medicine and homeopathy.   The memorandum of understanding (MoU), which was signed on November 3, 2018 and approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday, aims to provide a framework for cooperation between the two countries for the promotion of traditional systems of medicine and homeopathy and will mutually benefit both nations in the field of traditional medicine, an official statement said. The areas of cooperation identified by the MoU include promotion in the regulation of teaching, practice, drugs and drugless therapies, supply of all medicine materials and documents necessary for demonstration and reference in achieving the objectives and exchange of experts for the training of practitioners, paramedics, scientists, teaching professionals and students among others. Mutual recognition of pharmacopoeias and formularies, systems of medicines which are officially recognised by the parties, educational qualifications awarded by central and state recognised universities were also identified as areas of cooperation by the MoU, the statement said. The main objective of the MoU is to strengthen, promote and develop co-operation in traditional medicine systems between the two countries on the basis of equality and mutual benefit, it said. Provision of scholarships for education in recognized institutions, recognition of traditional preparations on a reciprocal basis by qualified practitioners as per the existing laws of the respective countries and permission to practice on reciprocal basis by qualified practitioners as per the existing laws of the respective countries were also identified as areas of cooperation by the MoU, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-approves-memorandum-of-understanding-between-india-zimbabwe-on-cooperation-in-traditional-medicine-homeopathy-867150.html
29-07-2020||National||From MIG-21 to Mirage to Rafale jets: A look at India's key fighter aircraft acquisitions||From opting for the Russian Mikoyan-Gurevich Design Bureau-made MiG 21 in 1961 to receiving the first batch of five French-manufactured Rafale multi-role combat jets on Wednesday, India has come a long way in boosting its air-strike prowess. Some of the key fighter jet acquisitions over the years and the combat capabilities they possess that made India's airmen a force to reckon with are: Rafale jets: India on Wednesday received its first batch of new multirole combat fighter aircraft in nearly two decades with the arrival of five Rafale jets, giving the country's air power a strategic edge. The NDA government inked a Rs 59,000-crore deal in September 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation. European missile maker MBDA's Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile, Scalp cruise missile and MICA weapons system are the mainstay of the weapons package of the Rafale jets. The IAF is also procuring new generation medium-range modular air-to-ground weapon system Hammer to integrate with the Rafale jets. SU-30 MKI: Inducted in 2002, the Russian advanced fighter jets are the primary air-to-air and air-to-ground strike machines. It is a twin-seater twin-engine multirole fighter of Russian origin which carries One X 30mm GSH gun along with 8000 kg external armament.  It is capable of carrying a variety of medium-range guided air to air missiles with active or semi-active radar or Infrared homing close range missiles. It has a max speed of 2500 km/hr (Mach 2.35).   Mirage-2000: The Mirage-2000, one of the Indian Air Force's (IAF) most versatile and deadliest aircraft, was first commissioned in 1985. The Mirage-2000 is developed by Dassault Aviation. It is a single-seater air defence and multi-role fighter of French origin powered by a single-engine. It can attain a max speed of 2495 km/hr(Mach 2.3). It carries two 30 mm integral cannons and two matras super 530D medium-range and two R-550 magic II close combat missiles on external stations. MiG-27: The Soviet-sourced ground-attack aircraft was designed by Mikoyan-Gurevich Design Bureau and was manufactured by HAL under a license agreement. It is a single-engine, single-seater tactical strike fighter aircraft of Russian origin having a maximum speed of 1700 km/hr (Mach 1.6). It carries one 23 mm six-barrel rotary integral cannon and can carry upto 4,000 kg of another armament externally. MiG-29: Another Soviet Mikoyan-Gurevich Design Bureau produced MiG was introduced in the 1970s to counter US' F-Series planes like F-15 and F-16. It was commissioned in IAF in 1985. The MiG29 forms the second line of defence after the Sukhoi Su-30MKI. It is a twin-engine, single-seater air superiority fighter aircraft which is capable of attaining a maximum speed of 2,445 km per hour (Mach-2.3). It has a combat ceiling of 17 km. It carries a 30 mm cannon along with four R-60 close combat and two R-27 R medium-range radar-guided missiles. Jaguar: The SEPECAT Jaguar is a fighter jet developed together by British Royal Air Force and French Air Force. It is a twin-engine, single-seater deep penetration strike aircraft of Anglo-French origin which has a maximum speed of 1350 km /hr (Mach 1.3). It has two 30mm guns and can carry two R-350 Magic CCMs (overwing) along with 4750 kg of external stores (bombs/fuel). MiG-21 Bison: In 1961, the IAF opted for the Mikoyan-Gurevich Design Bureau-made MIG 21. The single-engine, single-seater multirole fighter/ground attack aircraft of Russian origin forms the backbone of the IAF. It has a max speed of 2230 km/hr (Mach 2.1) and carries one 23mm twin-barrel cannon with four R-60 close combat missiles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-mig-21-to-mirage-to-rafale-jets-a-look-at-indias-key-fighter-aircraft-acquisitions-867161.html
29-07-2020||National||Twists and turns continue in Sushant Singh Rajput death case||Amid twists and turns in the case involving the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the late actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of the FIR registered in Patna to Mumbai. “A petition filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty in Supreme Court seeking transfer of investigation in Sushant Singh Rajput's death to Mumbai,” Rhea’s lawyer Satish Maneshinde said. The four-member team from the Patna police continues to camp in Mumbai after the late actor’s father Krishna Kumar Singh lodged an FIR against Rhea and her family members at the Rajiv Nagar police station. Sushant (34), who had acted in films like MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, Shuddh Desi Romance, PK, Detective Byomkesh Bakshi, Raabta, Kedarnath, Sonchiriya, Chhichore, died by suicide on 14 June at his rented duplex flat in Bandra. Questions are being raised asking why the Bandra police station that is investigating the case have so far not registered an FIR in the case and continued to investigate on the basis of an ADR. Also, the demand for a CBI probe into the case is growing. “An FIR registered now as family was in shock and the Mumbai Police wasn't registering FIR, but forcing them to give names of big production houses and get them involved. It was heading in a different direction,” said Vikas Singh, former solicitor general and lawyer, who is representing Sushant’s family. Senior BJP leader Dr Subramanian Swamy said that the Mumbai police was not treating the case professionally. “The Patna police has investigated and registered an FIR on several offences Sushant Singh Rajput’s mysterious death but Mumbai police has not got beyond Inquest under Section 174 of CrPC and not registered a criminal case reveals the possible mindset of Mumbai police,” he said. Sushant’s father has lodged the case against Rhea Chakraborty, and her family including Indrajit Chakraborty, Sandhya Chakraborty, Shruti Modi, Showik Chakraborty and others under sections 341, 342, 380, 406,420, 306 and 120 (B) of the Indian Penal Code. The Mumbai police have so far questioned 40 people which includes friends, family members, associates, executives of productions and Bollywood bigwigs. Singh had pointed out that his son’s bank account transaction history shows he had Rs 17 crore in one account, of which Rs 15 crore has been transferred to an account that had nothing to do with him. He had also alleged that Rhea had left him and took away his treatment papers, laptop, credit cards, jewellery and cash. He had also pointed out that his son did not suffer from mental health issues before his relationship with Rhea.  Sushant’s former girlfriend and companion sent a social media message that says a lot. On a black wall, Ankita, a TV actress, with whom Sushant had a long relationship, just wrote – “Truth Wins”. Speaking out for the first time after the latest development, Sushant’s sister Shweta Singh Kirti, wrote on Instagram: “If truth doesn’t matter, nothing ever will! #justiceforsushantsinghrajput” – and posted a picture from her Patna home, where a portrait of the actor is kept. "Everyone's statement will be recorded as an FIR is lodged. We went to Sushant's Bandra residence. Cannot share more details as the investigation is underway. Things are moving in the right direction,” a police official said in Mumbai. The team may record Sushant's sister Mitu Singh's statement in connection with the actor's alleged suicide. Mitu Singh’s husband is a senior police officer based in Haryana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twists-and-turns-continue-in-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-867164.html
29-07-2020||National||Here's how this domestic help started her home cooking business ||Saroj ‘didi’ as she is fondly referred to, decided to open a home cooking business to generate additional income.   The pandemic affected many lives and domestic workers, particularly, were badly hit. The nature of their work, mostly done by hands and in intimate spaces, went against the principles of social distancing and isolation.  Reports of domestic workers losing their incomes almost entirely came around, ever since the lockdown was imposed in India and Covid-19 related fears grew.  Within this ecosystem, Saroj didi decided to find an alternative source of income. With some help from one Ankit Vengulerkar, she set up her food home delivery business.  Vengulerkar’s home is where Saroj cooks. While she cooks, Ankit procures ingredients, manages orders, packaging etc.  Vengulerkar advertised Saroj didi’s home-cooked food on Twitter. After a warm response, he set up a handle for business titled @ConoshOfficial.  “A thread on Saroj Didi. She's 47. Has 3 kids. Her husband & she used to run a small eating joint in Mangammanapalya. When her husband passed away, she shut down the business to look after her kids and raise them by doing housework. She's fluent in Kannada, Hindi, English,” wrote Vengulerkar on Twitter.   The food is delivered primarily to those who reside in HSR Layout, Bangalore.  The venture run by the duo currently offers two dishes Mangalorean style Crab Curry and Reddy’s chicken curry, they also operate only during the weekends.  “It has really given her a sense of purpose. In the last four days, she has made Rs 6,000, which otherwise she would earn in an entire month by cooking and cleaning in various houses,” Vengulerkar told the source.  Saroj was an entrepreneur, before the untimely demise of her husband, with whom she ran a joint that served idli-dosa, lemon rice, and tomato rice.  Saroj has been cooking for over thirty years now, and has many plans for her new venture if everything works well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-this-domestic-help-started-her-home-cooking-business-867175.html
29-07-2020||National||Covid-19 impact: Railways halts all new infrastructure work||The Railways has halted all new infrastructure works sanctioned for 2020-21 after the government issued orders suspending new schemes, with costs up to Rs 500 crore, till March 2021 due to the financial crunch brought in by the coronavirus pandemic, a Railway Board order has said. It has also directed zonal railways and its production units to only take on new works if it was essential for the safety of running trains, that too with the approval of the finance ministry. The Railways has estimated a loss of Rs 35,000 crore to Rs 40,000 crore in the passenger segment and is 18 per cent behind so far in freight loading as compared to last year due to the pandemic.  The Railway Board in an order dated July 28 has also said all other work sanctioned in previous years that have made little or no progress should be halted as well. “New works/ Umbrella works included in Pink Book 2020-21 shall be kept in abeyance. However, those works which impact the safe running of trains and are considered essential and inescapable may be considered for sanction. Essentiality of such works will be examined by concerned Additional Member, Additional Member/Works and Additional Member/Revenue,” the order said. “Works which have been approved till 2019-20 but have made insignificant physical progress shall be kept frozen till further orders except those which are essentially required for safe running of trains,” it stated. Officials said the Railways’ mega infrastructure projects like 100 per cent electrification, doubling its high speed corridors, will not be affected by the order and will continue as per schedule. However, the Railways has a number of projects lined up for this year -- the first phase of a centralised traffic control deployment plan, automatic train protection system, a project to set up a large solar power facility on railway land, station development project among others. It is not yet clear if this order will put a spanner on these works. In an office memorandum dated June 4 on ‘Appraisal and Approval of all Public Funded Schemes/Sub Schemes’, the government said it has suspended all new schemes up to Rs 500 crore till March 2021, which had earlier received in-principle approval for FY21. The government said there is unprecedented demand for public financial resources due to Covid-19 and resources need to be used prudently as per emerging and changing priorities. Hence, only schemes announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package will be exceptions and will be initiated and continued in FY21. The Railway Board order also said unutilized provision of umbrella works of 2018-19 and 2019-20, if any, should also be suspended. It has, however, empowered the general managers of zonal railways and production units to review the works already approved by them. However, all such exemptions for sanction of works which are considered “essential and inescapable” will have to be obtained from the Ministry of Finance, the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-impact-railways-halts-all-new-infrastructure-work-867184.html
29-07-2020||National||India asks Nepal to stop 'illegal' movement of its citizens in Kalapani area||India has asked Nepal to prevent its citizens from "illegally" visiting the Indian territories of Kalapani, Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Gunji, according to local media reports here. In a letter to the Nepali administration, an Indian official earlier this month said that Nepalese people in groups wanting to “illegally” enter into these Indian regions would create problems for both the countries. The Deputy District Commissioner, Dharchula, Pithoragarh district in Uttarakhand, Anil Shukla, in his letter dated July 14 also urged the Nepali authorities to share information with the Indian authorities about such activities, the Himalayan Times reported. "We have received a letter and phone call regarding India’s decision to prohibit Nepalis from crossing into the territories,” Sharad Kumar Pokhrel, Chief District Officer of Darchula, Nepal, was quoted as saying by the paper. However, local people have informed that they have not been stopped while crossing to the aforementioned areas, Pokhrel said. In its reply, the Nepalese authorities said that the movement of its citizens in Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Gunji areas is "natural" as the regions belong to the country, the paper said. "The movement of Nepalese nationals in these areas are natural," said the letter signed by Tek Singh Kunwar, Assistant District Administrator of Darchula, Nepal, according to Kantipur daily. The letter was sent to the Indian official following instructions from the Nepalese Home Ministry, Pokharel was quoted as saying by Rising Nepal daily. Nepal last month completed the process of redrawing the country's political map through a Constitutional amendment, incorporating strategically important Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas which India maintains belong to it. India has termed as "untenable" the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal. The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated a 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-asks-nepal-to-stop-illegal-movement-of-its-citizens-in-kalapani-area-867201.html
29-07-2020||National||New education policy to make board exams for Class 10, 12 board exams easier||Board exams for Class 10 and 12 are set to be an easier affair as the New Education Policy proposes to lower the stakes with focus on application of knowledge instead of learning by rote. The New Education Policy, unveiled on Wednesday, offers board flexibility to develop viable models of Board Exams, such as – annual, semester, modular offering all subjects beginning with mathematics, at two levels. The policy also proposes to redesign the progress card of all students for school-based assessment with a focus on holistic assessment. School Education Secretary Anita Karwal said the progress card will be a holistic, 360-degree, multi-dimensional report that would reflect in great detail the progress and the uniqueness of each learner in the cognitive, affective, and psychomotor domains. The progress card will include self-assessment, peer assessment and teacher assessment. The policy also proposes to set up a new National Assessment Centre – PARAKH an acronym for Performance Assessment, Review, and Analysis of Knowledge for Holistic Development, which will be a standard-setting body. Teachers will be prepared for the transformation in the assessment system by 2022-23 academic session. The National Testing Agency will conduct common entrance exams for admission to universities and higher education institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-to-make-board-exams-for-class-10-12-board-exams-easier-867224.html
29-07-2020||National||New policy offers 5-3-3-4 model of school education||The New Education Policy, unveiled on Wednesday, proposes to restructure school curriculum in a new 5+3+3+4 design corresponding to the age ranges of 3-8 years, 8-11 years, 11-14 years, and 14-18 years, respectively. The foundational stage of school education has been divided into two parts – 3 years of Anganwadi/pre-school and two years in primary school in Grades 1-2; both together covering ages 3-8 years. The focus of studies at this stage will be flexible, multilevel, play or activity-based learning and the curriculum and pedagogy of early childhood care and education. Grades 3-5 will comprise the preparatory stage with the introduction of experiential learning across the sciences, mathematics, arts, social sciences, and humanities. The middle stage of school education, from Grades 6-8, covering ages 11-14 years, will focus on subject-oriented pedagogical and curricular style. The secondary stage will cover Grades 9-12 in two phases – Class 9 and 10 in the first and Class 11 and 12 in the second. The focus of this stage will be on greater depth, greater critical thinking, greater attention to life aspirations, and greater flexibility. The students will have a choice of subjects and an option to exit at Grade 10 and re-enter at a later stage in Grade 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-policy-offers-5-3-3-4-model-of-school-education-867234.html
29-07-2020||National Politics||M K Stalin seeks support of top national leaders on OBC reservation||DMK chief M K Stalin on Wednesday dialled the country's top political leaders including Congress President Sonia Gandhi and CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury, seeking their cooperation in "exerting pressure" on the Centre to provide OBC reservation in medical admissions. Stalin also spoke to non-BJP, non-Congress Chief Ministers, YS Jagan Mohan Reddy of Andhra Pradesh and K Chandrasekhar Rao of Telangana, besides their Maharashtra and West Bengal counterparts Uddhav Thackeray and Mamata Banerjee, respectively, a party release said. The Madras High Court had on Monday directed the Central government to constitute a committee to decide on the issue of providing OBC reservation in all-India seats (AIQ) surrendered by Tamil Nadu for medical admission. Such a committee comprising representatives from the Centre, state and Medical Council of India should be constituted within three months, the court had said. In a tweet, Stalin said he had spoken to the leaders after the High Court's "historical judgment," seeking their support to "urge the Centre to convene a committee meeting on priority, include OBC reservation in state contributed medical seats to AIQ (All India Quota) and uphold state reservation laws." He also spoke to former Prime Minister Deve Gowda, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, BSP supremo Mayawati, SP leader Akhilesh Yadav and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and NC leader Omar Abdullah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/m-k-stalin-seeks-support-of-top-national-leaders-on-obc-reservation-867049.html
29-07-2020||National Politics||Salman Khurshid, Amit Malviya take CAA debate to literary world||They have tweeted and appeared on television to argue for and against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019 and National Register of Citizens (NRC) but now BJP's Amit Malviya and Congress Salman Khurshid have chosen to take the battle to the literary world. Both have joined hands to write 'The Citizenship Debate: CAA and NRC' -- to argue the case from their viewpoints, which Khurshid describes as a "somewhat novel" approach to explore "two competing viewpoints" in a single book. In around 100 pages each, BJP IT Cell head Malviya writes 'A Case of Misreading' while former Union Minister Khurshid pens 'A Case of Misdirection' to find out what is right and wrong about the controversial legislation and the subsequent protests against CAA-NPR (National Population Register)-NRC. Malviya rues that every attempt has been made to show that the CAA has been projected as "furtherance of the Hindutva" by the ruling BJP and insists that it is "wrong to say that this is a step towards Hindu Rashtra". He argues that it was just a step towards a policy that "rejects appeasement politics, pandering to particular groups, and assuring the rights of those minorities who are facing religious persecution at the hands of extremists, rogue states and agents provocateurs". Malviya believes that the "entire debate on the CAA, and the violent protests and the riots" were all part of a political scheme aimed at "unsettling" the BJP government. He also alleges that frustration grew among the Opposition and anti-BJP activists after the Supreme Court verdict on Ram temple, which came after the revocation of Article 370 and re-organisation of Jammu and Kashmir, and this prompted them to "stoke discontent" among Muslims. Malviya, who led the BJP's fight against the anti-CAA protests in the virtual world, claims that when these protests turned violent, the opponents tried to show that the Muslims were the targets, "despite the fact that such protests were Muslim-led or inspired rioters who had gone berserk" though an "attempt was desperately made to show Hindus in a bad light". Countering the argument, Khurshid writes that it is "undeniable" that the trigger may have been the "spontaneous reaction" in Muslim-dominated areas and institutions but from the beginning, it was "truly an inclusive endeavour untouched by party political ambition". He went on to argue that Shaheen Bagh and Jamia protesters have become "role models for thousands of protest sites across the country" and never before has the theme of patriotism been expressed and highlighted in protests with such intensity. While Malviya claims that there is no link with CAA, NPR or NRC, Khurshid argues that the people cannot be blamed for "reading motives" as the problem is that the candidates for citizenship are to be identified by their religion and a virtual presumption of persecution". Malviya also seeks to bring in a Pakistan angle by claiming that the intelligence agencies had unearthed a "more sinister plot" by tapping "cross-country electronic chatter wherein people believed to be Pakistani operatives were berating their sources for not organizing enough crowds for anti-CAA protests on 3–4 March 2020, despite the funding at their disposal". In the book, Khurshid questions the exclusion of religious minorities from neighbouring countries other than Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan as well as Ahmadiyas and Baloch of Pakistan. "The government has been at pains to prove that no Indian citizen need to worry about CAA and in any case, that it is about granting citizenship and not taking it away...Indian citizens need not worry; but those who are unable to establish their citizenship have a great deal to worry," he writes while adding that the "real sting" is that the arguably intended beneficiaries will be at a loss to establish their Pakistan, Bangladesh or Afghanistan citizenship having failed to establish their Indian citizenship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/salman-khurshid-amit-malviya-take-caa-debate-to-literary-world-867085.html
29-07-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi tweets in Sanskrit to welcome Rafale jets, says no virtue like protecting nation||There is no virtue like protecting the nation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday as welcomed the first batch of five Rafale jets which landed in Ambala with a tweet in Sanskrit. He also shared a brief video of a Rafale fighter aircraft landing at the Ambala Air Force station. राष्ट्ररक्षासमं पुण्यं, राष्ट्ररक्षासमं व्रतम्, राष्ट्ररक्षासमं यज्ञो, दृष्टो नैव च नैव च।। Broadly translated, the prime minister said in his tweet that there is no virtue like protecting the nation, there is no vow like defence of the nation. "Swagatam" (welcome), he said with the hashtag "RafaleInIndia". The Rafales were escorted by two Sukhoi 30 MKIs after they entered the Indian air space and were given a water salute when they landed in Ambala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-tweets-in-sanskrit-to-welcome-rafale-jets-says-no-virtue-like-protecting-nation-867108.html
29-07-2020||National Politics||BJP to go big in August on Ram temple, triple talaq and abrogation of Article 370||The BJP is trying to bring the spotlight back on the three issues dear to its ideological moorings—Ram temple, triple talaq and abrogation of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, while the first anniversary of its controversial moves are fast-approaching. While August 1 will mark the completion of a year of triple talaq bill, August 5 will see the first year of completion of the decision on abrogation of Article 370. The BJP has decided to celebrate August 1 as 'Muslim Women's Rights Day'. Triple talaq law was projected by BJP as a big move towards gender justice among Muslims and a reversal of the "regressive" policy adopted by Congress in the Shahbano case of 1985 in which the Rajiv Gandhi government had nullified a Supreme order that had granted maintenance to Muslim women after divorce through a law. While Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday released a video, many Union Ministers will address a special function organised in the BJP head office in Delhi on Friday, which will be streamed live. The BJP leaders on Tuesday shared videos various social media platforms using the hashtag #ThanksModiBhaiJaan”, where many scarfed Muslim women thanked the PM for the triple talaq bill. Many programmes have been lined up by the BJP Minority Morcha and the Mahila Morcha in different states. On the other hand, the BJP has decided to organise a fortnight-long series of events with one senior national leader from the BJP visiting Jammu, Srinagar and Ladakh on August 5. The BJP has decided to organise micro events down to the Mandal level in both the UTs. The party has also asked the leaders of BJP from Jammu and Kashmir to contact at least 50 people in all districts of the country and talk about the initiatives being taken by the central government in the UTs. This apparently aims to disprove the Opposition's criticism on “nothing moving in Kashmir” in the last one year. The BJP will come out with booklets listing achievements of the Modi government with regard to Kashmir policy. Highlighting the “mainstreaming” of Kashmir, the party plans to unfurl tricolour in all the zonal, tehsil and district headquarters and ensure celebration of the August 5 in all government offices with fanfare. The BJP has already put in motion the up Ram temple construction work, with the groundbreaking ceremony slated to be held on August 5 in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi and top BJP leadership will take part, and the entire city in UP town will be lit up like Diwali for the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-go-big-in-august-on-ram-temple-triple-talaq-and-abrogation-of-article-370-867180.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Riots case: BJP condemns Delhi govt’s rejection of lawyer panel proposed by police||The BJP on Tuesday condemned the Delhi government's decision to reject a panel of lawyers suggested by the city police for trial of the northeast Delhi riots case, alleging it wanted to protect the accused having links with the ruling AAP. The AAP government rejected the panel of lawyers proposed by the Delhi Police, saying it would not help a “free and fair” trial of the February riots. "Rejecting the Delhi Police's lawyers panel, the Delhi government has shown that it is prepared to go to any extent to protect the riots accused including its leaders," Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta claimed in a statement. No immediate reaction was available from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on the charges. The Delhi BJP unit "condemns" the Arvind Kejriwal government for rejecting Lt Governor Anil Baijal's advice to allow the Delhi Police preferred panel of advocates to prosecute the riots culprits, party spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said. "This rejection has confirmed that the Kejriwal government wants to protect the main accused and its councillor Tahir Hussain by appointing its own prosecutors," he alleged. Hussain, who was suspended from the AAP, is one of the main accused in the case. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. The Delhi Cabinet rejected the panel proposed by the city police, observing that the courts have raised "serious questions" on the "fairness" of the investigation in the riot cases, the city government said in a statement. "The Cabinet also observed that in such a situation a free and fair trial of these cases would not be possible by a panel of lawyers selected by the Delhi police itself," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/riots-case-bjp-condemns-delhi-govt-s-rejection-of-lawyer-panel-proposed-by-police-866870.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Audiotape case: Rebel Congress MLA moves Rajasthan HC seeking quashing of SOG FIR against him||Rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma on Tuesday moved the Rajasthan High Court for quashing of an FIR lodged against him after the surfacing of some audio tapes in one of which he is allegedly heard talking to a Union minister for toppling the Gehlot government through horse-trading. The MLA, who is in Sachin Pilot camp, moved the court alternatively demanding the transfer of the investigation into the case to the National Investigation Agency from the Special Operation Group of the Rajasthan police. The SOG had registered the FIR against Sharma on July 17 charges of sedition (124 A) and criminal conspiracy (120 B) under the Indian Penal Code. The case had been registered on a complaint by Congress Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi after surfacing of three audio tapes in one of which Sharma is allegedly talking to Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat for toppling the Ashok Gehlot government through horse-trading. In another tape, he is allegedly heard talking to one Sanjay Jain over the same issue. Sharma pleaded to the court to quash the FIR terming the case against him as politically motivated. Alternatively, he demanded transfer of the investigation into the case to the NIA arguing that he does not fair probe into the case by the state investigative agency as the Rajasthan chief minister has given public statements against him. The SOG has already arrested Sanjay Jain, who was allegedly acting as a middle man and issued notice to Shekhawat. Congress has alleged that Sanjay Jain is a BJP leader while the saffron party has rejected the allegation saying he has no connection with it. A team of SOG is looking for Bhanwarlal Sharma who along with another MLA Vishvendra Singh has been suspended from the Congress party's membership for alleged involvement in the conspiracy to topple the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/audiotape-case-rebel-congress-mla-moves-rajasthan-hc-seeking-quashing-of-sog-fir-against-him-866890.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||23-year-old woman raped in north Delhi||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a man in a park near Red Fort in north Delhi, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Saturday and the accused has been arrested, they said. The man and the victim are vagabonds and they knew each other, a senior police officer said. On Saturday night, a person after spotting the woman, who was bleeding from her head, called the police control room. She was taken to a hospital where she told doctors about the incident, the officer said. The woman told police that the man raped her in the park and when she resisted, hit her with a stone, police said. She has also alleged that the man had kidnapped her daughter. However, police found the girl later, they said. "The incident took place on Saturday. A case was registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Kotwali police station and the accused was arrested,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (north) Monika Bhardwaj said. The woman's condition is stated to be stable, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/23-year-old-woman-raped-in-north-delhi-866895.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh minister Tulsi Silawat, wife test positive for Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh minister Tulsi Silawat and his wife have tested positive for the novel coronavirus. In a tweet on Tuesday night, the water resources minister said he and his wife are in home quarantine on the advice of doctors. He appealed to all those who came in contact with him to get themselves tested for Covid-19. Senior BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia said, in a tweet, he prayed for their speedy recovery. Despite showing no symptoms of the disease, Silawat said, he underwent the Covid-19 test on the instruction of the chief minister. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan was admitted to a hospital here on Saturday after he tested positive for the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-minister-tulsi-silawat-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-866938.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Student outfits, teachers condemn arrest of Delhi University professor Hany Babu in Bhima Koregaon case||A section of the Delhi University fraternity and some student outfits condemned the arrest of professor Hany Babu MT by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday, saying it was "a blatant attempt to silence dissent". Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil, an associate professor in the Department of English, was arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case. The NIA accused him of propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and being a "co-conspirator" in the case. The news of his arrest was "shocking", said Abha Dev Habib, a professor at Miranda House college where Hany Babu's wife Jenny Rowena also teaches. "He has risen as the voice of marginalised students and is a pro-democracy activist. If you put anyone in jail now (amid the Covid-19 pandemic), it is like giving death sentence.... We will continue to protest for his release," she said. According to a professor, Rowena was attending a college meeting online when she got the news of the arrest and immediately left it. Another professor, requesting anonymity, said Babu had applied for leave a few days ago to go to Maharashtra for some personal work. The news of his arrest is very "disturbing", he added. A group of students of Miranda House released a statement and said they stand in solidarity with the professor and "are in staunch opposition with this continued campaign of intimidation tactics being carried out under the veneer of an investigation". His wife Jenny Rowena, who teaches in the Department of English at Miranda House, indicated that during questioning, he was pressured to "implicate" his colleagues, the students claimed. "As students from marginalised communities, we owe to his struggle for the space academicians like him have created for us in universities, and the the strength that we derive from his work for our struggled against injustices," the statement said. Nalini, a student of Delhi University's English Department, said, "Ambedkarite intellectual and anti-caste activist Hany Babu's arrest is yet another draconian attack on the democratic ethos of India and a blatant attempt to silence dissent by the Modi government. This attack upon intellectuals should alarm all progressive voices in the country." "He is a much better person than he is being made out to be. We all know what is happening in the current time and how there has been a witch-hunt of activists," said a final-year student of English (Hons), requesting anonymity. The final-year student said Hany Babu was his linguistics professor in third semester. Kawalpreet Kaur, the Delhi unit president of the All India Students' Union (AISA), tweeted, "The news has hit home. Delhi University professor, Hany Babu has been arrested by NIA in Bhima Koregaon case. Everyone in academic fraternity must oppose this arbitrary use of power and give unflinching support to professor. This witch-hunting against democratic voices must end." The Left-backed AISA said, "Fabricated charges and lies have been the modus operandi of NIA and investigative agencies. The arrest of Prof. Hany Babu proves the Modi government wants to silence and harass pro-democracy forces." In September last year, officers of the Pune police, which was earlier probing the case, conducted searches at the residence of Hany Babu in Noida and seized his laptop and mobile phone. From anti-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) activists to pro-democracy activists, intellectuals and academics, the BJP government is sparing none in its attempt to weaken democracy, the AISA said and demanded Hany Babu's immediate release. The Campaign Against State Repression (CASR), an umbrella body of student outfits and civil society organisations, called his arrest "blatant harassment and intimidation of persons who question the State and struggle for the rights of the marginalised and oppressed castes, classes and communities". Hany Babu has been an anti-caste activist who has been consistently fighting for social justice within and outside the university space, it said. CASR demanded immediate release of all activists and intellectuals arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case. The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017, organised by the Kabir Kala Manch at Shaniwarwada in Pune, where alleged provocative speeches were made, promoting enmity between various caste groups and leading to violence resulting in loss of life and property and statewide agitation in Maharashtra, an NIA official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/student-outfits-teachers-condemn-arrest-of-delhi-university-professor-hany-babu-in-bhima-koregaon-case-866941.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh minister Tulsi Silawat, his wife test Covid-19 positive||Madhya Pradesh Water Resources Minister Tulsi Silawat and his wife have tested coronavirus positive. The information was shared by the minister himself on his Twitter handle on Tuesday. In the tweet, he appealed to those who had come in his contact to get themselves tested. Senior BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia wished the couple a speedy recovery. State Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had last week tested Covid-19 positive. He chaired the first virtual cabinet meeting from the hospital on Tuesday and said that if the infection is detected early, then it is not incurable. A couple of days before Chouhan, state Co-operatives Minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria was also found infected with the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-minister-tulsi-silawat-his-wife-test-covid-19-positive-866995.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||BSP challenges merger of six party MLAs with Congress in Rajasthan||The Bahujan Samaj Party on Wednesday filed a writ petition in the Rajasthan High Court challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs with the ruling Congress in Rajasthan. Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. They all defected to the Congress in September 2019. BSP state president Bhagwan Singh Baba said, “We have today filed a writ petition in the high court against the merger of BSP MLAs with Congress". The merger of BSP MLAs with the ruling Congress was a boost to the Ashok Gehlot-led government as the tally of the Congress increased to 107 in the house of 200||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-challenges-merger-of-six-party-mlas-with-congress-in-rajasthan-866996.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||UP jail inmates to not meet relatives on rakshabandhan amid fear of spreading Covid-19||Jail authorities in Uttar Pradesh have banned inmates from meeting their relatives on rakshabandhan in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said on Wednesday. The relatives of the inmates can send rakhis for them to the jail counter before or on August 1, District Jail Superintendent AK Saxena said. All the rakhis will be sanitised before being given to the inmates as a precautionary measure, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-jail-inmates-to-not-meet-relatives-on-rakshabandhan-amid-fear-of-spreading-covid-19-867002.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Amid impasse, Ashok Gehlot meets Governor Kalraj Mishra again||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday met Governor Kalraj Mishra after he returned for the third time the state government’s proposal to convene an assembly session. "The love letter has already come. Now, I am only going to have tea with him,” Gehlot told party workers at the state Congress office before heading for the Raj Bhawan. The state Cabinet had resent a proposal to the Governor on Monday, sticking to the July 31 date for holding a session and refusing to mention that it planned to hold a trust vote. While returning the earlier version of the proposal the Governor had suggested that the session can be called at short notice if the government says seeking a confidence vote is on the agenda. “You have sent the letter a third time. What do you want? Tell us, so that we work in that manner," Gehlot said in his address at the Pradesh Congress Committee office, where Govind Singh Dotasara formally took over as the new chief of the state unit. The chief minister told party workers that there is nothing to worry over as the Congress top leadership is with them. His meeting with the Governor -- the second in recent days -- lasted for about 15 minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-impasse-ashok-gehlot-meets-governor-kalraj-mishra-again-867012.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||SC notice to NTA, MCI on plea on NEET-UG exam centre in Gulf countries||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the Union government, the National Testing Agency (NTA) and the Medical Council of India (MCI) on a plea to conduct NEET-UG 2020 examinations in centres across the Middle East and other gulf countries. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat issued notice to the government and other authorities on a petition by Abdul Azeez. He questioned the validity of the Kerala High Court's order of June 30, that dismissed the plea. The petitioner said the students studying abroad would be adversely affected by the decision. The refusal to allow examination centres abroad for NEET-UG 2020 was "arbitrary" and would cause "severe mental stress" to students preparing for it for years, the plea contended. The High Court had said the NTA and MCI, being expert bodies, could only decide about the matter and it could not issue any such direction in view of Covid-19 pandemic. In a special leave petition, the petitioner contended the right of students to education was being jeopardised by the state action as they were being unfairly discriminated only on the ground that they had studied abroad. The plea said the High Court should have considered the future of the students in light of the current extraordinary situation and directed the NTA or the MCI to sanction exam centres in the Middle East and other Gulf countries. It also claimed that the High Court erred in not setting aside the decision of the NTA and the MCI to conduct NEET-UG until the normalcy was restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-nta-mci-on-plea-on-neet-ug-exam-centre-in-gulf-countries-867016.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Kashmiri Air Commodore Hilal Ahmad Rather becomes first Indian pilot to fly Rafale||As the nation is eagerly waiting for the arrival of the first batch of five Rafale jets from France, in Kashmir the name of Air commodore Hilal Ahmad Rather has suddenly caught everyone's attention. Born in south Kashmir's Anantnag district, Rather was admitted to Class 6 at Sainik School Nagrota, near Jammu, in 1978. Rather was commissioned in IAF as a flight pilot on December 17, 1988, months after Pakistan’s military ruler General Zia-ul-Haq died in an air crash. It was the time of the height of alienation and the beginning of the insurgency in Kashmir. He was promoted as Flight Lieutenant on December 17, 1993, as a Wing Commander on December 16, 2004, as a Group Captain on May 1, 2010 and as Air Commodore on December 26,  2016. He is presently India’s Air Attache to France and he has weaponized the Rafale fighter jets in France, as per conditions suitable for India. The Indian Air Force (IAF) officer received the Vayu Sena Medal, given for devotion to duty, when he was a Wing Commander and Vishisht Seva Medal when he was a Group Captain.  According to his neighbours, Rather barely visited his home after the outbreak of militancy in 1990. “Even before 1990, he was seldom seen here. He stuck to his studies and training,” one of his family friends told DH. He said Rather visited his home only twice, when his father and mother passed away, in the last five years. “We have never seen him at any social or family gathering”, he added. Rather’s two brothers are working as government teachers in Anantnag. He also has three sisters. None in the family members was ready to speak to the media as camera crews gathered to record their impressions when Anantnag was trending on Twitter for the Kashmiri IAF pilot’s prestigious association with the Rafale project. The IAF chief has completed more than 3,000 hours of accident-free flying on MiG 21s, Mirage-2000, and Kiran aircraft. He is a Fighter Combat Leader and a qualified Flying Instructor. A devout Muslim, he used to fly fighter jets during his fasting in the Holy month of Ramazan. India had signed a deal worth Rs 59,000 crore with France in September 2016 for 36 Rafale jets to meet the emergency requirements of the IAF. The first squadron of the Rafale jets will be stationed in Ambala airbase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-air-commodore-hilal-ahmad-rather-becomes-first-indian-pilot-to-fly-rafale-867021.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||How coronavirus hospitals treat suspected cases||Patients exhibiting major symptoms of Covid-19 but not confirmed to have the infection are being admitted to dedicated facilities here but their treatment is done in a segregated zone until their test results come out, doctors have said. Initially, there were reports that dedicated facilities were allegedly not allowing suspected Covid-19 patients but later the government asked hospitals to attend to them as well. From LNJP, the first Delhi government-run hospital to be declared a dedicated Covid-19 facility, to GTB Hospital in east Delhi, serious suspected patients are immediately wheeled into an ICU. However, the suspected coronavirus patients are kept in a separate ward seat from the main Covid-19 ward as they may or may not have the infection, Medical Director, LNJP Hospital, Dr Suresh Kumar said. "The moment a serious patient with symptoms is brought into our facility, he or she is immediately taken into the ICU for oxygen support or ventilator support as needed, even if the case is not confirmed," he said. "We run a test on these suspected patients and keep them in that separate area till the results come out. If they come out as Covid-19 positive, we move them to corona ward and if negative, we try to stabilise them so they can be shifted to non-Covid facilities," he said. The LNJP Hospital has 2,000 beds for coronavirus patients and 380 of them were occupied till Tuesday evening. Eighty-eight of the 380 patients were in the ICU and two on ventilators. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said the LNJP Hospital reported no fatality on July 27. According to doctors at the hospital, this has happened for the first time at the facility in the last couple of months. The hospital medical director attributed this to "extensive ICU care, plasma bank facility, top heathcare facilities and dedication of doctors and other heathcare workers".  Authorities are following the same protocol at other city government-run facilities, the GTB Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, both in east Delhi. "Our hospital is old, so we have ICUs divided into separate rooms, some with six beds, others with nine. And we ensure the suspected patients, whether in wards or ICU, are segregated from the main ward so they don't run the risk of contracting infection from Covid patients," GTB Hospital Medical Director Dr Rajesh Rautela said. Till Tuesday, 83 Covid patients were admitted to GTB Hospital. Of the total 100 ICU beds at the facility, only 20 were occupied, the doctor said. "One patient is intubated with ventilator support, six on non-invasive ventilator support and rest 13 on high-level oxygen supply," he said. Seeking to reduce Covid -19 deaths, authorities had recently directed dedicated coronavirus hospitals to ensure there is "absolutely no delay" in transferring a serious patient from triage area to an ICU. As per the latest protocol, even suspected Covid-19 patients who are in serious condition are to be given immediate medical attention as required when brought to dedicated facilities.  Delhi recorded 1,056 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.32 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 3,881, authorities said. The number of active Covid-19 cases on Tuesday was 10,887, down from 10,994 the previous day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/how-coronavirus-hospitals-treat-suspected-cases-867042.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir administration agrees to release Kashmir Bar leader ||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday agreed for an immediate release of Kashmir Bar Association President Mian Abdul Qayoom, detained in jail since August 5, 2019, under the stringent Public Safety Act. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union Territory, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul that Qayoom would be released. The bench, also comprising Justices Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose, suggested that Qayoom should remain in Delhi till August 7 and should not issue a public statement. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the detained senior advocate, said his family is here to receive him.  The court had on the last date of hearing asked Mehta to consider if Qayoom can be released on interim bail. The court had also asked Mehta to explain the basis for the continued detention of Qayoom, beyond a one-year period, as per the order passed under the Public Safety Act. Qayoom challenged the validity of the High Court's judgement of May 28, 2020, dismissing his plea against the detention following the scrapping of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019.  The septuagenarian-petitioner, a senior advocate, contended that the High Cour's order, allowing his detention was illegal, unconstitutional and untenable as it erred in relying upon four FIRs lodged against him in the year 2008 and 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-agrees-to-release-kashmir-bar-leader-867044.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Will release HC bar leader Qayoom detained under PSA: J&K admin tells SC||The Jammu and Kashmir administration informed the Supreme Court Wednesday that it has decided to release forthwith the high court bar association leader Mian Abdul Qayoom, detained under the J&K Public Safety Act with certain conditions. It told the top court that Qayoom would be released with the conditions that he would not visit Kashmir till August 7, the day his current detention is coming to an end and would not issue any statements. Qayoom was detained following the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Ajay Rastogi and Aniruddha Bose took the statements of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the J-K administration, on record and ordered his release with certain conditions. Mehta said the administration has decided to release Qayoom, nine days ahead of his current detention coming to an end on August 7 but he will have to remain in Delhi till then. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for Qayoom, suggested that it would be better, if he is released on Thursday at the time when his family members are there to receive him. Mehta agreed to the submission. On July 27, the UT administration has told the top court that it will not extend the current detention of high court bar leader beyond August 7. The top court had then asked J-K administration to apprise it by July 29 as to why Qayoom cannot be released on bail till August 7, the day his current detention period expires with certain conditions. “We can release him on bail with some conditions like he would not visit Jammu and Kashmir and he will not make any statements,” the top court had said. On July 23, the J-K administration has informed the top court that the issue of Qayoom's detention was under consideration and a decision will soon be taken in the matter. It had said that the court need not go into the merit of the case as the competent authority will soon decide it and sought some time to take instructions on the issue. On July 15, the top court had asked the J-K administration to explain the basis for detaining Qayoom who has challenged his detention under the (PSA) since August 7 last year. The top court had asked it to take into consideration various aspects including Qayoom's age, expiry of detention period and the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 26, the top court had issued notice to the J-K administration and sought its reply on Qayoom's plea challenging his detention order. Qayoom has also sought a direction to shift him from Tihar jail here to central jail in Srinagar on medical ground. He has challenged the May 28 order of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court rejecting his plea against his prolonged “illegal detention” under the PSA in jails outside the UT. He said he is a Senior Advocate with more than 40 years’ standing at the Bar and has served as President of the J&K High Court Bar Association for many terms, including from 2014 till the present day. Qayoom said he was detained on the intervening night of August 4 and 5, 2019, under the provisions of Jammu and Kashmir Code of Criminal Procedure and thereafter, an order of detention under the PSA was passed against him on August 7, 2019. He said that on August 8 he was taken to Central Jail, Agra, Uttar Pradesh, without any prior notice of intimation, where he was kept in solitary confinement. He said the high court's May 28 order is ex facie unsustainable in law as it is premised on "stale, irrelevant, remote, vague, imprecise and deficient" grounds of detention. “The impugned judgment and order concluded that most of the grounds in the detention order “are somewhat clumsy” which implies that the High Court too found them wanting. Placing reliance on the doctrine of severability as enunciated by this Court in Gautam Jain versus Union of India...the High Court then proceeds to uphold the detention order solely on one ground,” his appeal said. He said the high court makes it abundantly clear that the detention order has been upheld solely on one ground -- the four FIRs dating back to 2008 and 2010, as enumerated in the detention order. Qayoom said he had already been detained in 2010 on the basis of the said FIRs under the PSA, and the said detention was subsequently revoked. “Thus, the same FIRs cannot be used to pass another order of detention under the PSA, as held by this Hon’ble Court...,” his plea said. Qayoom said he is suffering from serious health ailments and is at a high-risk vulnerability for Covid-19 due to his co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-release-hc-bar-leader-qayoom-detained-under-psa-jk-admin-tells-sc-867046.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC declines to entertain plea against animal slaughter on Bakri Eid||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a plea seeking action against "certain persons" for carrying out an alleged illegal animal slaughter on Bakri Eid. The plea had contended that the slaughter activities result in pollution of the Yamuna river as all the waste is dumped into it. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the issue of pollution of the Yamuna was already being examined by the National Green Tribunal. The bench also said that general orders as sought by the petitioner, a law student, cannot be issued. It added that she ought to have pointed out the "certain persons" who are violating the law. The bench gave liberty to the petitioner to make a representation to authorities regarding her grievance. The court said that as and when the petitioner makes a representation, it should be decided by concerned authorities "in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to such cases and as expeditiously as possible and practicable". The court disposed of the petition as not pressed. The petitioner decided not to press the plea and sought to make a representation after the bench said it will dismiss the petition with costs. In her plea, the law student has claimed that she made a representation to authorities last year also prior to the Bakri Eid celebrations, but no action was taken till date and that is why she moved the instant petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-declines-to-entertain-plea-against-animal-slaughter-on-bakri-eid-867059.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Two nabbed for raping minor girls in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh||Two persons, including a 17- year-old boy, were apprehended for allegedly raping two minor girls in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city, police said on Wednesday. One of the accused, a 19-year-old man, called one of the victims whom he was acquainted with to meet him near Amarnath Colony on the evening of July 26, inspector Anjana Dhurve of Kolar police station said. The victims, aged 16 and 14 years, met the accused and were taken to a construction site of a bridge nearby and raped by the duo, she said. When the victims failed to return home, their families kept looking for them the whole night, the official said, adding that the girls managed to get home the next day and narrated their ordeal. A complaint was lodged on Tuesday evening, based on which the two accused were nabbed and a case under relevant sections of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered, she said. Further investigations into the incident are underway, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-nabbed-for-raping-minor-girls-in-bhopal-in-madhya-pradesh-867063.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Petition in Rajasthan HC questioning Governor's move on assembly session||A lawyer on Wednesday moved a writ petition in the Rajasthan High Court questioning the Governor's move of not convening the assembly session. The advocate, Sunil Kumar Singh, contended in the PIL that the Council of Ministers has requested the Governor to convene the session of the assembly but the request has been turned down. The court is yet to take cognisance of the petition. The cabinet had on Tuesday forwarded for the third time a recommendation to the governor for calling the session. However, the governor has returned the file to the government again. The petition was filed before the governor returned the file for the third time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petition-in-rajasthan-hc-questioning-governors-move-on-assembly-session-867065.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||District Reserve Guard jawan injured in fire-exchange with Naxals in Chattisgarh||A District Reserve Guard (DRG) jawan was injured in an encounter with Naxals in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh on Wednesday, police said. The exchange of fire took place in the forest of Aautpalli village under Basaguda police station area when a team of security personnel was out on an anti-Naxal operation, Bijapur Superintendent of Police Kamlochan Kashyap said. When the patrolling team was cordoning off the forest near the village, a gunfight broke out between the two sides, he said. "DRG jawan Laxman Bedja sustained bullet injuries on his leg in the incident," he said. After a brief exchange of fire, the ultras escaped into dense forest, he said. The injured jawan was being shifted to a local hospital, he said, adding that a search operation was underway in the area. In view of 'martyrs week' being observed by Maoists from July 28 till August 3, the security forces have intensified patrolling in the interiors of Bastar division comprising seven districts- Bastar, Kanker, Kondagaon, Narayanpur, Bijapur, Sukma and Dantewada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/district-reserve-guard-jawan-injured-in-fire-exchange-with-naxals-in-chattisgarh-867070.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Man falls into river after being kicked by Uttar Pradesh cop||Already facing flak over their alleged nexus with the criminals and staging fake encounters, the Uttar Pradesh police once again came in for sharp criticism after a video, which showed a man falling into a river after being kicked by a cop, went viral on the social media. The incident happened in UP's Mirzapur district, about 300 kilometres from here, on Wednesday. According to the reports, a crowd of onlookers had gathered on the bank of the Ganga at Vindhyachal area in the district after a youth, who had gone to pay obeisance at the famous Vindhyavasini Temple, accidentally fell into the river and drowned. Divers, who were later pressed into service, fished out the body. The video showed a cop, who was later identified as Vindhyachal police station in-charge Sheshdhar Pandey, kicking an unsuspecting onlooker, who stood on the edge of the river. The man is seen falling down after being kicked. Sources said that the divers, who were present there, managed to rescue the man, who did not how to swim. The cop, however, rejected the allegation and claimed that he had only asked the man to move back a little but he (man) fell down suddenly. ''I did not kick the man,'' he said though in the video he could be clearly seen kicking him. As the video went viral on the social media, senior officials said that they would look into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-falls-into-river-after-being-kicked-by-uttar-pradesh-cop-867104.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Sharp decline in stone pelting incidents in Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019: Officials||Incidents of stone pelting have come down sharply in Jammu and Kashmir after abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state, officials said on Wednesday. Comparing the figures of stone pelting incidents during the first six months of 2020 with previous years, they said the number has fallen down considerably from 944 in 2018 to 211 so far this year. According to the officials, there has also been a reduction in injuries and deaths of security forces as well as civilians. They said a heavy deployment of security forces helped instill confidence in the general public as many of the "trouble mongers" had been identified and packed to various jails ahead of or on August 5 last year when Article 370 of the Constitution was abrogated. There was only one civilian death during the stone pelting incidents this year whereas the figure for 2018 was 18 and was three for 2019 during the first six months, according to the officials. Similarly, there were 549 cases of injuries to civilians in 2018 during the first six months followed by 335 in 2019 and only 63 this year, the officials said, adding, the number of injuries to security forces have also come down sharply from 74 in 2018 to 14 this year. The officials dismissed claims by some human rights groups that Jammu and Kashmir had been under a complete lockdown since August 5 last year. They said after imposing prohibitory orders in the early hours of August 5 last year which included snapping communication links, landline phones were restored in phases beginning August 17 and a near complete relaxation was done the next day. By the end of August, primary and middle schools were opened and relaxation on movement of people was allowed almost in every district. In October, post-paid mobile phones were put in operation in the Kashmir valley and the block development council elections were held. Recently, a report titled 'Kashmir Human Rights Report' prepared by a group of intellectuals including retired judges, ex-servicemen and former diplomats, had alleged blatant misuse of stringent laws like the Public Safety Act (PSA) and provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The report also alleged that local industries had suffered a lot after the developments that took place on August 5 last year. However, the officials said the union territory administration had set up 400 internet kiosks and also started 2G mobile internet services by January this year. The process of releasing political prisoners, detained since August 5, was initiated in March this year with the release of former chief ministers Farooq and Omar Abdullah. Foreign delegations which included envoys from many nations including the US, the UK, France and Middle East and African countries visited the Kashmir valley where they were given a briefing on the situation in the valley. In certain cases, some of the envoys were driven through market places and shown around people walking and leading their daily lives, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sharp-decline-in-stone-pelting-incidents-in-jammu-and-kashmir-since-august-5-2019-officials-867114.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Hotels delinked from hospitals as Delhi reports 1,035 new Covid-19 cases||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced delinking of hotels from hospitals in view of the improving Covid-19 situation in the national capital, but directed officers to ensure strict compliance to existing testing guidelines. Meanwhile, the city reported 1,035 coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the total count to 1,33,310, while the death toll rose by 26 to reach 3,907, a government health bulletin said. A total of 17,392 coronavirus tests (5,074 RT-PCR and 12,318 Rapid Antigen Tests) were conducted, it said. On Monday, the daily cases count had dipped to 613, the lowest in two months. It was 1,056 on Tuesday. Since July 11, the daily fresh cases have remained under 2,000. On July 20 and 27, they were below 1,000. The number of active cases have remained in the range of 10,000-11,000 for the past three days. According to the Delhi Corona app, of the 16,038 dedicated coronavirus beds, 13,039 were vacant as on Wednesday. Kejriwal said all beds in hotels which were attached to hospitals to act as extended Covid care centres were lying vacant for the past many days. "Some hotels were attached to hospitals to increase the number of Covid beds. In view of the improving situation and all hotel beds lying vacant for the last many days, these hotels are now being released," he tweeted. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had last month attached around 40 hotels to hospitals to increase the bed capacity after there was a spike in coronavirus cases. Patients with moderate symptoms staying at such hotels were to be given basic healthcare and were to be shifted to the attached hospitals in case their condition worsened. Three hotels in south west Delhi were earlier this month delinked from their respective hospitals due to low occupancy, but the decision was reversed by the district authorities within a day. On the diagnosis front, Kejriwal directed officers to ensure strict compliance to existing guidelines on Covid-19 testing in the national capital. The guidelines state that if any patient's antigen test is negative but has symptoms, he must undergo the more credible RT-PCR test. The direction comes two days after the Delhi High Court asked the Aam Aadmi Party government why it was going with Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT), which has a high rate of false negative results, as the primary test for Covid-19 infection. "Existing guidelines say that if any patient's antigen test is negative but has symptoms, RT-PCR test must be done on him. I directed the officers today to ensure strict compliance of these guidelines," Kejriwal tweeted. The Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) is a laboratory technique widely used in the diagnosis of genetic diseases and to measure gene expression in research. During a hearing on July 27, the court had made it clear to the Delhi government to "strictly" follow the guidelines on Covid-19 testing as issued by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and not according to its own interpretation. The court had also noted that the result of the recent sero-survey in the city indicated that more than 22.86 per cent of the population have had Covid-19 without even realising they were infected as they probably were asymptomatic. The court had also said in such a scenario how can the Delhi government go with RAT as its front line test, when its rate of false negatives was very high, with RT/PCR being recommended for only those who were symptomatic. It had said that the ICMR has not said that testing has to be done in this manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hotels-delinked-from-hospitals-as-delhi-reports-1035-new-covid-19-cases-867172.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Assembly Speaker moves SC challenging HC's status quo order||Rajasthan Speaker C P Joshi on Wednesday filed a plea in the Supreme Court against the High Court's July 24 order, directing to maintain status quo on disqualification proceedings against rebel 19 Congress MLAs including Sachin Pilot. In a fresh plea, he contended that the HC's order in relation to the proceedings before the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) is "constitutionally impermissible". He also claimed that it was directly in contravention of the settled legal position as well as the Constitution bench judgement in 'Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu’ (1992). "When the final decision of the Speaker is amenable to judicial review on limited grounds, there was no question of the High Court entertaining the writ at the notice stage," he said. The HC had on July 24 directed the Speaker to maintain status quo till it examined several legal questions, arising out of the writ petitions filed by Pilot and 18 other rebel Congress MLAs against July 14 notice under the anti-defection law. The MLAs had claimed the Speaker's action was in violation of their fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression. "The High Court acted in gross judicial indiscipline and judicial impropriety in seeking to reopen settled issues decided by a Constitution bench of this court in Kihoto case," he submitted, questioning "extraordinary indulgence" granted to rebel MLAs. "The submissions that whether the conduct of the respondent-MLAs tantamount to “democratic dissent” or “floor crossing” and not “defection” is a question of fact that only the Speaker as the ‘persona designata’ under the Tenth Schedule was entitled and empowered to go into," he maintained. This is the second plea by the Speaker against the High Court's orders. Earlier, he challenged validity of July 21 order by the HC directing him not to proceed on disqualification notice till pronouncement of order on July 24. He had subsequently on Monday withdrawn his petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-assembly-speaker-moves-sc-challenging-hcs-status-quo-order-867177.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Doctor who was mastermind in over 50 murder cases arrested in Delhi||An Ayurvedic doctor who was allegedly a mastermind in over 50 murder cases of truck and taxi drivers across the city and neighbouring states was arrested from Baprola area where he was living after jumping parole in January, police said on Wednesday. Citing previous media reports, the police claimed he may have been involved in more than 100 murder cases but could not confirm the exact figure as the cases registered against him in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan were investigated by the state police concerned. Devender Sharma, 62, a BAMS degree holder, hails from Purreni village in Uttar Pradesh's Aligrah district and he was apprehended by Delhi Police's Crime Branch team six months after jumping parole in a murder case, they said. The police said Sharma was convicted in several cases of kidnapping and murder. He was arrested twice earlier for running a fake gas agency in Uttar Pradesh and was also jailed for running a kidney racket in different states. "Sharma was serving life sentence in Central Jail, Jaipur in a murder case and was out on parole for 20 days in January this year after spending 16 years in jail. But he jumped parole and stayed at his native village for a while before moving to Delhi in the beginning of March. "Earlier, he was living in the house of an acquaintance at Mohan Garden and then, he moved to Baprola where he married a widow and got into property business. Our team arrested him after we received information about his hideout on Tuesday," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rakesh Paweriya. After getting his BAMS degree from Siwan, Bihar, he started his clinic in 1984 in Jaipur. Later in 1992, he invested Rs 11 lakh in a gas dealership scheme but was cheated and suffered a financial crisis. So in 1995, he started a fake gas agency at Chhara village in Aligarh and later got involved in criminal activities, he said. "His accomplices robbed trucks carrying LPG cylinders by killing the driver. They unloaded the trucks in his fake gas agency and then the robbed truck would be dismantled in Meerut and the bodies of the drivers were dumped in Hazara Canal, Kashganj which had crocodiles, so there was no chance of retrieval of the bodies," the DCP said. In some cases, he sold the robbed taxi to customers at Kashganj and earned Rs 20,000-25,000 for every such sale, he said. In 1994, Sharma also got involved in an interstate kidney transplant racket which was running in Jaipur, Ballabhgarh, Gurgaon and other places. He and several other doctors were arrested in 2004 in the Gurgaon kidney racket case, the officer said. From 1994 to 2004, he claimed to have carried out more than illegal 125 kidney transplants done for which he got Rs five to seven lakh per case, he said. During interrogation, he also confessed to being the mastermind of more than 50 murders. He was arrested for several murder cases reported in 2002-2004 but was convicted only in only six-seven cases. His wife and children left him in 2004 after they came to know about his activities, he added. He confessed about his involvement in 45-50 such cases registered in police stations of different states, he added, the DCP said. The Jaipur police have been informed about the arrest and the custody of the accused will be handed over through court, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-who-was-mastermind-in-over-50-murder-cases-arrested-in-delhi-867202.html
29-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Sanctions to prosecute Sharjeel Imam for sedition awaited, police tells court||The Delhi police Wednesday told a court here that the requisite sanctions to prosecute ex-JNU student Sharjeel Imam for sedition and other offences are awaited. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted time till September 1 to procure the sanctions from the authorities concerned in the case related to anti-CAA riots earlier this year. The court also took congnisance of the offence of unlawful activities punishable under section 13 of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The judge also directed Tihar jail authorities to produce Imam on next date of hearing. The agency filed the charge sheet on July 25 under various sections including 124-A (Sedition), 153(A) (Promoting enmity), 153-A (promoting enmity, Hatred between different communities), 153-B (Assertion prejudicial to national integration) and 505 (spreading rumors) of India Penal Code and under the section 13 of UAPA. In its submission, the Delhi police Wednesday told the court that the sanction for prosecution for the offence punishable under section UAPA was procured. “However, with respect to the requisite sanction under section 196 CrPC (to prosecute for sedition and other offences punishable under Indian Penal Code) it is informed that a request in this regard has already been made before the competent authority and this sanction is still awaited,” the judge noted. The judge further said, “In view of the same, I take cognizance for commission of the offence under section 13 of UAPA in the present matter.” “However, the issue of taking cognizance for the commission of offence u/s 124-A, 153-A, 153-B and 505 of IPC is deferred for the time being for want of requisite sanction,” the judge said. In its charge sheet, the police had accused Imam of “delivering seditious speeches and inciting a particular section of community to indulge in unlawful activities, detrimental to sovereignty and integrity of the nation.” “In the grab of protesting against the Citizenship Amendment Act, he exhorted people of a particular community to block the highways leading to the major cities and resort to 'Chakka Jam', thereby disrupting normal life,” the charge sheet said. It further alleged that he also openly defied the Constitution and called it a “fascist” document.  “In the name of opposing 'CAA' he also openly propagated blocking the 'chicken neck' connecting the mainland India with the North-East. He also showed utter contempt and disregard for the democratic means of protest,” it said. Imam is being probed for his alleged inflammatory speech at Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13 and subsequently on January 16 at Aligarh Muslim University, where he allegedly threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the Northeast from India. He is currently lodged at Guwahati Central Jail. The police had earlier submitted before the court that after his speech on December 13, widespread arson and violence took place in various parts of Delhi, and that several protest sites emerged after his January 16 speech. He is presently lodged in Guwahati Jail, and has been declared Corona positive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-sanctions-to-prosecute-sharjeel-imam-for-sedition-awaited-police-tells-court-867210.html
29-07-2020||Opinion||Rajasthan Crisis | Sachin Pilot fit for disqualification?||Political defection occurs in two stages -- first, the abandonment of loyalty toward one’s political party; second, the shifting of one’s loyalty to another party. The victim party can invoke the disqualification threat at the first stage itself.  People say the anti-defection law has been a big failure. It is partly true. But, had there been no lawful threat of defectors losing elected office, the ruling party at the Centre could have lured at least 50 legislators in Rajasthan in no time and installed a BJP government. The anti-defection law, though a weak dam to stop a flood, can still stop small streams of defection. It is estimated that nearly half of the 4,000-odd legislators elected to Parliament and state Assemblies in the 1967 and 1971 general elections subsequently defected, leading to political turmoil in several states and at the national level. If that had continued, the foundations of our democracy would have been destroyed by now. Luring party When the ruling party becomes a luring party, engineered defections become the order of the day, which has been the case under the BJP regime since 2014 in states where it failed to win elections. Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh stand as recent proof of the abuse of power to topple state governments. Sachin Pilot’s actions, words and meetings suggest that he is voluntarily giving up the membership of Congress, which made him MLA and deputy chief minister. The first part of defection is complete. Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, or the anti-defection law, starts operating against Pilot and his group of MLAs. There is no need to invoke the ground (b) for the Speaker to disqualify him as on today. Paragraph 2 lists out two grounds for disqualification: (a) if he has voluntarily given up his membership of such political party; or (b) if he votes or abstains from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by the political party. Note that there is ‘or’ between clauses (a) and (b), not ‘and’, as some media reports said. If it was ‘and’, defectors like Pilot would have some more scope to fly. But the law is clear. The Speaker can examine his conduct and infer whether it amounts to “voluntarily giving up his membership of such political party (Congress)”. If that is conclusively inferred, the Speaker need not investigate any further to disqualify him. In law, debate, dissent and to differ from the opinion of a majority are all part of the freedom of speech and expression generally, as well as part of internal democracy in any political party. There is no democracy without dissent and difference of opinion, which is tolerated by the Constitution and the Tenth Schedule. What is prohibited by the Tenth Schedule is defection in express terms or by implication. Para 2(1)(a) prohibits the passive way of leaving the mother party; Para 2(1)(b) prohibits open defiance of party direction, or the party ‘whip’. The lawmakers deliberately left out the expression ‘resignation’, because no elected member would prefer to lose his office, as he can retain it even after expulsion from the party. But the ruling party’s legislature wing is empowered to compel the member to support the government under threat of losing that office. Hence, to curb the activities of members when they reach the stage of leaving the party, the expression incorporated is “voluntarily giving up the membership of the party.” The conduct and statements of Pilot are clear indications that he would topple his own party’s government to fulfil his ambition to become CM with the support of non-Congress parties. It is subversion of the people’s verdict, which was emphatically against the BJP in the 2018 elections. Pilot has no runway left to take off.   The second stage -- of express defiance of a party direction -- is yet to happen in Rajasthan. Hence, any litigation contemplated against application of Para 2(1)(b) is premature. Pilot has no right to waste the court’s time. The Constitution did not mention ‘political party’ though the entire democratic machinery depends on political parties. Nowhere did it even talk about the ‘legislature party’, until the Tenth Schedule was added in 1985 out of the sheer necessity created by the Scindias and Pilots of that time. Ridiculously, Pilot has approached the courts at a premature stage on the ground of his freedom of speech, which was allegedly curbed by the anti-defection law. It’s a case of res judicata (not to raise a decided case), as challenge to the anti-defection law on that ground was rejected by the Supreme Court in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu, in which the constitutionality of the law was unequivocally upheld. Lawyers are compelled to raise this ground on the instructions of clients, knowing full well that it would be rejected on the ground of res judicata at the threshold itself. Pilot had no case to rush to the High Court to prevent the Speaker from acting on the Congress Legislature Party’s petition. Judicial review is available to examine the order of the Speaker for violation of constitutional norms, principles of natural justice, mala fide or perversity. When there is no decision by the Speaker yet, what is there to be reviewed? Courts presume an occurrence of defection when a legislator speaks against his party and meets the rival party leaders, indicating defection. If it is dissent without an element of defection, the Speaker has no grounds to disqualify the member. It was held in Rajendra Singh Rana vs Swamy Prasad Maurya that the date of disqualification is the date on which the act took place and not the date of the Speaker’s decision on it. In that case, the Speaker disqualified a legislator when he was part of the Opposition delegation to the Governor demanding dismissal of his party’s government. That was res ipsa loquiter (the thing speaks for itself). The court said, “no further evidence or enquiry is needed to find that their action comes within Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule.” Pilot’s conduct is res ipsa loquiter and his case is hit by res judicata. The engineers of defection were allegedly caught on tape, which exposes mala fide. It would be an attempt to commit illegal gratification under the Prevention of Corruption Act.   (The writer is a Professor of Constitutional Law and a former Central Information Commissioner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rajasthan-crisis-sachin-pilot-fit-for-disqualification-866863.html
29-07-2020||Opinion||They come to Bengaluru for a life in rag picking||Bengaluru, India’s tech-hub, is a dream destination for many IT-educated youth. What many do not know is that this south Indian city is also among the preferred destinations for thousands of unskilled migrant workers from eastern, northern and north-eastern states of India.  A sizable number of these unskilled migrant workers find themselves, not in traditional sectors such as construction work, but in rag picking. If one travels through Kempapura Layout of Hebbal, in the north-east end of the city, one can clearly catch sight of shanties surrounded by mounds of dry scraps hidden behind the skyscrapers. These are the habitations of Bengali rag pickers.  In the last two decades, Bengaluru’s population has increased enormously from 5.8 million in 2001 to 8.6 million in 2011 and further to 12.3 million in 2020. Along with an increase in population, production of solid waste in the city has increased enormously. As per the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city was producing 5,757 tonnes of waste per day in 2019, which was 2500-3000 tonnes in 2014-15. Only 68 per cent of the waste generated is collected by municipal bodies and the rest is scavenged by the rag pickers.  While interviewing these Bengali ragpickers last year in two phases (January-February and June-July, 2019) many interesting stories emerged. With poor wage rates, unemployment and uncertainty of work in Bengal, the shift to Bengaluru for rag-picking is quite a planned move for most of them. We came across many rag pickers who were in this profession for nearly 10 years. Economic imperative Saiful Sheikh (32), who is engaged in rag picking for the last 2-3 years said, “Earlier I used to work as an agricultural labourer in Bengal. My earning was not enough to run a household of six members. One of my fellow villagers, who was already in Bengaluru, told me about this work and I came here. Although I do not like this job, I can earn Rs 250 to Rs 500 per day. I can send more money to my family back in the village.”  While many incumbent rag pickers were instrumental in bringing more people for rag picking from their own villages, some of the rag pickers have come to Bengaluru through thikadars (contractors dealing with scraps). Contractors, who are also Bengalis, generally employ 20-30 rag pickers each for collecting scraps from the city.  The rag pickers are paid by the contractor according to weights and type of the materials they collect each day. The contractor sells those materials to the scrap dealers (usually local people) at different prices based on weight or type of material. The contractors reported that their profit margins were falling as the scrap dealers were not ready to pay them as much as they used to pay earlier. For example, earlier the cardboard boxes were sold at Rs 6-7 per kg, which now reduced to Rs 3-4 per kg in the current period.  Families can migrate The work of rag-picking is tiresome. Carrying the scraps through undulating roads of Bengaluru is not easy. Many develop body ache at the end of a days’ work. The rag pickers were very clear with their answers when they were asked why they chose this odd job and not any other work. There are certain clear advantages. They make more money than what they could have made in other jobs since they lack both education and skill. They do not need to work every day. They can take advance money from contractors in case of need. And more importantly, they can bring their families – an option which migrant workers engaged in other jobs do not have.  Manna, a rag picker in his mid-thirties, told us how bringing his wife to Bengaluru has doubled his family income after his wife started working as a maid servant in a nearby apartment building. They now earn more money to send back home in Bengal where their children are staying with the grandparents.   Numerous risks The living conditions of the rag pickers are poor, unhygienic and lack basic services such as water supply and electricity. In the absence of proper toilets, they manage with make-shift toilets.  They live in constant fear of being evicted by the municipal authorities. Gyanendra, one of the contractors of rag pickers in his early forties, describes the condition as precarious and shaky.  He said: “The type of work that I am engaged in here is shrouded with anxiety and uncertainty. I am staying in Hebbal for the last nine years and till now I had to change places 4 times. With every shift, my labourers (rag pickers) also shifted with me.” The accommodations for the rag pickers and their families are provided by the contractors. The rag pickers are always at a higher risk of contracting numerous infectious diseases, especially skin diseases as they spend most of their time in the dumping sites shifting through the mounds of rotten, unhygienic and germ rich scraps.  When asked about medical care, Aznarul. a rag picker in his mid-30s told us: “Medical vans come here and conduct check-ups once in a month. They also provide free vaccines for the children. However, if we fall ill in between, we need to visit a nearby private doctor who takes a fee of 100 rupees and the cost of the medicines comes at least 500-600 rupees.” For the rag pickers, incomes are higher in Bengaluru, so are the expenses. Moreover, their incomes are now less than what they used to be earlier. But in spite of their falling income, constant insecurity of shelter and hazardous nature of the job, they do not want to return to their native villages.  Don’t want to return Nearly a year after we conducted the survey, we could again contact some of these rag pickers over the phone during the third and fourth phases of the lockdown (May 2020). With long telephonic conversations with them, we heard from them about their state of affairs. They were staying without work and income for nearly two months. To our biggest surprise, when the migrants all over the country were desperate to return to their villages, these Bengali rag pickers were not very keen to return.  Aznarul Sheikh, who has been staying with his wife and two children in Hebbal for the last four years, said he was without any work for the last two months and his wife Amina, who was working in a nearby apartment, was also not getting her full salary. “Sometimes police and NGO staff come to our area and provide us with uncooked and cooked food items,” he said. In spite of all the inconvenience, neither Aznarul nor Amina are willing to return to their village and counting days when everything will become normal and they will start working.  Unemployment, uncertainty of work, poverty have forced these people to leave their homes and made them travel thousands of kilometres in search of livelihood. Like other migrant workers, they too are stranded jobless but the fear of an uncertain future is holding them back. *All names are changed to preserve the privacy of the respondents. (Monalisha Chakraborty is a PhD student and Subrata Mukherjee is an Associate Professor, at the Institute of Development Studies Kolkata) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the authors' own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/they-come-to-bengaluru-for-a-life-in-rag-picking-867096.html
29-07-2020||Panorama||Lockdown: Challenging times for the working class||The Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked unprecedented havoc on the economy and the Indian working class is suffering tremendously. The abrupt announcement of one of the harshest lockdowns in the world has put the working class under enormous economic pressure, as evidenced in the massive job losses. Reports from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) indicate an urban unemployment rate of 30%, the highest in decades. The abruptness of the imposition of the lockdown betrayed a glaring lack of understanding of workforce composition in India. More than 93% of the country’s workforce is in the unorganised sector, with little or no access to legal protection, lack of job security, social security and most importantly, eking out a hand-to-mouth existence. For these workers, their lives depend on their livelihoods and their livelihoods were destroyed by the lockdown. The sight of migrant families trudging back home in the gruelling summer heat from inhuman cities will forever haunt our collective conscience as a man-made disaster that could have been averted. Twin challenges The pandemic poses two major challenges to the working class: a) income & job security; and b) health and safety. Often, these two issues are intertwined; a health shock pushes the family below subsistence levels. We note a serious lack of focus from policymakers on both these counts. Let us examine some of the policy responses thus far. The central government actively pushed state governments to carry out pro-industry labour law amendments. Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh shockingly announced a holiday from the application of almost all labour laws, including the Minimum Wages Act. Karnataka also undertook pro-industry amendments, such as introduction of the fixed-term employment policy. Karnataka has deferred for a year the payment of dearness allowance of Rs 417 payable to workers earning minimum wages. It is astounding that such a wage cut from the most vulnerable section of the workforce is expected to help the industry tide over the crisis. It is also a matter of great concern that the central and state governments conflate the needs of the economy with the wishes of the corporate sector. This is a warped view, with no basis in real data. Karnataka, without recourse to diminution of workers’ rights, has always attracted stable investment. A congenial industrial environment and transparent, unbiased application of the rule of law without rent-seeking practices will help attract stable investment. The engine of our economy is consumption, fuelled by the working class and the common people of the country. Consumption and private investment account for over 60% and 22% of GDP, respectively. The private sector investment rate has remained stagnant for over three years now and therefore it is foolhardy to expect “green shoots” in the economy in terms of investments in new factories or capacity expansion in these times. There is not even a modicum of understanding of the problems of the working class in the headline-grabbing Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus announced by the Prime Minister. There are no direct cash benefits or income/wage support schemes in the stimulus. The industry lobby, which has welcomed the economic stimulus, should stop demanding the diminution of workers’ rights and wages under the garb of the Covid-19 pandemic. Supply-side measures, such as the drastic reduction in corporate tax rates in last year’s Union budget, have not resulted in any increase of private investment but only helped to line the pockets of those in the corporate sector. The better way Job creation and increased real incomes aid wealth distribution and consumption in the economy. The diminution of workers’ rights, wage cuts and job losses will lead to a general decline in aggregate demand and send the economy into a tailspin. Therefore, it is high time that the government puts money into the pockets of the bottom 90%. At this juncture, there is simply no alternative to a universal basic income scheme in order to revive the economy. The central trade unions of the country have demanded a basic income of Rs 7,500 per month to every family below the income tax ceiling. In order to protect jobs and incomes, we need a combination of wage support and unemployment allowance schemes for the industry, as undertaken by major economies like the UK, the US, Germany, France, Brazil and South Korea. There is also an urgent need to tackle the fear psychosis about the Covid-19 pandemic created amongst the workforce by addressing their health and safety concerns. Knee-jerk reactions in the form of frequent and unplanned lockdowns only intensify this fear. In the complete absence of specifically tailored regulatory safeguards governing the workplace, workers have a real fear of contracting the infection from their workplace and spreading it to their families. There is sufficient evidence suggesting that scores of workers in Bengaluru have contracted the infection from their factories. Countries such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, South Africa, the US, etc., have declared Covid-19 as an occupational hazard, to aid timely medical attention and effective containment. This recognition places the responsibility of health and safety squarely on the employers. The government should mandate employer-led Covid-19 insurance coverage for workers and their families to meet the costs of testing and medical treatment, in addition to instituting a robust standard operating procedure for workplaces in terms of hand and respiratory hygiene, physical distancing, PPEs, contact tracing and environment management. A special provision of quarantine leave for 14 days with wages should be introduced for affected workers, primary contacts and workers in containment zones. Instead of ham-handed measures to pamper the corporate sector, the policymakers will do well to rely on data-driven evidence, listen to the voices on the ground and then frame policies to address this great socio-economic crisis. (The writer is Secretary, All-India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/lockdown-challenging-times-for-the-working-class-866869.html
29-07-2020||Panorama||After breast cancer, prosthesis help||It is estimated that in the year 2020, 2,05,424 women will be affected by breast cancer making it the most common malignancy among women. One in 29 females will develop breast cancer during their lifetime, with the highest-burden in metropolitan cities. Mastectomy (removal of breast) is a common surgical procedure performed in patients diagnosed with breast cancer. It leads to major mental illnesses and affects women’s self-image. Women feel a loss of femininity leading to anxiety and depression. They avoid going out and socializing. Rehabilitation post-mastectomy help restore women’s health.  Breast prosthesis is an artificial breast form worn externally.  It is an effective alternative for patient not opting reconstruction. Breast prosthesis form fits in a bra cup with or without a bra pocket resembling the natural shape of breast. Mastectomy bras are available with a pocket to hold the prosthesis in place. Breast prostheses not only enhance appearance but also resolve musculoskeletal issues following mastectomy. They improve balance, posture and shoulder drop that can occur due to the imbalance of weight that comes from having one breast. A well-fitted bra and breast prosthesis will also help restore self-confidence and a sense of well-being. Breast forms can also be used in patients who have undergone breast conservation surgery to regain breast symmetry In India less than half the women undergoing mastectomy use breast prosthesis. While few women may not like the idea of having an artificial breast and feel uncomfortable, others are not aware of its availability or sale and feel embarrassed to ask their doctor or nurses about it. Factors limiting usage of the prosthesis are – age, education, cost and maintenance. Young women, especially from urban areas are well motivated about the usage of external prosthesis compared to elder women from rural areas who lack motivation and awareness. They find it unnecessary. Breast prostheses are available in different shapes (triangles/ teardrop/circular), sizes (shallow/full), weights, skin tone and materials. Most breast prostheses are made from soft silicone gel resembling the opposite breast in shape, size and weight. Light-weight silicone prosthesis is also being manufactured now. The outer surface of this prosthesis commonly includes a nipple outline. Silicone forms are expensive (Rs 4,000 – Rs 15,000) but non-silicone breast prosthesis are lightweight, Less expensive(Rs 500-2000) made of foam or fiberfill. These can be worn comfortably at home while performing day to day activities.    Knitted or crocheted prosthesis is made of good quality washable cotton yarn filled with fibre fill. They are soft, lightweight, comfortable and handmade. Women can learn to make their own knitted prosthesis of desired size and shape by attending a few workshops.  Prosthetic nipples are also available in different sizes which can be stuck onto the breast forms. Soft, lightweight breast prosthesis can be worn from right after the surgery while silicone breast forms can be worn six to eight weeks after surgery once the wound is well healed.  Post-mastectomy bras with breast prosthesis are available at surgical supply and lingerie stores. They can even be purchased over the internet according to the bra size. Several brands of post-mastectomy products are available in India. Light foam prosthesis with bra is sold by Canfem, Marks and spencers, Ben comm and Sona to name a few. Lightweight silicone prosthesis is sold by Poorti and Amoena.  Saaisha India foundation which is associated with Kitted knockers in USA provides knitted prosthesis free of cost to breast cancer survivors. Win over cancer is another foundation providing free of cost prosthesis. Links are given below -  Breast prosthesis related products availability has now improved significantly compared to the past in India. Cost-effective comfortable prosthesis are now available. Women should be educated well by the doctor as well as a breast care specialist nurse before and after breast surgery about the positive impact of wearing a breast prosthesis and encourage its usage.  (The writer is a breast Oncosurgeon at Sri Shankara Cancer Hospital and Research Center, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/after-breast-cancer-prosthesis-help-866871.html
29-07-2020||Right in the Middle||The ride to the airport||Flying or jetting around was easy before the pandemic. No traffic snarls, no stops en route, no dust or smoke and above all food delivered at your seat and that too by a sweet looking smiling lady. What more do you want?  But the problem is reaching the airport.  In my own case, I was all set to fly to Malaysia. I had booked a cab and the booking was confirmed. The driver too confirmed that he was on the way and I bought the luggage out, locked the door and waited at the gate. Soon the cab drove in and I gave my OTP and started to load the suitcase. Then disaster struck. The driver said the ‘trip cancelled’ and even before I could recover from the shock he drove off. And I tried another booking but to my discomfiture the reply was: no cabs available!  Of course I was panicking. I recovered in a few minutes and started looking for an auto to reach the nearest bus stop where I could board a reliable Vayu Vajra, a bus that reaches the airport. Luckily an auto driver obliged and dropped me at the stop.  Within minutes an enterprising chap presented himself before me and offered to drive me to the airport. I haggled with him about the fare and settled the issue. He loaded the luggage and the trip began and I heaved a sigh of relief. I was not missing the flight, after all.  But the relief was short-lived because he would frequently stop look for other passengers. I tried to explain to him the urgency of my situation, he ignored me and drove sluggishly with an eye on the airport-bound passenger. Two kilometres later another disaster struck me. A traffic cop flagged the driver down, argued for a few minutes and asked him to meet the sahebru who was a little distance away. As he confidently walked away, I began perspiring. I had no time to look for another vehicle.  Luckily he came back having settled the deal by greasing the palm of the inspector. We resumed the journey. At the next stop when he again looked for passengers to fill the vacancy in the car, I emphasised my predicament. “What time you have to reach the airport,” he enquired. “8 pm,” I said. “Don’t worry. You will be there ten minutes earlier,” he said very confidently. He did look for passengers as he drove but luck was not on his side.  Turns out luck was on my side. I reached the airport at 7.50 pm as promised, but he did not find any more passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-ride-to-the-airport-866865.html
29-07-2020||South||Kerala boy receives 'royalty' for his optimistic dialogue used in advertisement||A class 4 boy in Kerala received 'royalty' after his innocent and motivating remarks on a selfie video was used for an advertisement. Mohammed Fayis, a native of Kizhissery in Malappuram district, posted a video of making a flower using paper. The video features him making a flower with paper, however, it turns out shapeless. To this, he innocently says in Malayalam, "For some, the flower may become perfect, for some, it may not be (perfect). Mine is not perfect. But I am not worried." The Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers' Union (Malabar Milma) used the optimistic dialogue of the boy in the typical Malabar slang, with slight modifications, for their advertisement. "For some, it may be become perfect, for some it may go wrong. But tea will be fine for all if milk is Milma's." With the advertisement too going viral, some social media users commented that the boy was eligible for royalty. Milma official called the boy on Tuesday and gave him a cheque for Rs 10,000. Fayis, who is the son of Abdul Muneer, said that he would contribute a part of the amount to Kerala Chief Minister's distress relief fund and the remaining for the marriage of a girl hailing from a weak family. Fayis shot the selfie video of making a flower with paper using his mother's mobile phone. His sisters later saw it on the mobile and sent it to their father working in the Gulf and he shared it on some social media groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-boy-receives-royalty-for-his-optimistic-dialogue-used-in-advertisement-867011.html
29-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Governor isolates self after Covid-19 cases surge in Raj Bhavan||Purohit went into isolation even as he was found to be “fit and healthy” during a regular health check-up on Tuesday, the Raj Bhavan said here on Wednesday. “However, the doctor has advised him to be in isolation for seven days. Subsequently, the Governor has kept himself in isolation,” a statement from Raj Bhavan said, adding the three persons who tested positive for Covid-19 are under treatment. The advice came as a total of 87 staff working at the Governor’s office-cum-residence tested positive for coronavirus in the past week. Last week, 84 staff, including security personnel, at the Raj Bhavan were quarantined after they tested positive for coronavirus. Those who tested Covid-19 positive included security and fire service personnel.  At least 20 legislators, including four ministers, have tested positive for coronavirus in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-governor-isolates-self-after-covid-19-cases-surge-in-raj-bhavan-867013.html
29-07-2020||South||Amid surging Covid-19 cases, lockdown continues in Kerala capital but curbs eased||Amid rising Covid -19 cases, the district administration has decided to continue with the lockdown but decided to ease certain curbs implemented in the city corporation to ensure livelihood and revive normal day-to-day activities. The city was under 'triple lockdown' since July 5 following a spike in the number of coronavirus cases and patients through contacts. Two coastal regions in the district were declared as containment zones earlier this month after authorities confirmed the community spread of the virus. The state government had earlier appointed a chief secretary-headed panel to submit a report on the easing of lockdown restrictions in the state capital. District Collector Dr Navjot Khosa, in a late-night order issued on Tuesday, said "lockdown will continue" until further orders in the district where there are more than 2,936 active cases, but based on the recommendations of the Chief Secretary-chaired committee, it was decided to ease restrictions "to ensure livelihood and revive normal day-to-day activities." "The wards which are in containment zones will continue to remain so with strict restrictions as mentioned in the specific orders declaring those wards as critical/containment zones," the order said. As per the order, all shops can remain open from7 AM to 7 PM adhering to Covid -19 protocol and the restaurants can function for providing takeaway packets. "No in-house dining is permitted. Home delivery is permitted in non-containment zones. Public transport, including taxis and autorickshaws, is allowed with 50 per cent carriage capacity in non- containment zones," the order said. Government offices and private enterprises are permitted to function with 1/3rd and 25 per cent of staff respectively.  "All shops shall keep a time slot from 4 PM to 6 PM dedicated only to senior citizens.Hypermarkets, Malls, salons, Spa and beauty parlours shall not be opened until further orders," the order said. The district administration also said all congested market places shall be allowed to function with strict entry-exit protocols. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, auditoriums, bars, assembly halls and similar places shall remain closed. All cultural, sport, social, entertainment, academic, religious functions and other large gatherings are not allowed. On July 20, licenses of two prominent hypermarket stores, Ramachandra and Pothys, were suspended for allegedly violating lockdown protocol contributing to the increase in Covid -19 caseload here. Mayor K Sreekumar had said that as the Covid cases were going up, the two prominent establishments contributed to the spread of the virus and functioned even during Sundays. At least 100 staff members of Ramachandra, which has multiple outlets in the state capital, had tested positive and many customers may have been infected, he said. Kerala on Tuesday reported the highest single-day spike of 1,167 Covid -19 cases, taking the infection tally to 20,894 while the death toll climbed to 67 with four more deaths. Thiruvananthapuram alone reported 222 positive cases yesterday out of which 199 contracted the disease through contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-surging-covid-19-cases-lockdown-continues-in-kerala-capital-but-curbs-eased-867041.html
29-07-2020||South||Blogger sued by TV channel and editor over 'baseless allegations'||The Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained YouTuber Maridhas from uploading defamatory videos against a Tamil television channel and its journalists while directing him to remove all such videos posted earlier.  The action came after News18 Tamil Nadu news channel, its senior editor M Gunasekaran and senior anchor-cum-producer Jeeva Sagapthan filed a defamation suit seeking damages of Rs 1.5 crore from Maridhas. Justice C V Karthikeyan, admitting the civil and criminal defamation suit, opined that Maridhas cannot make baseless allegations against the television channel and asked him to remove the videos that have been posted earlier on YouTube. The judge also restrained Maridhas, who also runs a website, from uploading defamatory videos against the television news channel. Maridhas had, in a video posted on July 5, alleged that several journalists working at the channel, including editor Gunasekaran, are biased towards DMK and DK and are acting on behalf of these political parties. The vlogger had sent an e-mail to the News18 management seeking action against Gunasekaran and others for their actions. A few days later, Maridhas posted another video claiming that he received an e-mail from the management of the television channel promising action against the journalists. However, News18 Tamil Nadu filed a complaint with the police against the “fake e-mail.” Maridhas video had led to a major uproar in Tamil Nadu with opposition parties accusing him of acting at the “behest of BJP” by targeting journalists. In the defamation suit, the news channel and the two journalists said Maridhas posted three videos on July 5, July 10, and July 11 levelling “baseless allegations” against them by claiming they are “controlled by and biased towards DMK and DK.” The defamation suit said the allegations by Maridhas has cast a cloud of doubt in the mind of the viewers of News 18 Tamil Nadu which results in “grave harm and injury” to TV18 Broadcast Limited, the company which owns the channel, that thrives on the “trust of the public.”  “The defendant (Maridhas) has promulgated the entire scheme posting the defamatory videos with a pre-planned ulterior motive to disrupt the independent functioning of the 1st plaintiff (the channel) and to discredit and defame the plaintiffs (two journalists herein,” the petition said. In the petition, Gunasekaran and Jeeva Sagapthan said Maridhas has not only resorted to the agenda of publicly defaming and spreading fake news against them but has also spoken about their personal lives without any verification or comments from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/blogger-sued-by-tv-channel-and-editor-over-baseless-allegations-867068.html
29-07-2020||South||Bengaluru hospital charges Covid-19 patient Rs 5 lakh, Medical Education Minister fumes||Taking exception to a private hospital for allegedly charging a coronavirus patient Rs 5 lakh, Karnataka Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said he would take stringent action against the hospital. Dr Sudhakar, in-charge of Covid-19 management in the state, posted the bill of Apollo Hospitals on his Twitter handle and said the hospital has allegedly been overlooking the government guidelines and warnings. "I have come to know that the patients are suffering a lot at the Apollo Hospitals. I have warned it several times..." he said. The government has fixed a cap of Rs 5,000-Rs 15,000 a day to charge the Covid-19 patients willing to undergo treatment in the private hospitals. When contacted, Apollo Hospitals said, "There was some communication error with the Minister. Our management has briefed him." The billing has been done as per the insurance tariff, an executive of the hospital told PTI. He said the 64-year-old patient was admitted to the intensive care unit on July 3 and he continued to remain there. He stated, "The family of the patient was okay with the bill. In fact, the patient's son is in the medical field and he understands the situation well." When contacted, the patient's son said he would not comment because the patient is still in the hospital. "Our priority is to bring my father out of the hospital after complete recovery. At this point in time, I don't want to complicate the matter further by commenting on it," said the son. A couple of weeks ago, a private hospital had slapped a bill of about Rs 9 lakh on a patient, which Dr Sudhakar had mentioned in his daily press briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bengaluru-hospital-charges-covid-19-patient-rs-5-lakh-medical-education-minister-fumes-867088.html
29-07-2020||South||Red alert in Idukki, widespread rains predicted in Kerala in next two days||A red alert has been sounded in the high range Idukki district in Kerala by the IMD on Wednesday with widespread extremely heavy rains predicted, as parts of the state received heavy showers inundating low lying areas and partially disrupting rail traffic. The red alert indicates that there are chances of receiving over 20.5 cm rain within the next 24 hours in various parts of Idukki. Orange alert, indicating heavy to very heavy rains, has been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad districts for Wednesday. The Kerala Disaster management authority said with the extremely heavy rains predicted there are chances of landslides, earth slips, floods and other natural disasters and has asked the people to be extremely cautious. The South West Monsoon had set in over Kerala on June one this year, marking the commencement of the four-month-long rainfall season. Several parts of the state have been receiving heavy rains, particularly Ernakulam and Kottayam districts since last night. The busy Jos junction, MG road, Panampilly nagar, Palarivattom and other mainroads in Kochi are all waterlogged. Water entered over 80 homes in the city. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus terminus in the city was also inundated. The rain fury was also severe in Kochi's neighbouring Kottayam district with landslides affecting train services between Kottayam and Chingavanam. Earth and boulders fell onto the railway track this morning affecting train services between Kottayam and Ernakulam stations, railway sources said. The 06301 Venad special train from Thiruvananthapuram has been terminated at Changanassery station and the pairing train (06302) from Ernakulam will start from Changanassery, the sources told PTI. The Thiruvananthapuram-Kannur Jan Shatabdi express via Kottayam has been diverted via Alappuzha. According to the weather report at 0830 hrs this morning, rains recorded in various places in cm are Kottayam 20, Vaikom 19, Chertala 18, Ernakulam South 13, Kochi airport 15.42, and Thiruvananthapuram city 4.82. With wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast, fishermen have been asked not to put out to sea. Meanwhile, one fisherman was rescued after 14 hours and search is continuing for another after the two went missing since last evening from Tirur in Malappuram. Kerala had been devastated by the worst floods in the last 100 years during August 2018 that claimed over 400 lives and razed several houses, while last year the state's northern parts were flooded again in August as heavy rains and widespread landslides wreaked havoc, leaving over 120 dead. A large number of people including women and children had lost lives at Kavalapara in Malappuram and Puthumala in Wayanad alone when the massive landslides rocked the places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/red-alert-in-idukki-widespread-rains-predicted-in-kerala-in-next-two-days-867106.html
29-07-2020||South||8,376 books, 4 kg gold among Jayalalithaa’s movable properties||That former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa was a voracious reader is legendary by now, but little did people know that the late leader’s personal library had a fabulous collection of over 8,000 books cutting across genres. Jayalalithaa, who died on December 5, 2016, following 75 days of hospitalisation, had been vocal about her love for books during interviews with various publications and television media outlets, first as an actor and later as a successful politician. To be precise, 8,376 books that Jayalalithaa collected over the years had adorned her personal library on the first floor of her palatial Poes Garden bungalow overlooking her bedroom. The number is now in the public domain, thanks to a count of her movable properties taken by the state government officials as part of the process to acquire the sprawling mansion. Besides books, 4.37 kg of gold, 601.42 grams of silver, 11 television sets, 38 air conditioners, 10 refrigerators, 653 documents, and 253 stationery items are among the 32,721 items that are part of ‘Veda Nilayam’. These details are part of a gazette notification issued by the Tamil Nadu government taking over the bungalow to convert it into a memorial for Jayalalithaa. The government had last week deposited Rs 67.9 crore before a civil court as compensation for acquiring the mansion. The number of books, which were an integral part of her personal library, gives a sneak peek into one of Jayalalithaa’s favourite past-times. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh, who had covered Jayalalithaa since her entry into politics in the early 1980s, told DH that the late leader’s personal library was a sight to watch in itself. “I am an introvert. Between the shots, I would go to a corner and start reading my book. People would call me arrogant, but it did not matter to me as I loved my books,” Singh quoted Jayalalithaa as having told him in one of the interviews. Books, in a way, helped her overcome loneliness she felt, Singh said, adding that the late chief minister would speak about her love for books in almost every interaction that they had. Having inculcated the habit of reading books since her childhood, Jayalalithaa had told Rediff.com in an interview in 1998 that there was practically no subject in which she was not interested. “Even when I was acting in films, there used to be some time in between shots, I always used to carry books with me to the studios, and when I wasn't required, when the lighting was being done for the next shot, I would sit quietly by myself in a corner. Probably all that reading is coming in use today,” she had told the web portal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8376-books-4-kg-gold-among-jayalalithaa-s-movable-properties-867149.html
29-07-2020||South||Rains lash parts of Kerala, lead to landslides and inundation||Heavy rains lashed several parts of Kerala on Wednesday, inundating low-lying areas and affecting rail and road transport, as a red alert was sounded in the high range Idukki district by the IMD. Landslides in Kottayam disrupted rail traffic in the region. The Kerala Disaster management authority said that with extremely heavy rains forecast, there were chances of landslides, earth slips, floods and other natural disasters and has asked the people to be extremely cautious. The southern state had witnessed an unprecedented downpour in a century in 2018, leading to floods that consumed over 400 lives. This year, the south west monsoon had set in over Kerala on June 1, marking the commencement of the four-month long rainfall season. Red alert, issued for Idukki by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), indicates there are chances of receiving over 20.5 cm rain within the next 24 hours in various parts of the district. Orange alert, indicating heavy to very heavy rains, has been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad districts for Wednesday. Several parts of the state have been receiving heavy rains, particularly Ernakulam and Kottayam districts, since last night. The busy Jos junction, MG road, Panampilly nagar, Palarivattom and other mainroads in Kochi are all waterlogged. Water entered over 80 homes in the city. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus terminus in the city was also inundated. The rain fury was also severe in Kochi's neighbouring Kottayam, where landslides affected train services between the district and Chingavanam. Earth and boulders fell onto the railway track this morning affecting train services between Kottayam and Ernakulam stations, railway sources said. The 06301 Venad special train from Thiruvananthapuram had been terminated at Changanassery station and the pairing train (06302) from Ernakulam will start from Changanassery, the sources told PTI. The Thiruvananthapuram-Kannur Jan Shatabdi express via Kottayam has been diverted via Alappuzha. According to the weather report at 0830 hrs this morning, rains recorded in various places in cm are Kottayam 20, Vaikom 19, Chertala 18, Ernakulam South 13, Kochi airport 15.42, and Thiruvananthapuram city 4.82. With wind speed reaching 40-50 kmph likely to prevail along and off Kerala coast, fishermen have been asked not to put out to sea. Meanwhile, one fisherman was rescued after 14 hours and search is continuing for another after the two went missing since last evening from Tirur in Malappuram. Kerala had been devastated by the worst floods in the last 100 years during August 2018 that claimed over 400 lives and razed several houses, while last year the state's northern parts bore the brunt of the monsoon fury as heavy rains and widespread landslides wreaked havoc, leaving over 120 dead. A large number of people including women and children had lost their lives at Kavalapara in Malappuram and Puthumala in Wayanad alone when massive landslides rocked the places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-lash-parts-of-kerala-lead-to-landslides-and-inundation-867151.html
29-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Rs 2 lakh in pocket could not help Telangana policeman save his wife's life||The two lakh rupees cash in his pocket and recommendations of top cops could not help a head constable of Telangana police save his wife’s life in this pandemic time. Apathy of private hospitals and government-imposed restrictions at the state-run Covid-19 hospital in Hyderabad has claimed yet another life in Telangana. Wife of Md Lateef, a head constable at the Thurkapally police station under the Rachakonda Commissionerate, died a month back after allegedly denied treatment by several private hospitals and rejected entry into the government Gandhi hospital by a police inspector posted there. Lateef who tested positive after the incident recovered from Covid-19 and joined back to duty on Tuesday. He shared the painful ordeal of his wife dying in his hands while gasping for breath, in the presence of senior officials and fellow cops. Despite me offering the Rs two lakh cash with me and endorsement of the top cops, my wife in suffering was denied treatment at two popular private hospitals in the city. A few more hospitals also refused; Lateef stated. One of these corporate hospitals is where Lateef’s wife was undergoing treatment for her lungs problem for the past one and half year. The other hospital ran a CT scan and informed about her lung condition, they were aware but did not treat her. “Then at about midnight I took her to the Gandhi hospital where I was stopped at the gates by the police. In spite of me pleading that I am a cop and my wife was in a critical condition needing ventilator/oxygen support, the Police inspector did not let me in,” Lateef said, trying to maintain his composure. “I would not allow you in without Covid-19 positive confirmation, '' the inspector sitting in his vehicle said resolutely and got the gates closed. He did not even heed the additional DCP’s word and drove me away from there at about 1 AM. As we came one KM from the hospital, my wife, tormented by breathlessness, died in my hands.” Positive report comes after 15 days A day after his wife’s death, on 29 June, Lateef, his two daughters underwent Covid-19 tests. Reports of his daughters came negative, but Lateef’s report was not provided. “But I kept myself in isolation, instructing my young kids how to cook from a distance. Finally, after 15 days, a doctor from the King Koti hospital calls me and informs me that my test was positive. What would have happened if I had not taken precautions?” The Chandrasekhar Rao government has designated the Gandhi general hospital as “Centre of Excellence for COVID-19 Care” and made the positive test report must for entry into the huge facility in the heart of the city. Last month, a BSNL employee attributed his wife’s death to denial of treatment at several private and government hospitals in Hyderabad. The man also alleged that they were refused entry into the Gandhi hospital without a Covid-19 test report. Gandhi has a capacity of 1890 beds, out of which 975 are vacant as of Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-rs-2-lakh-in-pocket-could-not-help-telangana-policeman-save-his-wifes-life-867159.html
29-07-2020||South||Complete lockdown on weekends in Andaman and Nicobar Islands||The Andaman and Nicobar administration has decided to impose a complete lockdown on weekends, beginning August 1, to contain the spread of coronavirus, an official said on Wednesday. The strict restrictions will be in force on Saturdays and Sundays till the Covid-19 situation improves in the Union territory, Chief Secretary Chetan B Sanghi said in an order issued on Tuesday. All commercial establishments, shops and transport, barring those dealing with essential commodities and services, will remain shut, it said. Hospitals, nursing homes, laboratories, medicine shops, entities involved in the manufacturing and distribution of medical equipment and transportation of essential commodities, will be exempted from total shutdown, the order said. Meanwhile, 52 more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, taking the Union territory's tally to 390, according to a health bulletin. Of the fresh cases, 27 were detected on Wednesday and 25 on Tuesday. The number of active cases in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands stands at 193, while 196 people have recovered from the disease and one patient has died, the bulletin said. The Union territory registered its first coronavirus fatality on Monday after a 49-year-old government employee succumbed to the infection at the GB Pant Hospital here. In view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases, the administration has ordered that people returning from the mainland will be home quarantined for seven days or till they test negative for Covid-19, whichever is earlier. It also asked the government officials returning from the mainland to work from home till they test negative for the infection. The RT-PCR test will be conducted on passengers arriving at the airport from the mainland and destined to tribal areas, while nodal officers for Covid-19 management have been asked to take measures for collecting samples daily from crowded places such as vegetable and fish markets, the order stated. The administration has also started taking steps to convert the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) hostel here to a 60-bedded hospital for treatment of coronavirus patients who are not critical, Health Services Director Omkar Nath said. He said the local administration also plans to turn the ITI workshop into a 200-bedded hospital. The health department has already procured seven ventilators and have been installed in hospitals, Nath added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/complete-lockdown-on-weekends-in-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-867165.html
29-07-2020||South||Rains amid Covid-19 pose fresh challenge to Kerala||Posing fresh challenges to the fight against Covid-19, rains gained strength in Kerala and an orange alert has been declared in four districts in North Kerala for Thursday. As many as 903 more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, while 641 recovered and a 68-year-old patient died in Malappuram district. There were 10,350 active patients. Some parts of the state, especially in Ernakulam district, were inundated in the rains that lashed since Tuesday night. All district administrations have identified places for opening relief camps as people in quarantine and those in high category groups need to be kept separately. Meanwhile, Covid-19 spread through local transmission dominated the fresh cases. Of the 903 fresh cases, 706 were due to local contacts. As many as 30 health workers got infected. State capital Thiruvananthapuram had 213 fresh cases, of which 198 were through local transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rains-amid-covid-19-pose-fresh-challenge-to-kerala-867174.html
29-07-2020||South||Road show of new luxury car and lorries land Kerala businessman in trouble||A granite quarry businessman in Kerala landed in trouble after organising a roadshow with his new luxury car and six lorries at Kothamangalam on the outskirts of Ernakulam district. Roy Kurian, who conducted the roadshow by sitting on top of the Benz car on Tuesday, had courted controversy earlier this month also by organising a dance party at a resort in Idukki district by flouting Covid-19 social distancing norms. After the matter became controversial on Tuesday, the Kothamangalam police registered cases for negligent driving and flouting Covid-19 lockdown norms against him. All the vehicles were also seized. The police said that the Roy was given bail from the station and the cases would be now decided by the court. The vehicles were still in police custody. Earlier there were allegations that many local politicians and officials were among the 300 odd participants in the dance party with belly dancers held at a resort in Udumbancholla in Idukki. Roy had obtained bail in that case also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/road-show-of-new-luxury-car-and-lorries-land-kerala-businessman-in-trouble-867231.html
29-07-2020||State||Bengaluru to get Rs 5,000 cr life sciences park||The long-delayed Bengaluru Life Sciences Park is going to be reality as the state government unveiled plans for the $500 mn (Rs 5,000 crore) project, which aims to promote research and innovation in the biotechnology sector. The park will come up on a 9 million sqft space in Electronics City, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is the IT/BT minister, said at a virtual news conference on Tuesday. The foundation stone for the park will be laid by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday.  “When it comes to biotechnology, Karnataka has a 9% share in Asia and 35% in India,” Narayan said, talking about the state’s dominance in the sector. “About 60% of the companies are located in the state, which includes 200 startups. Karnataka accounts for one-third of India’s biotech exports and is home to 54% of the biotech workforce. We have to commercialise and scale up for which we need such parks.” The “integrated” facility will house over 150 firms and generate about 50,000 jobs, added Narayan.  The park will come up on a 52-acre land. “Totally, there are 86 acres, which includes the Institute of Bioinformatics and Applied Biotechnology (IBAB) on 10 acres, the Centre for Human Genetics on 10 acres and the Bengaluru Bioinnovation Centre (BBC) on 10 acres,” Narayan said. “By December 2022, we will have a building on 10 lakh sqft in the first phase.” The project has languished for many years. Earlier this month, the Cabinet approved the park and entrusted its development to Labzone, a private entity. “This is a public-private partnership. The government will get a land premium of Rs 109 crore,” Narayan said, adding that the project will see an investment of Rs 5,000 crore.  The push for the project came from the state’s Vision Group on Biotechnology headed by Biocon executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. “When the vision group started, we conceived the idea of the park, where technologies will converge. Karnataka is already the leading state in terms of biotechnology and the goal is to put Karnataka on the global map,” she said. She said the park will offer a “unique” ecosystem and expressed confidence that premier biotech companies from all over the world will get involved in the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bengaluru-to-get-rs-5000-cr-life-sciences-park-866878.html
29-07-2020||State||Heavy rain lashes Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada district||After a lull for a week, heavy rain lashed different parts of Dakshina Kannada since Wednesday morning. Water-logged KS Rao Road, Ambedkar Circle, Bejai, Pumpwell and other areas in Mangaluru inconvenienced motorists and pedestrians. The IMD had issued yellow alert in coastal districts of DK, Uttara Kannada and Udupi till August 2 and warned that heavy rain of 115.5 mm is likely to lash the region. The farmers were worried over scanty rainfall in the last few days and were worried over paddy crops. The rain has brought much relief to the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/heavy-rain-lashes-karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-district-866990.html
29-07-2020||State||Nirani invites Wadiyar for PSSK inaugration||BJP MLA  Murugesh Nirani visited Mysuru Palace to invite member of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru, Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, for the reopening ceremony of Pandavapura Sahakari Sakkare Karkhane ( PSSK) at Pandavapura in Mandya district. The factory will be reopened on August 11, on the day of Krishna Janmashtami. Nirani requested Pramoda Devi and scion of the Royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar to attend the inaugural ceremony. Nirani Sugars Limited, owned by Nirani and MRN Groups, has taken over PSSK for a period of 40-year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nirani-invites-wadiyar-for-pssk-inaugration-867074.html
29-07-2020||State||Congress leaders sabotaged Mallikarjun Kharge's CM bid: H D Kumaraswamy||Dropping a new bomb, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said Wednesday that party supremo H D Deve Gowda proposed senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge to become the chief minister when both parties entered into a coalition after the Assembly polls in 2018. “Their own leaders stopped him from becoming the CM,” Kumaraswamy said, as part of the muckraking between the former allies. Continuing his tirade against the Congress, Kumaraswmay in a series of tweets said the JD(S) was never interested in the coalition. It was the Congress that landed up at their doorsteps, he said. “Even when we said we did not want it, the Congress asked me to become the chief minister. Later, it began pressuring the government with its back-seat driving," he said. Earlier this week, Kumaraswamy said the Congress had no moral right to criticise the BJP for "horse trading" as the party itself was involved in buyout of MLAs several times in the past. Taking objection to this, the Congress questioned the JD(S) as to why it agreed to form a coalition with Congress in the first place. In a meeting between JD(S) and Congress leaders following the fractured mandate of the 2018 Assembly polls, Gowda suggested Kharge's name for the top post. But owing to internal bickering in Congress, the opportunity was snatched from Kharge, Kumaraswamy claimed. "Let the Congress introspect on who these leaders are. It will get an answer," he said. Kharge, who is now a Rajya Sabha member, missed the chance of becoming the chief minister in 2013 when the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) favoured Siddaramaiah while electing its leader. The then KPCC president G Parameshwara could not claim the post as he lost the election from Koratagere. Both the leaders belong to SC (Right). Ever since, the issue of making someone from the SC community as the CM has been contentious, especially for the Congress. So, raking up Kharge’s name is seen as Kumaraswamy’s attempt to hit the Congress where it hurts the most. “While the Congress has termed JD(S) as an ‘irrelevant’ party, is anyone in Congress willing to answer in how many states their party is relevant and active?” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/congress-leaders-sabotaged-mallikarjun-kharges-cm-bid-h-d-kumaraswamy-867166.html
29-07-2020||State||Two more safari zones at Nugu, Gundre proposed||The Bandipur Tiger Reserve authorities have submitted a proposal to open two more safari zones for tourists -- at Nugu and Gundre ranges -- under Hediyala sub-division. Both the ranges come under Mysuru district limits. These were safari zones till 1994, and were closed due to various reasons. There are several places of attraction in the ranges, which also comprise Kabini backwaters and Nugu reservoir. If safari is introduced, it would attract more people to the forests. Besides, it would also lessen the burden on the safari at Bandipur, opine the officials. Impetus to environment-friendly tourism activities will provide job opportunities to locals. More people will have an opportunity to learn about forest, the officials said. Bandipur Tiger Project Director T Balachandra said, "This is not a new proposal. Safari at these places were discontinued a few years ago. We have submitted a proposal to resume safari activities, as it would attract more people." The officials said, resuming safari at these ranges require the permission of the National Tiger Conservation Authority of India. The Supreme Court too has issued directions to begin eco-friendly tourism activities. Permission would be given subject to all norms, they explained. We may have to wait till the monsoon season is over, to get the official nod, Balachandra said. According to the department officials, animals are frequently spotted during summer, near Kabni and Nugu areas, as they move in search of water. Herbivorous animals are seen in large numbers in Kabini backwaters due to greenery and attract wild animals, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-more-safari-zones-at-nugu-gundre-proposed-867187.html
29-07-2020||State||Post-row, trimmed syllabus on Tipu to be put on hold||The government has asked the Karnataka Textbook Society (KTBS) to put on hold the trimmed syllabus of books that omitted chapters on Tipu Sultan. Following criticism from various quarters over trimming of the textbooks, especially over deleting Tipu-related chapters, the government has asked KTBS to put the same on hold temporarily.Considering the reduced academic days available for the current academic year due to Covid-19, KTBS trimmed the textbooks for classes 1 to 10. Some, sections including lessons about Tipu in Class 7 and the Indian Constitution, were dropped. Entire lessons on Jesus Christ and Prophet Mohammed were dropped for classes six and seven in the reduced syllabi. Sources in the Department of Public Instruction said the office of Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar had told KTBS to temporarily put the revised syllabus on hold. They have been asked to relook into the matter and submit a report to Kumar. “On Wednesday morning, we received oral instructions to put trimmed syllabus on hold and by evening, we received official directions from the minister to withdraw the contents uploaded on a website,” said an official source from KTBS. The syllabus was reduced to 120 working days for Classes 1-10 as many academic days are reduced for the 2020-2021 year. KTBS had uploaded the trimmed contents for the reference of teachers and withdrew the same late on Wednesday evening.This trimming of textbooks has received opposition from various people including teachers, private school managements and elected representatives.  Issuing a clarification, Suresh Kumar said, “It was decided to trim the contents scientifically from class 1 to 10 in all subjects. But as there is no final decision on availability of academic days, we have not finalised the trimming of textbooks.” He even said that the government will not cut any content unnecessarily or unscientifically. “The officials of the department were instructed to frame teaching modules suitable for mass media or digital teaching. But even before finalising the new version, by mistake, the same was uploaded on the website,” he added. Kumar confirmed that the officials were told to withdraw the contents uploaded on the website. “There is no question of hiding information relating to any particular person, document or historical event,” he said. Lessons pertaining to Tipu Sultan had led to controversy last academic year and the government constituted an expert committee, which recommended not to drop the same. Earlier, the trimmed textbooks had been uploaded on the website of the Department of State Education Research and Training (DSERT) by Karnataka State Textbook Society showed removal of chapters on Tipu Sultan for class 7. Justifying the decision, officials had said, “Children study a (similar) chapter in class 6 and more in class 10.” A senior official from the Textbook Society had said, “Trimming does not mean we have removed half of the syllabus from textbooks. It is only keeping in mind the repetition that we have condensed the chapters. In case students study about a particular dynasty in higher grades, the same has been removed in lower grades.” A few months ago, there was an uproar over the demand for dropping chapters on Tipu Sultan. The MLAs from the ruling BJP had demanded removal of the chapters and petitioned Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. An expert committee led by Prof Baraguru Ramachandrappa had suggested not to drop any content on Tipu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/post-row-trimmed-syllabus-on-tipu-to-be-put-on-hold-867193.html
29-07-2020||State||Demand for RTE seats goes down||The demand for seats under Right to Education (RTE) quota in the state has gone down for the second straight year. As many as 852 schools across the state have not received a single application for admission for the 2020-21 academic year. The total number of available seats at these schools are 4,903 and the total number of schools coming under RTE purview was 2,480 for the current academic year. The Department of Public Instruction has allotted first round of seats through online mode on Wednesday. As many as 25,095 students preferred seats in first list while it is 6,524 in the second list. Due to various reasons, including duplication of applications, e-ID verification and special verification, more than 440 applications were rejected. The details available from the department shows that the total number of seats available this year were 17,453, of which 1,811 for LKG and 15,642 for grade 1. This is the second consecutive year that the demand for the seats has gone down. This trend is attributed to the amendments to the RTE regulations in the state, prioritising admissions to government and aided schools. Even the number of seats available under the Act, this year, is lesser compared to the previous year. During 2019-20 the number of seats available was 17,720 of which only 4,698 seats were filled. This year, 17,453 seats are available under the RTE quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/demand-for-rte-seats-goes-down-867195.html
29-07-2020||State||Transporters' federation demands cut in diesel tax||The state lorry owners’ federation has demanded the government to reduce tax on diesel at the earliest and provide exemption on tax to help the transport sector emerge from the brink of disaster. In a press release, G R Shanmugappa, president of the Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners’ and Agents’ Association, said the value-added tax on diesel in Karnataka has remained high, forcing them to pay Rs 77.81 per litre of the fuel. Additionally, the extension given by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways for renewal of fitness permit, driving licence and other motor vehicle fees has not been notified in the state, he said. “The Regional Transport Offices are demanding a penalty for (delay in) quarterly taxes when there is no sufficient movement of material in the market,” he added. The federation has urged the government to stop the collection of toll at state and national highways in view of the rising number of Covid cases among staffers at the toll plazas. Shanmugappa called upon the government to recognise the essential service being provided by the lorry drivers and bring them under the cover of health insurance. “The government has not announced any package to the poor drivers nor any health insurance,” he said. The federation has decided to wait till August 3 for a response from the government. Later, an emergency meeting will be held to decide on the next course of action, it Shanmugappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/transporters-federation-demands-cut-in-diesel-tax-867196.html
29-07-2020||State||Covid-19 casts shadow on exchange of tigers||Covid-19 scare has affected the animal exchange programme of Pilikula Biological Park here. If everything had gone well as per the plan, two white tigers would have reached the Pilikula Biological Park on World Tiger Day. The park authorities had exchanged a memorandum of understanding for getting white tigers from Sri Venkateswara Zoological Park at Tirupati and another zoo at Rajkot. Now, the lockdown and Covid-19 have forced the authorities to postpone the exchange programme. At present, the Pilikula Biological Park has 11 tigers, including Vikram, Nethravathi, Oliver, Amar, Akbar, Ravi, Sudha, Jairam, Sanjay and Vijay. One tiger from Pilikula should have been sent to a zoo from Hyderabad, which too has been postponed due to Covid-19, said the park director JayaprakashBhandary. Due to the lockdown, the entry of tourists has been banned to the Pilikula Biological Park. It is estimated that the loss is around Rs 2 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-casts-shadow-on-exchange-of-tigers-867198.html
29-07-2020||State||Microsoft India donates RT-PCR devices||Extending aid to the state government in battling the Covid-19 pandemic, Microsoft India has donated three RT(PCR) devices to Karnataka government. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who took part in a video conference in this regard, welcomed the aid and urged that both private companies and the public coordinate with the government in fighting thepandemic. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Tourism Minister C T Ravi, Microsoft India’s Managing Director Rajiv Kumar, were among those present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/microsoft-india-donates-rt-pcr-devices-867199.html
29-07-2020||State||Prohibitory orders for CET exam in Tumakuru||Common Entrance Test (CET) will be held in 21 centres of Tumakuru district. In this background, prohibitory orders have been imposed around 200 metres radius from the exam centres on July 30 and 31, said Deputy Commissioner K Rakesh Kumar said.  He said that strict action will be taken against question paper leakage and other exam malpractices. The prohibitory orders will be in force from 10 am to 4.30 pm. All photocopying and typewriting stores around the exam centres have been ordered closed. The entry of unauthorised people near the exam centre is also banned, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/prohibitory-orders-for-cet-exam-in-tumakuru-867200.html
29-07-2020||State||No change of guard in state, says Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Wednesday said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has done a commendable job in mitigating the Covid-19 situation and floods and that the question of changing the leadership does not arise. Speaking to reporters here, Kateel said, "Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has gone to Delhi to discuss the projects sanctioned to state with the central minister. There is no need to read too much into it." Replying to a query on graft charges against the BSY government by the Congress, Kateel said, "Congress national president, state unit president are out on bail in graft cases . Why did a Congress leader who calls himself a bande (rock) has approached court seeking stay on CBI probe? Before making any allegations against the government, they should think about 'irregularities' in Indira Canteen and housing schemes," he charged. Instead of instilling confidence and hope among the people in these testing times, the Congress is unnecessarily creating fear with petty politics, he told reporters in Shravanabelagola, Hassan district. "The Yediyurappa-led BJP government is working day and night to tackle the Covid-19. Similarly, several non-governmental organisations have joined hands with the government in the fight against the virus. But, the Congress is only creating confusion by issuing baseless statements," Kateel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-change-of-guard-in-state-says-kateel-867203.html
29-07-2020||State||Discharges bring respite with 2,397 in state, 1,118 in B'luru||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 5,503 new Covid-19 cases. The active case tally now stands at 67,448. With 92 new deaths, the death toll has reached 2,147. Eight people have died due to non-Covid causes. As many as 639 people are in the state's ICUs and 352 patients are in Bengaluru's ICUs.  A total of 32,990 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total number of tests done to 12.75 lakh. Bengaluru reported 2,270 new cases and 30 deaths on Wednesday. The death toll at 988 is inching towards the 1,000-mark. In keeping with the trend of the past few days, at least 11 districts reported new infections in triple digits. Ballari reported 338 cases and five other districts reported 200 or more cases: Belagavi 279, Davangere 225, Dakshina Kannada 208 and Mysuru 200.  On the bright side, Bengaluru alone saw 1,118 discharges on Wednesday, with 2,397 discharges state-wide. Protective gearfor civic workers Till now, there have been 42,901 recoveries. The Health Commissioner on Wednesday issued a circular, saying pourakarmikas will be given PPEs, gloves, gumboots, and masks. At the ward level, their health status shall be monitored regularly using thermal scanners and pulse oximeters by the supervisory staff. If they're unwell, they shall be subjected to swab testing at swab collection centres through RT-PCR or rapid antigen test methods. In case of untimely death, they are entitled to benefits under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana or the insurance scheme of the state government.  Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust has issued direction to all hospitals to submit pre-authorisation information within 24 hours to avoid a mismatch between occupied beds and actual availability of beds. The data needs to be updated in SAST software. Bed availability data must be updated every six hours in the central hospital bed management system of BBMP and SAST portals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/discharges-bring-respite-with-2397-in-state-1118-in-bluru-867205.html
29-07-2020||State||Cong leaders sabotaged Kharge's CM bid:HDK||Dropping a new bomb, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy said on Wednesday that party supremo H D Deve Gowda proposed senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge to become the chief minister when both parties entered into a coalition after the Assembly polls in 2018. "Their own leaders stopped him from becoming the CM," Kumaraswamy said, as part of the muckraking between the former allies. Continuing his tirade against the Congress, Kumaraswmay in a series of tweets said the JD(S) was never interested in the coalition. It was the Congress that landed up at their doorsteps, he said. "Even when we said we did not want it, the Congress asked me to become the chief minister. Later, it began pressuring the government with its back-seat driving," he said. Earlier this week, Kumaraswamy said the Congress had no moral right to criticise the BJP for 'horse trading' as the party itself was involved in buyout of MLAs several times in the past. Taking objection to this, the Congress questioned the JD(S) as to why it agreed to form a coalition with Congress in the first place. In a meeting between JD(S) and Congress leaders following the fractured mandate of the 2018 Assembly polls, Gowda suggested Kharge's name for the top post. But owing to internal bickering in the Congress, the opportunity was snatched from Kharge, Kumaraswamy claimed. "Let the Congress introspect on who these leaders are. It will get an answer," he said. Kharge, who is now a Rajya Sabha member, missed the chance of becoming the chief minister in 2013 when the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) favoured Siddaramaiah while electing its leader. The then KPCC president G Parameshwara could not claim the post as he lost the election from Koratagere. Both the leaders belong to SC (Right). Ever since, the issue of making someone from the SC community as the CM has been contentious, especially for the Congress. So, raking up Kharge's name is seen as Kumaraswamy's attempt to hit the Congress where it hurts the most. “While the Congress has termed the JD(S) an 'irrelevant' party, is anyone in Congress willing to answer in how many states their party is relevant and active?" Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cong-leaders-sabotaged-kharges-cm-bidhdk-867206.html
29-07-2020||State||No sign of GST money for first 2 months of fiscal to state||Four months into 2020-21 fiscal, Karnataka is yet to receive the first instalment of GST compensation for the year, which is estimated at around Rs 4,800 crore. There is also a cloud of doubt on whether the state will receive its full share of the Rs 28,591 crore of the funds devolved for the financial year by the Centre, following reports that it will struggle to shore up the necessary resources to pay states as per the existing revenue-sharing formula. These constraints are expected to compromise the financial condition of the state, as it fights an uphill battle against the pandemic during a period of economic contraction. When contacted, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad told DH that the first instalment of GST compensation for the first two months of the fiscal was due. "(GST compensation) for April and May was due in June, but not received so far," he said. Meanwhile, according to reports, even the Rs 28,591 crore allocated to Karnataka under devolution in the union budget for the current fiscal - which is around Rs 11,200 crore less than the budgetary allocation of Rs 39,806 crore in 2019-20 - may not be realised at the end of the fiscal. As the Centre planned to rework the GST-sharing formula due to the dip in revenue collection, sources said that Karnataka's share would reduce further by at least 10%. Plans to take loans After the Centre relaxed lending limit for states, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has vowed to borrow loans to take up development works.   Referring to the National Highway works undertaken in Karnataka at an event held recently to mark one-year of BJP administration, Yediyurappa said the state has completed 970 km of national highway and was receiving only Rs 500 crore for highway works, even though they had requested the central government for more. "We will ensure that these highways are completed even if it meant taking additional loans," the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-sign-of-gst-money-for-first-2-months-of-fiscal-to-state-867207.html
29-07-2020||State||CM flags off Life Sciences Park||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said the government will take steps to make Karnataka the biotechnology hub, assuring “all support on priority” to the private sector.  Yediyurappa was speaking during the foundation stone-laying for the Bengaluru Life Sciences Park at Electronics City, which is estimated to attract investments up toRs 5,000 crore.  “We have already implemented many reforms and an industry-friendly environment has been created. We shall give more importance to commerce and industry,” Yediyurappa said, adding that the Bengaluru Life Sciences Park will help in expanding the “perimetre of the state’s biotechsector.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cm-flags-off-life-sciences-park-867208.html
29-07-2020||State||ZAK launches mobile app||The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK), and Mysuru Zoo launched a mobile phone application ‘Zoos of Karnataka’, to enable the people to contribute for conservation education, rescue, relief and rehabilitation of wild animals, on Wednesday. Forest Minister Anand Singh dedicated the application virtually and Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, scion of the erstwhile royal family, witnessed the event at Mysuru Zoo. The app will be useful in online animal adoption and donations to all nine zoos of Karnataka, for any amount starting from Rs 50. Member Secretary of ZAK B P Ravi said, "The app was developed under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat to make the country self-reliant."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/zak-launches-mobile-app-867212.html
29-07-2020||State||Belagavi hosp awaits reports of volunteers to start clinical trials||Jeevan Rekha Hospital, Belagavi, is awaiting Covid-19 and other test reports of volunteers who have come forward for clinical trials of Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, in association with Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for treatment of the pandemic. Central Lab of ICMR, New Delhi, has been testing blood and swab samples of the volunteers and receipt of reports, clinical trials could commence. Jeevan Rekha is among the 12 hospitals shortlisted by ICMR for clinical trials of Covaxin in the country and the only such facility from the state. It has shortlisted about 200 volunteers in the age group of 18 to 57 years for the trials and their health tests are being conducted before the vaccine is administered to them. Hospital director Dr Amit Bhate told DH that they have sent swab and blood samples of volunteers for the test to Central Laboratory of ICMR in New Delhi and are yet to receivereports. He said after the availability of reports, the decision on administering the vaccine to the volunteers will be taken. Volunteers to be selected for clinical trials should not have any health issues, like diabetes, blood pressure, other heart ailments and women should not be pregnant. Among the tests of volunteers, women have also been subjected to pregnancy tests,he added. Every day, samples of about 20 to 25 volunteers are being sent to New Delhi for the tests. “We expect the arrival of the reports from Wednesday. Those, who fulfil the criteria required for clinical trials, will be administered the vaccine as per the protocols of ICMR,” he stated. Dr Bhate said there are wrong notions about the clinical trials and many are enquiring to become volunteers. “We are informing that those, who are healthy and do not have any comorbidities, will be selected for trials and those with any health issues cannot become volunteers for clinical trials of the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/belagavi-hosp-awaits-reports-of-volunteers-to-start-clinical-trials-867214.html
29-07-2020||State||Govt goes all out to ensure safety of students||The state government on Wednesday submitted details of Standard Operating Procedures (SoP) to Karnataka High Court and based on which the court gave green signal to the government to conduct the test. Over 1.94 lakh students are appearing for the test. Of which over 40 candidates are Covid-19 positive.  Speaking to media persons, higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, “We have made all necessary arrangements for safe conduct of test in the interest of students.” He added, “The invigilators will supervise the examination in two shifts and follow the norms laid out in the Standard Operating Procedure. Food arrangements will be made for the students who have tested positive for the virus. None of the infected students will be required to submit any documents, as per the high court direction.” He said that students, who are waiting for their Covid-19 test results, can write the examination at their originally allotted examination centre in separate rooms. Around 1,800 students are appearing from outside Karnataka while 30 registered from outside India. Students will have to undergo thermal screening, use sanitizers and wear mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-goes-all-out-to-ensure-safety-of-students-867232.html
29-07-2020||State||HC allows CET, tells state to facilitate test for Covid +ve||In a relief to the state government, Karnataka High Court on Wednesday gave a green signal to the conducting of Common Entrance Test-2020 scheduled on July 30 and 31. A division bench, comprising Justice Aravind Kumar and Justice M I Arun, refused to stay the May 13, 2020 notification of Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) announcing the dates.  This came after the state government submitted that 1,84,368 students have downloaded the hall tickets. It said the number indicates that a large number of students will be attending the examinations. To support the argument, the state said that though a first notification announcing the dates was issued on May 13, 2020, a second notification on May 18, 2020 facilitated the students to change the examination centres. Using this provision, 30,000 students have changed their examination centres. The state submitted that the entire state machinery was positive about conducting the examination. After a detailed hearing, the High Court directed the KIA and state authorities to provide transportation and other logistical support to students as well as their parents, wherever needed, including those staying in containment zones (CZ). The bench also directed the authorities not to prohibit the students from writing the examination, including Covid-19 positive students, for not producing medical certificate and a `risk consent certificate' as pre-requirement under the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Additional Advocate General (AAG) Dhyan Chinnappa said a detailed SOP was formulated for CET by the Department of Health and Family Welfare on July 18, 2020. The SOP has identified the students from outside the state as 'Business Travellers' and hence they are exempted from home quarantine. A total of 497 examination centres have been set up across the state. As per the SOP, Covid-19 positive students will be kept in a separate room and every examination centre has identified one special room for students who have symptoms of any kind of illness. "The number of students coming from outside Karnataka is 1,881 and 1,300 students are coming to Bengaluru and the rest to the other parts of the state. The centres have been set up in border districts to enable students to travel the least distance. The other centres are Belagavi, Ballari, Bidar, Vijayapura and Mangaluru to accommodate students from outside the state,’’ the state argued. The AAG also said that the students coming from CZs have been permitted to come out of the CZ along with their parents by showing their hall tickets.   On Tuesday, the court had asked the state government to reconsider the dates in view of drastic change in Covid-19 situation.  Appearing for one of the petitioners, senior counsel A S Ponnanna argued that the state government has diluted the conditions in the SOP related to CZs issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. He also said that other competitive entrance tests, such as NEET and JEE, also were postponed in view of the drastic change in the situation owing to Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hc-allows-cet-tells-state-to-facilitate-test-for-covid-ve-867233.html
29-07-2020||State||Daily wager's son plucks 10 gold medals in MA Kannada||A son of a daily-wager couple from Channagiri taluk in Davangere district hogged the limelight with 10 gold medals in MA Kannada at the 30th convocation of Kuvempu University at Jnana Sahyadri campus at Shankarghatta on Wednesday.  Ranganath, the son of Hunya and Gangibai Naik from Maravanji Tanda, had faced a lot of hardships in his life due to financial constraints, but that didn’t deter him from pursuing his post-graduation in Kannada literature and excelling at that. Ranganath did M.A in Kannada in 2019.  Speaking to DH, Ranganath credited his success to his love for the subject, hard work and professors Shivananda Kelaginamani, Rajiv Naik and Ravi Naik. He is pursuing research at Kuvempu University and wants to take up the teaching profession. Golden girls M R Sanchita of Mudigere in Chikkamagaluru district has bagged 5 gold medals in MSc in Biotechnology. A daughter of coffee planter M B Ramesh and Radha, Sanchita is doing her internship at Biocon Limited Company. She aims to do research in pharmacy in the future.  Bibi Ruqayyah, the daughter of Mohamad Firoz and Zakaria Banu, bagged 5 gold medals in BCom. As many as 23,732 students were given degree certificates in the event. A total of 119 golden medals were presented to 67 students.  The printed convocation address of Central University of Odisha Chancellor P V Krishna Bhat was read on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/daily-wagers-son-plucks-10-gold-medals-in-ma-kannada-867235.html
29-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||B S Yediyurappa to continue as chief minister for next 3 years, says Laxman Savadi||Amidst buzz that the BJP top brass may effect a change of leadership in Karnataka, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman S Savadi on Wednesday clarified that B S Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister for the next three year. Savadi, who is camping in Delhi for the past three days, told reporters that "there is no truth in media reports that I am trying to become the chief minister." "This news initially spread in social media after I met Karnataka Governor. There is no truth in it," he said. "I came to the national capital to meet union ministers about my department's work. Yediyurappa is my leader. He will continue as the chief minister for remaining three years," Savadi, who also holds Transport Department portfolio said. Savadi also said he met BJP National President J P Nadda on Tuesday. Terming it as a courtesy call he said, "I have explained achievements of state government headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa which completed one year. Nadda also told me to convey his greetings to Chief Minister Yediyurappa." He also said he tried to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah yesterday but he couldn't meet as Shah was busy. Savadi, who has a strong backing of BJP National General Secretary B L Santosh, has been meeting the party leaders in Delhi for past three days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/b-s-yediyurappa-to-continue-as-chief-minister-for-next-3-years-says-laxman-savadi-867030.html
29-07-2020||West||100-year-old Maharashtra woman recovers from Covid-19, discharged||A 100-year-old woman has recovered from COVID-19 disease and discharged from a facility here in Maharashtra, civic officials said on Tuesday. The woman and four other members of her family were admitted in the COVID facility in Vimannagar area on July 20 after they tested positive for the infection. "When brought to the facility, the woman did not have any symptoms and her oxygen saturation was also normal. But after a couple of days, her oxygen level dropped and doctors decided to shift her to a bigger hospital. "However, due to some reasons, the said hospital did not get her admitted. She was brought back to the CCC (COVID Care Centre) facility, where she received required treatment and her condition stabilised," said Dr Ramchandra Hankare, Chief Health Officer, PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation). Her condition became critical at one point of time, but doctors constantly kept her under observation and provided all the required treatment. The centenarian woman was discharged earlier in the day along with four members of her family, including her son-in-law, said Madhav Jagtap, deputy commissioner, PMC. An official said no repeat test was conducted of the woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/100-year-old-maharashtra-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-866855.html
29-07-2020||West||57% have had Covid-19 in Mumbai slums: Survey||The slum colonies of India’s financial capital, Mumbai, seem at the forefront of achieving herd immunity against the Covid-19 pandemic. A fortnight-long study revealed that 57 percent of slum population and 16 percent of non-slum residents in three of the 24 civic wards of Mumbai had developed antibodies. The indications came from a survey undertaken by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), NITI Aayog and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). As part of the survey – ‘Serological Surveillance for SARS-CoV2 Infection’, in the first round 6,936 samples out of the estimated 8,870 were collected from the three wards. While the F/North ward covered Matunga, Sion and Wadala areas,  M/West included Chembur and Tilak Nagar, and R/North comprised  Dahisar and Mandapeshwar. The Anti-SARS-CoV2-IgG antibodies were detected using Chemiluminescence assay (CLIA) by Abbott. The study was carried out – in the first fortnight of July - in collaboration with Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute, ATE Chandra Foundation and IDFC Institute – and it is the largest cross-sectional survey in India. “Systematically conducted studies estimate around 57 per cent sero-prevalence in slums and 16 per cent in non-slums, on an average in the three wards, that were studied,” the BMC said in a press statement issued on Tuesday night. "First round report of sero surveillance for Covid-19 infection in Mumbai indicates that 57% of the slum population and 16 percent of the non-slum population developed antibodies. The infection fatality rate is very low. Are we closer to herd immunity?," BMC's additional municipal commissioner Ashwini Bhide tweeted. The BMC press statement said: "The results will be valuable to learn more about herd immunity. Although it is still unclear what level of prevalence leads to herd immunity, findings indicate at least in slums this could be attained sooner or later, if the immunity exists and persists in a significant proportion of the population." The results suggest that asymptomatic infections are likely to be a high proportion of all infections. The higher prevalence in slums could be possibly because of population density and common facilities like toilets and water points. The BMC said relatively low prevalence in non-slums suggests that social distancing and related precautions such as wearing masks have been effective in slowing the infection spread. As on July 28, Mumbai has recorded 1,10,846 COVID-19 cases and 6,184 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/57-have-had-covid-19-in-mumbai-slums-survey-866894.html
29-07-2020||West||IMD warns of heavy rains in Mumbai, Thane, Dhule, Sangli||The India Meteorological Department on Tuesday issued a warning of heavy rains at isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar and some other districts. The forecast said Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Dhule, Nandurbar, Ahmednagar, Satara and Sangli could receive heavy rain in isolated places and some ghat regions. However, the situation would ease in the following days with light to moderate rains, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/imd-warns-of-heavy-rains-in-mumbai-thane-dhule-sangli-866899.html
29-07-2020||West||Covid-19 tests cross 20 lakh-mark in Maharashtra||On March 9, when the first two Covid-19 cases were reported, there were just two labs - the National Institute of Virology, Pune and Kasturba Hospital, Mumbai. As on date, Maharashtra has 100 laboratories where samples are being tested. The western state accounts for the lion's share of the positive coronavirus cases and deaths, however, it leads the board as far as the numbers of tests are concerned. From the beginning of the crisis itself, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had asked the testing facilities to be increased manifold. Accordingly, Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope and Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh ensured that the number of test centres is scaled up. According to data compiled by the government, the total tests conducted so far is 20,21,437. Of these, 10,21,062 are conducted in government labs, while 10,00,375 are conducted in private labs. Among the entire tests, 4,07,877 (20.18 percent) tests turned positive, while 16,13,437 (79.82 percent) tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-tests-cross-20-lakh-mark-in-maharashtra-867004.html
29-07-2020||West||Armless Palghar student to get financial aid for education||The staff of the Palghar district administration has decided to financially support a physically-challenged student, who has cleared Class XII exam of the Maharashtra Board, till he completes his graduation, an official said on Wednesday. The student, Kalpesh Doda (18), a resident of Kallale village in the district, was born without arms. He has scored 68 percent marks in the HSC exam, the results of which were announced recently. He comes from a poor financial background, he said. District Collector Dr Kailas Shinde on Tuesday visited Doda's house in the village and congratulated him on his performance in the exam. "The collector announced that as a social responsibility, the entire staff of the district collectorate has decided to foot the educational and other expenses of the boy till he completes his graduation," Palghar tehsildar Sunil Shinde said. The collector handed over a cheque of Rs 20,000 to the student as a goodwill gesture, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/armless-palghar-student-to-get-financial-aid-for-education-867033.html
29-07-2020||West||Elgar Parishad case: Delhi University professor Hany Babu gets NIA custody till Aug 4||A special court here on Wednesday remanded in NIA custody till August 4 associate professor Hany Babu of Delhi University (DU), who was arrested in connection with the Bhima Koregaon Elgar Parishad case. Hany Babu Musaliyarveettil Tharayil, 54, associate professor in the Department of English, was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday in connection with the case. He was produced before a special NIA court in Mumbai on Wednesday. The probe agency told the court that the accused was arrested for his alleged involvement in the case. It submitted that the accused had links with the CPI (Maoist) party. During the investigation, various letters were recovered from the seized electronic articles, which indicated his involvement in the case, the NIA said. The lawyer, who appeared on behalf of the accused, submitted that Hany Babu was being interrogated by the NIA for the last four to five days, and hence his further custody was not required. Special court judge, A T Wankhede, after perusing the document on record, found that the allegations made against the accused are of serious nature. The court then remanded him in seven days of NIA custody. The case relates to an Elgar Parishad event of December 31, 2017, organised by the Kabir Kala Manchat Shaniwarwada in Pune, where alleged provocative speeches were made, promoting enmity between various caste groups and leading to violence resulting in loss of life and property and statewide agitation in Maharashtra. The Pune police filed a charge sheet and a supplementary charge sheet in the case on November 15, 2018 and February 21, 2019 respectively. The NIA took up the investigation of the case on January 24 this year and arrested Anand Teltumbde and Gautam Navlakha on April 14. During further investigation, it was revealed that Hany Babu was propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology and was a "co-conspirator" with the other arrested accused, the NIA has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-delhi-university-professor-hany-babu-gets-nia-custody-till-aug-4-867062.html
29-07-2020||West||Maharashtra SSC results announced, over 95% students pass||Over 95 percent of students passed the Maharashtra Secondary School Certificate (SSC- Class 10) examination, the results of which were announced on Wednesday. Total 95.30 percent students passed the SSC exam, in which girls outshone boys, chairman of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, Shakuntala Kale, said. The pass percentage of girls was 96.91, while that of boys was 93.90 percent, she said. As many as 15,84,264 students had registered for the examination. Of them, 15,75,103 had appeared and 15,01,105 cleared the exam held in March this year. Among various state divisions, Konkan secured the highest pass percentage of 98.77 per cent, while Aurangabad division recorded the lowest pass percentage of 92 percent, Kale said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ssc-results-announced-over-95-students-pass-867064.html
29-07-2020||West||Maharashtra: Doctor stabbed by son of dead Covid-19 patient||A doctor was allegedly assaulted on Wednesday by the son of a Covid-19 patient who died at a hospital in Latur city in Maharashtra. The incident took place around 7 am at Alpha Superspeciality Hospital here, the police said. The 35-year-old assailant -- name not disclosed -- was a resident of Udgir, the police said. His 60-year-old mother had been admitted to the hospital on July 25 after she tested positive for coronavirus, said a police officer. The woman, who was also suffering from co-morbidities --existing chronic ailments -- died early Wednesday morning. When Dr Dinesh Varma, who had earlier spoken to her relatives about her serious condition, arrived at the hospital, her son and three other relatives had a heated argument with him over the woman's death. The son suddenly picked up a sharp weapon and stabbed Varma in the chest, neck and on the hand, the official said. Varma, who was seriously injured, was admitted to another hospital and was undergoing treatment. The assailant was arrested soon, the police official said. The local branch of the Indian Medical Association condemned the incident and announced that Out Patient Departments (OPDs) in the district would remain closed for a day in protest. It demanded round-the-clock police protection to doctors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-doctor-stabbed-by-son-of-dead-covid-19-patient-867167.html
29-07-2020||West||With 9,211 new cases, Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 4 lakh-mark||The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra on Wednesday crossed the 4 lakh-mark and reached 4,00,651 with addition of 9,211 new patients, state Health department said. The number of fatalities mounted by 298, including 60 in Mumbai, to 14,463, Health Minster Rajesh Tope said. A total of 7,478 patients were discharged in the day, taking the number of recovered cases in the state to 2,39,755. Maharashtra now has 1,46,129 active cases. A total of 20,16,234 people have been tested so far in the state, the department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-9211-new-cases-maharashtra-covid-19-tally-crosses-4-lakh-mark-867170.html
29-07-2020||West||Devendra Fadnavis urges Maharashtra govt to stop Covid-19 antigen tests||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday appealed to the Maharashtra government to do away with rapid antigen tests to detect Covid-19 cases and rely only on RT-PCR tests, which he said are known for maximum accuracy. In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also said the previous experience of rapid antigen tests in Mumbai was not good. He stated 65 percent results of the antigen tests conducted in two Mumbai-based laboratories between July 18 and 21 had come out negative, while the same suspects tested positive for the infection in their RT-PCR tests. Tamil Nadu also had a similar experience with rapid antigen tests, the former chief minister said. "Instead of antigen tests, the state government should prioritise RT-PCR tests for better accuracy," Fadnavis said. In its letter to the state government, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has highlighted that Maharashtra has high capacity for conducting RT-PCR tests, he said. The state-run laboratories can test 35,900 samples a day, while the capacity of private such facilities is to conduct 20,040 tests a day, he said. "While the testing capacity in Mumbai alone is 12,210, the current average of tests done in the state capital so far is 5,800," he said. When state-run facilities have a high testing capacity, why were citizens were forced to go to private hospitals and spend money for tests? Fadnavis asked. He also demanded that the state government release daily figures of antigen tests and PT-PCR separately for better transparency. The number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra on Wednesday crossed the 4 lakh-mark and reached 4,00,651, as per the state Health department. A total of 20,16,234 people have been tested so far in the state, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/devendra-fadnavis-urges-maharashtra-govt-to-stop-covid-19-antigen-tests-867173.html
