30-07-2020||First Edit||EIA draft: A case of fence eating the crop||The draft has exempted a number of activities which would be detrimental to environment from the EIA. It has also provided for legitimisation of violations of regulations by post-facto approvals. Environmental clearance will not be needed for coal mining and seismic surveys for oil and methane gas. Public consultations are not needed for these and a number of other projects. The rules and procedures for construction of roads and highways or for laying pipelines inside national parks and sanctuaries may become simpler. Strangely, the draft allows violation of rules to be reported only by the government or by developers, not by the public. All this can weaken the environmental protection regime and safeguards which have been put in place over the years. Consultations with the public or protests by people have led to the abandonment of environmentally harmful projects or their harmful features in the past. This democratic right should not be curbed. While ill-informed or ill-motivated campaigns have sometimes hit development plans and projects, they are no reason for weakening the entire system of environmental safeguards. The Covid-19 calamity is itself a reminder of the need to protect the environment and to ensure that there is the right balance between environment and development. The draft would seem to shift that balance too far in favour of ‘development’.  There have also been reports of attempts to suppress protests against the EIA draft. The websites of some protesting organisations were blocked and the Delhi Police issued notices to some students under the draconian Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for sending e-mails to the ministry seeking reconsideration of the EIA proposals, though the notices were withdrawn later. The draft needs to be reviewed and its retrograde provisions dropped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/eia-draft-a-case-of-fence-eating-the-crop-867237.html
30-07-2020||In Perspective||What did the Magistrate do in Sathankulam?||“The fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but in ourselves, that we are underlings.” The brutal custodial killing of the father and son in Tamil Nadu recently has not only triggered a public outcry against the police, which continues to function under colonial law and with a colonial mindset, but has also raised serious questions about our judicial magistracy and its functional attitude towards custody jurisprudence. The family of the deceased has accused the judicial magistrate of sending the victims into custody without applying his mind. Many people, including civil society organisations, believe and rightly so that P Jayaraj and his son J Bennix would have been alive today, had the Sathankulam judicial magistrate applied his judicious mind and not acted mechanically. Many human rights organisations have requested the Chief Justice of Madras High Court to order an inquiry against the judicial magistrate so that the truth could be unveiled.   Magistrates, being the courts of first resort and judiciary’s first interface with the citizen, have a high responsibility to protectively guard personal liberty and rights. Investigation, which is known for police excesses, forms the foundation for the superstructure of the trial. Any faux pas in investigations and an unjust prosecution can only be effectively checked by magisterial vigil, right from lodging of FIR, arrest, bail, remand and later even after filing of police report. Magisterial check on police power, especially on remand applications, therefore is the pressing desideratum.  Magistrates have a statutory duty to examine the accused when they are produced before them by the police. If they discharge their functions judiciously, they can make a visible contribution to minimising the incidents of custodial violence. This is a fundamental requirement to strengthen the rule of law and constitutionalism in the country. Judicial magistrates have to act independently, without any outside influence. Time and again, the Supreme Court has issued guidelines for judicial magistrates regarding the custody jurisprudence, particularly grant or refusal of remand. In Manubhai Ratilal Patel vs State of Gujarat, (2012), the Supreme Court has clearly stated the nature and significance of magisterial function in the following words: The act of directing remand of an accused is fundamentally a judicial function. The Magistrate does not act in executive capacity while ordering the detention of an accused. While exercising this judicial act, it is obligatory on the part of the Magistrate to satisfy himself whether the materials placed before him justify such a remand or, to put it differently, whether there exist reasonable grounds to commit the accused to custody and extend his remand. The purpose of remand as postulated under Section 167 is that investigation cannot be completed within 24 hours. It enables the Magistrate to see that the remand is really necessary. This requires the investigating agency to send the case diary along with the remand report so that the Magistrate can appreciate the factual scenario and apply his mind whether there is a warrant for police remand or justification for judicial remand or there is no need for any remand at all. It is obligatory on the part of the Magistrate to apply his mind and not to pass an order of remand automatically or in a mechanical manner. Earlier in case of Madhu Limaye, the Supreme Court stated that once it is shown that the arrests made by the police officers were illegal, it is necessary for the State to establish that at the stage of remand, the Magistrate directed detention in jail custody after applying his mind to all relevant matters. The Supreme Court once again affirmed these principles recently in Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar (2014) and ruled that the decision to detain and remand is not a mechanical act and a remand order has to be a reasoned order and should reflect due application of mind. Unfortunately, the judicial magistrates are least concerned about these directions and take them very casually. In a deeply entrenched but no less despicable practice, Magistrates customarily grant remand for 15 days, that being the maximum permissible at a time without reflecting independently on whether it is required or not. Each day’s remand ought to be justified in order to be granted. This casual approach of magistracy encourages the police to take the judicial system for granted. Magistrates, to borrow the expression of Lord Atkin, ought to avoid being more executive-minded than the executive and consider the question of bail/release by special order on the first production suo motu. The fact that magistracy is overburdened with work cannot be an alibi. Such mechanical extension of remand mirrors apathy and culpable triviality to values of personal liberty and human rights. Jayaraj and Bennix were booked for violation of lockdown norms as they had kept their shop open just for a while beyond the prescribed time. They had not committed any heinous offence that could justify remand or custody. It was a petty offence and the Magistrate had full power to release them on bail, having seen the health condition of the accused. But magistracy failed to discharge its judicial function judiciously. The law vests sufficient powers in the magistrate to check arbitrary arrests and other police excesses to facilitate a more perceptive probe into the discovery of truth at various stages of an investigation and even after filing of the police report. Therefore, the Dharma of magistracy lies in the smart use of these legal provisions in order to uphold constitutional values and rule of law. He ought not to hesitate in recalibrating the scales of justice and even be caringly discriminating to rectify systemic asymmetries and disadvantages towards the weaker accused, witness or the complainant. The High Court of Madras should ensure a fair investigation into the role of the Judicial Magistrate in this matter and if he is found guilty of negligence or willful non-compliance of the Supreme Court directions, he should be held responsible for judicial impropriety and misconduct. The responsibility of the magistracy needs to be fixed at the earliest.    (Singh is Professor of Law, National Law University, Odisha; Malik is a Supreme Court advocate)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/what-did-the-magistrate-do-in-sathankulam-867239.html
30-07-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka: Gulbarga Rural MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Gulbarga Rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimud is the new entrant to a growing list of legislators from the state to test positive for Covid-19. The BJP legislator took to Facebook to reveal that he had tested positive for novel coronavirus. “I had subjected myself to Covid-19 test after I developed symptoms. My report came back positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. I am doing well and undergoing treatment at my home. People who were in touch with me in the last one week should subject themselves to Covid test and undergo home quarantine.” Mattimud is the 7th elected representative from Kalyana Karnataka to contract the virus. Forest minister Anand Singh (Vijayanagar) Rajkumar Patil Telkur (Sedam), Ajay Singh (Jewargi), P T Parameshwar Naik (Huvina Hadagali), Rajashekar Patil (Humnabad), his MLC-brother Chandrashekar Patil and Bidar MP Bhagwanth Khuba had earlier tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-gulbarga-rural-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-867654.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||CET examination commences at 29 centres||CET examinations commenced under the shadow of Covid-19 in Belagavi and Chikkodi educational districts on Thursday. The examination commenced on the lines of the SSLC examination. Social distancing was maintained in the examination halls. Students were subjected to health screening that incuded body temperature check on their arrival. A maximum of 24 students were allocated seats in each room in the examination held at 29 examination centres in Belagavi and Chikkodi educational districts. Deputy Director of Pre-university Education Department, Belagavi Rajshekhar Pattanshetti informed that students who had been victims of Covid-19 were allocated separate room to appear for the examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cet-examination-commences-at-29-centres-867358.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada gets new Deputy Commissioner||Dr K V Rajendra took charge as the 130th Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada on Thursday. Outgoing DC Sindhu B Rupesh handed over the charge to Dr Rajendra. Rajendra was the CEO of Belagavi Zilla Panchayat prior to this posting. He also served in Dakshina Kannada earlier as Assistant Commissioner of Puttur in 2015. Speaking on the occasion, he said “I have just taken charge. All issues bothering the district will be discussed with the officials. I have knowledge of Dakshina Kannada as I had worked here. The issues will be studied and action will be taken accordingly.” Further on Covid-19, he said Dakshina Kannada and Belagavi districts shared borders with neighbouring states. In addition, more international travellers were arriving at the district. The officials have a challenge in tackling Covid-19 situation. The good work started by my predecessor will be continued. I will initiate measures to improve wherever required.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-dakshina-kannada-gets-new-deputy-commissioner-867431.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Juvenile python rescued from glove box of car in Mangaluru||A juvenile python was rescued from the glove box of a car, at an apartment in Ladyhill in Mangaluru. Tauseef Ahmed, founder and rescuer at Mr Rescuer said the rescued juvenile has been released in its natural habitat, much to the relief of the residents, who panicked thinking it was a viper. Anand, a resident of Ladyhill, while searching for his bank passbook, opened the glove box of the car that was parked in the apartment basement and was shocked to find a snake. He immediately locked the car and called for help. Tauseef who rushed to the spot found the juvenile python sleeping under the documents. The snake was rescued and released in its natural habitat. The car owner had said that he had not used the car for three days and the snake might have entered. Tauseef said snakes move around in the monsoon in search of warm places. It is important to keep the car clean. "One should not leave any food inside the car. There are chances of rats and snakes entering inside the car through the bonnet,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/juvenile-python-rescued-from-glove-box-of-car-in-mangaluru-867489.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru: Zilla Panchayat member tests Covid-19 positive||A Zilla Panchayat member tested positive for Covid-19, on Thursday. According to the authorities, the woman is under isolation and the authorities are tracing her primary and secondary contacts. A few contacts are being traced and kept under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-zilla-panchayat-member-tests-covid-19-positive-867496.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gulbarga rural MLA tests positive for Covid-19||Gulbarga Rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimud joined the list of high profile politicians from the state to tested positive for Covid-19. He has been isolated at his residence and is undergoing treatment. Basavaraj is the seventh elected representative from Kalyana Karnataka region to contract the virus. Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur and Jewargi MLA Dr Ajay Singh from Kalaburagi district, Humnabad MLA Rajashekhar Patil and his MLC brother and Bidar MP Bhagwanth Khuba, and Forest Minister Anand Singh from this region had earlier tested positive for novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gulbarga-rural-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-867540.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Non-Covid-19 patient dies of bed unavailability||A 38-year-old non Covid-19 patient died on Thursday as the staff of Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) refused to admit due to unavailability of beds. The deceased has been identified as Ayub Patil, a resident of the city. He was taken to Gims as he was suffering from fever and breathlessness. "Though Ayub tested negative for Covid-19 during the antigen rapid test, he was not admitted to the hospital. Admission turned away we took a round of some hospitals of the city", the family members alleged. They also took the body to the deputy commissioner's to express their ire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/non-covid-19-patient-dies-of-bed-unavailability-867623.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Seven Covid-19 infected students appear for CET||Seven Covid-19 infected students appeared for the Common Entrance Test (CET) on Thursday. While five of them attended Biology, five plus two students appeared for Mathematics. Deputy Director for Pre-University (DDPU) Geetha said, "All arrangements were made for the infected students and they wrote the examination at Covid Centres. While four students took the examination at Covid Centre at Mandakalli, one each wrote the exams at the centres in Hunsur, Periyapatna and HD Kote." A doctor was deputed to supervise them and an ambulance was arranged to ferry them, she said. According to the DDPU, out of 10,304 registered students, 7,880 appeared for Biology and 9,276 appeared for Mathematics. While 2,424 skipped Biology, 1,028 students missed Mathematics paper. Physics and Chemistry papers will be held on Friday. The examination was held in 26 centres, 20 in the city and six in taluks headquarters. The centres were sanitised and the students were screened before entering the centre. Sanitiser and masks were distributed to students. All safety measures were in place and the examination was largely peaceful, she said. Students expressed hope of securing good marks and also thanked the district administration for creating a safe environment. S Nikitha, a student of Deeksha, said that the paper was overall easy, although a few questions appeared outside NCERT textbooks. Despite the Covid pandemic, it was a comfortable experience as the authorities had made all possible arrangements to ensure safety of the students. Tutors in Deeksha helped for preparing, with several mock tests, she said. S Rudresh said, "Biology paper was easy. I could finish the paper on time. Before entering the hall, we were sanitised. We all had to wear masks. Strict social distancing was maintained inside the venue as well. It felt good to write the exam after such a long wait.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-seven-covid-19-infected-students-appear-for-cet-867629.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Siddaramaiah condemns BJP, questions moral right||Opposition leader Siddaramaiah has criticised BJP and questioned the moral right of the BJP and its government. Siddaramaiah was interacting with journalists in a session organised by Mysuru District Journalist Association (MDJA) here, on Thursday. He said that the party is playing immoral politics amidst Covid-19 pandemic. “The BJP has claimed of giving cooperation to non-BJP state governments, in managing Covid-19. But, the party is indulged in dirty politics, by trouncing non-BJP governments. The BJP managed to topple Madhya Pradesh Congress government. Is this cooperation?” Siddaramaiah questioned. “Congress supports to eradicate Covid and is always for pro-people activities. But, we will never compromise with irregularities. The state government should provide details of the expenditure on Covid," he demanded. Siddaramaiah said, "No leader raised voice against the government till July 2. We raised our voice and levelled allegations of corruption, based on available documents. Let the government prove the allegations as false, by providing documents. BJP leaders must stop lying." Siddaramaiah said, "Karnataka is facing one or the other issue since B S Yediyurappa assumed office as Chief Minister. From the last one year, the state has witnessed severe floods, drought and now Covid. Maharashtra and Delhi governments are successful in tackling Covid, but Karnataka government has failed." The state government has totally failed to manage the crisis and to protect the welfare of the people. The government has not implemented any new pro-people programme, but discontinued pro-people programmes introduced by the Congress government. It is the only achievement of the BJP government. The government has failed to keep the promises made before going for the 2018 Assembly election, Siddaramaiah said. He also criticised the government on the amendment to the Acts. With the amendments, the BJP government has proved that it is anti-farmer, poor, labourers and deprived class. The government amended the Acts through ordinance and thus, the BJP is for industrialists, capitalists and rich people. The government has surrendered to the real estate mafia, Siddaramaiah alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-condemns-bjp-questions-moral-right-867630.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Physical Edu, Sports Sciences for UG students in UoM||With an intention to promote fitness, health, recreation and wellness of young minds, the University of Mysore (UoM) is all set to introduce a new subject ‘Physical Education and Sports Sciences’ for undergraduate students. The varsity’s Academic Council and Syndicate have approved the syllabus and the new subsidiary subject will be introduced from the academic year 2020-21, said P Krishnaiah, Director Physical Education, UoM, adding that the Vice Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar took the initiative to introduce the new subject. All UG colleges must include the subject, with the existing courses. The subject will be taught either in the third or fourth semester. A physical education teacher will conduct the classes and the colleges can hire guest faculty, with a masters degree in Physical Education. B Sadashiva Bhat, member of the committee, constituted by the UoM to prepare the syllabus, said that the lifestyle of today’s generation has changed tremendously. "The fitness level of the individuals has gone down badly and job aspirants in the Police department and others undergo special fitness training. There is a lot of opportunity to consider Physical Education and Sports Science in the choice-based credit system (CBCS). The subject can promote fitness, health, recreation and wellness among youths," according to Bhat. Bhat, also principal and Physical Education director of Basudev Somani College, said, "Physical education is an integral part of the total education process and it is multi-dimensional in nature, because of its inter-disciplinary characteristics. It’s a field of endeavour that has the overall development of an individual, including physical, mental, emotional, and social fitness, as its aim." The subject emphasises fitness for the development of motor skills and health-related fitness. The knowledge and practical experience will enable the students to assess and further develop abilities in basic movement skills, sports skills, motor fitness and physical fitness based on their body weight management, fitness and sports. In addition, the subject is related to the overall health, wellness and diseases, including nutrition, weight control, stress and psychological constructs, related to motivation and exercise. Physical Education not only allows students to work individually and as teams in theory and practical components, but also assists them in developing critical life skills, said Bhat. As a curricular inclusion, it provides students of varying abilities with experience that facilitate physical, social, intellectual, cultural, spiritual and emotional growth. Skills related to decision-making, problem solving and critical thinking and the use of sports technology are included, Bhat added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/physical-edu-sports-sciences-for-ug-students-in-uom-867631.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Father alleges daughter ends life due to sexual harassment in Karnataka||Father of a 16-year-old deceased girl in Chincholi lodged a complaint with the police that his daughter ended her life by consuming poison as she was unable to bear sexual harassment by her friend. "He kidnapped her in his motorbike and harassed her sexually. Hence, my daughter ended her life", he stated in the complaint. A case has been filed under Pocso Act. The police are interrogating three accused in this connection, said the sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/father-alleges-daughter-ends-life-due-to-sexual-harassment-in-karnataka-867663.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||War of words breaks out between H D Kumarasamy, Karnataka Congress||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Wednesday stepped up his attack on the Congress, saying it bowed before his party and made him chief minister of the coalition government in Karnataka and did "back-seat driving" as the two erstwhile allies were locked in a war of words. After the state Congress unit took to twitter and slammed him over his criticism of the party's nation-wide "Save Democracy campaign", Kumaraswamy tweeted back saying the party's stalwarts, "unable to question him directly", have attacked him through the social media and ran away. A day after the former chief minister criticisd the nation-wide "Save Democracy" campaign against the BJP in the backdrop of the Rajasthan political crisis, the state Congress asked whether its 'morality' suited him when he shared power in the state. In a series of tweets, it also wondered whether he had become "so innocent" that he did not know the difference between MLAs voluntarily joining a ruling party and "Operation Lotus" to pull down elected governments. "Congress' morality was good for you (Kumaraswamy) when you allied with the party, sat on the Chief Minister's seat and ran the administration. Is the question of morality arising when there is no power? What is the morality of your party that has become invisible and irrelevant when the state is in difficulty," Congress tweeted. On Tuesday, Kumaraswamy had alleged "Congress is another name for horse trading" and it was an expert in dividing political parties, purchasing MLAs and in fact, the term horse trading in politics came to be in use because of it. For the sake of one Rajya Sabha seat, the party's government in Karnataka had purchased eight JD(S) MLAs in 2016, he charged. On Wednesday, he tweeted: "Despite us declining, the Congress high command and state leaders bowing before JD(S) made me sit on the Chief Minister's chair. Then you (Congress) did back seat driving by putting pressure. Where was your morality then?" he asked. Stating that he had to follow "Raja Dharma" by waiving farmers' loan, the JD(S) leader claimed, that's the reason he followed "Chanakya neeti" in the interest of the people despite knowing Congress' game plan then. "There was no personal gains from it." He also alleged that leaders in the Congress had halted the chances of veteran party leader Mallikarjun Kharge from becoming the Chief Minister after 2018 assembly polls, pointing out that JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda had suggested Kharge's name to that party's leaders. Hitting back at Congress' jibe of JD(S) being invisible and irrelevant, Kumaraswamy asked, "in how many states Congress is relevant?.... is there any leader who can respond to this?" Rejecting Congress' defence that JD(S) MLAs had voluntarily joined it after cross voting in 2016 Rajya Sabha polls, he said, "there was no major difference in admitting other party MLAs in the disguise of 'voluntarily joining' and BJP's operations to bring down any government." This is the fresh exchange of barbs between Congress and JD(S) after they parted ways following the collapse of coalition government headed by Kumaraswamy in July last year. Leaders of both parties have earlier too indulged in verbal spat holding each other responsible for the fall of coalition government and helping BJP to come to power in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/war-of-words-breaks-out-between-h-d-kumarasamy-karnataka-congress-867279.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||DH Toon: Rumblings of leadership change in Karnataka, state to get new CM?||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa — who has his back to the wall battling the pandemic — is in the centre of political chatter as attempts are said to be underway to dethrone him, with his ambitious deputy Laxman Savadi camping in Delhi to meet the BJP top brass to set the ball rolling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dh-toon-rumblings-of-leadership-change-in-karnataka-state-to-get-new-cm-867293.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||DC’s transfer: Kota and Khader engage in war of words on Twitter||District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the issue of transfer of DK deputy commissioner is being politicised by former minister and Mangalore MLA U T Khader unnecessarily. The transfer is a routine administrative procedure. It is a tragedy that Khader has been politicising the issue, he added. Khader in his tweet had flayed the DC’s transfer and said, “Instead of punishing the accused (he was referring to the miscreants who had issued a death threat to the DC), the DC is being punished.” On the other hand, Kota in his tweet had expressed displeasure at Khader for taking part in the final rites of the Covid-19 victims by violating the guidelines. Further, Kota said, “The government had sought the support of the opposition in controlling the Covid-19 situation. Unfortunately, in the name of the last rites of Covid-19 victims, many are violating the rules and gaining publicity for it.” The district in-charge minister also said, “Khader should take back his words that no action was initiated against those who issued a death threat to DC on social media. Already, the police have filed a suo motu case. To protect the accused, it is not the ‘tenure of Khader’ in the district.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dc-s-transfer-kota-and-khader-engage-in-war-of-words-on-twitter-867437.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Back from Delhi visit, Laxman Savadi meets CM B S Yediyurappa||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi on Thursday on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday, after days of speculation over his visit to Delhi ahead of a Cabinet reshuffle in the state. Speaking to reporters, Savadi said that it was a routine visit and he informed Yediyurappa about his meetings with the Union Ministers. "The CM enquired about the proposals and whether they would be accepted," Savadi said. Dismissing speculation of him lobbying for the chief ministerial berth as a media creation, Savadi said such news were not new for the 78-year old Yediyurappa. "Why will he take it seriously?" he said. On Cabinet expansion, he said there was no discussion yet neither in Bengaluru nor in Delhi. "Discussions will be held at the right time," the DyCM said, adding that CM and the party leadership will take a call on the issue. Savadi's visit to Delhi on Monday, by skipping the event held to mark one-year of BJP government in Karnataka had set several theories in motion - ranging from his removal from the Cabinet to his elevation as CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/back-from-delhi-visit-laxman-savadi-meets-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-867587.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Yogeeshwar invites Congress, JD(S) leaders to BJP, sparks slugfest||A fresh political row erupted on Thursday after BJP MLC C P Yogeeshwar invited Congress and JD(S) leaders to join the saffron party. To this, KPCC president D K Shivakumar hit back, saying Yogeeshwar had come to him less than a fortnight ago, wanting to join the Congress.  It started with Yogeeshwar saying that Shivakumar and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy were busy fighting with each other. "They put up a united front for the formation of the coalition government. Now, both leaders are busy fighting each other. They will keep patching up and fighting again. In the end, it is a loss for the party workers. I invite the leaders and workers of both parties to join BJP," he said.  He stated that Kumaraswamy was extending full support to the ruling BJP, which was also reciprocated from the ruling party. "Kumaraswamy's support to BJP could have stemmed from the fact that the DK brothers are trying to gain control of Ramanagar, which is a JD(S) stronghold. He is anxious about losing ground here and hence, he is making statements against Congress and going soft on BJP. Even from the ruling party's side, we're executing all the works requested for by Kumaraswamy, including transfer of officials. So much so that BJP workers are finding it difficult to get their work done," he said.  Taking exception to Yogeeshwar's allegations, Shivakumar said. "What has gotten into him? He met me recently asking if he could join Congress as BJP was considering to let go of Yediyurappa. I asked him to stay loyal to his party and sent him back," Shivakumar said. Not getting personal work done: HDK In a retort, Kumaraswamy said he was not getting any personal work done from the government. "It is the government's duty to ensure that development work is undertaken in all constituencies. By stating that I am seeking government's aid to get work done in my constituency, Yogeeshwar is admitting that I am working hard for my constituency. I am happy that he has recognised my efforts," Kumaraswamy quipped. Five MLCs take oath Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty on Thursday administered the oath of office to five MLCs nominated by the Governor on Thursday. The MLCs are C P Yogeeshwar, Bharathi Shetty, A H Vishwanath, Talawar Sabanna and Shantaram Budna Siddi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-yogeeshwar-invites-congress-jds-leaders-to-bjp-sparks-slugfest-867638.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||B S Yediyurappa is CM for remaining tenure: Kateel||BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel reiterated that B S Yediyurappa will continue as chief minister for the remaining three years' tenure. Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Kateel said, "The government is safe and there is no dissent among the leaders. Neither the legislators nor the ministers have sought a change of guard. The government is doing well". Commenting on social media posts projecting deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi as the next CM, Kateel said, Savadi's followers have expressed their opinion, using the social media. It is not the party's decision. Savadi was in Delhi to meet Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on official work, he said. To a question on Cabinet expansion, he said, that is left to the discretion of the Chief Minister. Speaking about the allegations by Opposition leader Siddaramaiah against the CM and government, Kateel said, "Yediyurappa is in the hearts of the people. He has been successful in tackling several issues like drought, flood, by-election, and Covid. He has implemented several programmes during the Covid situation. There is no need for Siddaramaiah to laud the works of Yediyurappa. He is being worshipped by the people".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/b-s-yediyurappa-is-cm-for-remaining-tenure-kateel-867639.html
30-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Dy CM Laxman Savadi meets B S Yediyurappa, apprises him of meetings with Union ministers||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi called on Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday, after days of speculation over his visit to Delhi ahead of a Cabinet reshuffle in thestate. Speaking to reporters, Savadi said that it was a routine visit and that he informed Yediyurappa about his meetings with the union ministers. “The CM enquired about the proposals and whether they would be accepted,” Savadi said. Dismissing speculation of him lobbying for the chief ministerial post as a media creation, Savadi said such news were not new for the 78-year-old Yediyurappa. “Why will he take it seriously?” he said. On Cabinet expansion, he said there was no discussion yet neither in Bengaluru nor in Delhi. “Discussions will be held at the right time,” the DyCM said, adding that the CM and the party leadership will take a call on the issue. Savadi’s visit to Delhi on Monday, by skipping the event held to mark the one-year fete of the BJP government in Karnataka, had set off several theories - ranging from his removal from the Cabinet to his elevation as CM.  CM may visit Delhi soon Yediyurappa is likely to fly to Delhi before August 15 to finalise Cabinet expansion.  Apart from the inclusion of MLCs M T B Nagaraj, A H Vishwanath and R Shankar - who have been assured berths by the CM - MLAs such as Umesh Katti and Arvind Limbavali are mounting pressure to be inducted in the Cabinet. Several names, including the likes of DyCM and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle and Mines and Geology Minister C C Patil, are said to be in the list incumbents who might be dropped.  The date for Yediyurappa’s visit to Delhi is yet to be finalised, even as sources hint at a cabinet expansion in the second week of August. The CM had a tough time finalising appointments with the high command during the last Cabinet expansion. He had to wait for two months, after rebel legislators of the Congress-JD(S) coalition won the bypolls in December 2019, to induct them in the Cabinet as the high command dragged its feet over the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-dy-cm-laxman-savadi-meets-b-s-yediyurappa-apprises-him-of-meetings-with-union-ministers-867683.html
30-07-2020||Main Article||A perennial challenge||The Iran question has come once again to haunt Indian foreign policy, as it does every few years. There is an emerging chorus of voices pondering how New Delhi is losing Iran. We are being told how critical Iran is to Indian strategic interests, and we are reminded of that highly misused concept – “civilisational ties”. Then, we are warned that India is neglecting its ties with Iran, all because of that ubiquitous American pressure. We are told how gargantuan a loss it is and how the entire edifice of Indian foreign policy might just crumble because we have failed to nurture our relationship with Iran. Indeed, no country other than Iran has had such an outsized impact on Indian foreign policy discourse over the last two decades. The latest shock in India-Iran ties have come from revelations that India may have been ousted from a project involving the construction of a railway line from Chabahar port to Zahedan. This railway line project was part of the trilateral pact signed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Tehran in 2016, with Afghanistan and Iran committing India to build an alternative trade route to Afghanistan and Central Asia. Indian Railways Construction Ltd (IRCON) was to take this project forward with a financing of $1.6 billion. Early this year, the development of Farzad-B gas field, which was supposed to be a joint venture between Iran and ONGC Videsh (OVL), was also awarded to a domestic entity. Tehran decided that “in the immediate future, Iran would develop the field on its own and would like to involve India appropriately at a later stage.”  These decisions have led to an intense debate in India about the failure of Indian foreign policy. But foreign policy is not something that a nation engages in with itself. By its very definition, it is a process that involves more than one entity. It is iterative, as much a function of what a nation does to and with others, as it is of what other entities do to that country. So, while India may have its agenda and priorities, Iran’s own might be completely different. And that has been the case for long. For Tehran, India is important but not critical in shaping its foreign policy worldview. It is the US that is the primary actor that shapes Tehran’s foreign policy calculus. While critics in India often argue that New Delhi has ignored Tehran under US pressure, it is exactly the other way round. It is Tehran that has not only ignored New Delhi but has even tried to actively derail Indo-Iranian ties by interfering in Indian domestic matters. For Iranian diplomacy, managing American sanctions has been the primary task. As the Trump administration has tightened the screws on Iran and Europe has failed to keep its promises, Tehran gravitating towards China may just be a natural response. After all, China’s profile in Iran has been growing over decades and it will only continue to expand in the future; Iran has little alternative. The $400-billion, 25-year economic and security partnership that Iran is reportedly finalising with China exemplifies the frustration of an Iranian regime that had looked initially to the West for a reopening. What is important here is to examine India’s role in Iran in a more dispassionate manner. If there is one country that has managed to deliver tangible results in Iran at a time of tightening American sanctions, it is India. For instance, despite initial delays, the first phase of the Chabahar port project was inaugurated in December 2017 and since then, India has been running the Shahid Beheshti terminal. This port is indeed a strategic investment by India as it opens up an alternative route to Afghanistan and the wider Central Asian region, bypassing Pakistan. And New Delhi has managed to firewall this key investment, including the railway line project, from American sanctions. India could do this not because of some vacuous idea about Indo-Iranian solidarity but because there was a clear strategic rationale behind the project which led to an Indo-Iranian convergence. For all the hyperventilation in India, Iran remains sensitive to Indian contribution. And so even as controversy swelled in India, Iran’s railway minister was quick to underline that Iran and India are “determined to continue” cooperation on the railway line, putting the blame on “vested interests” behind reports that Iran excluded India from the Chabahar-Zahedan railway.  It remains a fact that US sanctions continue to cast a long shadow over Iranian engagement with the wider world, including India. Tehran’s insistence on engaging with the Khatam al-Anbiya Constructions, which belongs to Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), for the project—and New Delhi’s reluctance to expose its own entities to US sanctions—seems to have resulted in the current deadlock. Even China has been extremely cautious in getting in the crosshairs of American sanctions. While the China-Iran deal is the flavour of the month, it is not readily evident how much of the $400 billion promised by Beijing will fructify and will be delivered without strings. Just as Iran’s foreign policy meta frame is its adversarial engagement with the US, India has much higher stakes in its ties with the US as well as in its engagement with the wider Arab world—these cannot be ignored in dealing with Iran. While the Iranian leadership has been increasingly vocal on domestic Indian matters in recent months, whether it is India’s decision to revoke Article 370 or the communal riots earlier this year over a new citizenship law, there has been a major shift in the way major powers in the Arab world have been engaging India more pragmatically. It is for Tehran to recognise that New Delhi has partners in the region and beyond with whom the stakes are much higher. Yet, India has been consistent in its support for Iran and its ambitions. Managing bilateral relations is not India’s responsibility alone. If Iran decides that India is dispensable, New Delhi can also easily make a similar calculation. There will be costs for India, for sure, but the costs for Iran might be much higher. (The writer is Director, Studies & Head, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-perennial-challenge-867238.html
30-07-2020||Mysuru||Mysuru police arrests two people over murder case||||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-police-arrests-two-people-over-murder-case-867360.html
30-07-2020||National||New Education Policy: CPI-M, DUTA oppose even as government calls it 'momentous'||A political slugfest kicked in as soon as the government announced the New Education Policy approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday, a reform that came after a gap of 34 long years. "Watershed moment", "momentous", and "transformative restructuring" were some of the words used by the government to describe NEP, the first major change in education policy after 34 years but the Opposition CPI-M saw red in the move  calling it a “unilateral” drive that will “destroy” Indian education. There was also some criticism on social media regarding alleged “Sanskrit imposition”. Delhi University Teachers Association, slammed the move,  calling upon the government to ‘desist from bulldozing the NEP and harm education’. Raising red flags, its President Rajib Ray and Secretary Rajinder Singh said the DUTA took serious exception to the government adopting the New Education Policy amidst a pandemic. “’The DUTA's opposition to the draft NEP rested, among other things, on its proposal to dismember universities and handover every higher educational institution to a Board of Governors, which is to enjoy all powers hitherto vested in the governing authorities of colleges and universities as well as the UGC and other regulating bodies,” it said. Each BoG is to enjoy unfettered powers on matters of setting educational goals, starting and closing academic programmes,  determining number of students to be admitted and number of teachers to be appointed,  students' fees,  teachers' qualifications, mode of recruitment, salary structure, promotions and continuation / termination, the DUTA said adding that the changes being brought through NEP, will have “grave consequences for our country” and advised the government to discuss with the academia. Education has always been a contentious subject in the country and had raised eyebrows in the past many times – when Murali Manohar Joshi was HRD government in Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 1998, as well as when the Congress veteran Arjun Singh held the portfolio in 2004 in UPA I. While Joshi had faced huge resistance from states many of which were Congress-ruled when his ministry had attempted to Hindutva ideas in curriculum, Singh had stirred a hornet’s nest trying to play OBC quota politics in public educational institutions Incidentally HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhariyal ‘Nishank” had also consulted Joshi as well as his predecessor Smriti Irani on NEP. Ruing that Parliament has been completely bypassed in the process of forming the policy, the CPI-M denounced the NEP as well as the Union Cabinet’s decision to rename the Ministry of Human Resource Development. Flagging the federal aspect related to the subject of education which is in the Concurrent List in the Constitution, it called NEP as a “gross violation” and accused the Centre of unilaterally bypassing all the objections and opposition recorded by various state governments. The CPI-M alleged that NEP seeks greater centralisation, communalisation and commercialisation of Indian education. Notwithstanding the criticism, the Modi government was in an overdrive on NEP and vied with each other in sharing details of the NEP, the Prime Minister said framing of NEP 2020 will be remembered as a “shining example of participative governance”. While Modi said the new policy based on pillars of access equity, equality, affordability and accountability will transform India into a vibrant knowledge hub, BJP chief J P Nadda hailed it as “momentous”. Home Minister Amit Shah said NEP ensures that quality education will reach students of every section of the society, while former HRD minister Smriti Irani called it a “transformative restructuring of Education” encompassing every stage of learning from early education to higher education with greater emphasis on technology and digitisation. Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said “India gets the much-needed education reforms after a gap of 34 years”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-cpi-m-duta-oppose-even-as-government-calls-it-momentous-867246.html
30-07-2020||National||Coding, vocational skills to be imparted from Class 6 under new education policy||Students of Class 6 will get to learn coding as part of school curricula in a bid to impart 21st-century skills, the New Education Policy released on Wednesday said. School Education Secretary Anita Karwal said students of class 6 onwards will be taught coding in schools as a part of 21st-century skills. Through coding, students can learn to create games and applications for multiple platforms such as Android, Windows and iOS. Besides coding, the policy also makes integration of vocational education from class 6 with internships for students with carpenters, laundry persons or craftspersons to learn vocational skills. “There will be bagless days when one can go for vocational studies for ten days,” said Karwal. She said the aim of the education policy was to ensure that every child comes out of school adept in at least one skill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coding-vocational-skills-to-be-imparted-from-class-6-under-new-education-policy-867247.html
30-07-2020||National||New education policy stresses on fee transparency||The National Education Policy seeks to create 3.5 crore new seats in higher education institutions and evolve common norms for fee fixation for public and private institutions within a broad regulatory framework. The policy also states that all higher education institutions will have to transparently disclose fees charged by them and any profits have to be ploughed back in the sector. The policy treats all educational institutions as a ‘not-for-profit’ entity with clear guidelines for transparent public disclosure of all financial matters. It also asks standalone higher education institutions and professional education institutions to evolve into multi-disciplinary institutions. The policy also called for a single higher education regulator called the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI). However, medical and legal colleges will be kept out of its purview.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-stresses-on-fee-transparency-867253.html
30-07-2020||National||Common norms of fee fixation for private, public higher education institutions||The National Education Policy seeks to create 3.5 crore new seats in higher education institutions and evolve common norms for fee fixation for public and private institutions within a broad regulatory framework. The policy also states that all higher education institutions will have to transparently disclose fees charged by them and any profits have to be ploughed back in the sector. The policy treats all educational institutions as a ‘not for profit’ entity with clear guidelines for transparent public disclosure of all financial matters. It also asks standalone higher education institutions and professional education institutions to evolve into multi-disciplinary institutions. The policy also called for a single higher education regulator called Higher Education Commission of India (HECI). However, medical and legal colleges will be kept out of its purview. The policy aims to increase the Gross Enrolment Ratio in higher education including vocational education from 26.3 per cent in 2018 to 50 per cent by 2035 and add 3.5 crore new seats to Higher Education Institutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/common-norms-of-fee-fixation-for-private-public-higher-education-institutions-867261.html
30-07-2020||National||Navy warship first to welcome new Rafale jets over Indian Ocean||An Indian Navy warship was the first to welcome the five new Rafale aircraft of the Indian Air Force as they flew home from the Al Dhafra air base in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. “Arrow Leader, Welcome to the Indian Ocean”, the INS Kolkata, a stealth destroyer of the Indian Navy, radioed Group Captain Harkirat Singh as he and other IAF pilots flew the new aircraft towards India. “Many Thanks, most reassuring to have an Indian (Navy) warship guarding seas,” replied Singh, the Commanding Officer of the IAF’s 17 Golden Arrows squadron, which was resurrected a few months back to induct the new warbirds. "May you touch the sky with glory. Happy Landings,” the INS Kolkata wished him and the other IAF pilots. Singh, who was awarded Shaurya Chakra in 2009, returned the compliments, wishing the Indian Navy warship “Fair Winds” and “Happy Hunting”.   The five Rafale aircraft flew nearly 8500 kilometres from France to India. After taking off from Bordeaux-Merignac airbase in France on Monday, they first covered about 5800 kilometres in seven-and-a-half hours to reach the Al Dhafra air base near Abu Dhabi in United Arab Emirates (UAE). The warbirds took off again at 11-00 a.m. on Wednesday and flew over 2700 kilometres before landing at their new home in India – the IAF station at Ambala in Haryana. A tanker of the French Air Force provided air-to-air refuelling during their flight from France to UAE on Monday. An IAF tanker did the same for them on Wednesday. Two Su-30 MKIs of the IAF escorted the five new fighter aircraft as they entered the airspace of India. “Welcome home 'Golden Arrows'. Blue skies always,” the IAF posted on Twitter, along with a video of the seven aircrafts flying above a sea of cloud. And, as they landed at the IAF base in Ambala about an hour later, they were accorded the traditional water cannon salute. In view of China’s belligerence along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh, the IAF decided to immediately make the new aircraft deployable and hence opted to arm them with French HAMMER (Highly Agile and Manoeuvrable Munition Extended Range) air-to-ground precision-guided weapon systems, instead of the Israeli Spice 2000 bombs. Unlike the HAMMERs, which were already used on Rafale fighter jets in Libya, Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria, the Spice 2000 would have required trials and the process of integration would have needed more time. The HAMMERs have a range of 60-70 kilometers. The IAF will also arm its new aircraft with Meteor, Scalp and MICA missiles.  The first set of the five aircraft included three single-seaters and two twin-seaters. The delivery of the first 10 aircraft, including the five flying from France to India, has been completed on schedule. Five more Rafale aircraft, which were already delivered, stayed back in France for further training of the IAF pilots and support personnel. The delivery of all the 36 aircraft will be completed on schedule by the end of 2021, the Embassy of India in Paris stated in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navy-warship-first-to-welcome-new-rafale-jets-over-indian-ocean-867262.html
30-07-2020||National||Rajasthan assembly session from August 14||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra accepted Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s revised proposal to convene the session of the assembly from August 14, capping the nearly week-long face-off over the issue. A Raj Bhawan communique said the Governor has issued verbal orders to make adequate preparations to prevent the spread of Covid-19 during the session Facing a rebellion by his sacked Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and at least 18 Congress MLAs, Gehlot has been demanding a session of the assembly to show that he enjoys majority, but has stopped short from mentioning it in his communique to the Governor. Earlier, the Governor had returned the state government’s proposal to convene a session of the assembly for the third time, prompting the Congress to describe him as “killer of democracy”. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, at a function at the state Congress office, revealed that he had received a “second love letter” from the Governor, turning down his third request to convene a session of the assembly. “Kalraj Ji, you are going to earn the infamy of a #KILLER_OF_DEMOCRACY. Loktantra ki Yamraj, BJP ke Pyare Kalraj (the lord of death of democracy, BJP favourite Kalraj),” Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha said. Gehlot had called on Mishra on Wednesday afternoon and agreed to revise the proposal after addressing the Governor’s concerns of a 21-day notice. The only concession the Governor appears to have made is to count is the 21-day period from the day he received the first recommendation from the Rajasthan cabinet to convene the assembly session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-assembly-session-from-august-14-867263.html
30-07-2020||National||CBI books 4 Navy officers for generating fake bills of Rs 6.76 crore and making 'pecuniary gain'||The CBI has booked four Navy officers and 14 others for allegedly generating fake bills of Rs 6.76 crore on the pretext of supplying IT hardware to the Western Naval Command, officials said Wednesday. The agency has booked Captain Atul Kulkarni, Commanders Mandar Godbole and R P Sharma, and Petty Officer LOG (F&A) Kuldeep Singh Baghel for allegedly preparing seven fraudulent bills of Rs 6.76 crore, it said. "All these accused naval officers abused their official position to defraud the naval authorities and rob the exchequer of public money which led to pecuniary gain to themselves," according to the CBI FIR. The CBI has also carried out searches in this connection, sources said. The bills were allegedly raised between January and March in 2016 at the Western Naval Command in Mumbai for the supply of information technology and networking related hardware. "None of the items mentioned in the bills were supplied to HQ, WNC (Western Naval Command). No documents pertaining to preparation of the bills i.e. approvals, financial sanction, purchase orders, receipt vouchers, etc. are available at HQ," the CBI FIR said. The agency has also booked four officials of the Controller of Defence Accounts, besides private companies Star Network, ACME Networks, Cyberspace Infovision and Moksh Infosys.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-books-4-navy-officers-for-generating-fake-bills-of-rs-676-crore-and-making-pecuniary-gain-867273.html
30-07-2020||National||Hong Kong not allowing flights from India; discussions on with Kuwait on bilateral air bubble: Govt||Hong Kong is not allowing flights from India and the Centre is in discussions with the Kuwait government to establish a bilateral air bubble, said the Civil Aviation Ministry on Wednesday.  Earlier this month, India had formed bilateral air bubbles with countries such as the UAE, the US, Germany and France. Under the pact whereby an air bubble is established between two countries, the airlines of both are allowed to operate special international charter flights during certain restrictions. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 amid the coronavirus pandemic. "Civil aviation access is a matter of reciprocal bilateral arrangements. As far as flights to & from Hong Kong are concerned, the problem is that HK is not allowing flights from certain places of origin including India. @airindiain has applied for permission with the authorities," the ministry said on Twitter. Significant progress has been made on aviation access between India and Kuwait, it noted in another tweet. "Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation and President of Kuwait's Directorate General of Civil Aviation had useful & productive discussions on several issues related with bilateral access between our two countries which will be resolved soon," the ministry said. Since May 6, international charter flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave-without-pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus pandemic. The airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid-19 domestic flights. However, occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around just 50-60 per cent since May 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hong-kong-not-allowing-flights-from-india-discussions-on-with-kuwait-on-bilateral-air-bubble-govt-867285.html
30-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 30||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 15 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 15,97,271 as of July 30 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information): 35,537 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 9,17,568 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-30-867292.html
30-07-2020||National||Analysis | IAF gets Rafale boost||The Rafale has landed, five years after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a visit to France, announced an ‘emergency purchase’ of 36 Rafale combat aircraft from Dassault Aviation for a whopping Rs 58,000 crore, and kicked off a controversy. The formal process to acquire a new generation of combat aircraft began in 2007 under the UPA government and the IAF and the government even selected the Rafale, after six competing combat aircraft were put through extensive tests by the IAF. But the deal — then for 126 aircraft — could not be signed under the UPA government as complex negotiations dragged on. Modi’s decision in 2015 changed the terms of the deal and was controversial because the Cabinet Committee on Security had not at the time approved those changes. The decision was rationalised post-facto.     What Modi’s deal kept from the UPA-era negotiations was the set of “13 India-specific enhancements” that the IAF had sought to the Rafale fighters. These enhancements, and the weapons complement, make the IAF’s Rafale among the most sophisticated and capable combat aircraft in the world. The enhancements include advanced avionics and radars and electronic warfare capabilities. For instance, the Israeli helmet-mounted sight (HMS), which is to be integrated into the Rafale, displays the battlefield situation on the pilot’s helmet and allows him to fire at a target just by looking in its direction. The Rafale will carry some of the most advanced stand-off missiles and precision bombs – the Meteor and Scalp cruise missiles and the Hammer precision-guided munitions. A Rafale with Scalp missiles can threaten most of Pakistan while staying in Indian air space. That the aircraft have arrived in the midst of ongoing border tensions with China is significant. While the first Rafale squadron will be based at Ambala, the second will be based at Hasimara. With a combat radius of about 1,850 km, the IAF can quickly deploy these fighters against both Pakistan and China from these airbases. The IAF’s Rafale will also be able to start up in extreme cold and in high-altitude locations such as Leh. The Chinese will think twice before aggravating the situation. As the Rafale jets flew 7,000 km from France to India, with a stop-over in the UAE, the IAF put some of its capabilities on display. The jets were refuelled twice in mid-air, once by the French air force and once by IAF tanker aircraft. They also relayed near real-time video of the fighters flying in formation, flanked by two Su-30 MKIs, demonstrating the Rafale’s datalink capability. And when an Indian Navy ship in the Arabian Sea greeted the Rafale pilots, it was a demonstration of joint presence and power projection over the Indian Ocean Region.   The remaining Rafales will come in over the next 2-3 years. The IAF is still on the lookout for another 114 multi-role combat aircraft to maintain its squadron strength.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/analysis-iaf-gets-rafale-boost-867295.html
30-07-2020||National||India’s US envoy discusses trade, investment with Wisconsin governor||India’s US Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu has discussed trade and people-to-people relations with Wisconsin Governor Tony Evers, highlighting the investment opportunities in India for win-win outcomes. Sandhu, during a virtual meeting with Evers, discussed strategies to tap the potential in the agriculture, infrastructure and manufacturing sectors common to India and Wisconsin that would lead to win-win outcomes for both, the Indian Embassy here said in a statement on Wednesday. During the meeting, the Indian envoy briefed the governor about the initiatives India has taken in healthcare and education and discussed collaboration in these sectors. India and Wisconsin share a robust trade and investment relationship. The total trade between India and Wisconsin is over USD 1 billion. Many Indian companies in the IT, engineering services, medical equipment and manufacturing sectors have invested in the state. These companies have invested close to USD 185 million in Wisconsin, creating over 2,460 jobs, the embassy said, referring to the recent reports. These companies also add value to local economies and communities through their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Similarly, Wisconsin-based companies in the automobiles, electrical equipment, financial services and technology sectors have established a strong presence in India. They include Harley Davidson, Rockwell Automation Inc., ManPower Group among others. The Indian community has a vibrant presence in Wisconsin, which is also an important destination for Indian students. Close to 1,500 Indian students are studying in educational institutions in Wisconsin. India has a strong education connection with Wisconsin. The tradition of Indian studies started on the University of Wisconsin campus in the mid-1880s, when a Professorship of Sanskrit was established. Renowned bio-chemist Dr Hargobind Khorana received his Nobel Prize in 1968 for research he conducted at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he was on faculty. During the meeting, the Indian envoy underscored the need to revive and strengthen the university-to-university linkages between India and the US, including in the fields of research and development and bio-health. Sandhu and Evers agreed to further strengthen the multifaceted engagement between India and the state of Wisconsin, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-us-envoy-discusses-trade-investment-with-wisconsin-governor-867366.html
30-07-2020||National||Lord Ram's images to be displayed in Times Square to celebrate Ram Temple groundbreaking||Images of Lord Ram and 3D portraits of the grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya will be beamed across the giant billboards in the iconic Times Square here on August 5 to celebrate the temple’s groundbreaking ceremony, with organisers describing the commemoration as a one-of-a-kind and historic event. Prominent community leader and President of the American India Public Affairs Committee Jagdish Sewhani on Wednesday said that arrangements are being made to celebrate the historic moment in New York on August 5, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to lay the foundation stone for construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Sewhani told PTI that among the prominent billboards that are being leased for the occasion are the giant Nasdaq screen and the 17,000-square-foot wrap-around LED display screen, considered among the largest continuous exterior displays in the world and the highest-resolution exterior LED screen in Times Square. Beginning from 8 AM on AuguLost 5 till 10 PM, images of the words ‘Jai Shri Ram’ in Hindi and English, Lord Ram’s portraits and videos, 3D portraits of the temple’s design and architecture as well as pictures of the laying of the foundation stone by Modi will be displayed across several billboards, which are among the most striking and popular features of Times Square, one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world. Sewhani said that members of the Indian community will also gather at Times Square on August 5 to mark the celebration and distribute sweets. “This is not a once in a lifetime or a once in a century event. This is an event that comes once in the life of mankind. We had to give it a befitting celebration and what better place than the iconic Times Square to commemorate the ‘Ram Janma Bhoomi shilanyas’ (groundbreaking ceremony). “Under Prime Minister Modi, the construction of the Ram Temple is a dream come true for Hindus all over the world. Till six years back, we never thought that this day will come soon but due to Modi’s leadership, this day has come and we want to celebrate it in a befitting way,” he said, adding that on August 5, images of Lord Ram will flood Times Square. Sewhani said that the Times Square commemoration is being made possible with the help and support of the community and sponsors. Prime Minister Modi had announced the formation of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust in February. The Trust has invited Modi to lay the foundation stone of the grand Ram Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lord-rams-images-to-be-displayed-in-times-square-to-celebrate-ram-temple-groundbreaking-867393.html
30-07-2020||National||Ayodhya priest, 16 cops test positive for Covid-19 ahead of Bhoomi pujan||Amid preparations for the ground breaking ceremony of Ram Temple Bhoomi Pujan scheduled for August 5, a priest at the makeshift Ram Temple in Ayodhya and 16 PAC jawans, deployed inside the Ram Janmabhoomi Complex, tested positive for coronavirus, setting off alarm bells in the district administration. The priest Pradeep Das, who was the disciple of the chief priest Acharya Satyendra Das, used to perform 'puja' at the makeshift Ram Temple, according to the official sources. Along with Pradeep Das, as many as 16 jawans of the Provincial Arms Constabulary (PAC) also tested positive, sources said. ''All of them have been quarantined and the Ram Janmabhoomi Complex is being santised....we are taking all precautions,'' said a senior official in Ayodhya on Thursday. An office bearer of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which was overseeing the Ram Temple construction, said that there was nothing to be worried about as there were four priests, who along with the chief priest Satyendra Das, performed 'puja' and other rituals. He said that the entire complex is being sanitised. Though the big ceremony was slated for August 5, the rituals would start on August 3 itself. Prime minister Narendra Modi is likely to lay the foundation stone of the proposed Ram Temple at a grand ceremony in Ayodhya. The total number of coronavirus positive persons in Ayodhya currently stands at 1050.  Around 200 people, including senior BJP leaders like L.K.Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, and others are also likely to attend the ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-priest-16-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-ahead-of-bhoomi-pujan-867403.html
30-07-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi vacates Lodhi Estate bungalow||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra vacated the government bungalow 35, Lodhi Estate, allotted to her in Lutyen’s Bungalow Zone in Delhi on Thursday, and shifted to temporary accommodation in Gurugram. Priyanka was asked to vacate the bungalow on July 1 by the Modi government after it withdrew the Special Protection Group security cover last year. On Thursday, Priyanka handed over the keys of the bungalow to officials from the Central Public Works Department of the Urban Affairs Ministry along with a full inventory of privately installed fittings and fixtures. Priyanka, AICC General Secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, has taken a house in central Delhi on rent where she plans to shift after the renovations are done. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) officials accepted the keys to the bungalow after a full inspection establishing that the house was handed over in good condition, a statement by the AICC said. It said the CPWD officials have issued her a "vacation report” for the premises. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has also passed on to the CPWD and the Directorate of Estates, a full inventory of privately installed fittings, fixtures etc. She has paid all electricity, water and previous dues and is awaiting the final assessment for the license fee of the month of July from the Directorate of Estates due to her on the 31st July to close all accounts with reference to the allotment and subsequent cancellation of the lease of the government bungalow," the AICC statement said. "She will be residing in temporary accommodation until a more permanent accommodation in Delhi rented by her is ready for use," the statement added. The mention of privately installed fittings and fixtures in the bungalow assume significance against the backdrop of allegations against former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav when he had vacated his official accommodation in Lucknow. BJP had alleged that Yadav had taken away all the fixtures and fittings installed by the government while vacating official residence of the chief minister after losing the 2017 assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-vacates-lodhi-estate-bungalow-867430.html
30-07-2020||National||Ex-Samata Party chief Jaya Jaitly, two others awarded four-year jail term in defence corruption case||A Delhi court Thursday awarded four-year jail term to ex-Samata Party president Jaya Jaitly and two others for corruption in a 2000-01 case related to a purported defence deal, a lawyer said. Special CBI judge Virender Bhat also awarded four-year jail term to Jaitly's former party colleague Gopal Pacherwal and Major General (rtd) S.P. Murgai in the case, Murgai's advocate Vikram Panwar said. The court, in an in-camera proceeding, also imposed a fine of Rs one lakh each on all three convicts and directed them to surrender before it till 5 pm on Thursday itself.  The three were held guilty of corruption and criminal conspiracy in the purported purchase of hand-held thermal imagers. The case stemmed from 'Operation Westend' sting aired by news portal Tehelka in January 2001. While convicting the three accused, the court had held that they, along with Surender Kumar Surekha (who later turned approver), were party to a criminal conspiracy that took place between December 2000 and January 2001 at Delhi. The court observed that while Jaitly accepted illegal gratification of Rs 2 lakh from Mathew Samuel, a representative of fictional company Westend International, Murgai received Rs 20,000. The illegal gratification was accepted for obtaining supply orders for handheld thermal imagers from the army.  All the three accused -- Jaitly Pacherwal and Murgai -- were convicted of the offence of conspiracy (Section 120-B IPC read with Section 9 (Taking gratification, for the exercise of personal influence with public servant) of Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. The court held it is "proved beyond doubt that in the meeting in the hotel room on December 25, 2000, Surekha and Murgai assured their assistance to Samuel in procuring letter of evaluation for the product of his company from the Ministry of Defence and also to arrange a meeting between him and accused Jaya Jaitly who would provide political cover to them in this regard". It was agreed that Samuel would pay Rs one lakh each to Surekha and Murgai and Rs two lakh to Jaitly, the court noted. "Thus there had been an agreement between them to obtain the evaluation letter for the concerned product by illegal means i.e. by resort to corruption and personal influence upon the concerned officials," it said, adding that "accordingly, Pacherwal arranged the said meeting for December 28, 2000. He too was present in the said meeting in the room of Jaitly along with Surekha, Samuel and Murgai". The court further said: "In that meeting, which took place in the official residence of the then Union Minister for Defence, George Fernandes, Samuel was introduced to Jaitly as a businessman whose company intends to enter the market of defence procurement.  "Samuel offered the sum of Rs two lakh to Jaitly who instructed him to hand over the money to Pacherwal and accordingly, the money was received by accused Pacherwal knowing that it was bribe money. In lieu thereof, Jaitly assured Samuel that in case the product of his company is not considered, she would intervene by making a request to ''Sahib'' (purportedly the Defence Minister Mr George Fernandes) to send a word to the concerned officer in this regard". The court said both the accused, Pacherwal and Jaitly are also guilty of the offence of conspiracy. "Jaitly received a sum of Rs 2 lakhs through Pacherwal from Samuel as a motive/reward for agreeing to accomplish the task given to her i.e. to exert personal influence upon the concerned Ministers/ Officers in pushing the product of the company of Samuel into the Indian Army," it said. Similarly, Murgai received Rs 20,000 from Samuel on January 4, 2000, in lieu of the assistance rendered by him in arranging a meeting with Jaitly and securing a letter of evaluation for the product of the company of by exercise of personal influence upon the concerned officers, the court noted. "Therefore, both of them have committed offence envisaged under Section 9 of the PC Act," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-samata-party-chief-jaya-jaitly-two-others-awarded-four-year-jail-term-in-defence-corruption-case-867450.html
30-07-2020||National||AIIA to provide free testing, treatment to patients at Covid-19 health centre||The All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA) here has started providing free testing and treatment to patients in its Covid-19 Health Centre, the AYUSH ministry said on Thursday. AYUSH Minister Sripad Yesso Naik had visited the centre on July 28 to review the arrangements for treatment of Covid-19 patients.  During the visit, the minister announced that CHC will provide free testing and treatment facilities to all the patients, the AYUSH ministry said in a statement He also inaugurated the Intensive Care Unit of CHC which has been equipped with ventilator facility and all other standard provisions of ICU. AIIA has also been designated as Covid-19 testing centre (RT-PCR and Rapid antigen testing) by the Government of Delhi. A Covid Call Centre has been established at AIIA for handling public queries related to coronavirus telephonically. The Institute has an important role in preventive and curative health care and research areas under the aegis of Ministry of AYUSH. The minister also had praised prophylactic program 'AYURAKSHA' going on for 80,000 Delhi Police personnel under the directions of the Ministry of AYUSH. "Delhi Police being the frontline warriors of Covid -19 are being given AYURAKSHA kit for boosting the immunity and increasing quality of life against Covid 19. The AYURAKSHA kit contains Sanshamani Vati (prepared from Giloy), AYUSH kadha and Anu Taila for nasal application.   "Till date 1,58,454 Ayuraksha kits has been distributed in two phases with overall compliance of more than 90 per cent," the ministry said.  Feedback of the Delhi police personnel is being analysed with the help of the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). Positive feedback is being reported from the personnel with decreased anxiety levels, feeling of general well-being and reduction in minor symptoms like cold and cough.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiia-to-provide-free-testing-treatment-to-patients-at-covid-19-health-centre-867458.html
30-07-2020||National||Plan to increase COVID-19 tests to 10 lakh per day in 1-2 months: Harsh Vardhan||India is currently conducting around five lakh Covid-19 tests every day and the plan is to double the number in next one-two months, Union Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday. During the launch of a compendium on 'Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) Technologies for Covid-19 Mitigation', Vardhan, who is also the Union health minister, said the country's recovery rate of over 64 per cent is the best in the world while the fatality rate is nearly 2.2 per cent. He also hailed the scientific community for fighting alongside the medical community in the battle against the virus. The first Covid-19 case in India was detected on January 30 and it has been six months since then but the fight against the virus is still on. Despite the vastness of the country and its population, the war against the virus has been successfully taken up in every corner, Vardhan said. About ramping up health infrastructure in the country, the minister said six months ago India was importing ventilators, but it has now developed a capacity to manufacture three lakh ventilators.  "Most of the ventilators are being made within the country now. India is supplying hydroxychloroquine drug to nearly 150 countries," he said. "In April, we used to conduct 6,000 tests daily. Today, we are conducting over five lakh tests every day. Our plan is to take it to 10 lakh tests daily in 1-2 months and we are working towards it," Vardhan said. There was a time when exports related to Covid-19 were stopped to meet the requirements within the country. However, on Friday, in the Group of Ministers, there will be a presentation on what can be again opened up for the exports, he said. "This is possible because of the efforts undertaken by the country to ramp up production of critical equipment." Vardhan asserted that while global efforts are on to find a vaccine against the novel coronavirus, India is not behind. "We have been able to do detailed sequencing of over 1,000 coronavirus genomes," Vardhan said, adding that India was among the five nations who could isolate the virus. Referring to human trials of vaccine candidates being conducted by Bharat Biotech and Zydus Cadila, he said India is among the very few countries to reach that stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plan-to-increase-covid-19-tests-to-10-lakh-per-day-in-1-2-months-harsh-vardhan-867461.html
30-07-2020||National||In a first, daily coronavirus cases in India top 50,000||India on Thursday reported more than 50,000 daily coronavirus cases for the first time, driven by a surge in infections in rural areas at a time when the government is further easing curbs on movement and commerce. There were 52,123 new cases in the previous 24 hours, according to federal health data, taking the total number of infections to almost 1.6 million. Some 775 people died of COVID-related conditions over the same period, raising total deaths now just under 35,000 - low compared to the total number of cases, but showing little sign of slowing. While major cities like New Delhi and Mumbai have seen their cases ease, infections in rural areas are continuing to rise sharply, alarming experts who fear weak healthcare systems there will be unable to cope. India has the third highest number of infections globally, behind the United States and Brazil. It has nearly twenty times the number of cases as China, which has a similar-sized population and where the virus was first recorded late last year. Separately, New Delhi announced the third phase of easing restrictions that had been aimed at preventing the spread of the virus. An evening curfew will be lifted from August 1, and gyms will be allowed to open, but schools, cinemas, and bars will remain closed. The restrictions, which included an almost total shutdown of the country for nearly three months, have hurt small businesses in what is still predominantly a low-income country. Consumer demand is showing little sign of picking up ahead of India's festival season, where it usually rises significantly. "Every year we get orders for big idols, but this year due to Covid-19 restrictions we didn't get any," Alagar, an idol maker in the southern city of Madurai, told Reuters partner ANI on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-daily-coronavirus-cases-in-india-top-50000-867463.html
30-07-2020||National||4-yr BEd degree to be minimum qualification for teaching by 2030||The minimum degree qualification for teaching will be a 4-year integrated BEd course by 2030 and stringent action will be taken against "substandard" stand-alone teacher education institutions, according to the new National Education Policy (NEP). The new NEP approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday has outlined several reforms for both school education and higher education. The policy has also laid down a road map for how the demands for training teachers in tune with the policy requirements will be met. "By 2030, the minimum degree qualification for teaching will be a 4-year integrated BEd degree. Stringent action will be taken against substandard stand-alone Teacher Education Institutions (TEIs)," the policy document said. "A common National Professional Standards for Teachers (NPST) will be developed by the National Council for Teacher Education by 2022, in consultation with NCERT, SCERTs, teachers and expert organizations from across levels and regions. "The standards would cover the expected roles of the teacher at different levels of expertise and stage, and the competencies required for that stage. This could be adopted by states to determine all aspects of teacher career management, including tenure, professional development efforts, salary increases, promotions, and other recognitions. The professional standards will be reviewed and revised in 2030, and thereafter every ten years," it added. By 2021, a new and comprehensive National Curriculum Framework for Teacher Education will be formulated by the National Council of Teacher Education (NCTE) in consultation with the NCERT. "A National Mission for Mentoring will be established, with a large pool of outstanding senior and retired faculty who would be willing to provide short and long-term mentoring and professional support to university or college teachers," the police said. The new policy has also focused on transparency in the teacher recruitment process and needs for a mechanism for periodic performance review of teachers. "Teachers will be recruited through robust, transparent processes. Promotions will be merit-based, and a mechanism for multi-source periodic performance appraisals will be put in place. Progression paths to becoming educational administrators or teacher educators will be available for the teachers," the policy said. Teaching up to class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions except for law and medical colleges and common entrance tests for universities are part of the sweeping reforms in the new National Education Policy(NEP) unveiled on Wednesday. Replacing the 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 curricular structure corresponding to age groups 3-8, 8-11, 11-14 and 14-18 years respectively, scrapping M.Phil programmes and implementing common norms for private and public higher education institutions are among other salient features of the new policy. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986, and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-yr-bed-degree-to-be-minimum-qualification-for-teaching-by-2030-867467.html
30-07-2020||National||Two minor sisters gangraped in Balodabazar; 11 held||At least 11 persons, including two minor boys, have been apprehended in connection with the alleged rape and blackmail of two minor sisters in Balodabazar district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Thursday. The incident, which had taken place on May 31 in Palari police station area, came to light on Wednesday when one of the victims contacted the women's helpline to complain about the offence, the official said. The victims, aged 14 and 16, had stepped out for an outing with two male friends when eight accused intercepted them on the outskirts of a village, Balodabazar superintendent of police Indira Kalyan Elesela said. The accused grabbed the girls and thrashed their two friends, who fled the scene, the official said. The accused then took turns to rape the girls and filmed the act on their cellphones, he said, adding that the victims were threatened of dire consequences if they complained about the assault. On Wednesday, one of the victims informed the women's helpline about the rape and said they were being blackmailed by a man, who threatened to circulate a video of the sexual assault on social media, he said. The police have nabbed 11 persons in connection with the case, including the man who blackmailed the victims and the two male friends of the girls, the official said. While one of the accused is the victims' cousin, two minors involved in the crime have been detained, he said, adding that a case has been registered and probe is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-minor-sisters-gangraped-in-balodabazar-11-held-867499.html
30-07-2020||National||Android malware 'BlackRock' prowling in cyber space, may steal banking data: Advisory||The country’s cyber security agency has issued an alert against an Android malware, dubbed 'BlackRock', that has the potential to "steal" banking and other confidential data of an user. It can extract credentials and credit card information from over 300 apps such as email, e-commerce apps, social media apps, besides banking and financial apps, the CERT-In said in an advisory. The "attack campaign" of this 'Trojan' category virus is active globally, said the Computer Emergency Response Team of India (CERT-In), the national technology arm to combat cyberattacks and guard Indian cyber space. "It is reported that a new Android malware strain dubbed 'BlackRock' equipped with datastealing capabilities is attacking a wide range of Android applications. "The malware is developed using the source code of Xerxes banking malware which itself is a variant of LokiBot Android Trojan," the advisory said. The "noteworthy feature" of this malware is that its target list contains 337 applications including banking and financial applications, and also non-financial and well-known commonly used brand name apps on an Android device that focus on social, communication, networking and dating platforms, it said. "It can steal credentials and credit card information from over 300 plus apps like email clients, e-commerce apps, virtual currency, messaging or social media apps, entertainment apps, banking and financial apps etc," the advisory said. The advisory described the infection activity of the virus. "When the malware is launched on the victim's device, it hides its icon from app drawer and then masquerades itself as a fake Google update to request accessibility service privileges." "Once this privilege is granted, it becomes free to grant itself additional permissions allowing it to function further without interacting with user," it said. Threat operators can issue a number of commands for various operations such as logging keystrokes, spamming the victims' contact lists with text messages, setting the malware as the default SMS manager, pushing system notifications to the C2 (command and control) server, locking the victim in the device home screen and steal and hide notifications, send spam and steal SMS messages and many more such activities, the advisory said. The virus is deadly as it has the capability to "deflect" majority of anti-virus applications. "Another feature of this Android Trojan is making use of "Android work profiles" to control the compromised device without requiring complete admin rights and instead creating and attributing its own managed profile to gain admin privileges," it said. The federal cyber security agency suggested some counter-measures: do not download and install applications from untrusted sources and use reputed application market only; always review the app details, number of downloads, user reviews and check 'additional information' section before downloading an app from play store, use device encryption or encrypt external SD card; avoid using unsecured, unknown Wi-Fi networks among others. Also, when it comes to downloading banking apps one should use the official and verified version and users should make sure they have a strong AI-powered mobile antivirus installed to detect and block this kind of tricky malware, the advisory said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/android-malware-blackrock-prowling-in-cyber-space-may-steal-banking-data-advisory-867509.html
30-07-2020||National||Supreme Court dismisses PIL seeking CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's death||A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde rejected the plea made by Alka Priya, who contended the actor had done several good works and he was a good human being. The court said the Maharashtra police should be allowed to do its job. The probe should have nothing to do with if the person was good or bad. The court asked the petitioner to approach the Bombay High Court, if she had got anything concrete to show. The 34-year-old actor was found dead at his flat in Mumbai on June 14. The police claimed it to be case of suicide. His girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty sought a CBI probe into the matter. Rajput's father K K Singh has filed a complaint with the Patna police, holding Rhea responsible for his son's death. Meanwhile, the actress moved the Supreme Court for transferring the FIR from Patna to Mumbai. On Thursday, Singh also filed a caveat asking the court not pass any order on Rhea's plea without hearing him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-dismisses-pil-seeking-cbi-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-867515.html
30-07-2020||National||Supreme Court issues notice to states on plea to stop indiscriminate killings of wild animals||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to states of Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala and others on a PIL by BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty for stopping the practice of indiscriminate killings of wild animals by feeding them with poison laced foods and by bullets. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for Mohanty, to suggest softer options available for such purposes rath than the extreme steps. The court agreed to examine the matter along with a pending plea filed in related to death of a pregnant elephant after being fed with poison-filled pineapple. Mohanty, a Lok Sabha MP from Kendrapara Constituency from Odisha, has contended many state governments, including Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala have financially incentivised the killing of wild animals such as Neelgai, Rhesus Macaque and Wild Boars respectively. He sought proactive, constructive and scientific way to mitigate human-wildlife conflict instead of encouraging citizens of the country to kills such wild animals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-states-on-plea-to-stop-indiscriminate-killings-of-wild-animals-867529.html
30-07-2020||National||Maharashtra SSC exam: Boy scores 35 marks in all subjects||A 14-year-old boy from Beed has become the talk of the town after scoring 35 marks each in all the subjects in the Maharashtra Secondary School Certificate (SSC-Class 10) examination. Thirty-five is the minimum score required for passing in a subject in the SSC exam, the results of which were declared on Wednesday. Dhananjay Nakhate (14), student of Rameshwar Vidyalay at Umri in Majalgao tehsil of Beed, got 35 marks each in Marathi, Hindi, English, Mathematics, Science and Technology, and Social Sciences, his father Narayan Nakhate, a farm labourer, told PTI. "Dhananjay was regular in school and also tried to study whenever he got time. I work in the fields of others," he said. "Though Dhananjay has passed with just 35 per cent marks, I want him to study further. If he agrees for the same, I will try for his admission at a junior college in Majalgaon, which is 40 km away from Umri," he said. The boy's father further said the result came as a surprise to them but at the same time, they were happy he passed the exams. The villagers felicitated Dhananjay after his result came out, he said. The boy has two elder siblings - one of them cleared Class 12 while the other one left studies after Class 11, he added. Talking to PTI, Dhananjay said, "I was surprised with these numbers. I loved Hindi subject in school, but I wish to pursue higher studies in the science stream." The boy also said he helps his parents in their work whenever he gets a holiday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-ssc-exam-boy-scores-35-marks-in-all-subjects-867534.html
30-07-2020||National||Herd immunity in India may generate only in pockets, can be short-lived: Scientists||Herd immunity against Covid-19 in India is likely to be achieved only in pockets given the many socio-economic groups in the country and maybe short-lived rather than long-lasting, say scientists as sero-surveillance data from New Delhi and Mumbai raise hopes of ‘community protection’ from the disease. Herd immunity occurs when a large number of people, usually 70 to 90 per cent, become immune to a contagious disease after being infected to it. But there are many grey areas clouding the issue as far as the novel coronavirus is concerned with no consensus on when herding immunity sets in. “There are no clear numbers to say at what per cent of the infected population we will achieve herd immunity. Many epidemiologists believe that for SARS-CoV-2 it would be at around 60 per cent,” said Shahid Jameel, virologist and CEO of the Wellcome Trust/DBT India Alliance, a public charity that invests in building biomedical sciences and health research frameworks. He said different parts of the country will get closer to herd immunity at different times. A recent study published in the journal Science also found that herd immunity against Covid-19 could be achieved with fewer people being infected than previously estimated.  “Herd immunity is determined primarily by how many individuals in a population are immune to a particular infection. This results in indirect immunity to others in the population who never got exposed or infected,” explained virologist Upasana Ray. “Essentially, herd immunity means that the more the number of people get infected and develop immunity, the less chance there is for others in the population to get infected,” Ray, senior scientist at CSIR-IICB, Kolkata, told PTI. Immunologist Satyajit Rath agreed that it was not known at what point of the infection herd immunity would set in. “In India, with its multitude of socio-economic groupings, herd immunity may be generated in pockets rather than uniformly across the country, and maybe short-lived,”Rath, from New Delhi’s National Institute of Immunology, told PTI. “And therefore, the idea of naturally generated long-lasting herd immunity may not be of much practical policy relevance for India,” he added. The debate on herd immunity intensified following sero-surveys from New Delhi and Mumbai, two of India’s most populated cities where the number of Covid-19 cases surged before showing a declining trend. The sero-surveillance study in Mumbai revealed that 57 per cent of its slum population and 16 per cent of its non-slum residents in three civic wards had developed antibodies, indicating many people would already be affected by Covid-19 than the official tally suggests. “These results will be valuable to learn more about herd immunity," stated Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement. Delhi’s sero-survey showed that nearly 23 per cent of the people had exposure to the novel coronavirus, which has infected over 1.5 million people in the country and killed nearly 35,000. Sero-surveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity due to past infection or vaccination. An antibody is a large, Y-shaped protein produced mainly by plasma cells that are used by the immune system to neutralise pathogens like viruses. Rath noted that seropositivity does not necessarily indicate protective immunity, adding that there is some evidence the antibody responses may be short-lived, in which case many people may soon become 'susceptible' again. On the other hand,  he said, infected people also develop T cell immune responses which are not being measured in such surveys. T cells -- that play a central role in the immune response -- might be somewhat longer-lasting, but it is not known what their relationship with protection is. “So while my guess is that, broadly, once we get infected we are likely to be somewhat immune, at least for a few months, against re-infection, I think there are many unknowns and caveats and we should not be jumping to easy conclusions,” Rath added. Virologist Jameel said it would be a mistake to talk of herd immunity on a national scale.  “This is because conditions such as population density, virus prevalence and transmission of infection vary across the country and even within a state of a metro city,” Jameel told PTI. “For example, one cannot compare Mumbai city to Arunachal Pradesh. Even in Mumbai, one cannot compare a densely populated area such as Dharavi to South Mumbai. Herd immunity is best understood in terms of a community, locality or population group,” he explained. Herd immunity, Ray added, also depends on how Infectious the pathogen is. “So, if a virus is extremely infectious and less pathogenic, herd immunity will be achieved faster,” she said. Pathogenicity is the capacity of a virus to cause damage in a host, while infectivity is the ability of a pathogen to establish an infection. “So, the more the pathogenicity, the more time it will take for herd immunity. More the infectivity, and if it’s moderate to less pathogenic, the faster shall we achieve herd immunity,” Ray said. A Spanish study published in The Lancet journal in the first week of July cast doubts over the feasibility of herd immunity as a way of tackling the pandemic. The study of over 60,000 people estimated that around just five per cent of the Spanish population has developed antibodies. “Depending upon what model you believe in, we may or may not be close to herd immunity. Another factor to consider is that people are always moving about in and out of various zones or areas and between states,” Jameel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/herd-immunity-in-india-may-generate-only-in-pockets-can-be-short-lived-scientists-867535.html
30-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown||In today's episode, Tamil Nadu extended Covid-19 lockdown till August 31, Sushant Singh Rajput's father files a caveat in the Supreme Court, Slain gangster Vikas Dubey's close aide Gopal Saini surrenders before a special court and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa flags off the tunnel boring machine between the proposed Cantonment and Tannery Road metro stations.  Here is the top news of today, Thursday: July 30, 2020: Tamil Nadu government on Thursday extended the Covid-19 lockdown till August 31 in the state by giving only a few relaxations like allowing delivery of non-essential goods by e-commerce sites. The ban on public transport has been extended till August 31, while availing e-pass for inter-district and inter-state travel will continue to be in force. In a detailed statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said “complete lockdown” during which only essential services would work will continue to be in force on all Sundays during the month of August across the state.   In Chennai, restaurants will be allowed to open dine-in facilities at 50 per cent of its total capacity from 6 am to 7 pm from August 1, while vegetable shops, grocery outlets and standalone commercial establishments will be allowed to keep their shops open from 6 am to 7 pm. E-commerce sites have been allowed to begin delivery of non-essential goods from August 1, while the ban on public transport, temples in urban areas and towns, cinema halls, shopping malls, and gyms would continue till August 31. It also said companies or factories in Chennai that have been allowed to function with 50 per cent of staff can increase their strength to 75 per cent from August 1. Sushant Singh Rajput's father Thursday filed a caveat in the Supreme Court and sought a hearing before any order is passed on actor Rhea Chakraborty's plea. The caveat is a type of petition filed to pre-empt any ex-parte order on the plea filed by the opposite side. Rhea moved the Supreme Court Wednesday seeking transfer of an FIR from Patna to Mumbai and the stay on the investigation by the Bihar police on the allegations of Sushant Singh Rajput''s father that she abetted 'suicide' of his actor son. Slain gangster Vikas Dubey's close aide Gopal Saini, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on him, surrendered before a special court in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday, a government counsel said. The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) and Kanpur Police were on the lookout for Saini since July 3 after eight policemen, including Deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops, said an official. The much-delayed work on the underground section of the Namma Metro Phase 2 line began on Thursday with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa flagging off the tunnel boring machine (TBM) between the proposed Cantonment and Tannery Road metro stations. The Reach 6 line connects Gottigere in the south to Nagavara in the north. The work on the elevated section of the line, the full length of which is 21.25 km, began about two years ago. However, the 13.9 km tunnel section has been delayed by more than a year as Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) was forced to issue tenders again to break contractors' nexus in an overpricing of the bid. The work was finally awarded last year by dividing the underground section into four packages. Thursday's flag-off was for the 2.88 km tunnel work between Shivaji Nagar and Tannery Road stations. Two TBMs, Urja and Vindhya, will complete the work. The contractor Larsen and Toubro has provided the TBMs from the China-based company CRCHI. The consignment reached Bengaluru via Chennai in March but work could not begin due to the lockdown. The work on the line, originally planned to connect the Kempegowda International Airport is expected to be completed in 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-867547.html
30-07-2020||National||UGC defends in Supreme Court July 6 guidelines for final exams||The UGC has told the Supreme Court that the decision of some state governments including of Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel the final year examinations was contrary to its guidelines and would affect standard of higher education. This would also cause encroachment upon the legislative field reserved for it. The higher education regulator defended its July 6 guidelines for the varsities to complete final exams by September 30. The UGC's guidelines "adequately account for the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic because they provide sufficient time till September 30 to conduct final year examinations after following the protocols and procedures."  Secondly, it claimed the guidelines provided enough flexibility to universities and institutions to conduct such examinations online, offline (pen and paper) or blended (online and offline) mode. Further, it provided for an examination through a special chance for students who for whatsoever reasons are unable to appear for the examinations by September 30. The UGC filed a detailed affidavit in response to a batch of PILs questioning the move to hold the final examinations. The top court will consider the matter on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-defends-in-supreme-court-july-6-guidelines-for-final-exams-867551.html
30-07-2020||National||National wheelchair cricketer turns labourer in Covid-19 lockdown||A player for India's national wheelchair cricket team has been forced into work as a manual labourer as millions across the country are left jobless by the coronavirus pandemic. Rajendra Singh Dhami previously earned a living from prize money and sponsorship, supplemented by income from working as a coach, despite wheelchair cricket not being a professional game in India. But he and millions of others in the South Asian nation were forced to give up their livelihoods and return to their home villages when the country's cities went into lockdown. Under pressure to provide for his elderly parents and siblings, Dhami resorted to a job breaking rocks under a government scheme in his hometown of Raikot in northern Uttarakhand state that promises at least 100 days of manual labour a year. After his plight became national news, the Indian Olympic Association stepped in with a grant of 50,000 rupees ($670), while the state government awarded the struggling player the equivalent of $270. "I was about to fly out to Bangalore in March with a team that I was coaching but the lockdown happened and everything came to a halt," the 34-year-old told AFP. "After a while it became difficult to manage things and I had to fall back to manual labour. I am breaking rocks and earn 400 rupees (about $5) per day." Dhami was left paralysed in the lower half of his body at the age of two but never let it stop him enjoying sports. He first won medals at the national level in shotput and discus before the prolific all-rounder with impressive batting skills switched to cricket. Despite rising to the heights of national competition, Dhami said he has never been ashamed to work hard off the field. "You have to earn to get two meals a day. It would not have been nice to beg and I believe there is nothing wrong in doing anything that involves hard work," he said. But he added that the government should do more to help others left without work by the pandemic. "I have received help, but the heads of our state should realise that it's not only me but a lot of other sportspersons who are struggling to make ends meet."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-wheelchair-cricketer-turns-labourer-in-covid-19-lockdown-867553.html
30-07-2020||National||Supreme Court junks PIL for CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput death case||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a PIL seeking transfer of probe into Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput's death case from Mumbai police to the CBI. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that Mumbai police be allowed to do the job and if there is something, then a plea be filed before the Bombay High Court. "Go to Bombay High Court if you have anything concrete to show," the bench said when the counsel for PIL petitioner Alka Priya sought the CBI probe into the death of the actor. Rajput, aged 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then the Mumbai police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles. Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of an FIR from Patna to Mumbai and the stay on the investigation by the Bihar police on the allegations of Sushant Singh Rajput’s father that she abetted “suicide” of his actor son.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-junks-pil-for-cbi-probe-into-sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-867565.html
30-07-2020||National||Guinness World Records awards certificate to Shakuntala Devi for 'fastest human computation'||Guinness World Records on Thursday honoured Indian math genius Shakuntala Devi with the long-overdue record title for 'fastest human computation', four decades after she achieved the feat. The fastest human computation is 28 seconds and was achieved by Shakuntala Devi by successfully multiplying two randomly selected 13-digit numbers, at Imperial College London, UK, on June 18, 1980. The certification was received by Anupama Banerji, daughter of the late mathematician.    Banerji said she was barely 10 when her mother made the world record. "Wherever I went, all people would speak about was that record. So I knew it was a huge achievement worldwide. I remember going to the Trocadero Centre (an entertainment complex on London's Coventry Street). They have a room there which had mummy's picture. It was fantastic," she told PTI in an interview. The honour comes a day before "Shakuntala Devi", a biopic on Banerji's mother, starts streaming on Amazon Prime Video. Directed by Anu Menon, the film stars Vidya Balan in the title role. Balan said she is "thrilled" that Banerji will now have the certificate to cherish forever. "While shooting for 'Shakuntala Devi' in London, we would meet Anupama Banerji often. In my conversations with her, I realised that the late Shakuntala Devi didn't have an official certification from Guinness World Records - it wasn't the norm then. "Vikram Malhotra (producer) and I were, therefore, very keen to make this happen and along with the Amazon team, we reached out to the Guinness World Records team who provided us with every support," the actor said in a statement. Banerji said Balan has "far exceeded our expectations" in playing the role of her mother on screen. "Her performance has been nothing short of astounding. Before seeing the movie, I was a little bit nervous about a few things as you have your whole life portrayed in front of you. But they have done it with so much grace. I see that spirit and attitude in Vidya," she added. Banerji also praised actor Sanya Malhotra, who has played her role in the film. "Seeing yourself on screen is strange, but Sanya is brilliant. She has played me probably much nicer than the real me. Her acting is fantastic." Craig Glenday, editor in chief, Guinness World Records said Shakuntala Devi's astounding achievement continues to hold its place in their archives after so many years. "No one has been able to even equal, let alone break, this record which is a testament to both the exceptional power of Ms Devi's mind and the significance of this particular mental challenge. A global celebration of the life and career of the 'Human Computer' is long overdue, and Guinness World Records is honoured to play its part in championing this unique individual," added Glenday. Also starring Jisshu Sengupta and Amit Sadh, "Shakuntala Devi" is slated to be released worldwide on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/guinness-world-records-awards-certificate-to-shakuntala-devi-for-fastest-human-computation-867584.html
30-07-2020||National||India says PLA has not completed withdrawal of troops; China digs in heels in Pangong Tso||China has dug in heels on the new areas its soldiers occupied on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso, while New Delhi has alleged that the communist country has not yet completed the withdrawal of front-line troops from all the face-off scenes along its disputed boundary with India. New Delhi has been particularly worried after Indian Army reported that the Chinese PLA had not yet withdrawn troops from several face-off points, including the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake). India is also worried as China has not yet shown any sign of thinning out the large number of troops it deployed over the past few weeks in the “depth areas” on its side of the LAC – the de facto border between the two nations. “On the northern bank of Pangong Lake, China's traditional customary boundary line is in accordance with the LAC. There is no such (thing) as China expanding its territorial claim,” Sun said, while responding to a question during a webinar hosted by Institute of Chinese Studies in New Delhi. The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like a palm with the protrusions looking like fingers. They are in fact demarcated on the maps as ‘Fingers’, with the “Finger 1” at western end and the “Finger 8”. China claims that the LAC, after cutting through the Pangong Tso, goes through the “Finger 4”. India, on the other hand, claims that the line goes through the “Finger 8”. The soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a scuffle on Finger 4 on May 5. The PLA later built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops in the area, thus denying access to the Indian Army to an eight-kilometre-long stretch up to its earlier patrolling limit – the “Finger 8”. The PLA also occupied ridges overlooking the “fingers” or the mountain spurs jutting towards the lake – thus effectively taking under its control an area of nearly 30 sq. kms. The MEA spokesperson on Thursday said that the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA would hold the fifth round of talks “in the near future” to “work out steps” to speed up the process of withdrawal of the front-line troops from the remaining face-off scenes. Srivastava said that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas was the “basis” of India-China bilateral relationship. “Therefore,” he added, “we expect that the Chinese side will sincerely work with us for complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas at the earliest as agreed to by the Special Representatives”. India’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and the Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi – the Special Representatives of the two governments for boundary negotiations and strategic consultations – held talks over phone on July 5 and agreed that “early and complete disengagement” of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for smooth overall development of bilateral relations. China on Tuesday claimed that its PLA and the Indian Army had pulled back troops from “most” of the face-off scenes along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. With no settled border between the two nations, the LAC in the western sector and the McMahon Line in the eastern sector serve as the de facto boundary between the two nations. The two sides, however, have mutually conflicting perceptions about the alignment of both the lines, which often lead to soldiers of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA transgressing the LAC into each other’s territory. In the November 1996 Agreement on the CBMs in the border areas, India and China recognized the differences in perception over the LAC and sought to speed up exchange of maps for clarification and confirmation of its alignment. Beijing, however, subsequently took it off the table in its engagements with New Delhi, ostensibly out of apprehensions that New Delhi might insist on turning the LAC, if clarified and confirmed, into de jure boundary. “If one side unilaterally delimits the LAC as per its own understanding during negotiations, that could create new disputes, would be a departure from the original purpose of clarification of the LAC,” Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi said on Thursday. He was replying to a question why China was not keen on working with India for clarifying the LAC and narrowing down differences in perception of the two nations on the alignment of the line, pending the final settlement of the boundary dispute. The latest military stand-off took New Delhi’s relations with Beijing to a new low, particularly after the violent clash between the Indian and Chinese soldiers in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The Chinese PLA too suffered casualties, but it did not make public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the violent face-off. “It was an unfortunate incident. Neither side wants to see it happen,” Sun said on Thursday, but reiterated Beijing’s position on the June 15 clash, holding the Indian Army responsible for the incident. New Delhi has been dismissing Beijing’s new claim of sovereignty over Galwan Valley ever since the latest stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA started in eastern Ladakh. The process of “disengagement” in Galwan Valley started early this month. After the Chinese PLA pulled back its troops from the scene of the June 15 clash, the Indian Army too withdrew troops 1.5 kilometers away from the spot, in keeping with the disengagement understanding reached between the senior military officials of the two nations. The “disengagement” process has also been completed in the scenes of the face-offs at Hot Springs and at Gogra and Kongka La areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-pla-has-not-completed-withdrawal-of-troops-china-digs-in-heels-in-pangong-tso-867589.html
30-07-2020||National||Glad Modi govt has finally grasped the nettle: Tharoor welcomes National Education Policy||Congress leader and former HRD Minister Shashi Tharoor on Thursday welcomed the new National Education Policy but wanted the Modi government to offer more realistic targets in the sector. Tharoor, who was minister of state for HRD in the UPA government, the goals of 50% gross enrolment ratio in higher education and 100% in secondary school were laudable but wondered whether the targets were any more realistic than the government’s solar-energy commitments at the Paris Climate summit. Tharoor acknowledged that the suggestions made by him and some others had been taken into account while finalising the National Education Policy, but questioned why was it not discussed in Parliament before releasing it. “I’ve advocated a revision of the 1986 National Education Policy since my days in MHRD, to bring it into the 21st century. I am glad the Modi government has finally grasped the nettle, even if it took them six years to do so. Challenge is to ensure aspiration is matched by the implementation,” Tharoor said. “For instance, the goal of 6% of GDP to be spent on education was first articulated in 1948! Every government articulates this target & then comes up against its own Finance Ministry. In the last 6 years, Modi government expenditure in education has declined in real terms. How will it reach 6%?” he added. “The goals of 50% Gross Enrollment Ratio in higher education and 100% in secondary school are laudable, but when you realise it is currently 25.8% in Higher education & 68% in Class 9, you wonder if such targets are any more realistic than the government’s solar-energy commitments at Paris.” “The NEP should have offered more tangible & realisable targets for research. Total investment on research & innovation in India declined from 0.84% of GDP in 2008 to 0.6% in 2018. There are currently only 15 researchers in India per 100,000 of population, compared with 111 in China,” Tharoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/glad-modi-govt-has-finally-grasped-the-nettle-tharoor-welcomes-national-education-policy-867594.html
30-07-2020||National||BCI to postpone All India Bar Examination due to coronavirus||The Bar Council of India has resolved to postpone All India Bar Examination (AIBE) scheduled for August 16 due to the rising numbers of coronavirus patients across the country and frequent lockdowns to contain its spread. The BCI, which is the regulator of legal education in the country, has also resolved to extend the date for receipt of applications from candidates till August 31. Besides, the apex bar body has been authorised by the bar leaders across the country to represent lawyers before the Supreme Court in a writ petition against the Union of India seeking financial assistance and a soft loan of Rs 3 lakh each to needy lawyers.   AIBE is a national level exam meant to test a potential advocate who aspires to practice law.  The decision was taken in a resolution adopted on July 29. In a virtual meeting between BCI and all the state bar councils' representatives and High Court Bar Associations, it was decided that the apex bar body will represent the lawyers before the Supreme Court in a writ petition in against the Union of India seeking financial assistance and a soft loan of Rs 3 lakh each to needy lawyers.  The BCI has said that a huge majority of lawyers are forced to live in a miserable condition due to continuing suspension of physical court functioning, leading to loss of earning and draining out their financial resources. A bench headed by the Chief Justice S A Bobde on July 22 issued notice to the Centre on the petition, the council said. “It was unanimously resolved separately in both joint meetings of the Bar Council of India with all State Bar Councils and with High Court Bar Associations respectively, that since the aim and object of the BCI and the State Bar Councils and the High Court Bar Associations are/is one and the same, i.e. to procure financial assistance and help the needy advocates, all State Bar Councils and the participating High Court Bar Associations would authorise BCI to represent themselves before the apex court,” BCI's chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-to-postpone-all-india-bar-examination-due-to-coronavirus-867595.html
30-07-2020||National||Bihar cops scrutinise Sushant Singh Rajput's account details, visit Rhea home||The visiting Bihar police team on Thursday started the process of scrutinising financial transactions and bank account details of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput as part of their probe into his alleged suicide here last month, a Mumbai police official said. The Bihar police team, which arrived here on Wednesday, visited several places, including the residence of Rajput's friend, actress Rhea Chakraborty, who is facing `abetment to suicide' charge in a Patna FIR, but did not find her at home, said the Mumbai Crime Branch official. According to the official, the Bihar police started looking into financial transactions of Rajput, who was found hanging in his suburban Bandra apartment on June 14. As part of the process, the four-member team visited a Bandra-based bank where the 34-year-old actor had an account, he said. The Bihar cops are also looking into evidence collected so far by the Mumbai police and statements recorded by them, he said. They are expected to question some people linked to Rajput, including his ex-girlfriend, actress Ankita Lokhande, the official said. The Bihar Police team landed in Mumbai to probe an `abetment to suicide' case registered against Chakraborty and others in connection with the death of Rajput. Krishna Kumar Singh (74), Rajput's father, lodged a complaint against Chakraborty, the deceased actor's friend, and six others, including her family members, for alleged abetment to suicide, in Patna on Tuesday. The Mumbai police who are already investigating the alleged suicide have questioned several people from the film industry in connection with the case. The Patna case was registered under various IPC sections including 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 306 (abetment of suicide). Singh accused Chakraborty, a budding TV and film actor, of having befriended his son in May 2019 with the intention of furthering her own career. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Minister of State for Home Shambhuraj Desai on Thursday said the Bihar police did not follow established protocols. "The Mumbai police have registered a case... from day one we are investigating it," he said. "Whenever a police team from a state visits another state for investigation, there are some protocols which are to be followed.. these were not followed," Desai told a news channel here. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had on Wednesday ruled out a CBI probe into the death of Rajput. "The Mumbai police are investigating the case and there is no question of the case being handed over to the CBI," Deshmukh had said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-cops-scrutinise-sushant-singh-rajputs-account-details-visit-rhea-home-867596.html
30-07-2020||National||Delhi govt sets up 4 panels to inspect hospitals reporting higher Covid-19 deaths||The Delhi government Thursday set up four committees, comprising medical specialists, who will inspect hospitals in the city from where a large percentage of Covid-19 fatalities are still being reported, according to an order. The order issued by the Delhi health department was also tweeted by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who said, these panels will conduct inspections and offer suggestions on reducing mortality. "It has been observed that the percentage of Covid deaths vis-a-vis admissions and the percentage of Covid deaths inwards in 11 hospitals, government and private, is on the higher side during the period July 1-23, 2020," the order said. Four committees comprising four specialists each, two from internal medicine and as many from anaesthesia, have been constituted for inspecting the concerned allotted hospitals to examine whether standard protocols are being followed in the treatment of Covid-19 patients there, it said.  The committees will also examine the cause of a higher percentage of Covid-19 deaths at these hospitals and also the cause of death of Covid-19 patients if any, said the order signed by Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla. Kejriwal said the number of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi have reduced, but it had to be brought down further. Delhi recorded 1,035 fresh coronavirus cases on Wednesday, taking the tally in the city to over 1.33 lakh, while the death toll from the disease climbed to 3,907, authorities said. Medical specialists have been drawn from facilities, including, LNJP Hospital, Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, RML Hospital, and Maulana Azad Medical College. The hospitals to be inspected include GTB Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, and Max hospital, Saket, the order said. The committees shall submit their reports directly to the Principal Secretary, Delhi health department, latest by August 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-sets-up-4-panels-to-inspect-hospitals-reporting-higher-covid-19-deaths-867604.html
30-07-2020||National||Congress President Sonia Gandhi admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital||Congress Interim President Sonia Gandhi was on Thursday evening admitted to Ganga Ram hospital after she complained of stomach ache. Doctors attending on her said that the condition of the 73-year-old leader was stable. “Congress President, Mrs Sonia Gandhi has been admitted today (Thursday) evening at 7 p.m to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. She has been admitted for routine tests and investigations. Her condition is currently stable,” D S Rana , Chairman (Board of Management), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said in a statement. Earlier, Gandhi was hospitalised in February for treatment of a stomach ailment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-president-sonia-gandhi-admitted-to-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-867609.html
30-07-2020||National||Students in tears as Brahmaputra gobbles up school building||"What happened to our school? Where has it gone? When will it come back?" ask the children of Malahu Lower Primary School at Tulsibori village in Assam's Morigaon district. Erosion by the Brahmaputra in Assam, which is reeling under floods, has been particularly severe this year. Not only the school but a number of houses and large areas of paddy fields in the locality have also lost their physical existence due to the devastating erosion by the mighty Brahmaputra. "I don't know what to say. They often come to the place where the school existed and ask me difficult questions. Some kids even cry about the disappearance of their school," headmaster Nirmal Boruah told PTI. The headmaster, teachers, villagers and some students were standing on the river bank on July 11 when they saw the building being washed away by the Brahmaputra. Boruah said that the little students were inconsolable on the fateful day when the school building and the playground were being gradually swallowed by the muddy waters of the trans-boundary river, which passes through three countries -- China, India and Bangladesh. "The Brahmaputra has taken the school from us. I don't know what will be the future now. We have temporarily erected a bamboo structure, with the help of villagers, on a plot near the original school so that classes can commence once the government allows," Boruah said. "We will not allow this school to close down. It is our pride. Its location may change due to the erosion, but we will ensure that classes are held after the government allows schools to reopen," said Narayan Bora, a villager. Ganga Ram Chouhan, a prominent citizen of the area, blamed government inaction for the catastrophe. "We have been urging the authorities to take steps against erosion for many years, but nothing materialised. The Water Resources Department did not take flood protection measures even as vulnerable areas faced continuous erosion by the Brahmaputra," he added. In the Bhuragaon revenue circle itself, as many as four lower primary schools and two high schools were completely submerged by floodwaters. Morigaon is one of the worst affected districts in Assam during floods every year. Around 4.5 lakh people of the district have been affected and eight people drowned in the floods this year. According to the Water Resources Department of the Assam government, bank erosion by the rivers has been a serious issue as more than 4.27 lakh hectares of land, which is 7.40 per cent of the state's total area, have already been eroded by the Brahmaputra and its tributaries since 1950, when the great earthquake had struck. The annual average loss of land is nearly 8,000 hectares and the width of the Brahmaputra has increased up to 15 km at some places due to erosion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-in-tears-as-brahmaputra-gobbles-up-school-building-867610.html
30-07-2020||National||India subtly warns nations of China's debt trap diplomacy||India on Thursday tacitly warned its neighbours as well as the Indian Ocean nations of the debt trap diplomacy of China. “History has taught us that in the name of development partnerships, nations were forced into dependence partnerships. It gave rise to colonial and imperial rule. It gave rise to global power blocks. And, Humanity suffered,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, taking a subtle dig at the predatory lending practices of China. The Prime Minister underlined the distinction between the ways India and China supported development projects in other countries – albeit without directly referring to the Communist country. He cited examples of India’s support to development projects not only in Mauritius and neighbouring countries, like Sri Lanka, Maldives, Nepal and Afghanistan, but also in Niger in Africa and Guyana in South America. The Prime Minister said that India’s approach to development was “mainly human-centric” and it wanted to work for the welfare of humanity. “India is making development partnerships that are marked by respect, diversity, care for the future, and sustainable development,” he said, adding: “For India, the most fundamental principle in development cooperation is respecting our partners.” He said that “sharing of development lessons” was the “only motivation” for New Delhi to support pursuit for prosperity in other nations. “That is why our development cooperation does not come with any conditions. It is not influenced by political or commercial considerations,” said the Prime Minister. Beijing has been bankrolling a large number of infrastructure projects in several countries in the South Asia and Indian Ocean region as well as in Africa, as part of its Belt-and-Road Initiative (BRI), thus building strategic assets across the continents. But Chinese President Xi Jinping’s ambitious cross-continental connectivity initiative also came under criticism from around the world – for exposing the smaller participating nations to the risks of being caught in debt traps. Even as its People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is engaged in a stand-off with the Indian Army along its disputed boundary with India in eastern Ladakh, China has renewed its bid to further spread its tentacles in South Asia and Indian Ocean region. It has of late been offering new loans and economic packages to support not only development projects, but also to help smaller nations to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, including to India’s neighbours like Sri Lanka and Maldives, even as they are finding it difficult to come out of the debt trap the Communist country already put them in with BRI projects. Beijing over the past few months nudged Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli’s Government in Kathmandu to sour its relations with New Delhi by ratcheting up Nepal-India boundary dispute. It is reaching out to Kabul to extend its China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project to Afghanistan. It is also offering loans to the tune of $6.4 billion for several infrastructure projects across Bangladesh, apart from expanding the ambit of its trade concession to the least developed nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-subtly-warns-nations-of-chinas-debt-trap-diplomacy-867613.html
30-07-2020||National||Railways introduces 'Rail Bicycle' to make track inspection and repair quicker||The Indian Railways shared has come up with a new innovation, called the Rail Bicycle, that would allow faster movement on rail tracks. Rail tracks are particularly hard to move across and during moments of urgency, when a repair is needed, these delays can be tedious. It is for such occasions that the railway bicycle is perfect. It would allow two people to quickly move on the tracks economically. Piyush Goyal, the Minister of Railways and Minister of Commerce and Industry, shared details about the rail bicycle on Twitter. “Railways introduces Rail Bicycle - a novel mechanism to quickly travel on rail tracks for inspections, monitoring & urgent repairs. Simple innovation ensuring passenger security,” he wrote on Twitter. Railways introduces Rail Bicycle - a novel mechanism to quickly travel on rail tracks for inspections, monitoring & urgent repairs. Along with this, the bicycle can be used for regular monitoring and hot weather patrolling as well. The bicycle weighs only 20 kilograms and can carry two people. It can travel upto 15 kilometres an hour and costs around Rs 5,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-introduces-rail-bicycle-to-make-track-inspection-and-repair-quicker-867615.html
30-07-2020||National||NEP paves way for foreign universities to set up campuses in India||The National Education Policy paves way for the world’s top 100 universities to set up campuses in India with a promise to put in place a legislative framework to put them on par with autonomous institutions in the country. The mention of foreign universities in the NEP also marks a reversal of stand by the BJP, which had been opposed to their entry into India, contending that such varsities may lead to poaching of faculty from top domestic institutions and increase cost of education. The National Education Policy (NEP), approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday, also encourages high performing Indian universities to set up campuses abroad. “...similarly, select universities (e.g., those from among the top 100 universities in the world) will be permitted to operate in India,” read the policy that was revised after 34 years. “A legislative framework facilitating such entry will be put in place, and such universities will be given special dispensation regarding regulatory, governance, and content norms on par with other autonomous institutions of India,” the policy document said. It also seeks to promote research collaboration and student exchanges between the Indian institutions and global institutions through special efforts. “Further, credits acquired in foreign universities will also be permitted to be counted for the award of a degree,” the policy said. The NEP also paves the way for a single overarching regulator for higher education, which will replace the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the All India Council For Technical Education (AICTE). The single regulator, called the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI), will have “four independent verticals” to carry out the functions of regulation, funding, accreditation, and setting standards for learning outcomes. “The professional councils, such as the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR), Veterinary Council of India (VCI), National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE), Council of Architecture (CoA), National Council for Vocational Education and Training (NCVET) etc., will act as Professional Standard Setting Bodies (PSSBs),” the policy document said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-paves-way-for-foreign-universities-to-set-up-campuses-in-india-867620.html
30-07-2020||National||Subramanian Swamy writes to PM, seeks comprehensive probe by CBI in Sushant Singh Rajput's death||BJP MP Subramanian Swamy has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking a comprehensive probe, including by the CBI and other central agencies, into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, whose body was found hanging in his Mumbai apartment on June 14. Swamy alleged in his letter to the prime minister that the actor's death was a case of murder and not suicide. He said a CBI probe has become "even more necessary" after an FIR was registered by the Bihar police in Patna on a complaint filed by Rajput's father.  The Mumbai police is also investigating the matter.  "Thus, now two states are investigating in the matter arising from the same sad event of the unnatural death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Therefore, it is in the larger interest of justice that there should be a single investigation...," Swamy said. This is the Rajya Sabha MP's second letter to the prime minister over the matter. He said he had enclosed with the letter a tabulation, giving "24 reasons why Sushant Singh Rajput's mysterious death is actually a murder, not a suicide". Swamy claimed that there are "enough multi-dimensional issues connected with the untimely death" of the actor, which require a "joint investigation by CBI with NIA and ED". He alleged that terror links of Rajput's "opponents" and money laundering appear to be factors in his death. "I think in the larger national interest, your intervention is required and I request you to take necessary steps to ensure that a comprehensive investigation as suggested above is carried out in the larger national -- social, political and security interests," Swamy wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/subramanian-swamy-writes-to-pm-seeks-comprehensive-probe-by-cbi-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-867624.html
30-07-2020||National||Ban on passenger flights to Kolkata from 6 cities extended till Aug 15||The ban on passenger flights to Kolkata from six cities -- all Covid-19 hotspots -- has been extended till August 15, amid a spurt in coronavirus cases in the state, airport sources here said on Thursday. "The restriction on arriving flights to #KolkataAirport from 6 cities viz Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Chennai, Nagpur & Ahmedabad has been extended up to 15th August 2020," the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International (NSCBI) Airport tweeted. Earlier, the airport had said that no passenger flight would be arriving in Kolkata from these cities till July 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ban-on-passenger-flights-to-kolkata-from-6-cities-extended-till-aug-15-867625.html
30-07-2020||National||Bihar floods affect more areas; no fresh casualties reported||More parts of Bihar were on Thursday affected by floods, caused by a rise in water levels of rivers originating in Nepal, though the disaster management department asserted that this has resulted in no fresh loss of lives. According to the department's bulletin, 71 panchayats of Madhubani and Siwan districts, which were not affected by the floods till the previous day, have now been hit by the calamity. The number of affected districts so far has, thus, reached 14. The number of people affected by deluge has risen to 39.63 lakh, up from 38.47 lakh on Wednesday. The death toll, however, remained stable at 11, with Darbhanga accounting for seven casualties and the remaining four reported from West Champaran. Other districts declared as flood-hit are East Champaran, Sheohar, Supaul, Kishanganj, Sitamarhi, Gopalganj, Saran, Muzaffarpur, Gopalganj and Khagaria. At a meeting, he chaired on the previous night to review the flood situation, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar instructed officials to pull up their socks reminding them "it is in the months of August and September that we see the worst of the calamity". "We must have arrangements in place for evacuating people from vulnerable areas. We are this time faced with a twin challenge in the backdrop of raging corona pandemic. "It must be ensured that those being kept at relief camps are tested for Covid-19 on a priority basis and social distancing is maintained as far as possible", he said. Till date, 3.16 lakh people have been evacuated and moved to safe places by the personnel involved in relief and rescue work, including 21 teams of the NDRF. More than 25,000 people have taken shelter in 19 relief camps and close to six lakh people were being fed at more than 1,000 community kitchens. An embankment along the Budhi Gandak river at Bairiya in East Champaran district was vandalized by unidentified villagers. "An FIR has been lodged in connection with the damage caused to the embankment which has, however, resulted in no loss to life and property. Our department is doing the needful", water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha tweeted. The 9th battalion of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), stationed at Bihta near Patna, has rescued thousands of people ever since floods began wreaking havoc a couple of weeks ago. "Our personnel have rescued close to 8,000 people, which include children, the elderly and pregnant women. Our men have fanned out in 13 of the affected districts," the commandant of the battalion Vijay Sinha said. One of NDRF teams was Thursday diverted from West Champaran to Siwan upon the disaster management departments request, he added. He also informed that NDRF men saved the life of a four-year-old boy in East Champaran district, who suffered a snake bite at his marooned village. "Our men reached the village late in the night. The boy, Adnan, was carried in a boat to the nearest primary health centre, wading through floodwaters for a six kilometres long stretch. Thankfully, timely medical aid took him out of harm's way", Sinha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-floods-affect-more-areas-no-fresh-casualties-reported-867628.html
30-07-2020||National||Beijing warns New Delhi against economic offensives, review of 'One China' policy||China on Thursday warned India against any move for “forced decoupling” of the two economies in the wake of the military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. The Communist country also cautioned New Delhi against any move to review India’s “One China” policy and to recalibrate its approach on Taiwan, Tibet and Hong Kong. “The development of economic and trade cooperation between our two countries is determined by international division of labour. It is also the natural choice of enterprises and consumers of our two countries under the market-oriented principles,” Sun Weidong, China’s ambassador to India, said. “The forced decoupling of the Chinese and Indian economies is against the trend and will only lead to a “lose-lose” outcome.” The comment by Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi came even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is contemplating more economic measures against China, in response to the Communist country’s aggressive move to unilaterally alter the status quo along its disputed boundary with India. Sun said that the economies of India and China were “interwoven and interdependent”. “According to local statistics in India, in 2018-2019, 92 per cent of Indian computers, 82 per cent of TVs, 80 per cent of optical fibres, and 85 per cent of motorcycle components are imported from China,” he said, adding: “Countless examples like this are the reflection of globalization. Globalization has deepened the interconnection between countries into the capillaries.” “Whether you want it or not, the trend is difficult to reverse. Both China and India have been deeply embedded in the global industrial chain and supply chain.” New Delhi on June 29 banned 59 apps linked to China, alleging that they were used in activities “prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order”. The banned apps included TikTok and WeChat, owned respectively by ByteDance Limited and Tencent Holdings Limited of China. The government on Tuesday banned use of 47 more apps – mostly the clones and the different versions of the previously banned ones. New Delhi is also planning more economic offensives against China, with its security agencies identifying the Communist country's companies, which have past or continuing links with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and are operating in India. The companies identified so far for having links with the Chinese PLA include Alibaba Group Holding Limited, Tencent Holdings Limited, Huawei Technologies Company Limited and the SAIC Motor Corporation Limited. The stand-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in eastern Ladakh also prompted many in India to suggest that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government should review the country’s “One-China” policy – by elevating relations with Taiwan, by more overtly supporting Dalai Lama and the exiled Tibetans’ struggle against China’s rule over Tibet, by speaking up against the Xi Jinping regime’s atrocities on Uighurs in Xinjiang and crackdown on pro-democracy activists in Hong Kong and by more strongly opposing the Communist country’s expansionist moves in South China Sea. Beijing’s envoy to New Delhi, said on Thursday that he was worried over such arguments in India. “I want to point out emphatically that Taiwan, Hong Kong, Xinjiang, and Xizang affairs are totally China’s internal affairs and bear on China’s sovereignty and security,” said Sun, adding: “While China does not interfere in other country’s domestic affairs, it allows no external interference and never trades its core interests either”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beijing-warns-new-delhi-against-economic-offensives-review-of-one-china-policy-867636.html
30-07-2020||National||VHP highlights association between Lord Ram, Dalit personalities ahead of Bhoomipujan||Reaching out to SCs and STs while preparations are on way for the grand Bhoompujan for Ram temple at Ayodhya, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday highlighted the association of Lord Rama with Dalit personalities in the epic Ramayana, citing it as “outstanding illustration of social harmony”. In a statement, Central secretary-general of VHP Milind Parande also flagged how sacred earth is being taken to Ayodhya from the birthplaces of Sant Ravidas in Kashi and Maharshi Valmiki (both Hindu Dalit saints) Ashram at Sitamarhi, Bihar; Mhow in Madya Pradesh —  the birthplace of Scheduled Caste icon Babasaheb Ambedkar; Valmiki Temple in Delhi and heroic tribal freedom fighter Tantya Bheel’s holy land in Madhya Pradesh. Parande flagged the “emancipation of Ahalya by Bhagwan Lord Ram and the high esteem shown to Shabari Mata” (both prominent characters in the Ramayana, which were said to be belonging to castes considered to be of lower strata in caste hierarchy) and camaraderie with Nishadraj (tribal)” as outstanding illustrations of social harmony. Parande also pointed out that the foundation stone of Ram Janmabhoomi was laid in 1989 in the presence of many revered saints by “... A Scheduled Caste young-man Kameshwar Chaupal”. Chaupal is currently a Trustee of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. Parande said that all this, holding a press conference in Nagpur, where the RSS is headquartered. The VHP leader described Nagpur as the “holy hub that sourced the Sangh-Ganga by Dr Hedgewar and the Samta-Ganga from the Deeksha Bhoomi hereby Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar.” For quite some time, the BJP and the VHP have been flagging the Dalit identity of many revered figures in the Hindu pantheon. During the week-long 'Ramotsava'  from March 25 to April 7 (Hanuman Jayanti), the VHP took out rallies and processions across the country carrying pictures of Valmiki, who authored the Ramayana in Sanskrit, along with that of Lord Rama and Ramjanmabhoomi. This Shobha Yatra (procession) was carried out to all the 2,75,000 villages of the country from where Ram Shila (bricks for temple construction) had come. In December last year, the VHP also pitched for a Scheduled Caste priest at Ram temple at Ayodhya. In March-April this year, VHP raised the issue of persecution of Scheduled Castes by Muslims in Mewat region at a time when many Opposition parties were trying to create a Scheduled Caste-Muslim axis. After the Supreme Court in October last year allowed the rebuilding of Sant Ravidas temple here on a 400 square metre of land, the VHP hailed it “a victory of the struggle of Hindu Samaj”. It had earlier lent support to agitations for it and wrote to the central government in July last year demanding protection of the temple. In the past, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath claimed that Hindu god Hanuman was a Dalit, while a senior minister in Modi government Rajnath Singh had flagged that Valmiki and Ved Vyas, the author of the Mahabharata, were Dalits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vhp-highlights-association-between-lord-ram-dalit-personalities-ahead-of-bhoomipujan-867644.html
30-07-2020||National||Actress Rhea Chakraborty claims false implication in FIR by Patna police in Sushant Singh Rajput's death||The copy of her petition shared on Thursday claimed that she has been falsely implicated in the case at the instance of Krishna Kishore Singh, the father of Rajput. Singh, in his complaint, accused Rhea and others, including her family members, of cheating, holding his son hostage and forcing him to commit suicide. He also claimed as much as Rs 17 crore was withdrawn from his son's bank accounts. In her petition, Rhea said she and the deceased were live-in partner till June 8. Rajput was suffering from depression for some time and had been on anti-depressant drugs. He ended his life on June 14 at his Bandra residence in Mumbai.  "The Mumbai police is still investigating the matter and the causes leading to such drastic steps were being examined," she pointed out, adding that her statement has also been recorded by the Mumbai police. She contended assuming if there was an iota of truth in the FIR lodged on July 25, the case must have been transferred to jurisdictional magistrate in Mumbai. Claiming that she received various rape and death threats, Rhea said it would be just and expedient to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai and no prejudice would be caused to the complainant on it. Meanwhile, Bihar government as well as father of Rajput have filed a caveat in the top court, asking it not to pass any order without hearing them in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actress-rhea-chakraborty-claims-false-implication-in-fir-by-patna-police-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-867648.html
30-07-2020||National||From August 1, EPF contributions will be deducted at 12% again||In the month of May, Union Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, had announced that Employee Provident Fund (EPF) contributions will be reduced from 24 per cent to 20 per cent for the next three months, i.e May, June, and July. The EPF contributions will be deducted at 24 per cent again from August 1. The change in EPF contribution meant the individual share of the employer and employee each was reduced from 12 per cent to 10 per cent. The announcement deducting EPF from 24 per cent to 20 per cent  was made by the finance minister as part of the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package. EPF deductions are maintained by Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO).  In the case of central public sector enterprises and state PSUs, the employer continued to pay 12 per cent while the employee paid 10 per cent.  This statutory deduction meant that the in-hand salary that employees received increased, while expenditure for employers decreased.  Companies and workers also had the option to continue with the statutory rates of 12 percent.  The decision was aimed to provide relief to both employers and employees during the pandemic and is believed to have benefitted 4.3 crore employees/members and employers of 6.5 lakh establishments.  The announcement was made for a period of three months, meaning starting August, both employers and employees would return to previous EPF deduction rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-august-1-epf-contributions-will-be-deducted-at-12-again-867651.html
30-07-2020||National||Draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 will lead to ecological harm, scrap it: Tarun Gogoi to PM||Veteran Congress leader Tarun Gogoi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to direct the authorities concerned to withdraw the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification of 2020 as, he claimed, it would lead to serious ecological harm in the Himalayan region. "If this proposed draft EIA becomes an Act, it will seriously harm all ecological aspects of the region. The whole world is facing the problem of climate change due to destruction of our natural resources, including biodiversity and as a result of this, there has been alarming melting of Himalayan Glaciers continuously," Gogoi said in the letter. The former chief minister claimed that the EIA 2020 will lead to loss of biodiversity, erosion of soil, destruction of water resources, degrading of soil fertility, decrease of groundwater level and increase in pollution. He claimed that the draft EIA 2020 released by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has attracted the wrath of the public from not only Assam or the North-Eastern region but also the entire Himalayan region such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Kashmir and Ladakh. Climate change is also one of the major causes for large scale flood and erosion in the North East, he said. Gogoi said that more than 130 people have lost their lives in flood-related incidents and landslides this year in Assam. "It will ultimately have negative impact on health and economical activities in the region and will lead to starvation, unemployment too. Today there has been emphasis on sustainable economic development by taking effective steps to maintain ecological balance," the letter read. "This notification has given unlimited power to the authority to take any kind of steps which will be harmful to safeguard our natural resources. Such arbitrary power is likely to be misused by big corporate groups," Gogoi said. It needs to be "scrapped in order to save our million poor and vulnerable people and the country as a whole," he said in the letter. The three-time former Chief Minister requested the Prime Minister to issue necessary instructions to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to withdraw the EIA Notification 2020. The draft EIA intends to bring in several controversial amendments such as post-facto grant of approval, exemption of several large industries from public hearings and reducing the time for public consultation to 40 days from 45 days. A large number of people protested against the EIA 2020 in Assam primarily due to the exemption of public consultation for many projects falling in 'Border Areas', which is defined as an area falling within 100 km aerial distance from the Line of Actual Control with bordering countries of India. This has practically brought most of Assam and North East under the 'Border Area' category, protesters claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/draft-environment-impact-assessment-2020-will-lead-to-ecological-harm-scrap-it-tarun-gogoi-to-pm-867655.html
30-07-2020||National||India's development cooperation does not come with conditions: PM Narendra Modi||India's development cooperation with other nations does not come with any condition and is not influenced by political or commercial considerations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Thursday. He also said the country's approach to development is mainly human-centric and it wants to work for the welfare of humanity. "Our development partnerships reflect the development priorities of our partner nations," Modi said, addressing a virtual event of the inauguration of a new Supreme Court building of Mauritius. Modi and his Mauritian counterpart Pravind Jugnauth jointly inaugurated the new Supreme Court building at Port Louis. The building is a symbol of the two countries' cooperation and shared values, Modi said. "Both India and Mauritius respect our independent judiciaries as important pillars of our democratic systems," he observed. The prime minister said history has taught us that in the name of development collaborations, countries were forced into "dependence partnerships". "It gave rise to colonial and imperial rule. It gave rise to global power blocs and humanity suffered," he said. India is making development partnerships that are marked by respect, diversity, care for the future and sustainable development, he noted. For India, Modi said, the most fundamental principle in development cooperation is respecting its partners. "This sharing of development lessons is our only motivation. That is why our development cooperation does not come with any conditions. It is not influenced by political or commercial considerations," the prime minister said. He observed that Mahatma Gandhi had said, "My patriotism includes the good of mankind in general. Therefore, my service to India includes service to humanity." This, Modi said, is India's guiding philosophy. "India wants to develop and help others in their development needs," he noted. India's development partnerships are diverse, Modi said, adding that from commerce to culture, energy to engineering, health to housing, IT to infrastructure, sports to science, the country is working with nations across the globe. "If India is honoured to help in the parliament building in Afghanistan, it is also proud to be associated with the making of the Mahatma Gandhi Convention Centre in Niger," he said. Modi said New Delhi has been happy to help Nepal improve its health services through the construction of an emergency-and-trauma hospital. "We were similarly privileged to support Sri Lanka's efforts to establish emergency ambulance services in all nine provinces," he said. India is glad that its oil pipeline project with Nepal will help ensure the availability of petroleum products, Modi said. Last month, Nepal completed the process to update its political map by incorporating three strategically-important Indian areas by amending the Constitution. India has termed the territorial claims by Nepal as "untenable" and "artificial enlargement". Modi said India is contributing towards ensuring the availability of drinking water and sanitation in 34 islands of the Maldives. "We have tried to make cricket popular in countries as diverse as Afghanistan and Guyana by helping build stadiums and other facilities. "We are excited to see the young Afghan cricket team, trained in India, emerge as a force to reckon with," he said. India is now providing a similar support to develop the talent of cricket players in the Maldives. Modi also pointed out that India is at the forefront of a major housing project in Sri Lanka. "India is not only proud to be helping your present, we consider it our privilege to help you create a better future for your youth. That is why training and skilling is such an important part of our development cooperation," he said. With Mauritius, India shares not only the waters of the Indian Ocean but also a common heritage of kinship, culture and language, the prime minister said. Jugnauth lauded India's support to the project as reflective of the close ties of friendship and cooperation between the two countries.  He noted that the construction of the Supreme Court building with Indian assistance is a new milestone in the modernisation of infrastructure in Mauritius. In his address, peppered with sentences in Hindi, Jugnauth also thanked India for the assistance rendered amid the Covid-19 pandemic. He referred to Modi's "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas" mantra. Later, at a media briefing, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said this is another landmark project completed under India's development partnership and an example of "our ability to implement such projects in various parts of the world". "The new Supreme Court building provides state-of-the-art facilities. It is a fully green building. The project has been completed on schedule and at a cost below the initial estimates," he said. "As the PM noted in his speech, India is making development partnerships that are marked by respect for our partners, diversity, care for the future and sustainable development," he added. According to an MEA statement issued on Tuesday, the new Supreme Court building in Mauritius is spread over an area of more than 4,700 sq.mtr with over 10 floors and a built-up area of around 25,000 sq.mtr. The project is one of the five being implemented under the special economic package of $353 million extended by India to Mauritius in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-development-cooperation-does-not-come-with-conditions-pm-narendra-modi-867660.html
30-07-2020||National||National Education Policy 2020: Congress, Left parties accuse Centre of 'bypassing' Parliament; TDP welcomes policy||There were varying views on Thursday from political parties on the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 with the Congress and the Left parties accusing the Centre of "bypassing" Parliament by not discussing it before announcing it, while the TDP welcoming it and asserting that emphasis on mother tongue as the medium of instruction will help children develop critical thinking and literacy skills. Tamil Nadu school education minister K A Sengottaiyan said the state government will respond to the NEP after a detailed discussion with Chief Minister K Palaniswami on August 3. However, the PMK, an NDA ally, sought revision of the policy, claiming that there were some "dangerous" aspects in it. The Central government on Wednesday announced sweeping reforms under its new education policy that included teaching in mother tongue or regional language up to class 5, lowering the stakes of board exams, allowing foreign universities to set up campuses in India, a single regulator for higher education institutions except for law and medical colleges and common entrance tests for universities. Former HRD minister and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor welcomed it, but feared it may make education unaffordable for the poor as it showcases a tendency towards "centralisation, high aspiration and low feasibility" with an assumption that the challenge will be met by the private sector. The left parties criticised the new policy, saying that it strayed away from the concept of universalisation of education and focused on creating "education markets". In a series of tweets, Tharoor said,"there is much to welcome in what we have seen of the NEP 2020 announced by Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. A number of suggestions made by some of us seem to have been taken into account. However, the question remains why this was not brought before Parliament first for discussion. I like the fact that vocational training will be introduced for all kids in school from 6th Grade." Noting that there is much to admire in the NEP 2020, Tharoor said,"I look forward to a constructive discussion in Parliament, in which these concerns can be addressed & clarifications given. I commend Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and his team for their efforts. A better-educated India is vital for all." "Overall, my worry is the NEP showcases a strong tendency towards centralisation, high aspiration w/low feasibility, and an unspoken assumption that much of the challenge will be met by the private sector, which will drive up costs & make many opportunities unaffordable for the poor," he tweeted. Tharoor said the NEP also glosses over the desperate need for qualified and trained teachers in schools, of whom there is a critical shortage. Placing the burden of pre-primary education on over-stretched, under-funded and under-equipped anganwadis is "disastrous", he said and added that instead of strengthening woeful school infrastructure, NEP suggests school complexes as a solution to this problem, sharing resources spread over a large geographical area. "Total investment on research and innovation in India declined from 0.84 percent of GDP in 2008 to 0.6 percent in 2018. There are currently only 15 researchers in India per 100,000 of population, compared with 111 in China," he tweeted "For instance, the goal of 6 percent of GDP to be spent on education was first articulated in 1948! Every government articulates this target and then comes up against its own Finance Ministry. In the last 6 years, Modi Government expenditure in education has declined in real terms. How will it reach 6 percent," he asked. TDP leader and former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh N Chandrababu Naidu said, "I welcome the approval of NEP 2020 by the Union Cabinet chaired by Narendra Modi Ji. I am sure that this reform will boost the education sector and pave the way for our youth to compete with the best from across the world." He said the policy emphasizes mother tongue/local language/regional language as the medium of instruction until Grade 5 which is certainly a welcome move. "This is crucial for children to develop critical thinking and literacy skills leading to better academic performance,"he said. However, the CPI alleged that the NEP has strayed away from the concept of universalisation of education and focused on creating "education markets". In a statement, the CPI said,"The RSS-led NDA government has approved the NEP." The policy brings with it a fundamental change in the system towards creating education markets and away from ensuring universalisation of education through government schools and rejecting quality education to poor and socially disadvantaged sections of the society, the statement said. It also alleged that the government bypassed Parliament and undermined federalism in formulating the policy and accused the central government of taking "unilateral decisions to aggressively push through its neo-liberal agenda including in the system of education". "CPI urges upon the government to have proper discussion on the policy in Parliament and also with the state governments which have the highest stake since education is on the Concurrent List," the statement added. Opposing the NEP, the CPI (M) alleged that it is a "unilateral drive to destroy Indian education". The party alleged that Parliament has been completely bypassed in the process of forming the policy. "The Polit Bureau of the CPI(M) strongly denounces the Union Cabinet decision to unilaterally impose a NEP and rename the Ministry of Human Resource Development," the CPI(M) said in a statement. "Education is in the Concurrent List in our Constitution. It is a gross violation by the Central government to impose the NEP unilaterally bypassing all the objections and opposition recorded by various state governments," it said. It also said that any new policy of such nature needs to be discussed in Parliament. According to Sengottaiyan, the Tamil Nadu goverment will respond to the NEP after a detailed discussion. The PMK contended there were many positive aspects in the NEP, and numerous negative aspects as well. PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said the proposal of students in classes 3, 5, and 8 taking school examinations to be conducted by the appropriate authority was unwarranted. "Conducting exams for students in Class 3, will cause mental stress and specifically affect students coming from rural areas and lead to drop-outs. There should not be any board exams till class 8," the Rajya Sabha member said. He also pointed out that the proposal on adopting a three-language policy was unacceptable and said though it was stated that the third language would be based on the student's choice, it appeared that only Sanskrit was given priority and it would lead to imposition of the language. Meanwhile, actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan tweeted, "Glad that Education is getting 6 percent share of GDP in the new education policy." "The immediate focus and reforms needed are in the healthcare sector now, which gets only 1 percent of GDP on an average. This share has to be increased to 7-8 percent if we want to grow as a healthy nation too," he said. MDMK founder and Rajya Sabha member Vaiko called for review of the policy, alleging that it was "against pluralism and federal principles".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-education-policy-2020-congress-left-parties-accuse-centre-of-bypassing-parliament-tdp-welcomes-policy-867664.html
30-07-2020||National||Committed to protect Kulbhushan Jadhav's life: India||India on Thursday said it was committed to protecting the life of Indian death row convict Kulbhushan Jadhav amid reports that the Islamabad High Court has constituted a two-member bench to hear a review petition in his case. "We stand committed to protect the life of Indian national Kulbhushan Jadhav," external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at an online media briefing. He was replying to a batch of questions relating to the case including reports that Islamabad High Court has constituted a bench to hear a review petition filed by the Pakistan government in the case. "We reserve our position in the matter which includes the right to avail of further remedies," Srivastava added. India has been attacking Pakistan for failing to provide it unhindered and unimpeded consular access to Jadhav as mandated in a judgment by the International Court of Justice. Srivastava said Pakistan has blocked all the avenues for an effective remedy available for India in the case. In a unilateral move, Pakistan filed the petition in the Islamabad High Court on July 22, seeking appointment of a "legal representative" for Jadhav. However, the main parties, including the Government of India, were not consulted ahead of the filing of the application by the Ministry of Law and Justice under an ordinance which was enacted on May 20. Jadhav, a 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017. India approached the International Court of Justice against Pakistan for denial of consular access to Jadhav and challenging the death sentence. The Hague-based ICJ ruled in July 2019 that Pakistan must undertake an "effective review and reconsideration" of the conviction and sentence of Jadhav and also to grant consular access to India without further delay. Pakistan enacted an ordinance called the 'International Court of Justice Review and Reconsideration Ordinance 2020' on May 20 under which a petition for the review of a military court's decision can be made to Islamabad High Court through an application within 60 days of its promulgation. The Pakistan government has claimed that Jadhav refused to file a review petition or an application to reconsider the verdict. According to Pakistani media reports, Islamabad High Court on Thursday constituted a two-member bench to hear the review petition filed by the Pakistan government in Jadhav's case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committed-to-protect-kulbhushan-jadhavs-life-india-867665.html
30-07-2020||National||Govt will seek floor test, MLAs being lured now with bigger bribes: Rajasthan CM Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday indicated that he will seek a confidence vote when the assembly convenes next fortnight and claimed that the money offered to the MLAs to switch sides had increased sharply ahead of the session. “The floor test will happen; we are going to the assembly. The BAC decides this,” he told reporters, referring to the assembly’s business advisory committee. He said the House will also discuss the coronavirus pandemic and the state's economy after the lockdown. Gehlot accused Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati of acting at the behest of the BJP, referring to her party's petition in the high court challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs with the Congress last year. The chief minister claimed that MLAs have been getting calls after Governor Kalraj Mishra agreed Wednesday night to convene a session from August 14. Gehlot said earlier the 'rate' was Rs 10 crore as the first instalment and Rs 15 crore as the second. “Now, it is being asked how much do you want? This means that the rate has increased. Everyone knows who is doing the horse-trading,” he said. Gehlot is trying to save his government after Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs rebelled. The Congress has accused the BJP of being behind the "conspiracy" to topple the state government. The chief minister said the rebels who have not accepted money should return to the party-fold. “I am not aware who all have taken the first instalment among those who had left. It is possible that some might not have taken it. I want them to come back,” he said. He said everyone is aware of the intentions of the dissidents. “They won elections on Congress tickets and their first duty is to stand with the government. They don't realise what people are thinking about them in their constituencies, and they will come to know that later,” he said. “Why are they playing in the lap of the BJP,” he asked. Gehlot said if the dissident MLAs had any complaints, they should have gone to the AICC office, instead of keeping away. He said BSP chief Mayawati's complaint about last year's merger of six BSP MLAs with that of his party was unjustified, since the entire group in the assembly switched sides. “It was not about two MLAs. All six MLAs merged, and according to their own conscience,” Gehlot said. He alleged that she was giving statements at the behest of the BJP because she is afraid of the party that is misusing the CBI, the Enforcement Directorate and the Income Tax department against everyone. The Rajasthan High Court on Thursday issued notices to the assembly Speaker, secretary and the six MLAs over the BSP's petition. Gehlot said the dissident Congress MLAs are at Manesar in Gurgaon and the Special Operations Group (SOG) of the Rajasthan police is unable to reach them. He claimed that Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat's name had cropped up in the “conspiracy” against his government. The chief minister said the SOG has started an investigation against him in a cooperative credit society scam, but the minister is yet to resign. He said the BJP and Union Home Minister Amit Shah should give up their 'intention' of toppling the elected government and instead try to save lives from coronavirus. “The state and the Centre should together work on this but, unfortunately, their priority is to topple governments,” he alleged. “People will not forgive the BJP for the situation they have created. We will not spare them and completely expose them in the state and the country,” he said. Gehlot said the BJP “conspiracy” to topple his government will not succeed and it will complete its five-year term. Including the 19 dissidents, the Congress has 11 MLAs in the 200-member assembly. The BJP has 72.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-will-seek-floor-test-mlas-being-lured-now-with-bigger-bribes-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-867690.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Uttar Pradesh Congress warns of agitation if help not extended to flood victims||Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu charged the state government on Thursday with neglecting the people hit by recurring floods and warned of an agitation if they were not extended help soon. "Instead of helping those hit every year by floods, the government only carries out aerial surveys. What benefit would the villagers get from it? They need monetary help and safe place to live and the government is not doing anything on these issues," Lallu said. He visited the areas prone to floods and said thousands of villagers are hit by floods and land erosion every year. "The ministers and others in the government need to listen to their problems and resolve them," Lallu said, adding they need ration, financial help and safe place to live. Lallu warned that if the government fails to take any concrete step in this direction, the Congress party would launch an agitation for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttar-pradesh-congress-warns-of-agitation-if-help-not-extended-to-flood-victims-867375.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Bypolls to two Rajya Sabha seats on August 24||Bypolls to two Rajya Sabha seats -- one each in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala -- will be held on August 24, the Election Commission announced on Thursday. The bypolls were necessitated following the death of  Beni Prasad Verma from UP and M P Veerendra Kumar from Kerala earlier this year. While the term of Verma was till July, 2022, Kumar's term was to end in April, 2022. The notification for the bypolls will be issued on August 6 and the election will be held on August 24. As per established practice, the counting of votes will be held on the same evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bypolls-to-two-rajya-sabha-seats-on-august-24-867397.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Narendra Modi's 'wrong' policies proved 'disastrous' for country: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday hit out at the Centre over its "wrong" policies, alleging that they have proved "disastrous" for the nation.  He shared on Twitter a post by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacking the Narendra Modi government over issues like demonetisation and GST. "PM Modi ji's wrong policies have proved disastrous for the nation. As RahulGandhi ji pointed out, be it noteban, GST implementation, mismanagement during corona or sinking economy and as a result job loss, there is overall gloom. Fear of 10 crore job losses is shocking," Gehlot tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narendra-modis-wrong-policies-proved-disastrous-for-country-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-867426.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Ten parties spent Rs 1,406.25 crore in Uttar Pradesh during Lok Sabha polls: Report||Ten national and regional parties spent Rs 1,406.25 crore in Uttar Pradesh during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, with the BJP incurring the highest expenditure of Rs 763.31 crore or 54.27 per cent of total spending, according to a report by a private election watchdog. The parties -- national parties BJP, Congress, BSP, NCP and CPI as well as regional parties Samajwadi Party, AAP, Shiv Sena, JD(U) and Forward Bloc -- had collected Rs 4,683.12 crore out of which Rs 68.03 crore were collected by state units of these political outfits. Of the 1,406.25 crore, the analysis by Association for Democratic Rights (ADR), only Rs 9.141 crore was spent by the UP state units of the parties, while the rest of the expenditure was met by their central leaderships. When it comes to spending, Congress follows BJP with a bill of Rs Rs 489.97 crore or 34.83 per cent of the total spending of ten parties. BSP's expenditure was Rs 55.39 crore or 3.94 per centm while the Samajwadi Party spent Rs 50.65 crore in the 2019 election. Of the 80 seats, BJP won 62 seats, while BSP won ten seats. NDA ally Apna Dal won two, and Congress won one seat. The analysis showed that Congress spent the most on publicity at Rs 402.918 crore, which was 49.55 per cent of the total expenditure of Rs 813.13 crore incurred by the ten parties on this count. BJP incurred an expenditure of Rs 376.62 crore, BSP spent Rs 11.14 crore, and SP spent Rs 5.07 crore. Under the head of publicity, the analysis said, the parties spent the maximum on media advertisement (Rs 696.80 crore or 85.69 per cent) followed by expenditure on publicity materials (Rs 95.856 crore or 11.79 per cent) and public meetings (Rs 20.473 crore or 2.52 per cent). Congress spent the highest on media advertisement at Rs 356.105 crore followed by BJP at Rs 327.25 crore. When it comes to travel expenses, BJP was on top at Rs 175.95 crore, followed by Congress at Rs 86.52 crore, BSP at Rs 44.21 crore, and SP at Rs 22.55 crore. The BJP spent the highest on travel of star campaigners at Rs 175.68 crore, followed by Congress at Rs 86.31 crore and BSP which spent Rs 44.217 crore. The BJP and Congress were the only parties that incurred expenditure on lumpsum amount paid to candidates from their UP state units of Rs 14.96 crore and Rs 31.5 crore respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ten-parties-spent-rs-140625-crore-in-uttar-pradesh-during-lok-sabha-polls-report-867487.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi calls for immediate release of Saifuddin Soz||Calling for immediate release of Jammu and Kashmir Congress leader Saifuddin Soz, Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said "illegal" detention of political leaders damages the fabric of the country. "The illegal detention of political leaders with absolutely no basis damages the fabric of our nation. Mr Soz must be released at once," Gandhi tweeted. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court took on record the Jammu and Kashmir administration's statement that former Union minister Soz was never placed under detention and disposed of his wife's plea seeking his release. The former Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) president on Thursday said that he has decided to sue the government for his "unlawful" house arrest. Gandhi has been critical of the government's handling of the Jammu and Kashmir situation and detention of political leaders since August 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-calls-for-immediate-release-of-saifuddin-soz-867586.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Hike in horse-trading 'rates' after announcement of Assembly session: Rajasthan CM||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday claimed that the "rates of horse trading" in the state have increased after it was announced that the Assembly session would begin from August 14. “After the assembly session was announced last night, the rates of horse trading have increased. Earlier, the first instalment was of Rs 10 crore and second was of Rs 15 crore. Now it has become unlimited and all know who is doing horse trading,” Gehlot told reporters. Targeting Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati for her statements against him, Gehlot accused the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister of acting at the behest of the BJP. Her complaining is not justified, Gehlot said. The deadlock over convening the Rajasthan Assembly ended on Wednesday with Governor Kalraj Mishra agreeing to call a session from August 14. The Raj Bhawan announcement came a couple of hours after the Ashok Gehlot Cabinet sent a fourth proposal to the Governor for summoning the Rajasthan Assembly, mentioning August 14 as the new date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hike-in-horse-trading-rates-after-announcement-of-assembly-session-rajasthan-cm-867591.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Biggest single-day spike of 6,128 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||Karnataka on Thursday reported the biggest single-day spike of 6,128 new cases of Covid-19 and 83 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1,18,632 and the death toll to 2,230, the health department said. The day also saw a record 3,793 patients getting discharged after recovery. Of the fresh cases reported today, a whopping 2,233 cases were from Bengaluru urban alone. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on July 28 with 5,536 cases. As of July 30 evening, cumulatively 1,18,632 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 2,230 deaths and 46,694 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 69,700 active cases, 69,080 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 620 are in ICU. According to the bulletin, 22 out of 83 deaths reported on Thursday are from Bengaluru urban, followed by Mysuru (9), Dharwad (8), Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada (7), Hassan (6), Udupi and Belagavi (4), Bagalote, Uttara Kannada, Bidar, Kolar (2), and Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Gadag, Davangere, Koppal, Yadgir and Haveri (1). Most of the dead are either with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) or Influenza-like illness (ILI). Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru urban accounted for 2,233, Mysuru 430, Ballari 343, Udupi 248, Bengaluru Rural 224, Kalaburagi 220, Belagavi 202, Dakshina Kannada 198, Dharwad 180, followed by others. Bengaluru urban district tops the list of positive cases, with 53,324 infections, followed by Ballari 6,063 and Dakshina Kannada 5,504. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with 15,791 discharges, followed by Ballari 2,566 and Dakshina Kannada 2,561. A total of 13,13,856 samples were tested so far, out of which 38,095 were tested on Thursday alone. Among the samples tested today 20,488 were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/biggest-single-day-spike-of-6128-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-867602.html
30-07-2020||National Politics||Bring back Rahul as Congress President: Party's Rajya Sabha members tell Sonia Gandhi||The clamour for bringing back Rahul Gandhi as Congress president grew louder as a group of Rajya Sabha members raised the demand at a virtual meeting with party chief Sonia Gandhi. Former chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Digvijaya Singh raised the demand and Singh’s call was echoed by new entrants to the Upper House Shaktisinh Gohil, Neeraj Dangi, Deepender Hooda besides Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora. The Congress president did not respond to the ‘bring back Rahul’ demand and chose to remain silent. Amid calls for rebuilding the party under Rahul’s leadership, AICC treasurer Ahmed Patel asked the Congress president to involve Rajya Sabha members in organisational affairs by giving them greater responsibility. The demand for involving party seniors in organisational affairs assumes significance as the Congress battles a revolt in Rajasthan due to differences between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his young former deputy Sachin Pilot. Sonia Gandhi had returned as Congress President in August last year after Rahul quit the post accepting responsibility for the defeat in the Lok Sabha elections and blaming party veterans for not backing him enough. Earlier this month, a similar demand was raised by members of the Lok Sabha during an interaction with the Congress President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bring-back-rahul-as-congress-president-partys-rajya-sabha-members-tell-sonia-gandhi-867652.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Abrogation of Article 370 Hindutva agenda of BJP: Iltija Mufti||Iltija Mufti, the 32-year-old daughter of former Chief Minister and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, has been very vocal on Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 and detention of her mother since last August. In an exclusive interview with Zulfikar Majid of Deccan Herald, she says BJP was trying to push its Hindutva agenda in the only Muslim-majority state of the country and people of Kashmir were being punished because they were Muslims. Q: The BJP government said that revocation of Article 370 was necessary to end militancy, separatism and corruption and bring development and jobs to J&K. How would you react to it one year down the line?  It was part of BJP’s Hindutva agenda. J&K is the only Muslim majority state of India. Maybe we are paying the price for being Muslims and Kashmiris. Both of us live in Kashmir and facts are before all of us to see. When you talk about development, Jammu and Kashmir has always been placed very strongly on the development index because we had separate constitution, own laws and veto laws. If Parliament wanted to bring some law to J&K which was not in its interests, we had the right to veto it. The development thing is all bogus, there is no development. The investors’ summit they (BJP) are talking about has been postponed indefinitely. And there has been a surge in militancy and you don’t have to be a genius to figure that out. Only last month, a BJP leader (in Bandipora) was killed along with his family despite having huge security. That whole militancy narrative has fallen apart and logic for that is simple. If you obliterate the middle ground, it is very natural for young boys to get attracted towards militancy. On all fronts the BJP has failed massively. And it is no coincidence that the Prime Minister has chosen August 5 to inaugurate Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. Q: How do you view the new domicile rules? When I last year said that Delhi wants to engineer a demographic change here, I was abused and termed as a paranoid. Everybody said it is far-fetched and not going to happen. But if you look at it, they (Delhi) imposed domicile rules on people of J&K in the middle of (Covid-19) pandemic. Why would you pass an order which is going to cause so much distress to people who are already under double lockdown during night? I would say what they want in Kashmir is cultural genocide. I say this with full responsibility. We know what China did in Tibet. Today if you go to Tibet, there is no Tibetan culture. People have been driven out. Delhi wants to replicate that here. And they also probably want to do the Gaza model here. They are imitating Israel in a lot of ways. But Kashmir is not Palestine. I think the agenda of BJP is to obliterate our identity and wipe out our culture to make sure Kashmiris don’t exist. Q: Do you want to say that BJP’s plan is to change the demography of J&K? Demographic changes don’t happen in a week or two. It takes five, ten years. If you think there is no demographic change, you are wrong. The people who are being given domiciles, their children are going to come here, buy land and settle here. The Army has occupied huge parts of Kashmir, now they have permission to build anywhere. What is the business of the army to be here and occupy such huge parts of land which belongs to people? They want to obliterate our sense of identity, and it’s pretty obvious.  Q: What scope is left for the regional political parties like the PDP and the NC after abrogation of Article 370? The PDP’s politics revolved around self-rule while NC’s around autonomy. Is it all over? Nothing is ever redundant in history. If you look at the BJP, they had two or three members in the Parliament during 1980’s. Obviously now what they have gotten now is through unfair means, but what I am trying to say that history is not linear. And especially when it comes to J&K, it has an external dimension which you can’t ignore. Earlier, we would say it is a bilateral issue, now it is a trilateral issue. It is very immature and premature to say that regional parties are written off.  But having said that, we need to move beyond mainstream parties. These domicile laws will apply to everybody in J&K. We are talking about preserving our history, our legacy, our collective identity. So we really need to stop focusing on mainstream parties. Yes mainstream parties have to take the first step, but to take it completely on their head, it is slightly unfair. Q: BJP has been accusing both the PDP and the NC of being responsible for the situation Kashmir is presently in. How would you react to this allegation? When they went with the NC in 2001, was the NC a different family then. When they pushed the PDP for an alliance (in 2015) was there a different family and different people incharge of the party. BJP does power politics and whatever suits them they do that. In the past year, Mehbooba Mufti is a jihadi, she is not a moderate. She is almost as good as a terrorist. She is a Pakistani sympathizer. Wasn’t she (Mehbooba) a Pakistani sympathizer when she was heading the PDP-BJP alliance in J&K? That time she is ‘abla nari’ and when detained she becomes Pakistan sympathizer! Q: Apart from revocation of Article 370, return of Kashmiri Pandits was also in the election manifesto of the BJP. Article 370 has gone but Pandits have not returned? What is your view? I am not surprised at it. Kashmiri Pandits are our brothers and sisters and Kashmir is incomplete without its minorities. I feel very sad for them having to leave. But the pain of Kashmir Pandits has been weaponized and used to justify the collective punishment which has been unleashed on us. This (Article 370) had nothing to do with the Kashmiri Pandits coming and settling here. Can we have numbers? No you (BJP) are not going to give any numbers. Even if they give numbers they will be fudged like they do with GDP and pandemic numbers. Q: How does your mother feel about the events of the last one year in J&K? Do you talk to her about all this? She is very distressed at whatever is happening here. She has been saying this is to disempower us, to push the Hindutva agenda in the only Muslim-majority state. We are being punished because we are Kashmiris and we are Muslim. BJP has no tolerance for dissent. The threshold for dissent is very low. Q: What do you think is the reason for Mehbooba Mufti’s continuing detention while other leaders have been released in the recent months? See I can’t say about other leaders because that will be unfair. But yes I will say they (BJP) want to make an example out of my mother. If you followed the developments of Kashmir for the past one year, you will see that she has been humiliated and she is the only main politician who is still detained under PSA. Her party (PDP) has been broken into pieces and all this has been orchestrated in New Delhi.  They (BJP) used NIA, police and CID to blackmail PDP members. The message is very clear and loud from the government of India that if you (Mehbooba) don’t fall in line, this is what is going to happen to you. But having said that she is a strong person and she isn't going to be the first person to blink. Q: Recently you tweeted that the government isn’t allowing you to visit your grandfather’s grave while other leaders are being allowed to visit Pahalgam and Gulmarg. Do you want to say the BJP govt is stricter towards you and the PDP than say against the NC and its leaders? I am not even a politician and I am being denied to visit my grandfather’s grave to offer prayers and the government gives security as a reason. When Union MOS Jitendra Singh, (BJP National General Secretary) Ram Madhavji and others visit different areas of Kashmir, you don’t have security issues. These are silly excuses. Actually they have scuttled my freedom. When I tried to call a press conference in January, it was also scuttled. I guess I am paying the price for being so vocal and critical and obviously being the daughter of Mehbooba Mufti I will have to pay a price.  Q: Do you hope that the special status of J&K will be restored someday? Right now people here feel very dejected. But nothing is settled in stone. At the end of the day, even BJP can’t predict what was going to happen next. Last year they had no clue that China will occupy territory in Ladakh. Change can happen anytime. Revolutions don’t come seeking permissions. Clearly the narrative has slipped out of BJP’s hands. Q: What in your opinion should be the reference point to regional political parties to start political activities in J&K? I am not a leader to speak about this issue. But I would say New Delhi would enjoy any division in the ranks of regional political parties in J&K. I don’t think we should give any chance to New Delhi to do that. If I would be a leader I would make ‘Gupkar declaration’ (the last document that was forged collectively by all the J&K parties on August 4, 2019 at Farooq Abdullah’s home on Gupkar Road) as a reference point. Do you think people of Kashmir are still angry with the PDP for its alliance with the BJP in 2015? It will be unfair for me to comment on this issue. Only my mother and grandfather know how difficult the situation was then. In today’s India survival of a BJP government in different states you know how difficult it is. If Congress had won Jammu that time, the PDP could have gone with the Congress. But you know how difficult it would have been to ignore Jammu where BJP had got a huge mandate. My grandfather took this decision keeping in mind people’s welfare as BJP had this huge sweeping mandate (at the Centre).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abrogation-of-article-370-hindutva-agenda-of-bjp-iltija-mufti-867265.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||'There's nothing like fear in my life': Covid-19-hit Madhya Pradesh minister||Just four days ahead of getting infected with coronavirus, Madhya Pradesh Water Resources Minister Tulsi Silawat had boasted, there is nothing like fear in my life, when asked about intense tours of his constituency Sanver in Indore district. A video carrying the statement of Silawat went viral on social media on Wednesday, hours before the BJP leader, on late Tuesday night, had shared information on his Twitter handle about he and his wife getting infected with coronavirus. The video was of July 24 when Silawat, accompanied by officials, was holding a 'chaupal' (meeting in a village), in the Sanver area near here to redress problems of local residents. When journalists asked him whether he was not afraid of coronavirus, the minister is heard replying in the video, Listen, there is nothing like fear in my life. The person in (referring to himself) front of you has taken such a big decision, left the minister ship, MLAs post and even Congress...is he afraid of anything?" Pointing a finger towards the sky, the minister said, I am afraid of only one thing (God). Silawat, who was surrounded by his supporters, said he wears mask and adheres to social distancing norms. Meanwhile, the nodal officer for the prevention of Covid-19 in Indore, Amit Malakar, said the water resources minister and his wife are asymptomatic and as per protocols they are quarantined at home. Silawat also took part in the virtual cabinet meeting from the NIC centre in the Indore collectorate on Tuesday, hours before getting coronavirus positive report. Silawat was among nearly two dozen Congress MLAs who quit the party and joined the BJP in March this year. He became a minister when the BJP formed government. He has to get elected in bypoll to keep his ministership. The BJP minister is likely to contest bypoll from Sanver, the constituency from which he was elected on a Congress ticket in 2018. Ahead of the crucial by-election, he had been extensively touring the assembly segment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/theres-nothing-like-fear-in-my-life-covid-19-hit-madhya-pradesh-minister-867274.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Doctor who was mastermind in over 50 murder cases arrested in Delhi||An Ayurvedic doctor who was allegedly a mastermind in over 50 murder cases of truck and taxi drivers across the city and neighbouring states was arrested from Baprola area where he was living after jumping parole in January, police said on Wednesday. Citing previous media reports, the police claimed he may have been involved in more than 100 murder cases but could not confirm the exact figure as the cases registered against him in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan were investigated by the state police concerned. Devender Sharma, 62, a BAMS degree holder, hailed from Purreni village in Uttar Pradesh's Aligrah district and he was apprehended by Delhi Police's Crime Branch team on Tuesday, six months after jumping parole in a murder case, they said. The police said Sharma was convicted in several cases of kidnapping and murder. He was arrested twice earlier for running a fake gas agency in Uttar Pradesh and was also jailed for running a kidney racket in different states. "Sharma was serving life sentence in Central Jail, Jaipur in a murder case and was out on parole for 20 days in January this year after spending 16 years in jail. But he jumped parole and stayed at his native village for a while before moving to Delhi in the beginning of March. "Earlier, he was living in the house of an acquaintance at Mohan Garden and then, he moved to Baprola where he married a widow. Our team arrested him after we received information about his hideout on Tuesday," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Rakesh Paweriya. Sharma had come to Delhi with the intention of starting afresh and got married to his distant relative who knew about his criminal background, he said. He then entered property business and was currently meditating in the sale of one Marshal House located at Connaught Place to a property dealer in Jaipur, hey added. His interrogation started on Tuesday and continued till Wednesday morning and he remained very calm and cooperated with the team. In fact, he disclosed the details about his previous involvement in crime himself, the police official said. During interrogation, he also confessed to being the mastermind of more than 50 murders He was arrested for several murder cases reported in 2002-2004 but was convicted only in only six-seven cases. His wife and children left him in 2004 after they came to know about his activities, he added. When police questioned Sharma about the media reports, he told them that he had lost count after 50 murders and it had become difficult for him to remember the exact number of the killings executed till date. Sharma received his BAMS degree from Siwan, Bihar, and he started his clinic in 1984 in Jaipur. Later in 1992, he invested Rs 11 lakh in a gas dealership scheme but was cheated and suffered a financial crisis. So in 1995, he started a fake gas agency at Chhara village in Aligarh and later got involved in criminal activities, he said. In 1994, Sharma also got involved in an interstate kidney transplant racket which was running in Jaipur, Ballabhgarh, Gurgaon and other places. He and several other doctors were arrested in 2004 in the Gurgaon kidney racket case, the officer said. From 1994 to 2004, he claimed to have carried out more than illegal 125 kidney transplants done for which he got Rs five to seven lakh per case, he said. In 2001, he once again started a fake gas agency at Amroha but got arrested again. After closure of his fake gas agency, he went to Jaipur and ran a clinic there till 2003. During this period, he got in touch with his accomplices who used to hire taxis to Aligarh and then killed the drivers at secluded places and dumped their bodies in crocodile infested waters in Hazara Canal, Kashganj. "His accomplices robbed trucks carrying LPG cylinders by killing the driver. They unloaded the trucks in his fake gas agency and then the robbed truck would be dismantled in Meerut," the DCP said. In some cases, he sold the robbed taxi to customers at Kashganj and earned Rs 20,000-25,000 for every such sale, he said. The Jaipur police have been informed about the arrest and the custody of the accused will be handed over through court, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doctor-who-was-mastermind-in-over-50-murder-cases-arrested-in-delhi-867280.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Working to create education system where students learn to become job providers, not job seekers: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government has been working to create an education system where students learn to become job providers, instead of job seekers. "There is some problem with our education system. The moment we exit from our school, we start looking for jobs. We want to change this mindset," he said during a live interaction with principals and students of classes 9 to 12 on entrepreneurship mindset. "You don't have to be a job seeker, but you have to become a job provider. We want to inculcate this in the mindset of children. This cannot be taught in theory. This is the reason, we call small, medium, and big entrepreneurs to take these sessions and inspire students," he said. When a student asked why cannot all the work in India be done in mother tongue like in Japan and China, Kejriwal said that one cannot ignore the current situation. "The British left the country, but the British system continued. We did not even change the education system. There are few who go against the system and create their unique identity. Otherwise, our system is such that we can only produce clerks," he said. Today, a child who knows English has a better chance of landing a good job with global exposure. Therefore, it is not possible to change this system in a day and implement Hindi everywhere, he said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said learning any language is a skill, but "our mother tongue Hindi is our pride. We should not feel shy to speak in our mother tongue". He said that after the coronavirus crisis subsides, a variety of new opportunities will arise in the field of entrepreneurship. Business Arjun Malhotra, who was the chief guest of the session, said, "Behind any successful person is his value system. It is his value system that takes that person to different levels.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/working-to-create-education-system-where-students-learn-to-become-job-providers-not-job-seekers-cm-kejriwal-867284.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Prepare 'lockdown-minus' plan to tackle Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||As he recuperates in hospital after diagnosed with Covid-19, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday asked officials to prepare a strategy to control spread of the viral infection without resorting to lockdown. He reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state, which has recorded more than 30,000 cases so far, through video- conferencing from his hospital bed here. Speaking at the video meeting, Chouhan told officials that a strategy should be put in place to effectively control the coronavirus spread without resorting to wide-ranging curbs on public and business activities. He said the strategy to tackle Covid-19 should be lockdown-minus. Chouhan said, We also have to speed up growth of the states economy. For this, we need to make the public fully aware of Covid-19 and ensure the best treatment regime (for those infected). He said the budget of some other heads (departments) could be reduced, but there will be no shortage of funds for the prevention and treatment of coronavirus. Chouhan suggested ramping up antigen tests for speedy detection of coronavirus patients. This will be especially useful for tracing asymptomatic patients. A 10-day lockdown is in force in Bhopal from July 25. Lockdown of different duration has been announced in some other districts. Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day spike of 917 coronavirus cases, 199 of them in Bhopal, taking the infection count in the state to 30,134, health officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/prepare-lockdown-minus-plan-to-tackle-covid-19-in-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-867286.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Congress targets BJP-ruled SDMC over professional, property taxes||The Congress on Wednesday attacked the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), saying its decisions to levy professional tax and hike property transfer fee were contrary to the promises made in the 2017 election manifesto. Addressing a press conference, Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar warned of an agitation if the decisions were not reversed. The SDMC on Monday approved levying of professional tax on salaried individuals and others, and a hike in property transfer tax. No reaction of the Delhi BJP was immediately available on the issue. The Delhi Congress president said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given a call to create an "Atmanirbhar Bharat" (self-sufficient India), but the BJP was "discouraging" the idea through taxes. Kumar said that for the first time in Delhi, professional tax is being levied, whereas the BJP had promised in its 2017 municipal corporation election manifesto that there would be no new taxes. Kumar demanded that the BJP government at the Centre and the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi should announce a special financial package for the municipal corporations to help them tide over their financial problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-targets-bjp-ruled-sdmc-over-professional-property-taxes-867287.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Power employees oppose any move to privatise Uttar Pradesh discom||A body of power department employees on Wednesday said it has written to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath opposing any move to privatise discom Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam (PVVNL). It is one of the five power distribution companies which are wholly owned subsidiaries of the UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL). Privatisation of any discom is unacceptable to the Vidyut Karmachari Sanyukta Sangharsh Samiti. Therefore, it has requested the chief minister to cancel any such proposal, an official of the Samiti said. “Shailendra Dubey, the convenor of Samiti, through a letter to the chief minister, has requested him to cancel the proposal of privatising Purvanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam," V P Singh, state president of Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Parishad Abhiyanta Sangh and member of the Samiti, told reporters. "Any move to privatise the discom would be a violation of an agreement between Sangharsh Samiti and management of power corporation that was reached in the presence of state power minister Srikant Sharma," said Prabhat Singh, state secretary Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Parishad Abhiyanta Sangh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-employees-oppose-any-move-to-privatise-uttar-pradesh-discom-867296.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi cabinet slashes VAT on diesel from 30% to 16.75%, price down by Rs 8.36||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Thursday announced a reduction in the Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel from the existing 30 per cent to 16.75 per cent, saying the move will help propel Delhi's economy. The diesel price will be reduced by Rs 8.36 in Delhi due to the VAT cut, Kejriwal said in a virtual press briefing. He said there was a serious challenge of reviving the economy of Delhi but it will be achieved together with cooperation of people. The diesel price will now come down from Rs 82 a litre to Rs 73.64 a litre, he said and added that traders and industrialists in the city had demanded it. The decision was taken in a meeting of the Delhi Cabinet chaired by the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cabinet-slashes-vat-on-diesel-from-30-to-1675-price-down-by-rs-836-867381.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||India adds 35,000 troops on China border amid tensions simmer||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen,  India is positioning an additional 35,000 troops along its disputed Himalayan border with China as the possibility of an early resolution to the deadly tensions between the two neighbours fades. The move would change the status quo along the contested 3,488 kilometers (2,162 miles) Line of Actual Control and stretch the nation’s already tight military budget, senior Indian officials said, asking not to be identified citing rules on speaking to the media. Twenty Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese troops were killed in an ugly skirmish on June 15 and since then, both sides have rushed thousands of soldiers, artillery guns and tanks to the region. With India-China border agreements not holding, the situation required additional troops, the officials said. “The nature of the Line of Control, at least in Ladakh, has changed forever,” the director of Delhi-based think-tank The United Service Institution of India and retired major general, B K Sharma said. “Additional troops rushed by either side will not move back, unless there is a rapprochement at the highest political level.” For now, the skirmishes have stopped. And after several rounds of high-level military talks, Beijing said troops were disengaging in most locations. “Currently the two sides are actively preparing for the fifth round of commander-level talks to resolve outstanding issues on the ground,” China Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a regular briefing in Beijing on Tuesday. “We hope the Indian side will work towards the same goal with China, implement the two sides’ consensus and jointly uphold peace and tranquility along the border.” The Indian Army did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Stretched Budget The extra deployment to eastern Ladakh comes as the Indian Army is heavily committed -- from protecting the 742 kilometers (460 miles) disputed border with Pakistan, to counter-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir and northeastern states and monitoring every ingress point along its border with China. Positioning additional troops where temperatures drop to minus 30 degrees Celsius (-22 Fahrenheit) in the winters will severely test the Indian Army’s logistics capabilities. Extreme cold limits the construction of shelters for troops and equipment in the Himalayas to the summer months. Fuel, food, medicines and equipment are moved in advance to the area through two roads which close by December, increasing the difficulty further. Strengthening border defences comes at huge cost and places new pressure on the nation’s military modernization program. While New Delhi is the world’s third-biggest military spender, its air force, navy and the army are still equipped with weapons that are largely obsolete. About 60% of defence spending goes to paying salaries for India’s 1.3 million soldiers -- one of the world’s largest standing armies. What’s left is spent on past purchases, leaving the forces with obsolete equipment and not enough ammunition. “The additional commitment in Ladakh would put further pressure on serviceability, research and development and capital expenditure as revenue cost rise,” Laxman Kumar Behera, a senior research fellow at the Delhi based think-tank Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses said. “It will be painful if the defence budget isn’t increased.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-adds-35000-troops-on-china-border-amid-tensions-simmer-867389.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Sushant Singh Rajput case getting murkier, better if CBI steps in: Mayawati||BSP president Mayawati on Thursday said the Sushant Singh Rajput death case was getting "murkier" by the day, and favoured a CBI probe into the matter to ensure justice for the bereaved family. Sushant, 34, was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 and since then the Mumbai police has been probing the case keeping in mind various angles. The actor had starred in films such as "Chichhore", "Kai Po Che" and "Kedarnath". Mayawati also said that the Maharashtra government should be serious about conducting the probe in the case. "The case of death of young actor of Bihar origin Sushant Singh Rajput is getting murkier following new facts emerging every day and his father filing an FIR with Patna police. Now it would be better if the case was investigated by the CBI instead of Maharashtra and Bihar police," the BSP leader said in a tweet. On the basis of a complaint lodged by the deceased actor's father, an FIR was lodged against actress Rhea Chakraborty and six others on July 25 under various sections of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) including those pertaining to abetment of suicide and fraud, Inspector General of Police, Patna Zone, Sanjay Singh had told PTI. Mayawati further said, "Because of the different stance taken by Congress leaders of Maharashtra and Bihar in Sushant Rajput incident, it seems that their real purpose is to first fulfil their political interests... Maharashtra government should be serious". The case in which the Mumbai police has been busy quizzing Bollywood’s big producers and directors like Mahesh Bhatt, Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Aditya Chopra and others to know the reasons behind the untimely demise of the young actor suddenly took a new turn with Rajput’s father lodging the FIR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushant-singh-rajput-case-getting-murkier-better-if-cbi-steps-in-mayawati-867406.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Gangster Vikas Dubey's close aide surrenders in Uttar Pradesh court||Slain gangster Vikas Dubey's close aide Gopal Saini, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on him, surrendered before a special court in Kanpur Dehat on Wednesday, a government counsel said. The Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force (STF) and Kanpur Police were on the lookout for Saini since July 3 after eight policemen, including Deputy SP Devendra Kumar Mishra, were ambushed in Bikru village in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey and fell to bullets fired from rooftops, said an official. District Government Counsel (criminal) Raju Porwal told PTI that Gopal Saini, accused in the killing of eight policemen, surrendered before the special court (UP dacoity-affected area) at Maati in Kanpur Dehat. Saini's advocate had moved an application for his surrender before the court, Porwal said but did not elaborate on the details of the application.   Superintendent of Police (rural), Brajesh Srivastava confirmed that Gopal Saini has surrendered before the court in Kanpur Dehat. "We have decided to move an application before the court requesting for his police custody so that he can be questioned properly and information about other members of Vikas Dubey's gang who are still evading arrest can be obtained," he said. Initially, a cash reward of Rs 50,000 was announced on Saini but it was later increased to Rs 1 lakh, the police officer said. Dubey was shot dead in an encounter on the outskirts of Kanpur on July 10. Earlier, five members of the Dubey gang were killed in separate encounters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gangster-vikas-dubeys-close-aide-surrenders-in-uttar-pradesh-court-867433.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Names of soldiers killed in Galwan clash to be inscribed on National War Memorial||The names of 20 Indian Army personnel, who were killed after valiantly fighting Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15, will be inscribed on the National War Memorial here, officials said on Thursday. They said the process for inscribing the names of the Army personnel on the memorial may take a few months. Chinese and Indian troops clashed in Galwan Valley for several hours on the night of June 15 in their deadliest brawl in the last five decades. Colonel B Santosh Babu, the commanding officer of the 16 Bihar regiment, was among the Indian Army personnel killed in the clash The incident significantly escalated the border tension in eastern Ladakh with India calling it "a premeditated and planned action by China" The Chinese soldiers used stones, nail-studded sticks, iron rods and clubs in carrying out brutal attacks on Indian soldiers after they protested the erection of a surveillance post by China around patrolling point 14 in Galwan Valley. China has not disclosed the number of casualties its troops suffered. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35. During a visit to Lukung forward post in eastern Ladakh on July 17, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh personally conveyed his appreciation and compliments to the troops from the Bihar regiment for displaying exemplary grit and courage in fighting the Chinese troops. In his address to the soldiers, the defence minister said the Indian soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash not only showed exemplary courage in safeguarding the border but also protected the pride of 130 crore Indians. Last month, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane awarded 'Commendation Cards' to five soldiers for their bravery in dealing with Chinese troops during the Galwan Valley clash as well as confronting rival soldiers in Pangong Tso in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/names-of-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-clash-to-be-inscribed-on-national-war-memorial-867440.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||NIA raids arrested truck driver’s house in narco-militancy case||The National Investigation Agency on Thursday carried out a raid at the residence of a man arrested in Amritsar, in an alleged narco-militancy case. Sources said NIA sleuths carried out a raid in Nowgam, Khandaypora area of Awantipora in south Kashmir's Pulwama district at the residence of Hilal Ahmad Wagay, a truck driver, who was arrested on April 26 in Amritsar. Wagay was claimed to have been arrested with Rs 29 lakh cash by Punjab Police and the case was later taken over by the NIA which established links between Wagay and Ranjit Singh, a notorious narco-militant, who was arrested from Sirsa area of Haryana in May this year. The NIA says Ranjit Singh was a close aide of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen chief, Riyaz Naikoo, who was killed by security forces in Pulwama in May. Singh was involved in the Hizbul terror-financing module run by Wagay. The NIA had registered a case in June last year and filed the first charge sheet against 15 people, including Singh, and four companies, in December the same year. The module was being run through narcotics smuggled into India along with rock salt imported from Pakistan. The NIA said that the investigation found evidence that “Pakistan-based militant organisations were using narcotic trade to generate funds for militant activities in India.” “The proceeds of narcotic trade are transferred to Kashmir valley through couriers and Hawala channel for militancy purposes,” the NIA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-raids-arrested-truck-driver-s-house-in-narco-militancy-case-867443.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Plea in HC against appointment of Delhi Minorities Commission chairman||The Delhi High Court Thursday sought response of the Centre, AAP government and Lieutenant Governor's office on a plea seeking that no one be appointed to the post of Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chairman which fell vacant recently. The application has contended that since the constitutional validity of the DMC Act is under challenge in the high court, no one be appointed to head the commission until the matter is decided. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and LG's office and sought their stand on the application by August 31 when the main petition is also listed for hearing. The court also directed the three to file their replies to the main petition before the next date of hearing. The application has been filed by Vikram Gahlot, a social worker, who in his main petition has challenged the constitutional validity of the Act under which the commission has been set up. Advocate Dhananjai Jain, appearing for Gahlot, told the court that as the constitutional validity of the Act is under challenge, no one ought to be appointed to head the commission. The constitutional validity of the DMC Act was challenged in the wake of certain controversial social media posts made by the commission's former chairman -- Zafarul Islam Khan. Khan's tenure ended recently, the court was informed. Gahlot, in his petition, has contended that the Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the powers to enact the DMC Act and therefore, the statute be declared ultra vires of the Constitution and struck down. He has also contended that since the Act was not valid, the appointments made under it, including that of the chairman, would also be invalid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-in-hc-against-appointment-of-delhi-minorities-commission-chairman-867456.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party meeting at Jaipur hotel underway||A meeting of the Rajasthan Congress Legislature Party has started at a hotel on the outskirts of Jaipur where party legislators and supporters are holed up, sources said. It was to start around 10 am but got delayed by three hours as the party's core group chalked out its strategy ahead of the CLP meeting, Congress sources said. The meeting was called after Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra gave his consent to a proposal by the Ashok Gehlot Cabinet to call an assembly session from August 14. The governor had turned down three earlier proposals, saying if the government wanted the assembly summoned at a short notice it should state that it planned to hold a vote of confidence. Or, it should give 21 days' notice to call and assembly session, Mishra had said. Gehlot is caught in a tussle for power with his now-sacked deputy Sachin Pilot, who leads a group of 18 other dissident Congress MLAs. On July 12, Pilot declared open rebellion against Gehlot by claiming that his government was in a minority and he has the support of 30 Congress MLAs. And on July 13, Congress legislators and supporters were huddled into the hotel. They have been camping there since then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-congress-legislature-party-meeting-at-jaipur-hotel-underway-867457.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi airport to relocate UV sanitization tunnels to inline baggage handling system||Delhi airport will relocate ultraviolet tunnels installed outside the departure terminal to sanitize passengers' luggage amid the Covid-19 pandemic to the inline baggage handling system, its operator DIAL said on Thursday. Once the new system is put in place, passengers will not have to queue up at the departure forecourt area and go through manual loading and unloading of baggage. Before resumption of domestic passenger flights in May, the Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) had installed eight UV tunnels outside the entry gates in the departure forecourt area of Terminal 3. "Flyers used to sanitize their baggage before entering the terminal to board their flight. The decision to shift these UV tunnels was taken after passenger queues were observed during peak hours," the GMR group-led DIAL said in a press statement. "The DIAL has planned to relocate UV tunnels at the inline baggage handling system by the end of this month. As all departure luggage are routed through it, hence it will ensure sanitisation of all check-in baggage," it said. The flyers can directly go to the check-in counter, drop their baggage and the inline system will ensure their sanitisation automatically, the release said. All passenger flights are currently being operated from Delhi airport's Terminal 3 due to less air traffic amid the pandemic. India resumed domestic passenger flights from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the pandemic. Airlines have been allowed to operate only a maximum of 45 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. However, occupancy rate in Indian domestic flights has been around 50-60 per cent since May 25.  Earlier this month, India had formed bilateral air bubbles with countries like the UAE, the US, Germany and France that allows airlines of both the countries in the pact to operate special international charter flights under certain restrictions. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the pandemic. All airlines in India have taken cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firings of employees in order to conserve cash. Since May 6, international charter flights have been operated by Air India under the Vande Bharat Mission to help stranded people reach their destinations. Private carriers have also operated a certain number of flights under this mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-airport-to-relocate-uv-sanitization-tunnels-to-inline-baggage-handling-system-867465.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Militants target Army vehicle in Pulwama, no casualties||Militants on Thursday opened fire at an Army vehicle in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said  There was no loss of life in the attack. The ultras opened fire on the vehicle of the Army at Drubgam Payeen in Pulwama and fled from the spot,  a police official said. Security forces have cordoned off the area and launched a search for the militants, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-target-army-vehicle-in-pulwama-no-casualties-867466.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||J&K govt allots land to build transit accommodation for migrant Kashmiri Pandit employees||Ahead of the first anniversary of the abrogation of special status, the Jammu and Kashmir government has cleared the process to establish special colonies for the migrant Kashmiri Pandit (KP) employees in restive south Kashmir district Shopian. A J&K government order No 42-JK (Rev) of 2020, issued by Principal Secretary to Revenue Department, reads: “Sanction is hereby accorded to the transfer of land measuring 40 kanals (five acres), consisting of State land …. in favour of Department of Disaster Management, Relief, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction for construction of transit accommodation for Kashmiri Migrant employees under PM Package.”  The order was passed in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic on 24 April 2020. The proposed colony is to be established in village Deegam of Shopian, 55 kms from here, for the migrant Pandit employees. More than 255 Kashmiri Pandits have joined government service in Jammu and Kashmir since a special package was announced for the displaced community by the Centre in November 2015. Under the package, involving an estimated expenditure of Rs 2,000 Crore additional 3,000 government jobs and construction of transit accommodations in Kashmir for the Kashmiri migrants have to be provided. Under a similar package in 2008, 1,474 government jobs were provided to the migrant Pandits. As per the official figures, there are 64827 registered migrant families comprising 60489 Hindu families, 2,609 Muslim families and 1,729 Sikh families. Providing jobs to displaced people from Valley is being done under a two pronged strategy by the government. Besides providing a livelihood to displaced families, the government wants to provide the chance to displaced families to link back to their roots. A few lakh Pandits left their ancestral homes in 1990 and migrated to Jammu and other parts of the country when a bloody insurgency broke out in Kashmir in 1990.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-govt-allots-land-to-build-transit-accommodation-for-migrant-kashmiri-pandit-employees-867468.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh cabinet expanded, three ministers inducted||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet was expanded on Thursday with the induction of three ministers, the first expansion of the Jai Ram Thakur-led government since it came to power in 2017. Those inducted as cabinet ministers are Paonta Sahib MLA Sukh Ram Chaudhary, Nurpur MLA Rakesh Pathania and Ghumarwin MLA Rajinder Garg.   Governor Bandaru Dattatreya administered the oath of office to the new ministers at a function in the Raj Bhawan. Covid-19 protocols were in place at the event. While Sukh Ram and Rajinder Garg took oath in Hindi, Pathania took oath in English.  Born on April 15, 1964, Chaudhary is a backward class leader from Sirmaur district. He was a junior engineer in the electricity board before joining politics. He was elected to the state Assembly thrice in 2003, 2007 and 2017. He served as chief parliamentary secretary from 2009 to 2012. The 56-year-old Nurpur legislator,Pathania, started his political career in 1991.  Born on November 15, 1964 at Ladori village in Kangra district, Pathania was the BJP Kisan Morcha's Kangra president before becoming its state secretary and a member of the party's state executive. A graduate, he was elected to the assembly as a BJP nominee in 1998 and re-elected as an independent in 2007 before becoming MLA for the third time in December 2017. Pathania belongs to the Rajput community.  Garg is a first-time MLA from Ghumarwin Assembly segment in Bilaspur district. Born on May 30, 1966 at Tandora, he is MSc in Botany. The journalist-turned-politician became a RSS Swayamsewak in 1982 and joined the ABVP in 1983. The three ministerial berths in the state were lying vacant for the past several months. Anil Sharma, who was the power minister, had resigned from the Cabinet in April last year. Sharma had refused to campaign for the BJP candidate from Mandi Lok Sabha seat, Ram Swaroop Sharma, as his son Aashray was contesting from the seat on a Congress ticket. Kishan Kapoor, who was the Civil Supplies Minister, resigned in May after he was elected to the Lok Sabha from Kangra. Vipin Singh Parmar, who was the Health Minister, was appointed Speaker of the state assembly following resignation by the then Speaker Rajeev Bindal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-cabinet-expanded-three-ministers-inducted-867476.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Day after govt says Saifuddin Soz not under detention, J&K police disallows him to move out||A day after Jammu and Kashmir administration’s told Supreme Court that former Union minister Saifuddin Soz was “free and not under detention”, the octogenarian politician was not allowed by policemen posted at his home in Srinagar ton Thursday to come out or speak to the media. "How can the government say in the Supreme Court that Soz is free when I continue to be under detention,” he screamed at the policemen from behind a closed gate and barbed wire barricades. The mediapersons outside his house were shooed away and warned of consequences by the policemen if they do not leave the place. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court took on record J&K administration’s statement that Soz was never placed under detention and disposed of the habeas corpus plea filed by his wife observing that it can’t be entertained. Talking to DH, the Congress leader said what the government they spoke before the SC was nothing but a bundle of lies. “I have been under detention since August 5 last year and today everybody saw that police didn’t allow me to go out. I am surprised how the Supreme Court accepted what was told to it by the government,” he wondered. Soz said that now he would approach J&K High Court and place the facts of his house detention before it. “I have ample proof that since last August I am under house detention. This has become a police state and please tell the Supreme Court that I am not being allowed to move out,” he said. Earlier in the day his son Salman Soz shared a video clip on twitter showing how his father was not allowed to move out of his house. “The J&K Govt called my mother’s habeas corpus petition seeking my father’s release “false” & “baseless”. This clip exposes the J&K Govt as lying to the Supreme Court. Please share this and ask the Supreme Court to uphold the law & Issue a contempt notice! (sic),” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-govt-says-saifuddin-soz-not-under-detention-jk-police-disallows-him-to-move-out-867488.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Wall collapses during heavy rains in Karnal, girl dies||A six-year-old girl was killed, while three of her family members were injured when the walls of their house collapsed in Karnal district's Keharwali village during heavy rains, a police official said. The girl was sleeping with her parents and some other family members when the incident occurred early Thursday. “The girl died in the incident,” said Inspector Tarsem Chand of Madhuban police station in Karnal. He said other family members including the girl's parents received minor injuries in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wall-collapses-during-heavy-rains-in-karnal-girl-dies-867517.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Four dead as mini-truck collides with cargo auto in Madhya Pradesh||Four persons were killed after a mini-truck collided with a cargo autorickshaw in Mandla district of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, police said. The accident took place on National Highway 30 under Bichhiya police station area, located around 55 kms from the district headquarters, they said. "Three persons travelling in the cargo auto, including its driver as well as that of the mini-truck, died in the mishap," district Additional Superintendent of Police Vikram Singh Kushwaha said. The impact of the collision was so severe that gas cutters were used to pull out the bodies from the mangled remains of two vehicles, he said. "We have informed the families of the deceased, who were from Vidisha, Shajapur and Raisen districts in MP," the police officer said. The cause of the accident is being investigated, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-dead-as-mini-truck-collides-with-cargo-auto-in-madhya-pradesh-867542.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court seeks response on MP's plea against vermin killings||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notices to states like Bihar and Himachal Pradesh on a plea against permitting vermin killings there to stop damage to standing crops, saying ways have to found to control the "human-animal" conflict. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, in a hearing conducted through video conferencing, took note of the submission of senior advocate Siddharth Luthra that a large number of wild animals like 'neelgai' (blue bulls) have been permitted to be killed to save the crops. "We need a solution. No solution lies only in saying that don't kill them. Look at it in terms of the solution. We are tagging this matter along with elephant matter of Kerala where it was killed by pineapple stuffed with crackers," said the bench which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The bench was hearing a plea of a BJD MP Anubhav Mohanty seeking measures to prevent the killing of wild animals in the country. Not killing animals and allowing the destruction of crops is not a solution, the court observed, adding that the ways have to found to control "animal-human conflict" without either killing the vermin or allowing damage of the crops. Luthra said the expansion of the human population into the territories of wild animals was one of the reasons for the problem. There are rubber bullets which can be used instead of culling or killing of such animals, the bench said and asked the council to suggest measures to deal with the issue. Mohanty, a Lok Sabha MP from Kendrapara constituency, has sought a direction to prevent the practice of encouraging and rewarding wild animal killings here. The plea said states like Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Kerala have incentivised killing of wild animals like 'Neelgai'. It sought "proactive, constructive and a scientific" way forward to mitigate human, wildlife conflict instead of encouraging citizens of the country to kills such wild animals. Earlier, the Centre had approved the culling of wild animals such as nilgai and wild boar in Bihar and rhesus monkey in Himachal Pradesh by declaring them 'vermin', under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, in December 2015, following requests from the respective states as they cause harm to the resident population and standing crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-seeks-response-on-mps-plea-against-vermin-killings-867558.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Objective of new education policy is to implement agenda of RSS: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday claimed that the objective of the new education policy announced by the Centre is to implement the "agenda of RSS". A government which is destroying social amity, cultural values and the principles of the Constitution, and not learning any lessons, can achieve nothing by changing the education policy or the name of a ministry, he said. "Nothing will happen with this," Yadav added. "The objective of the new education policy announced by the Centre is to implement the agenda of the RSS. According to this agenda, the curriculum will now be presented in a special colour to mold the new generations," the SP chief said in a statement here. The BJP should not "politicise the future of the children", Yadav said. "Education should be such that secures the future of students," he added. The Union Cabinet approved the National Education Policy 2020 on Wednesday. This is the first education policy of the 21st century and replaces the thirty-four-year-old National Policy on Education (NPE), 1986. Yadav also targeted the ruling Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh, saying it has not initiated any new scheme and has only renamed those launched by the previous SP government. "BJP's act are now open to all, and even its MPs and MLAs have started raising their voices against their own government," Yadav said, adding that resentment is brewing among the people's representatives due to anti-people policies of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/objective-of-new-education-policy-is-to-implement-agenda-of-rss-akhilesh-yadav-867592.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Widows send rakhis to 'brother' Modi, skipping meet due to Covid-19||Widows living in Vrindavan, who would miss meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi this Raksha Bandhan due to Covid-19 outbreak, have dispatched 501 hand-made rakhis and as many face masks to him, said an NGO on Thursday. The special rakhis are having images of the prime minister on them while the masks have been themed on the temple city of Vrindavan with messages like “Stay Safe” and “Aatmnirbhar” written on them. Till last year, some widows had been visiting the PM's residence in Delhi to tie rakhi on his wrist but this year they will not be meeting him due to the Covid-19 pandemic, NGO Sulabh Hope Foundation, which is supporting these women, said here in a statement. The rakhis would reach the Prime Minister's Office on Friday, two days ahead of the Raksha Bandhan, a Hindu festival that symbolically binds brothers into taking care of their sisters, the foundation said. Chhabi Dasi, 75, who had personally tied rakhi to the PM last year, said spending days inside her ashram for the last five months had made her slightly disheartened but preparing rakhis and masks made her happy. “I have personally designed special masks carrying messages like 'Stay Safe' and 'Atmanirbhar' and rakhis with Modi ji's images on it,” she said, according to the statement. The rakhis have been prepared by a group of old-aged widows living in the 'Maa Sharda' and the 'Meera Sagabhagini' ashrams in the temple city of Vrindavan. Earlier, on behalf of thousands of widows, four-five of them visited Delhi to present baskets of rakhis and sweets to PM Modi but that practice would be discontinued this year due to pandemic, the foundation's vice president Vinita Verma said. “The ongoing coronavirus crisis has disheartened these widows but it did not shatter their spirit so they started preparing rakhis and special Vrindavan-themed masks for the prime minister,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/widows-send-rakhis-to-brother-modi-skipping-meet-due-to-covid-19-867593.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Gautam Gambhir announces plan to support daughters of GB Road sex workers||BJP MP from East Delhi Gautam Gambhir on Thursday announced an initiative to support daughters of sex workers in the GB Road area of the city. The initiative, 'PAANKH', to take care of 25 minor daughters of sex workers of Delhi will be launched on Friday, the cricketer-turned-politician said in a statement. "Everybody in the society has the right to live a decent life and I want to ensure more opportunities for these children so that they could live their dreams. I will take care of their living, education and their health," he said.  Ten girls have been selected at present who are studying in various government schools in this session, Gambhir said.  "We will sponsor their school fees, uniforms, food, medical help, including counselling, so that they can achieve their dreams," he added. In the next session, more children will be included in the programme The target is to help at least 25 children, he said.   "We aim to empower adolescent girls (5-18 years) by giving them regular counselling so that they complete their education," Gambhir said and appealed to people to come forward and help such children. Gambhir undertakes various welfare works through his Gautam Gambhir Foundation which is already taking care of 200 children of bravehearts who have made the supreme sacrifice for the country, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gautam-gambhir-announces-plan-to-support-daughters-of-gb-road-sex-workers-867617.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt allows more economic activities, weekly markets on trial basis||The Delhi government on Thursday decided to end night curfew and allow more economic activities, including normal functioning of hospitality services, in the national capital under 'Unlock 3' guidelines, according to a statement. The government has also allowed weekly bazaars (markets) on a trial basis for seven days with social distancing and all necessary Covid 19-appropriate measures in place, it said. On Wednesday, the Centre issued nationwide Unlock 3 guidelines, opening up more activities outside coronavirus containment zones, but schools, colleges, metro services, cinema halls along with bars will continue to remain shut till August 31. The Unlock 3 guidelines will come into force from August 1. "As part of the decisions taken today under Unlock 3 guidelines, the Delhi government has decided to end the night curfew that was earlier in operation from 10 pm to 5 am," the statement said. Since hotels of Delhi are no longer linked to hospitals, the Delhi government has also decided to allow normal functioning of hotels and hospitality services, as already permitted under the Centre's unlock guidelines, it stated. Dozens of hotels were attached to hospitals to function as extended Covid care centres in June, when the city was witnessing thousands of cases daily. But the Delhi government Wednesday delinked these hotels from hospitals with the situation showing signs of improvement. On Monday, the government had allowed street hawkers to function in Delhi on a trial basis for a week from 10 am to 8 pm. "It was decided today that the street hawkers will be permitted to function in the future without any limitations on operating hours," it stated. According to the nationwide Unlock -3 guidelines issued by the Centre, political and religious gatherings will remain prohibited. "The Delhi government has also allowed weekly Bazaars to function on a trial basis for a week with social distancing and all necessary precautionary measures," it said. For the first time since the coronavirus lockdown came into force on March 25, the Centre has allowed opening of yoga institutes and gymnasiums from August 5 for which a separate Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) will be issued by the Health Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allows-more-economic-activities-weekly-markets-on-trial-basis-867632.html
30-07-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan held for raping tribal woman in Chhattisgarh||A 21-year-old tribal woman was allegedly raped by a CRPF jawan in Chhattisgarh's insurgency-hit Sukma district, police said on Thursday. The accused, identified as Dulichand, a constable, was arrested on Thursday based on a complaint lodged by the victim and her parents, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said. The alleged incident took place near Dubbakota camp of the paramilitary forces under Dornapal police station area on July 27 when the victim had gone to graze cattle, he said. A case was lodged on Wednesday, the IPS officer said, adding an investigation was underway. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is deployed in Sukma for anti-Naxal operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-held-for-raping-tribal-woman-in-chhattisgarh-867647.html
30-07-2020||Opinion||Rising inflation is cause for worry||There are worrying indications on the inflation front, with retail inflation rising by 6.1% in June when the economy started reopening after more than two months of lockdown. The rate has risen above the Reserve Bank of India’s toleration level, after keeping a subdued but rising trend in the previous months. The disaggregated data is more worrying, because food inflation rose by 7.3 %, prices of pulses by 16.7% and fish and meat prices by 16.2%. Milk prices were up by 8.4%, though farmers had to sell them at reduced prices due to lack of demand. Transport and communication costs also increased because of the hike in petrol and diesel prices. Only the prices of fruits and vegetables did not record any major increase because being perishables, a good part of them was lost. Such a fast-rising trend has not been seen in the past many months.  The items whose prices have tended to rise are the most essential items. This will have a major impact on family budgets, especially because incomes have shrunk across all sections of people. It is likely that the prices continued to rise after June because transportation costs have increased with the continuous increase in the price of diesel. Steel and cement companies have announced an increase in prices, and the higher import duties on Chinese goods can spur some price increases in the domestic market. If banks are unable to lower interest rates, working capital costs will remain high. Observance of Covid-19 protocols in packaging and other industries may add to the cost of goods. Apart from all this, production in almost all sectors is much below the normal levels. All these can contribute to higher prices of goods, which will be reflected in the next Consumer Price Index (CPI) estimates.  There is also a view that the CPI-based inflation may not reflect the real price situation because the consumption patterns of most people have changed during the lockdown months and may remain altered in the near future. It has been estimated that the actual rate of inflation, calculated accordingly, may be about 7%.  So, the challenge before the government is to rein in inflation, while keeping the economy, which is likely to shrink as much as 6%, as much above the flood waters as possible. The consequences of a combination of recession and inflation will be especially bad. The only silver lining in the grim scenario is the onset of the monsoon with copious rainfall and normal spread, which will boost farm output and may keep food prices in check. The government will need to stay alert on all these issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/rising-inflation-is-cause-for-worry-867236.html
30-07-2020||Opinion||Ending child trafficking: Parliament should take the lead||Sometime in early March, an 'informer' revealed to a representative of an NGO working in the field of child protection and rights that 33 minor girls from Telangana, Odisha, Gujarat and Assam were working as performers at a Roman Circus venue in Sirval town of Satara district in Maharashtra. There were some other girls who were majors. The NGO representative shared the 'intelligence' with the superintendent of police and the district magistrate, with the assistance of the district legal services authority (DLSA), so that the girls could be rescued. On May 26, police, along with officials from the women and child development, labour and revenue departments, raided the circus and 39 girls, including three minors, were rescued. But that is when confusion reigned supreme. Officials of the different departments could just not agree on the precise course to follow to take the case to its logical conclusion. To top it all, there is no certainty that the case would go through the rigours of police investigation, leave alone prosecution. Determining the ages of the girls proved difficult. When documents were checked, it turned out that six of the girls were minors. On the other hand, the police were hesitant to act, claiming, after talking to the girls, that they had joined the circus troupe of their own volition. It took over a month of persuasive action by the NGO for the police to finally lodge an FIR based on Sections 370 (child trafficking) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other relevant provisions of the 2015 Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act. Surprisingly, however, no arrest -- of the circus owner or of the unnamed traffickers -- has yet been made. The alleged trafficking of the minor girls took place in the backdrop of Maharashtra's abysmal track record on child labour, which is an outcome of trafficking to and from other states. The National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)'s three reports show that from 2016 to 2018, Maharashtra recorded 14,559, 16,918 and 18,892 cases of crimes against children. As for child trafficking, Maharashtra competes with Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in terms, with 29 cases recorded in 2018, in which 49 victims were involved. While NCRB reports do not quite provide a realistic picture of child trafficking across India, the US State Department's 'Trafficking in Persons Report: 20th Edition', released in June 2020, has categorised India as a ‘Tier II country’ -- in other words, it is among other countries "whose governments do not fully meet the TVPA's (or the Trafficking Victims Protection Act) minimum standards but are making significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with those standards". While that is a charitable comment insofar as India is concerned, Yuri Fedotov, former executive director at the UN Office of Drugs and Crime claims in the same report that "(Human trafficking) thrives in situations where the rule of law is weak and people lack opportunities", which is an apt description of the conditions that prevail in India and which in fact engender child trafficking. The Sirval story is symptomatic of most cases of child trafficking across India. Trafficking is an organised crime and is recognised by the IPC. It occurs as a consequence of an economic demand-supply condition, which means that while 'sending' states are breeding grounds -- for reasons of governmental neglect of the local economies, unemployment, poverty, backwardness and lack of awareness -- for armies of child labour, the 'receiving' states or cities are perennially in need of cheap labour which is cheaper still when children are trafficked and pushed into a cruel and unforgiving market. But what makes the situation worse is official inaction and apathy towards this seemingly 'open' and brazen crime which is not 'taken seriously' by officialdom who often look upon it as 'low' crime. But beyond this lies a dark underbelly where the nexus between traffickers, unscrupulous employers and the police runs so deep that the supply of child labour remains unending. The maxim, 'who profits from the crime?' applies aptly to this nefarious scheme of things. The obstacles at the official level and the anomalies of the 'market' can, however, be corrected provided there is political and administrative will to focus on a few tough but not insurmountable steps. First, there is an urgent need to take a quick relook at the existing legislations that lack teeth. A decision to replace insipid legislations, laws and norms by novel ways and means could not only vastly improve investigative capabilities of the police but also allow for focused and result-oriented prosecution and trial, besides enhanced punishment for traffickers and other related wrong-doers. Secondly, the investigative capabilities of the police would not miraculously improve by simply tweaking complex laws or legislations. While the police in most Indian states is overburdened with law and order duties, they have little or no focus or interest on working on crimes against children, including trafficking, which are considered 'lesser' transgressions of the law. In these circumstances, one of the most result-oriented approaches would be for NGOs to partner with police forces to train different categories of police officers on crimes related to children, especially trafficking, which is at the root of all forms of child labour, abuses and exploitation. Third, certain NGOs focused on child protection have, time and again, alerted state police departments and shared the identities of individual traffickers so that their crimes could be nipped in the bud. Yet, the police forces have been lethargic in their approach to deal with a truly pan-Indian -- and sometimes trans-border -- crime. Relying on normal police work and technology, they must adopt a time-bound and proactive approach and bust the trafficking networks across the 'sending' states. For this, evolving cooperation and coordination, which are displayed in other heinous crimes, is key. The challenge before civil society organisations fighting this scourge is to force the political leadership at the Centre and in the states to make child trafficking a central focus in their administrative efforts in general and strictly enforcing the law in particular. This is a time for collective action and the lead must be taken by parliamentarians to formulate mechanisms to end child trafficking. (The writer is a Member of Parliament, YSR Congress Party)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/ending-child-trafficking-parliament-should-take-the-lead-867242.html
30-07-2020||Opinion||Bringing Mars rocks: Our greatest interplanetary circus act||Send a robotic spacecraft to Mars, grab some rocks and dirt and bring those back to Earth. How hard could that be? It’s more like an interplanetary circus act than you might imagine, but NASA and the European Space Agency think that now is the time they can finally pull off this complex choreography, tossing the rocks from one spacecraft to another before the samples finally land on Earth in 2031. “The science community, of course, has lusted after doing this for quite some time,” said James Watzin, the director of the Mars exploration program at NASA. Over the last couple of decades, robotic explorers have revealed an increasingly complex picture of Mars, but planetary scientists are limited by the amount of science that can be packed in a spacecraft. “You can only carry so much instrumentation into the field, robotically,” Watzin said. “To really get into some of the really intriguing questions at a detail level means we need to parse the evidence down on the molecular level and try to tease the information out of very, very old material. And that requires a whole suite of instrumentation that was clearly too large to shrink and send to another planet.” With fresh Mars rocks on Earth, more scientists will be able to examine them, employing a wide array of the most sophisticated equipment in laboratories around the world. The first step of this epic undertaking, known as Mars sample return, starts soon with Perseverance, the next NASA rover. It is scheduled to liftoff on July 30, headed for Jezero, a crater that was once a lake about 3.5 billion years ago, and is a promising place where signs of past life on Mars could be preserved. One of the key tasks for Perseverance is to drill up to 39 rock cores, each a half-inch wide and 2.4 inches long, that look interesting enough to merit additional scrutiny on Earth. Each sample of rock and dirt, weighing about half an ounce, will be sealed in an ultraclean cigar-size metal tube. But initially, NASA had no plans to bring those tubes back to Earth. Perseverance has no way of flinging the rocks off Mars. Three years ago, a team of engineers at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California, began taking a closer look at when the return part of Mars sample return could be undertaken. They considered the possibility of launching the retrieval spacecraft in 2026 with the samples returning three years later. That timeline, they found, was too ambitious. But if the landing on Earth was pushed back to 2031, the schedule appeared to be feasible. “We actually feel like we could do this,” Watzin said. The Trump administration’s budget request for NASA for fiscal year 2021 included $233 million to continue development, two years after the agency received $50 million for the initial studies. Last month, the 22 member nations of the European Space Agency gave the go-ahead on the collaboration with NASA. The Perseverance science team has already begun preliminary geological analysis about what should be brought back to Earth. “We became ever more focused on how to do that element of it right,” said Kenneth Farley, the project scientist for Perseverance. “We’ve kind of transitioned from a ‘yeah, someday these samples will get picked up’ to ‘yeah, they might get picked up pretty soon.’ It’s been an important evolution.”  Space agency officials have not yet announced a total price tag, but the cost is expected to run several billion dollars. “We’re trying to keep this under a certain cost target,” said Brian K. Muirhead, who is leading the sample return design at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. “We’re really coming up with the estimates — ‘This is what we think it’s going to take’ — and so far, NASA has said, ‘OK, keep going.’” If everything goes to plan, two spacecraft will blast off to Mars in 2026. One will be a NASA-built lander that will be the heaviest vehicle ever put on the surface of Mars. It will be carrying a rover, built by the Europeans, to fetch the rock samples, and a small rocket that will launch the rocks to orbit around Mars. The lander will take a roundabout trajectory to Mars, arriving in August 2028, the beginning of the Martian spring. The solar-powered fetch rover will then roll off the lander, make a dash to collect at least some of the rock samples and bring them back and transfer them to the lander. The samples, in turn, will be robotically moved to the top of the Mars ascent vehicle, the rocket that will launch the rocks off Mars. The second spacecraft, the Earth Return Orbiter, will be built by the European Space Agency. It will take a quicker path to Mars, pulling into orbit before the lander’s arrival. That will allow the orbiter to serve as the relay for communications from the lander as it zooms to the surface. The launch of the ascent vehicle will deposit a container, about the size of a soccer ball, with the rock samples circling around Mars about 200 miles above the surface. The orbiter then has to find this container, like a baseball outfielder chasing down a fly ball. The orbiter will be tracking the launch of the rocket, but for simplicity, the container itself does not possess any thrusters or a radio beacon. It is, however, white, which should make it easier to spot against the darkness of space. “This is obviously one of the key issues: How do you find it?” Muirhead said. “Once you know where its orbit is, it’s very easy to match orbit.” A door on the orbiter will open to capture the container. A 1,000-pound contraption within the orbiter then rotates and slides the container to the proper configuration within the spacecraft, taking care to seal off the possibility that anything from Mars could contaminate anything outside of the sample container. The orbiter would then depart Mars. As it approached Earth, it would eject the samples, now mounted within what is called the Earth entry vehicle, on a collision course with the Utah desert. Parachutes were another complication that engineers decided was unnecessary, so the entry vehicle, which resembles a large sombrero, is to hit the ground at a speed comparable to a highway car crash: 90 mph. The scientific cargo — rocks and dirt, which are not fragile — will easily survive that impact. Many of the details like where the lander will set down, remain undecided. If Perseverance is still in good working condition, it might head to a second site outside Jezero where there might have been geothermal hot springs, another environment where life could have thrived. But these decisions do not have to be made for years, and the best answers may not become apparent until Perseverance gets a good look at Jezero. If one piece breaks, the sample return mission does not necessarily fail. Perseverance will likely drop some of the sample tubes on the ground in case it suffers a malfunction later in the mission. If the fetch rover breaks, then Perseverance could bring samples to the lander instead. Even if the orbiter fails, its soccer-ball-size container holding samples could remain circling Mars for years until another spacecraft could be sent to catch it. “That’s been my job as the architect,” Muirhead said. “To think through the process from the concept of operations, develop the concepts that can achieve the objectives of the different phases and make sure there’s good margins built in everywhere. So that the design isn’t fragile.” International New York Times||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bringing-mars-rocks-our-greatest-interplanetary-circus-act-867243.html
30-07-2020||Opinion||How to fight against Big Tech’s power||In the morning, you check email. At noon, you browse social media and message friends. In the evening, you listen to music while shopping online. Around bedtime, you curl up with an e-book. For all of those activities, you probably used a product made or sold by Google, Amazon, Apple or Facebook. There’s no simple way to avoid those Big Four. Even if you subscribed to Spotify, you would probably still be using a Google Android phone, an Amazon speaker or an Apple iPhone to stream the music. Even if you deleted Facebook, you might still be using the Facebook-owned Instagram or WhatsApp. Being beholden to a small set of companies that touch every corner of our digital lives is precisely why lawmakers summoned the chief executives of Amazon, Google, Facebook and Apple to testify in an antitrust hearing Wednesday. The tech titans were grilled over whether their companies have become so powerful and far-reaching that they harm rivals and all of us, too. So what can we do if we want to break out of the stranglehold of Big Tech? At first glance, there may not seem like much we can do to escape. “It’s not like you can start shopping at local bookstores and put Amazon out of business,” said Jason Fried, founder of Basecamp, a Chicago-based company that offers productivity apps. But the more I thought about this, the more I realized that there were some steps that we could take to better support tech’s little guys, too. We would do ourselves and smaller businesses a favor by staying informed on alternatives, for one. We could change our consumption patterns so that we were not just buying new products from the tech giants. And we could show our support for indie developers who make the apps we love. As Fried put it, “We can do things to change our own conscience.” Here’s how. When Possible, Find Alternatives Step One to becoming a more conscientious consumer is doing some research. While Google Chrome may be the most popular web browser, there are alternatives that collect less data about us. And while all of our friends are on Facebook, there are also smaller apps or methods we can use to stay connected with them. The key is to read news sites and tech blogs to learn about options. “You have to read and be informed,” said Don Heider, chief executive of the Markkula Center for Applied Ethics at Santa Clara University. “Otherwise, you’re not going to have a clue of where to go and what to pick and what the impact is.” Heider pointed to a few examples: Instead of Google Chrome, people can download great browsers, including DuckDuckGo, Brave and Opera, which focus on stronger privacy and security protections. Instead of Facebook, we can tell our friends to hang out with us on social media apps like Vero and Mastodon, which are both ad-free, he said. The same goes for Amazon. Instead of ordering paper towels and hand sanitizer on Amazon, consider picking up those items at a local store. Instead of ordering a new dog collar on Amazon, consider buying a custom-made one from an independent merchant on Etsy. Fried says he rarely shops on Amazon, takes cabs instead of Ubers and finds books via IndieBound, a resource for buying titles from local bookstores. “When the default is just Amazon, Amazon, Amazon, you’re just feeding the flame,” he said. Why Buy New? Buy Used Speaking of alternatives, there’s a different way to buy tech hardware altogether: Purchase gadgets used or refurbished. When you buy a new phone or computer, your dollars go directly to the tech giants who created the products. But when you buy used, you are supporting a broader community of small businesses that repair and resell equipment. Many of us generally shy away from used electronics because we fear the products may be in shoddy condition. The reality is that resellers work with technicians who restore products to their former glory before putting them up on sale — and the gadgets are often backed by a warranty. Reputable vendors of used goods include GameStop and Gazelle. Buying used also contributes to a broader mission: the so-called right to repair movement. Unlike car mechanics, small electronics repair shops have limited access to the parts and instructions that they need to service our smartphones, tablets and computers. Public advocacy groups and the repair community have pushed to pass legislation that would require electronics manufacturers to share all of the components and information needed to fix our gadgets. If more people opt to buy used or refurbished goods, that will show that there is demand for repaired products. That, in turn, puts pressure on manufacturers to make repair more accessible to independent technicians and consumers, said Carole Mars, director of technical development and innovation at the Sustainability Consortium, which studies the sustainability of consumer goods. “It comes down to accepting refurbished and demanding refurbished,” Mars said. “That will lead you to ask, ‘Why can’t I get this product used or fixed?’ It’s because the company locked it down.” So try to make this a habit: Whenever you are shopping for an electronic online, check if there is a used or refurbished option. If there is one in good condition, go for it and save some bucks. Support Indie Developers A lot of what we do with our devices is made possible by smaller companies that produce our apps and games. One way to show our support to David rather than Goliath is to have some patience and empathy for the indie developers. People often get frustrated when an app or game they love gets a big software update and charges another $3 to $10 for the new version, for example. Try not to get irritated — these are small outfits trying to survive, not big corporations trying to milk you — and be willing to pay. It’s the same amount of money as a cup of coffee or a sandwich, and you’re polishing a piece of software that you love. “If you can pay for software that you like,” said Brianna Wu, a game developer, “you probably have an ethical responsibility to do so in the same way that you’d have the ethical responsibility to tip a waitress. The reality is that most of the time when you play an indie video game, that group of people have bet their entire company’s future on you paying for it.” Keep in mind also that small app developers lack the huge marketing budgets of our tech overlords. They rely largely on all of us to do grassroots marketing in the form of written reviews or word-of-mouth, said David Barnard, founder of app studio Contrast. So when you love an app, tell your friends about it. I’ll close with an example: My favorite piece of indie software for the Mac is Fantastical, a calendar app, which does a better, more reliable job organizing my online calendars than Apple’s calendar app. It was an expensive calendar app — $50 — but it’s kept me punctual, which makes it worth every penny.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-to-fight-against-big-tech-s-power-867270.html
30-07-2020||Opinion||The Mars rover and the story of a curious little girl||Three years ago, I received an e-mail from a 10-year-old girl I'll call Ann, from Brazil, my native country, asking me several questions. Is there life on Mars? Do you control the Curiosity [rover]? Does NASA have a lot of technology? Do you work with research? Do you know many scientists? Do you know the president of the United States? I was so pleased to see a girl asking me these questions, since that I would also have been fascinated by rovers on Mars at her age. I grew up admiring NASA’s missions to explore the solar system and wondered how they were able to send photos back to Earth from millions of miles away. I was the only girl I knew who had a favorite spaceship, and those missions were the reason I decided to become an astronomer. I knew I had to meet that curious little girl so I wrote back to her teacher and scheduled to visit them in Rio de Janeiro at Redes da Maré, a nonprofit organization designed to increase the quality of life for local residents, including through additional educational opportunities. I had visited Redes da Maré before as part of my own outreach program to trigger kids' curiosity by telling them about the discoveries of the Hubble Space Telescope. This time, I brought a few meteorites to teach them about the solar system. I showed them how it’s interconnected because it formed out of the same enormous cloud of gas and dust. We talked about life on other planets, and about the fact that they were touching a rock from space. The girl who had written to me took her role as guardian of the meteorites during the lecture seriously, knowing how special the specimens were. While I was there, I kept thinking how surreal the situation was. I traveled from the United States to meet a 10-year-old girl who was surrounded by poverty but who knew there were rovers on Mars. I met her again last year during the filming of a documentary on empowering women at the same Redes da Maré. But the 12-year-old was not as fascinated by rovers as the 10-year-old was. She asked me about music and if I knew K-pop, her favorite genre. I asked her how she was doing in school and she confessed that she didn’t like her math teacher in the public school. She had left Redes because she was now living far away with her aunt. She came that day just to see me. Honestly, I don’t know if she will be able to have a career in science. The odds are very, very low. At this point, finishing school would be an impressive achievement. Many girls like her don’t. They drop out of school, they feel unsafe and don’t have the same opportunities as boys to explore possibilities. But how do we make sure girls embrace science as a possible and safe career path? How do we make sure we do a better job to nurture young girls’ interest in science? I don’t have a magic formula for this, but I do know you can’t be what you can’t see. If little girls don’t see women scientists, they will not see themselves in those roles. At age 10, that little girl could see me, a female scientist, as someone who could maneuver the rover on Mars. But what happens during teenage years that change their perception? Life-changing events will pull them in many directions, and we need to make sure their curiosity about science doesn't fade with age. We must empower them with quality education to keep them engaged with science. We must keep them curious during their journey to adulthood and help them envision science as a career. And we must help them see themselves as agents of change to transform the world for the better. Maybe then we will be able to attract more girls into science. When I heard that NASA’s new rover Perseverance, scheduled for launch in just a few weeks, named by a seventh grader named Alexander Mather, I thought about writing to the now 12-year-old girl. In my letter, I would talk not only about Perseverance, but also about the practice of perseverance. It doesn’t matter if she is not able to have a career in science and she chooses something else. What matters is that day after day, we need to find strength to keep our dreams alive, and education can make your dreams come true. As Mather said in his winning essay, “We as humans evolved as creatures who could learn to adapt to any situation” and “The human race will always persevere into the future.” He is right. Imagine how many girls and boys were touched by the possibility of winning the NASA competition of naming the rover. Then imagine how many went beyond that and dreamed of maneuvering the rover on another planet. When a little girl of the future asks me if I control the Perseverance, I will tell her I don’t, but I will make sure I tell her how much a little girl I once knew had to persevere in her life, and how her curiosity drove her to dream of maneuvering a rover on another planet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-mars-rover-and-the-story-of-a-curious-little-girl-867307.html
30-07-2020||Opinion||Why home language instruction is important during early years of learning||India’s linguistic diversity has always been in the proverbial eye of the storm. From benign debate topics to more toxic identity politics, it has a way of stealing the headlines. Through the seven decades and more of our country’s independent, democratic history many great minds have considered the question of unity in diversity through the lens of our myriad languages. It would be contentious to say we have achieved much more than to agree to disagree and let the sleeping dogs lie.   However recently, this debate received another shot in the arm when the Ministry of Human Resources Development announced the New Education Policy and highlighted the intent to have early, primary years, and possibly even middle school education conducted in the mother tongue, home language or the regional language as appropriate.  The details of how the policy will be implemented or even what this intent really means is yet to be clearly stated, however fierce and passionate reactions have started pouring in on social media. The history as well as ease of exploitation of language identity for political mileage has further encouraged some to take a rigid, and mostly hasty, stance on this issue. However, once the question of medium of instruction for early and primary years education is stripped of vested interests of all except the child who is to be educated and brought up, we can begin to appreciate the arguments more fairly.  UNESCO and several other reputable bodies support the need for a wholesome and holistic development of the child focussing on social, emotional, cognitive and physical development as the fundamental purpose of education during early and primary years in a child’s life. The key aim of a well-researched and thought out education system during these years is to build a foundation for lifelong learning. Respect and caring, thinking, inquiry and open mindedness, participating and risk taking are some of the approaches to life that are best learnt during these formative years. An enabling environment for the learning of these key skills for children needs them to first be comfortable and confident in their immediate setting.  Only a little more than ten percent of Indians can claim to have a working knowledge of English in India and only a fraction of these use it at home as their first language. It is little wonder then that when children from these homes are forced into English medium schools it does not result in the intended learning outcomes, wasting precious time and opportunity for the children and resources for the parent, school or the state.   The second argument for adopting home language as medium of instruction is less about the individual child and more about the symbiotic relationship between individuals and communities. We invest in our children’s education so that they grow up to create and maintain this world equitably and sustainably. In the beginning of their life, a child’s world may not mean the entire planet, country or even their city or street; their idea of the world is restricted to their familiar surroundings starting from their home and immediate neighbourhood which they grow up in and learn to associate with home. How can we expect our children to own, feel connected and responsible towards their home if we separate them from the very first thing they learn and experience here? Do we really believe we can educate children without earning their trust first, helping them make connections and acknowledging and respecting their idea of home?  Confidence in exploring and learning in their home language gives children the rootedness and identity which is indispensable at both individual and community level. Starting with language, children grow to appreciate their culture, arts, traditions, heritage and everything else that humans need to lead happy, meaningful lives.  We need our children to begin with the language and as they grow, take ownership and stay invested in creating, sustaining and developing their home which as they grow, may grow with them becoming a neighbourhood, village or town, country or even the planet. Charity begins at home, however, as we have seen, generations brought up on English medium education system risk losing sight of the immediate problems in the backyard of their own homes. In absence of strong connections with a place they call home, our children who are supposed to grow up into problem solvers, risk becoming part of the problem for themselves as well as the social world they occupy.  Having argued why home language should probably be the default choice of medium of instruction for children at least upto primary school if not the middle school, we also need to ensure that we do not deprive our children of any advantages that English language has to offer. A key question being asked today is about the options for children whose families may migrate to other locations within the country making their home language different from the prevalent regional language of their domicile. They should most certainly have the option and flexibility to study in a multilingual environment if possible or adapt and learn the regional language if the family expects to stay in that location for long.  However English or even Hindi medium schools for such children in all major cities, where these children and families are most likely to stay, is always going to be an available option as the current policy does not mandate doing away with English medium schools but strongly recommends setting up schools that teach in home language. The provision of flexibility in regard to medium of instruction is also a reflection of the widespread multilinguistic practices prevalent across the country.   The second argument being made to reject the idea of education in home language for young children is the notion that Indians will somehow lose their edge in the globalised economy if we do not start teaching our children in English right from when they begin their learning journey at school. This notion remarkably fails to identify the separation between English learnt as a language and English as a medium of instruction.  The Multilinguism and Multiliteracy Project, a study conducted by University of Cambridge and other reputable partners over 2016-2020 in India, found a strong positive correlation between the use of home language of students at school and their cognitive skills. The same study also recommends using children’s home language at school to improve their learning and development. If taught by professionally trained and certified teachers using standardised learning material, a non native learner at beginner level as per Common European Framework of Reference, can become a confident and independent user of the language in about eight hundred hours of lessons covering all four areas of language learning namely: Speaking, listening, reading and writing.  The key here is the trained teacher. It is no secret that a majority of English medium schools in our country have substandard language teachers. Therefore, to maintain and further develop our edge in the global economy we need to invest in teacher training and infrastructure that enables language learning to match international standards.  The only way to navigate the complex multilingual space of school education in India is to stay firmly focussed on the purpose of education. It is not to be able to speak English. While it is important for all children to grow up and be able to become economically independent, it is not the primary purpose of school education to make our children ready for the employment market either. Early years and primary years education is meant to help children learn the essential skills that will shape their personalities and guide their learning journeys for life. Adopting English as the medium of instruction in poor and substandard teaching learning environments will do more harm than good. English can be and should be taught as a language but not at the cost of creating the best, most conducive learning environments for our young children.  (Charu Sapra is a language and literature expert for young learners. She specialises in developing reading programmes for children) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-home-language-instruction-is-important-during-early-years-of-learning-867480.html
30-07-2020||Panorama||Earphones can lead to hearing loss||Ever since Covid-19 forced people indoors, there is an increased dependence on computers and other hand-held devices. Work from home is the new normal and daily meetings happen online from the comfort of one’s home. Naturally, people are spending a lot more time speaking on the phone. This is leading to extensive use of hearing devices--mainly earphones.   Harmful effects A plugged-in earphone with a high volume exerts a loud sound in the ear canal which transmits via the eardrum through the hearing bones to reach the inner ear. This will destroy the hearing cells when the volume is too loud and on for too long continuously. The earplugs can push the wax inside the ear canal leading to temporary hearing loss and infection as well. The harmful effects of using plugged-in earphones include temporary and then followed by permanent, hearing loss. Loud music damages the cells of hearing. It is important to note that these cells don’t have the capability to regenerate. The hearing loss will then be irreversible.  Plugged-in earphones cause ear pain with excessive pressure on the ear canal. The use of earphones can also lead to excessive pushing of the wax into the ear canal, dizziness and infection in the ear canal.  Weakened hearing cells will lead to a constant humming sound in the ear. This condition is called Tinnitus. A leading cause of Tinnitus is extensive exposure to loud sounds. While this can happen in work environments such as some factories or spaces where loud machines are run, earphones are a major cause too. Losing one’s sense of hearing causes more problems. It leads to depression and anxiety. Studies have shown that people who use earphones to listen to music while studying or working focus less on the task being performed. This hampers productivity and impairs learning in students.  The use of earphones at home while on routine monotonous office work is common without the comfort of the canteen and colleagues for short breaks. Such extensive use is best avoided.  Safe use To make earphones safe and mitigate the risks associated with them, you need to take some basic precautions. To begin with, clean the earphones every day to prevent ear infections. Keep the volume low and ensure there aren’t sudden surges in the decibel level.  Maintain a very strict limit on the duration of exposure. Allow a break of five to 10 minutes every hour. This prevents continuous exposure to sound from the plugged-in earphones.  Strictly avoid sharing your earphones with others. Learn to use the correct technique of inserting the earphones. Avoid sleeping with earphones plugged in. Many fall asleep while listening to music with earphones. This can lead to severe pain in the ear with stress in the Temperomandibular joint. Loud music and sounds lead to hearing loss and Tinnitus. A common mistake people who love music and use earphones commit is listening to music with the volume high. The harm is caused more by the volume you are listening at rather than the earphone itself. The harmful effect also depends on how long you listen continuously and how often you do it.  Over-the-ear earphones are better than those that are plugged directly into the ear since they provide a gap between the music and eardrum in the ear canal. Preferably, in the ear, use loose-fitting earphones that expose you to lower sound pressures than the snugly-fitting ones.  To ensure safe listening, it is recommended to limit the sound to a maximum of 85 decibels for no more than eight hours a day. The 60/60 rule The 60/60 rule is a good guideline. Listen to your music for no more than 60 minutes at a time and at no more than 60% of your device’s maximum volume. The maximum output from a phone’s hearing device can go up to 115 decibels. This can damage the hearing cells in 10-15 minutes of exposure.  Special care is needed in children while they use earphones. You should ensure they don’t increase the volume. Children should not be allowed to use earphones without supervision. (The author is an ENT surgeon)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/earphones-can-lead-to-hearing-loss-867244.html
30-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Opening your mind||Life can be measured by the sweetest memories, especially the unexpected, pleasant surprises. They succeed not only in touching your heart but in opening your mind as well.  Take this one, for example, that shows the enchanting way to a child’s heart. My daughter was stationed in the UK and Christmas was approaching. Her two little girls looked forward to the gaiety of the season. Disney’s ‘Finding Nemo’ was to be released on DVD and it was every child’s dream to possess one. By the time my daughter went shopping, it was Christmas eve and the coveted item had disappeared from the shelves of all the shops. At the last store, my daughter begged the salesgirl to see if she could lay her hands on one. Obligingly she searched and produced one but with its case broken. When Tara opened her gift, she squealed with delight. The broken cover hardly bothered her, but my daughter felt she owed her an explanation. What was her reaction? Her eyes alight with happiness, she exclaimed, "You got the last, the very last one for me? Oh, thank you so much, Amma!" Gauri, only four, was being given a homily by her grandfather. "You must study hard, work with sincerity, become somebody well-known," he went on and on. Finally, Gauri laid her small hand on his aging one and said, "Don’t worry Thatha. You won’t be here to see it, you know."  Though I have been doing it for years, I have never enjoyed cooking. Neither did I win accolades for it from my immediate family. But when others ate what I served, they found it truly out of the ordinary and compliments came thick and fast. I realized at last, that though I am not a candidate for Master Chef, I could turn out mouth-watering dishes. Here is one for those who have eyes but will not see. A man, with his ten-year-old son entered a train. The boy was exceedingly excited and restless. He remarked volubly and endlessly on all that met his eyes. The throng and rush of people on the platform was a matter of wonder. He never stopped exclaiming about the vivid colours of the clothes they wore; then there were the bold and raucous crows that swooped up and down, their eyes on the edibles perched on the heads of vendors. Finally, the passengers could bear it no more. They politely asked the father if he could restrain him a little. Answered he, a little shamefaced, "I understand your problem, but it is just that he is somewhat overwhelmed. You see, he had poor vision and with recent surgery sees much better."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/opening-your-mind-867241.html
30-07-2020||South||Andhra Pradesh records over 10k coronavirus cases, highest single-day spike from South India||Andhra Pradesh recorded 10,093 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the biggest single day addition from any south Indian state till now, during this pandemic. Wednesday’s numbers from Andhra Pradesh are also the largest accumulation to the nationwide Covid-19 tally for the day. The highest single day spike nationwide was 10,576 cases reported from Maharashtra on July 22. However, AP’s alarming figure is attributed to its huge testing numbers – 70,584 samples tested between Tuesday and Wednesday morning. 33,385 are RT-PCR, Truenat, NACO’s AIDS tests, while 37,199 are rapid antigen tests.   Overall, the state’s positivity rate is at 6.61 per cent – lesser than the nationwide average of 8.63 per cent. According to the state health officials, this is because of the massive testing exercise the state took up, concentrating the tests in the containment zones and on the vulnerable groups. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has till Wednesday morning conducted 18.2 lakh tests on its population of 5.3 crore. This averaged to 34,083 samples tested per million population, the highest in the country among the states. Andhra Pradesh has added 65 more deaths, taking its Covid-19 death toll to 1213. Health officials point these mortalities to co-morbidities and patients delaying their admission to a hospital. The state, adding new cases and deaths in shocking numbers lately, has surpassed the one lakh mark in Covid-19 cases on Monday. AP’s previous high was 8,147 cases, on July 24. The worst affected south Indian state - Tamil Nadu’s highest one day addition was 6,993 cases on July 27, while in Karnataka it was 5,536 on July 28. While these two have also crossed the one lakh figure, in Telangana, which is accused of not conducting enough surveillance and tests, the cases are at 58,906. The Chandrasekhar Rao government has tested less than four lakh samples till Tuesday. Telangana’s highest single day number stood at 1924 cases, on July 8. Delhi’s highest addition was 3947 cases, on June 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-records-over-10k-coronavirus-cases-highest-single-day-spike-from-south-india-867256.html
30-07-2020||South||105-year-old woman recovers from Covid-19 in Kerala||A 105-year-old woman recovered from cOVID-19 in Kerala and discharged from hospital on Wednesday, adding one more feather to the cap of the state's health sector. Earlier, the recovery of a couple aged 93 and 88 had brought much appreciation to Kerala's health sector. Asma Beevi, a native of Anchal in the rural parts of Kollam district, was under treatment at the Kollam medical college hospital for over three months. She was the oldest person to recover from Covid-19 in Kerala. State health minister K K Shailaj's said that the willpower of the aged lady was one key reason for her recovery. While Covid-19 infected people above the age of 65 were considered in the high risk group, many persons above 70 recovered from Covid-19 in Kerala and the state could also keep the death rate at a very low level. The current Covid-19 death rate of Kerala is 0.3 percent. Asma Beevi got infected from her daughter and was tested Covid-19 positive on April 20. Since she was also having age related problems, it was a challenging task for health workers to get her recovered. A special medical board constantly reviewed her health conditions and gave her treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/105-year-old-woman-recovers-from-covid-19-in-kerala-867264.html
30-07-2020||South||Temple employee suspended for climbing on sacrifice stone in Kerala||An employee of a temple in Kerala has been placed under suspension by the Travancore Devaswaom Board on charges of flouting temple customs. S Prakash, a worker of the Mannam Subrahmanya temple at North Pravur in Ernakulam district, was placed under suspension on Wednesday for climbing on the main sacrifice stone ('bali kallu') of the temple, which is considered to be very sacred, for cleaning the roof. The Travancore Devaswam Board that manages the temple swiftly initiated the action after a picture of Prakash standing on the stone and cleaning the roof of the temple with a broom went viral on social media over the last few days. Prakash was an employee of the temple since 2003 and his family was traditionally associated with the temple. According to sources, Prakash is an active left front worker. The picture was said to be taken in February. Now only someone shared it on social media and it went viral with many seeking action against him. Hence the TDB initiated a probe and kept him under suspension. The main sacrifice stone is situated in front of the main deity of all temples. It is believed to be one of the key installations of a temple as all mystical powers associated with the temple are contained in the stone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/temple-employee-suspended-for-climbing-on-sacrifice-stone-in-kerala-867352.html
30-07-2020||South||CBI takes over probe into death of violinist Balabhaskar, daughter in 2018 road accident||The CBI has taken over the investigation into the death of renowned violinist from Kerala, Balabhaskar, and his daughter in a 2018 road accident after his family alleged the accused in the case were linked to a gold smuggling ring, officials said. The violinist was returning home with his wife Lakshmi and 18-month-old daughter Tejaswani after a temple visit in Thrissur when their car had an accident near a CRPF camp in Pallipuram on National Highway 66 on September 25, 2018. Passersby, local residents and highway patrol of Kerala police took the injured Balabhaskar, Lakshmi and driver Arjun to Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram, and Tejaswini to Anathapuri Hospital. The hospital declared Tejaswini dead on arrival. Balabhaskar died on October 2. The postmortem of the child revealed that she died of head injury, while for Balabhaskar head and chest injuries proved fatal. Last year, Balabhaskar's father Unni met Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and sought a CBI probe into the death of his son and granddaughter Tejaswani. Unni alleged a conspiracy behind his son's death. "I feel the accident was engineered," Unni had told the media in Thiruvananthapuram. The crime branch, which probed the case, had not found anything unusual in the accident and had not looked into it from the conspiracy angle, he had said. Prakash Thampy, a close aide of the violinist, who had been arrested in connection with gold smuggling, and the driver Arjun stated that it was Balabhaskar who was at the wheel, he had said. However, police investigations revealed Arjun was driving the car. Officials said on Wednesday that the CBI has taken over the FIR of Kerala police pertaining to rash driving in which Arjun was named as accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-death-of-violinist-balabhaskar-daughter-in-2018-road-accident-867369.html
30-07-2020||South||Telangana logs 1,811 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Telangana recorded 1,811 fresh Covid-19 cases and 13 fatalities, pushing the state's gross further up to 60,717. Out of the new positive cases, 521 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by Ranga Reddy (289) and Medchal-Malkajgiri (151) districts, a state government bulletin said on Thursday, providing data as of 8 PM on July 29. With 13 more deaths, the Covid-19 toll in the state rose to 505. While the GHMC area has been the epicentre of the virus spread in the state, the number of cases has seen a rise in a few districts in recent days. The virus spread had largely been confined to the GHMC earlier. The case fatality rate in the state was 0.83 per cent, while it was 2.26 per cent at the national level, the bulletin said. As many as 44,572 people recovered from the infectious disease so far, while 15,640 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 73.4 per cent in the state, while it was 64 per cent in the country, it said. The number of individuals in home and institutional isolation was 10,155. The number of asymptomatic cases of those under home isolation was 84 per cent. The health department said 18,263 samples were tested on July 29 taking the cumulative to 4.16 lakh. On comorbidities status among deaths, the bulletin said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent and that caused by Covid-19 was 46.13 per cent. As many as 320 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on Whatsapp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals and laboratories, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-logs-1811-new-covid-19-cases-13-deaths-867418.html
30-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-19 lockdown till Aug 31, ban on public transport stays||Tamil Nadu government on Thursday extended the Covid-19 lockdown till August 31, giving only a few relaxations like allowing delivery of non-essential goods by e-commerce sites. The ban on public transport has been extended till August 31, while availing of e-pass for inter-district and inter-state travel will continue to be in force. In a detailed statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a “complete lockdown” during which only essential services would continue to be in force on all Sundays during the month of August across the state.   In Chennai, restaurants will be allowed to open dine-in facilities at 50 percent of its total capacity from 6 am to 7 pm from August 1, while vegetable shops, grocery outlets and standalone commercial establishments will also be allowed to remain open from 6 am to 7 pm. E-commerce sites have been allowed to begin delivery of non-essential goods from August 1, while the ban on public transport, temples in urban areas and towns, cinema halls, shopping malls, and gyms would continue till August 31. It also said companies or factories in Chennai that have been allowed to function with 50 percent of staff can increase their strength to 75 percent from August 1. The government also asked companies to encourage its employees to work from home and advised commercial establishments to follow the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) as advised by it. Inter-state or inter-district travel will be allowed only with e-pass, while ban on metro and suburban trains continues. On Thursday morning, Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 tally was 2,34,114 including 1,72,883 discharges and 3,741 deaths. The active cases stood at 57,490.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-extends-covid-19-lockdown-till-aug-31-ban-on-public-transport-stays-867424.html
30-07-2020||South||CBI takes over case of Kerala fusion musician's death shrouded in mystery||After two close aides of late musician Balabhaskar were found to have associations with an international gold smuggling racket, the musician's death by accident is now under question. On Wednesday, CBI took over the case and registered a fresh FIR. Balabhaskar, a noted fusion musician from Kerala, and his daughter died in a road accident in the wee hours of the morning on September 25, 2018, in Thiruvananthapuram. Balabhaskar, known for his expertise with the violin, and his two-year-old daughter Thejaswani Bala were killed and his wife Lakshmi and driver Arjun suffered serious injuries after the car in which they were travelling rammed into a tree at Pallippuram, about 15 kilometres from the city. Prima facie, it looked like an accidental death caused due to the driver's drowsiness. However, Balabhaskar's father C K Unni has been raising suspicions from the initial stages. He also sought a probe into the financial investments of his son. Even as the police investigation pointed towards the driver's drowsiness as the cause of the accident, there were contradictory statements over whether Balabhaskar or Arjun drove the car. Kerala Police's crime branch that probed the case reportedly came to the conclusion that Arjun was driving at the time of the mishap, even though some residents near the accident spot maintained that Balabhaskar was on the driving seat at the time of the accident. The mystery over the musician's death later deepened as his friends Vishnu S and Prakash Thampi, who used to manage his programmes within the country and abroad, were arraigned by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in the gold smuggling case. The seizure of 25 kilogram gold at the Thiruvananthapuram airport led to busting the racket. Adding to the mystery over Balabhaskar's death, an artist in Kerala, Kalabahavan Shobi, later claimed that he happened to pass by Balabhaskar's accident spot at that time and noticed two persons moving away from the spot. Police sources said that they were not ruling out the possibility that Balabhaskar's aides may have been using him and his travels abroad as a cover for smuggling, without his knowledge. The Kerala Government sought a CBI probe into the incident at the request of Balabhaskar's father. CBI Thiruvananthapuram unit DySP Ananthakrishna T P will be probing the case under the supervision of SP Nandakumar Nair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbi-takes-over-case-of-kerala-fusion-musicians-death-shrouded-in-mystery-867481.html
30-07-2020||South||Transfer of customs officer involved in Kerala gold smuggling probe triggers row||A customs officer involved in the investigation into the Kerala gold smuggling case has been transferred to Nagpur. Aniesh P Rajan, joint commissioner of customs at CGST and Central Excise in Thiruvananthapuram, was transferred on Thursday. While customs sources said that the transfer seemed to be untimely one, there were allegations that the officer was transferred for denying allegations that Kerala CM's office intervened to help the accused in the gold smuggling case. Following the seizure of 30 kilogram gold from a diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5, the BJP and Congress alleged that Kerala CM's office rang up customs officials seeking release of the baggage. But Aniesh reportedly denied such reports after a section of media repeatedly sought his reaction. This caused much embarrassment to the BJP leadership in Kerala. Some BJP leaders also alleged of left lenience of Aniesh. Hence the present transfer of Aniesh was alleged to be due to political pressure. Aniesh is directed to relieve immediately and join Nagpur before August 10||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/transfer-of-customs-officer-involved-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-probe-triggers-row-867504.html
30-07-2020||South||40 students with Covid-19 among 1.94 lakh to write CET in Karnataka||As many as 40 students who have tested positive for coronavirus were among the 1.94 lakh students appearing for the Karnataka Common Entrance Test, which began on Thursday, Deputy Chief Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said. Taking a cue from the SSLC examination and the pre-university examination conducted by the Department of Public Instruction, the Karnataka government decided to proceed with the CET for PUC students. The two-day examinations on Thursday and Friday are being conducted at the 497 centres across Karnataka, the Deputy Chief Minister, who holds the higher education portfolio, said after visiting a few of the examination centres. He also said of the 1.94 lakh students enrolled for the test, 40,200 are appearing in Bengaluru at 83 centres. He said 40 students writing the exam are infected by the coronavirus including 12 in Bengaluru. "Elaborate arrangements have been made for the Covid- 19 infected persons to appear for the exam. They were brought to the examination centres and dropped back to their respective places in the department's ambulance," the Deputy Chief Minister said. Separate sitting arrangements have been made for these students. As a precautionary measures, usage of masks and sanitisers have been made mandatory. To maintain social distancing, a maximum of 24 students are allowed in one exam hall, he said. "We are abiding by the guidelines issued by the High Court. Masks, sanitisers, and social distancing are mandatory for the students. There are no shortcomings in the arrangements by the government. Students can happily appear for the exam," he added. He also said this year the counselling for the allotment of seats will be entirely done online. Meanwhile, at Government Dental College at Ballari, an invigilator appeared in personal protection equipment covering himself completely. Five Covid-19 infected students, who appeared for the exam, expressed their satisfaction over the arrangements made in the college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/40-students-with-covid-19-among-194-lakh-to-write-cet-in-karnataka-867537.html
30-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu: C N Annadurai's statue draped with saffron shawl||Draping a statue of DMK founder C N Annadurai with a saffron cloth in Kanyakumari district in Tamil Nadu created a political storm on Thursday with both the ruling DMK and AIADMK condemning the incident and appealing to people not to “dishonour” leaders through such acts. Thursday’s incident came exactly a week after a saffron shawl was draped on the statue of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran in Puducherry. Annadurai, the founder of DMK and one of the Dravidian legends, was Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu from 1967 to 1969. Police said Annadurai’s statue situated in Kuzhithurai in Kanyakumari district was found tied with a saffron cloth on Thursday morning. The cloth was immediately removed but the incident led to a major uproar in the state with a special team being formed to nab the culprits. However, the district police said on Thursday evening that a mentally challenged person was responsible for the incident and that there was no “ulterior motive” in his act. DMK president M K Stalin took a dig at the right wing saying their thoughts have gone down the drain. “Since they do not have anything to show as their own, they are showing their resentment against leaders. Arrest the culprits,” he wrote on his Twitter page. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam also condemned the incident saying the government would take strict action against anyone who dishonours statues of great leaders who had worked for the society. The incident also comes close on the heels of an attack against the statue of Periyar in Coimbatore. The accused has been booked under the stringent National Security Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-c-n-annadurais-statue-draped-with-saffron-shawl-867559.html
30-07-2020||South||TTD arranges darshan for Russian lady stranded in Tirupati amid Covid-19||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has arranged Lord Venkateshwara darshan on Thursday for a Russian lady stranded in the temple town for the past four months because of the Covid-19 situation. 32-year-old Esther and her mother Olivia were on a spiritual tour in India, visiting all the ISKCON temples. Olivia is now at Vrindavan in Uttar Pradesh and the TTD officials assured to reunite the duo, besides offering accommodation and food for the time they would be in Tirupati. After learning about their travails, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy has also offered to organize her return journey home in consultation with the Russian Embassy. “She visited the temple Thursday early morning and had the darshan. She is at present in a private accommodation in Tirupati,” a TTD official told DH. The annual three-day Pavitrotsavam commenced at the Srivari temple on Thursday with Pavitra Pratistha. As per the ritual, the utsava idols of Sri Malayappaswamy and His consorts were seated at Pavitra mandapam for homa and vaidika programs. Snapana Tirumanjanam was conducted on the utsava idols earlier. Vishesha samarpana was also performed in the evening, TTD officials said. Following requests from devotees in view of Covid-19 restrictions prevailing across the country and overseas, TTD has announced the extension of the validity of VIP break darshan tickets offered on donations to the Srivani Trust from the present six months to one year. Darshans are going on at the popular temple despite about 200 of the TTD employees, including several archakas, testing positive and Tirupati, the gateway to Tirumala, put under lockdown till August 5. However, the pilgrim numbers are declining compared to the proportions when the temple reopened for the public on June 11, following easing of the lockdown restrictions by the central government. Around five thousand devotees are availing the darshan facility against the 9000 special darshan tokens issued online, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-arranges-darshan-for-russian-lady-stranded-in-tirupati-amid-covid-19-867560.html
30-07-2020||South||Two held for posting photographs of college girls and teachers in pornsites||Two people have been arrested for uploading the photographs of some college girls and teachers on pornographic websites, police said on Thursday. According to police, the duo used to pick up photographs of the girl students and teachers from their social media account and upload them on the porn sites. Following complaints, they were arrested and their mobile phones and laptops seized, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/two-held-for-posting-photographs-of-college-girls-and-teachers-in-pornsites-867600.html
30-07-2020||South||Krishna river board halts Andhra Pradesh's lift irrigation scheme||The Krishna River Management Board has instructed Andhra Pradesh to stop the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme, the Telangana government said on Thursday. In a move objected by Telangana, the Jaganmohan Reddy government had in May issued an order for allocation of Rs 6,829 crore for the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and supporting canal system to draw three TMC per day from Pothireddypadu Head Regulator on the Srisailam reservoir. Telangana officials had then approached the KRMB challenging AP’s decision and to prevent the state from awarding contracts for the said works. Telangana says the project would be in violation of the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act 2014 and that it would adversely impact the Telangana projects in the Krishna basin. “The board found fault with Andhra government granting administrative sanctions to the construction of new projects on Krishna and warned that AP cannot go forward without taking permission from the Central Water Commission (CWC),” a statement from Telangana CMO said referring to a letter from KRMB member Harikesh Meena to the Special Chief Secretary (Irrigation), AP. KRMB also made it clear that for any new projects, a Detailed Project Report should be submitted to the CWC and permission should be taken from the apex committee, Telangana officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/krishna-river-board-halts-andhra-pradeshs-lift-irrigation-scheme-867614.html
30-07-2020||South||Six months on with Covid-19, Kerala to wage 'big war' against pandemic||Six months after recording the country's first Covid-19 case, Kerala is now gearing up to face "a big war" against the pandemic with the state under a third wave with the total cases crossing the 22,000 mark. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the government was using all its resources to fight the pandemic while Health Minister K K Shailaja said the state would put up a combined battle against the virus, whose tally stood at 22,297 with 70 fatalities as of date. The opposition Congress criticised the government over the handling of the pandemic, claiming it was a "total failure" in the past six months. It was on January 30 that the state reported the first Covid-19 case in the country when a woman medical student tested positive on her return to the state from Wuhan in China, the epicentre of the novel coronavirus. The second and third cases in the country were also Wuhan returnees from Kerala and all the three were successfully treated and discharged from hospitals with the state's healthcare model drawing praise from various quarters. "Our journey with Covid-19 began six months ago. The government is using all its resources to overcome the unfamiliar circumstances", Vijayan said, as he praised the people for their support in the battle against the pandemic. Shailaja said: "What is going to come now, is a big war... In the third phase also the state has not lost any ground (in the battle against the virus)", she said. After successful treatment and isolation of contacts of the first batch of cases, the state was hit by the second wave of infections when a three-member family from Italy returned to Ranni village in Pathanamthitta district on March 8. Several of their close relatives, including a 93-year-old Thomas Abraham and his 88-year old wife Mariyamma, contracted the virus, but recovered with the man becoming then the oldest Covid-19 survivor in the country. In the second phase, there were 496 positive cases, including 165 who contracted the disease through contact, Vijayan said. When the nation-wide lockdown was introduced on March 24, there were 105 patients under treatment and byMay 8 the active cases dipped to just 16 while the infection count stood at 503, prompting the government to declare it has flattened the coronavirus curve. However, with more and more people who returned to Kerala from the Gulf region and other countries and states testing positive for the virus, the state's positive cases nearly doubled to 1,000 by May 27. Since the Unlock-1 began, so far 6.82 lakh people, including 4.19 lakh from other states, have returned to the state. In the past six months, due to the government's systematic intervention, despite predictions, the state did not slide into any dangerous situation, Vijayan said. On July 4, Kerala's tally stood at 5,000 cases and it breached the 10,000 mark by July 16 and took another 12 days to further double to 20,000, indicating the rapid spread. Community transmission was also reported in two coastal hamlets in Thiruvananthapuram district. With more and more cases, the government has decided that the asymptomatic patients can undergo treatment at their homes provided they have a single room with toilet facilities. On an experimental basis the health workers would be allowed to use this option in Thiruvananthapuram, where the total number of patients is the highest -- 3,023 as on Wednesday. Slamming the government over its tackling of the virus during the past six months, Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday alleged it was a "total failure". The government's "plan A, B and C seems to have been abandoned," he told reporters here after a meeting of the Congress-led UDF meeting. Lack of enough testing, delayed test results and no transparency in data were the allegations raised by him against the government. According to official data, the state has tested over seven lakh samples till Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-months-on-with-covid-19-kerala-to-wage-big-war-against-pandemic-867642.html
30-07-2020||South||Covid-19: Political row over Kerala govt's decision on homecare||A political row has erupted in Kerala over the state government’s decision to offer home care option for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients. The Opposition Congress has alleged that the state government was trying to get rid of its responsibility towards the coronavirus patients. The Kerala government has decided to commence home care as per the ICMR guidelines. Many states have already initiated home care for asymptomatic patients. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said initially health workers who get Covid-19 infection would be given the home care option and no one will be compelled to take the option. A major chunk of the virus patients were asymptomatic or have mild symptoms only. Strict vigilance would be made to ensure that those on home care did not flout the quarantine. Vijayan also said about 25,536 beds for Covid-19 patients were already available in Kerala. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that there was no clarity in the government decision on home care. Meanwhile, a section of health workers was also learnt to be apprehensive about home care, especially about patients following the quarantine norms diligently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-political-row-over-kerala-govts-decision-on-homecare-867649.html
30-07-2020||State||Seven more Covid-19 fatalities, 208 fresh cases in Dakshina Kannada||According to officials, a 52-year-old man from Padubidri suffering from hypoxemia/refractory, septic shock, renal failure, arrhythmias and pulmonary thromboembolism was admitted to a private hospital on July 2 and died on July 27. He was positive for Covid-19. Another victim, a 62-year-old man from Bantwal suffering from leukaemia, pneumonia and Covid-19 was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 24, but failed to respond to treatment and died on July 28. A 69-year-old woman from Mangaluru who was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 9 passed away on July 28. She was suffering from cancer, cardiac ailment and pneumonia. A 73-year-old man from Mangaluru was also in the list of fatalities. With symptoms of diabetes and respiratory infection, he was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on July 23 and died on July 28. A 66-year-old man from Dharwad, the fifth victim to the deadly virus, was admitted to a private hospital on July 12 and died on July 28. He was suffering from type 2 respiratory failure, pneumonia and cardiac ailment. Another 66-year-old man from Karwar suffering from respiratory failure succumbed to Covid-19 on July 28. A 39-year-old man from Mangaluru suffering from refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, secondary bacterial infection, renal failure, cardiorespiratory failure died at a private hospital on July 28. 208 new cases The Covid-19 cases continue to surge with 208 new cases on Wednesday, taking the district’s total tally to 5,311. Of the fresh cases, 65 infected are primary contacts of already infected persons. A total of 73 persons with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and 12 with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) too have been confirmed with Covid-19 infection. Further, the contacts tracing of 58 persons is underway, stated the officials. On a positive note, 118 patients have recovered and were discharged from various hospitals in the district. In Udupi Udupi district recorded 173 new cases. The total cases in the district are 3,895. A total of 2,323 patients have been discharged in the district after recovery. As many as 42 persons with symptoms of ILI, SARI and Covid-19 suspects have been admitted to isolation wards. The district has tested 30,260 samples so far. Of the total cases, Kundapura taluk recorded the highest with 1,828 cases, said the officials. Four more Covid-19 fatalities were reported in Udupi, taking the district’s tally to 25. Three persons were suffering from ILI and one was suffering from a respiratory infection and failed to respond to the treatment and succumbed to the virus. They were aged 60 (2 persons), 62 and 75. The officials on Wednesday collected 824 samples and sent them for testing. The reports of 835 samples are pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seven-more-covid-19-fatalities-208-fresh-cases-in-dakshina-kannada-867333.html
30-07-2020||State||Covid-19: Deep sea fishing to resume from September 1 in Mangaluru||Fishermen in Mangaluru will resume deep-sea fishing from September 1 although the ban on fishing season ends on July 31. However, the Covid-19 situation has made them postpone deep sea fishing. The decision was taken at a meeting of the representatives of fishermen leaders. The fishermen felt the postponing of deep-sea fishing was necessary to check the spread of Covid-19.   The meeting was attended by representatives from all areas of the fisheries sector including boat owners, fish traders, export firms, and fish meal industries. Trawl Boat Owners Association president Nithin Kumar said, “we discussed various issues including bringing back the migrant labourers. who are the mainstay of this commercial activity, from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal. After the lockdown, all the labourers had returned to their native places. About 75% of the labourers in the fishing sector are from outside the state.” He said the stakeholders will meet the officials from the fisheries department and discuss the issue of arranging transportation and quarantine facilities for the migrant labourers. "A plan of action will be submitted shortly,” he said. There is a need to chalk out plans to ensure social distancing at the old port and auction yard once the deep sea fishing commences. “It is difficult to carry out fish business and maintain social distancing during this pandemic. In case the Old Port is sealed after a fisherman tests positive, then the fishermen will incur a huge loss,” the fishermen said. The fisheries department officials had advised that they ensure at least 25% of the boats that leave for fishing return back to the port on the same day. In reality, it is not possible. The boats that go for deep-sea fishing will have eight to 10 members in it. They return with the catch only after 10 days. The mechanised boats will return to the port after three days of fishing. Only a few purse seine boats return on the same day after the catch. The traditional fishing boats will resume fishing on a full scale from August 1. The fishing ban is implemented to allow the breeding of fish along the coast from June 1 to July 31. Due to Covid-19, this year, the fishing ban started from June 15 to July 31. The reckless fishing during monsoon will adversely affect fish catch after the fishing season resumes. The last fishing season was not good for the fishermen. They were caught in Okhi, Kyarr and Maha cyclones and lost several days of fishing. Further, the lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19 has also impacted the fishing season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-deep-sea-fishing-to-resume-from-september-1-in-mangaluru-867492.html
30-07-2020||State||No leadership change, Yediyurappa will be CM: Karnataka BJP Chief Nalin Kumar Kateel||Ruling out leadership change, Karnataka BJP President Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday said there should be no doubt about party giving a stable government in the state for the next three years, with B S Yediyurappa as the Chief Minister. With speculations about leadership change and social media posts allegedly by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi's supporters, projecting him as the next CM, the BJP Chief said it is the party that decides on such matters not supporters, and any violation of discipline will not be tolerated. Speaking to reporters in Chamarajanagara, Kateel said, "There are no discord (with in the party). For next three years our government will be stable and run the administration. Yediyurappa will be Chief Ministers for remaining three years completely, let there be no doubt about it. Seeking to know who asked for a change in the Chief Minister, he said, "No one has asked from the party....social media is not the party." "Has any MLA asked for it? It is MLAs who elect the CM, have they asked for it? Have any Ministers asked? Have any party office bearers asked for it, no one," he said. As his visit to New Delhi at the time the BJP government in the state completed one year in office sparked speculation about leadership change, Savadi too on Wednesday had said Yediyurappa is our leader and he will complete his three year term. Questioning whether Laxman Savadi has said that he had gone to Delhi for leadership change, Kateel said, "supporters may be posting things, but what are they in the party? It is party that decides on such matters, we have certain discipline and rules." If anyone violates such discipline and rules, we will not tolerate it, he said, adding that "Those who claim to be supporters or followers are not the party.... Laxman Savadi had gone to Delhi to discuss with central ministers about matters concerning his department." According to some within the party, Savadi had gone to Delhi to save himself from being axed during the next cabinet expansion. Speculations are rife that Yediyurappa is looking to expand his cabinet in August, and it is no secret that there are too many aspirants for the berths. While several of the old guard are waiting for a chance to be inducted into the Ministry, those who defected from the Congress and JD(S) like A H Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, who are now BJP MLCs, are also aspiring for slots. Currently, the cabinet has 28 members while six berths are still vacant. According to party sources, several ministers who fear axing if there is a cabinet rejig, are trying to reach out to leaders in Delhi to ensure that they continue in the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-leadership-change-yediyurappa-will-be-cm-karnataka-bjp-chief-nalin-kumar-kateel-867568.html
30-07-2020||State||Supreme court dismisses review pleas on Karnataka's SC/ST promotion quota verdict||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed a plea to review its May 10, 2019 judgement, which has upheld the validity of the Karnataka's 2018 law for granting reservation in promotion to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe employees. A bench of Justices U U Lalit and D Y Chandrachud rejected a contention by general category of employees that this court did not consider the binding principles laid down by a Constitution bench in Nagaraj vs Union of India and Jarnail Singh vs Lachhmi Narain Gupta and that, in any case, the matter should have been referred to a bench of higher strength. B K Pavitra and others, through petitions filed by advocate Kumar Parimal and settled by senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan, claimed that there was an error apparent in the findings of this court on the retrospective application of the Reservation Act 2018 and the inapplicability of the 'creamy layer' concept to consequential seniority. "Every ground raised in the review petitions has been addressed on merits in the judgment under review. Consistent with the parameters that guide the exercise of the review jurisdiction, we do not find any error apparent on the record to justify interference. The review petitions are therefore dismissed," the bench said. The order was passed in judges chamber through the circulation of documents as per SC Rules. The apex court's order would pave the way for the Karnataka government to bring about the promotion of SC/ST employees in the state. In their plea, over 100 general category petitioners, led by B K Pavitra, contended the judgement by the two-judge bench of Justices Lalit and Chandrachud has "totally upset and diluted" the settled criteria to determine the nature, extent and purpose of reservation in the entire state of Karnataka. It was also contrary to the law laid down by the Constitution benches in the Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018) cases. The verdict has sought to "re-write the law of reservation defying the reasonable balance which the Supreme Court followed for the last 70 years," their plea has stated. On May 10, 2019, the top court had dismissed a batch of petitions filed by Pavitra and others against the validity of 'the Karnataka Extension of Consequential Seniority to Government Servants Promoted on the Basis of Reservation (To the Posts in the Civil Services of the State) Act, 2018', passed to "circumvent" the 2017 verdict, then delivered on petitions by Pavitra and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/supreme-court-dismisses-review-pleas-on-karnatakas-sc/st-promotion-quota-verdict-867607.html
30-07-2020||State||No sign of first 2 months of fiscal's GST money for Karnataka||Four months into 2020-21 fiscal, Karnataka is yet to receive the first instalment of GST compensation for the year, which is estimated at around Rs 4,800 crore. There is also a cloud of doubt on whether the state will receive its full share of the Rs 28,591 crore of the funds devolved for the financial year by the Centre, following reports that it will struggle to shore up the necessary resources to pay states as per the existing revenue-sharing formula. These constraints are expected to compromise the financial condition of the state, as it fights an uphill battle against the pandemic during a period of economic contraction. When contacted, Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) I S N Prasad told DH that the first instalment of GST compensation for the first two months of the fiscal was due. “(GST compensation) for April and May was due in June, but not received so far,” he said. Meanwhile, according to reports, even the Rs 28,591 crore allocated to Karnataka under devolution in the union budget for the current fiscal - which is around Rs 11,200 crore less than the budgetary allocation of Rs 39,806 crore in 2019-20 - may not be realised at the end of the fiscal. As the Centre planned to rework the GST-sharing formula due to the dip in revenue collection, sources said that Karnataka’s share would reduce further by at least 10%. Plans to take loans After the Centre relaxed lending limit for states, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has vowed to borrow loans to take up development works.   Referring to the National Highway works undertaken in Karnataka at an event held recently to mark one-year of BJP administration, Yediyurappa said the state has completed 970 km of national highway and was receiving only Rs 500 crore for highway works, even though they had requested the central government for more. “We will ensure that these highways are completed even if it meant taking additional loans,” the CM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-sign-of-first-2-months-of-fiscals-gst-money-for-karnataka-867640.html
30-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Cabinet panel not for 40-year lease of MySugar||Under pressure from farmer groups, the government is likely to drop its plan of leasing the iconic MySugar company for a 40-year period. A Cabinet sub-committee has recommended that the factory resume under operations and maintenance (O&M) model and a tender will be floated shortly for the same. Sugar Minister Shivaram Hebbar, who is part of the sub-committee, told DH that MySugar Company will be run under the O&M model for the next ten years. "The committee has submitted its recommendations to the government. A final decision will be taken in the Cabinet," he said. The government's proposal to lease the factory, which was established in 1934, was met with stern opposition from farmer groups, and several elected representatives had petitioned the state government against the decision. Earlier, the government had leased another factory from the Mandya district - the Pandavapura Sahakara Sakkara Karkhane (PSSK) - to Nirani Sugars, owned by BJP legislator Murugesh Nirani. Hebbar said that following a decision - in one of the next two Cabinet meetings - the government will float tenders for parties to operate the beleaguered sugar factory. The members of the Cabinet sub-committee include Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Horticulture Minister Narayan Gowda and others. It can be recalled that though the factory was hit by operational issues, protests were held against leasing the factory to private firms, in Mandya. The protesters had demanded that the government operate the factory under O&M model, so that farmers' interests are safeguarded. Following the protests, the government had assured that the 86-year-old factory will not be privatised, and Hebbar had announced that it would be either run by the state or under the Public-Private partnership model.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cabinet-panel-not-for-40-year-lease-of-mysugar-867646.html
30-07-2020||State||Post-submission by govt, Karnataka HC allows kin to see Covid-19 victims’ bodies||The government on Thursday submitted to the High Court that it has issued a circular setting out exhaustive guidelines on management of dead bodies. Accordingly, the High Court has allowed the relatives of the deceased only to see the body. In the previous hearing, the high court had directed the state government to formulate detailed guidelines for handling dead bodies with dignity. The government submitted the circular issued on July 29 and said that in deaths due to any other causes where Covid-19 is not confirmed or suspected, Covid-19 shall not be mentioned either as cause of death or in death certificates for any reasons. The bench observed that one of the clauses in the circular allows relatives of the dead to view the body. The clause states, “If the family wishes only to view the body and not touch it, they may do so, using standard precautions at all times including hand hygiene. Give the family clear instructions not to touch or kiss the body.’’ The bench observed that there has been no study of experts produced by the state on the question whether the virus spreads if one touches the body where the cause of death is confirmed to be Covid-19. “We say so for the reason that no such reports have been placed before this court.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/post-submission-by-govt-karnataka-hc-allows-kin-to-see-covid-19-victims-bodies-867674.html
30-07-2020||State||Karnataka records 6,123 fresh infections, tally goes past 1.18 lakh||Karnataka saw its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases at 6,123 on Thursday even as people thronged the markets across the state for festival shopping, throwing social distancing norms to the wind. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu told DH, while the effects of the festival shopping will be seen in a week from now in terms of surge in cases, the current case load is largely because of the enhanced testing targets set for each district. “Now the mood is very casual. All business houses want to open doors and go back to life. The effects of the festival shopping will be seen in a week. But the new cases can be attributed to increased testing and the enhanced testing targets set for each district,” said Dr Babu.  On Thursday, the state conducted 38,095 tests, taking its overall count to 13.13 lakh tests. The state has also leveraged its rapid antigen test capability with 1.25 lakh tests, so far. Of the 6,100-plus new cases, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,233. The state capital Covid-19 case tally swelled to 53,324. Twenty-two new deaths in the city have taken the toll past 1,000-mark (1009 deaths as on July 30).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-6123-fresh-infections-tally-goes-past-118-lakh-867677.html
30-07-2020||State||Karnataka: Govt passes CET Day 1 test; smooth sailing for Covid-19 positive students||Day One of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) went off successfully on Thursday, amid the spike in Covid-19 cases. Though the first day faced no hurdles, the number of candidates appearing for Biology and Mathematics papers saw a dip compared to previous year. The percentage of students present for Biology paper was 75.89, whereas it was 89.22 for Mathematics, down from 79.90 for Biology and 89.22 for Mathematics in 2019.  Explaining the decrease in attendance, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said, “This is mainly because II PU results of state boards and other boards were declared before KCET this year and only eligible candidates appeared for the test.” A total of 60 Covid-19 positive students registered for KCET, of which 57 appeared for the test from 22 districts for Mathematics and 49 for Biology. Of these, 14 were from two centres in Bengaluru. Special arrangements were made for these students to write the exams at Covid Care Centres, with all necessary safety measures in place, along with PPE kits for invigilators. Addressing the media after the test, Ashwath Narayan said, “The Standard Operating Procedure was in place. Transportation and food were provided for Covid positive students.” Students were happy with the Biology and Mathematics papers. They said the papers were easy and that they were able to finish them within the allotted 60 minutes.  Sukrutha Prakash Midgesh, a student of Deeksha Centre for Learning, said, “Mathematics paper was quite easy compared to the previous year and not lengthy also. Thanks to the authorities for implementing all safety and hygiene measures, so that we could write the exams without fear.”  “I am happy that social distancing, temperature check and wearing of masks was a must. The Biology paper was easy and only one question was out of the NCERT book,” said Nandita a student from National PU college.  One small glitch Students from outside Karnataka who chose Bengaluru centres found it difficult to get a hotel to stay Minister at COVID centres Higher Education Minister Ashwath Narayan visited one of the Covid Care Centres where Covid-19 positive candidates were writing exams. He was wearing a PPE kit and interacted with the students. “It was not just to inspect the facilities, but also to boost their morale,” hesaid. The results of KCET 2020 are likely to announce in 15 to 20 days, Dr AShwath Narayan said in a pressconference. Covid infected appear at spl exam centres Two students infected with Covid-19 wrote Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) in a special examination centre here on Thursday. The centre was opened for the infected boy and girl at the hostel run by the Social Welfare Department in the city. Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) camera was also installed. The students were brought in an ambulance to the examination hall from their Covid Care Centres. A doctor and a staff nurse on Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) were deployed for their health check-up. They distributed question and answer papers and the answer scripts of the infected students were packed separately. The examination staff too supervised. One candidate who had tested positive for Covid-19 virus was provided with a separate room at the ASP Commerce College of Vijaypura to wrote the test. The services of a doctor and two para-medical workers were also provided at the centre to monitor the health condition of the candidate. As many as 7,889 candidates had registered for the examination. Of these 7,168 appeared for the test on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-passes-cet-day-1-test-smooth-sailing-for-covid-19-positive-students-867678.html
30-07-2020||State||Karnataka: SSLC results before August 8, says Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the results of SSLC examination would be published before August 8. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "All preparations have been done for announcing the results". To a question on reopening of schools, Suresh Kumar said, "Schools will not be reopened in August as per the guidelines issued by the Union government. The situation in the state will be observed and a suitable decision will be taken". Commenting on the reduction in school syllabus and later stalling it, the minister said a few portions of the syllabus were cut to manage the working days of the school. As this created confusion among the people, the government has stalled it. The textbook division of the Department of State Educational Research and Training has been told to review it, he added. Suresh Kumar said every academic year has 240 working days. But, this year, due to the pandemic, the maximum working days available would be 140 days. Hence, a decision was taken to reduce 30% of the syllabus, and repeat chapters were cut. However, it would be reviewed and a decision would be taken, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-sslc-results-before-august-8-says-suresh-kumar-867687.html
30-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Unlock 3.0: Karnataka removes Sunday lockdowns, night curfew||Karnataka has decided to do away with total lockdowns on Sundays and the daily night curfew under Unlock 3.0, whose guidelines were issued Thursday. The state government had imposed total lockdown (curfew) on all Sundays, and it was to last till August 2. Also, the government had a night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am. These curbs have been removed, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar said. In line with the Centre’s guidelines, the state government will allow gyms and yoga institutes to open from August 5. The guidelines will kick in from August 1 and are valid till August 31. Educational institutions, including coaching centres, will remain closed till August 31. Theatres, swimming pools, entertainment parks, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls and similar places will be closed. As prescribed by the Centre, the state government will impose lockdown in all Covid-19 containment zones till August 31. Only essential activities will be allowed in the containment zones, with restriction on movement of people in or out. There are no restrictions on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. No permission, approval or e-permits will be required, according to the order issued by Bhaskar. The Independence Day celebrations will be allowed at state, district, taluk, municipal and panchayat levels with social distancing and compliance with other health protocols such as wearing of masks, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/unlock-30-karnataka-removes-sunday-lockdowns-night-curfew-867608.html
30-07-2020||West||Coronavirus: Maharashtra lockdown extended till August 31||Maharashtra Government on Wednesday extended the lockdown in the state till August 31 in view of rising coronavirus cases, which crossed the four- lakh mark in the day. A notification issued by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar said the decision has been taken as an "emergency step to prevent and contain" the spread of COVID-19. As part of the Mission Begin Again initiative, malls and market complexes without theatres, food courts and restaurants will be operational between 9 am and 7 pmfrom August 5, the notification said. Maharashtra Government had last month extended the lockdown till July 31 amid a steady growth in the COVID-19 cases in the state. The notification said movement of persons for purpose of non-essential activities like shopping and outdoor exercises shall be restricted within neighbourhood area limits with mandatory precautions of wearing masks, social distancing and personal hygiene. Unrestricted movement will be allowed only for attending place of work which are open and for medical reasons, it said. Large public gatherings and congregations will continue to remain prohibited, and marriage-related gatherings will have only up to 50 guests, it said. The maximum number of persons allowed at funerals will be 20, it added. Kitchens of food courts and restaurants will be allowed to operate in the malls where only home delivery will be permitted, it said. Outdoornon-team sports like golf courses, outdoor firing range, outdoor gymnastics, tennis, outdoor badminton and malkhamb will be allowed with physical distancing and sanitation measures from August 5, the order said. Swimming pools will not be allowed to operate. Wearing of masks will be compulsory in (public) transport system, it said. Barber shops, spa, salons, and beauty parlors have been allowed to operate with certain stipulations since June 25. With 9,211 new patients being detected, the number of COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra on Wednesday reached 4,00,651. The state's death toll due to the pandemic went up to 14,463 with 298 patients dying, 60 of them in Mumbai, during the day, said health minister Rajesh Tope. 7,478 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered cases in the state to 2,39,755. Maharashtra now has 1,46,129 active cases. A total of 20,16,234 people have been tested so far in the state, the health department said in a statement. The Mumbai city and suburban areas reported 1,109 and 3,324 fresh cases of COVID-19, respectively. The case count in the state's capital is now 1,11,991 and death toll 6,247.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-maharashtra-lockdown-extended-till-august-31-867268.html
30-07-2020||West||Indian businessman converts office into coronavirus ward in Gujarat||The coronavirus epidemic is still raging in the world's second-most populous nation, with the number of infections passing 1.5 million on Wednesday, and almost 35,000 deaths. With public hospitals struggling to cope, Kadar Shaikh spent 20 days in a private clinic last month in the western city of Surat -- and was horrified by the bill. "The cost of treatment at a private hospital was huge. How could poor people afford such treatment?" property developer Shaikh told AFP. "So I decided to do something and contribute in the fight against the deadly virus." Once back on his feet, Shaikh secured approval from local authorities to convert his 30,000-square-feet (2,800-square-metre) office premises. The government provides and pays for the staff, medical equipment and medicine, while Shaikh bought the beds and bears the cost of bed linen and electricity. Anyone can be admitted, he said, regardless of "caste, creed or religion".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-businessman-converts-office-into-coronavirus-ward-in-gujarat-867348.html
30-07-2020||West||Woman killed by neighbour over witchcraft suspicion in Maharashtra||A 35-year-old man in Maharashtra's Thane district allegedly killed his woman neighbour over suspicion that she practised witchcraft, police said on Thursday. The man's wife died around eight days back at Apti village in Kalyan taluka. He suspected that his 45-year-old woman neighbour practised witchcraft on his wife, Kalyan taluka police station inspector Balaji Pandhre said. The man allegedly stabbed her with a knife on Tuesday evening, he said, adding that the woman died on the spot. Some neighbours alerted the police who rushed to the spot and sent the body for postmortem. The accused was arrested on Wednesday and charged under Indian Penal Code Section 302 (murder), Pandhre said. The victim and the accused also had a land dispute and the police were probing if that led to the crime, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-killed-by-neighbour-over-witchcraft-suspicion-in-maharashtra-867399.html
30-07-2020||West||Rajasthan HC resumes hearing on petition against merger of BSP MLAs into Congress||The Rajasthan High Court on Thursday resumed hearing on a plea filed by a BJP legislator against the Speaker's decision to reject his complaint against the merger of six BSP MLAs into Congress. BJP's Madan Dilawar had filed a complaint before Speaker C P Joshi in March this year against the merger, which the Speaker rejected on July 24. Dilawar then filed a writ petition in the high court, challenging the Speaker's decision. He has alleged the Speaker did not hear him when deciding his complaint. A bench of Justice Mahendra Kumar Goyal began hearing his plea on Wednesday but it remained inconclusive. He resumed the hearing on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajasthan-hc-resumes-hearing-on-petition-against-merger-of-bsp-mlas-into-congress-867455.html
30-07-2020||West||Sushant Singh Rajput death probe turning into tussle between Maharashtra, Bihar||The investigation into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput us snowballing into a tussle between two states - Maharashtra and Bihar. A day after Maharashtra's home minister Anil Deshmukh ruled out a CBI probe, minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai said that what the Bihar police was doing is wrong. "The Mumbai police has registered a case... from day one we are investigating," he said. Desai added that the Patna police has registered a case and a team has landed in Mumbai. "Whenever a police team from a state visits another state for investigation... there are some protocols... these were not followed," he said. Meanwhile, in the wake of the tussle, the Mumbai police has put off the recording of statements. An official of Bihar police said that they are receiving necessary cooperation. The Bihar police is now in the private bank's branch where Sushant had an account. They are also planning to record the statement of Sushant's ex-girlfriend Ankita Lokhande.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-singh-rajput-death-probe-turning-into-tussle-between-maharashtra-bihar-867486.html
30-07-2020||West||Man held with Rs 1.49 cr old currency note in Gujarat||A 40-year-old man was apprehended after scrapped currency notes with a face value of Rs 1.49 crore were recovered from him in Gujarat's Surat city, police said on Thursday. Acting on a specific tip-off from the Gujarat Anti- Terrorist Squad (ATS), the police raided the residence of Pravin Mangukia on Wednesday and seized the demonetised currency notes, Surat Police's Special Operations Group (SOG) said in a release. The seized currency included 9,728 notes of Rs 500 denomination and 10,058 notes in the denomination of Rs 1,000, having a total face value of Rs 1,49,22,000, the police said. The SOG was further investigating the case, the release said. On Wednesday, two persons from Godhra town in Panchmahal district were nabbed with demonetised currency notes having a face value of Rs 4.76 crore. They were also apprehended following inputs provided by the ATS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-with-rs-149-cr-old-currency-note-in-gujarat-867508.html
30-07-2020||West||Big boost to Khadi as Indian Red Cross Society set to buy 1.8 lakh face masks from KVIC||As the popularity of the khadi face masks grows across the country due to its fine quality and affordable price, the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has received a prestigious purchase order from Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) to supply 1.80 lakh face masks. As per KVIC, the IRCS masks will be made of 100 per cent double-twisted handcrafted cotton fabric in brown colour with red piping. KVIC has especially designed these double-layered cotton masks for the Indian Red Cross Society as per the samples provided by them. The mask will have suitably printed IRCS logo on the left side and the Khadi India tag on the right side. The supply of masks will begin by next month. The execution of this order will require over 20,000 metre of fabric which will generate 9,000 additional man days for the khadi artisans. KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena welcomed the purchase order from the Indian Red Cross Society and said the massive demand of khadi Face Masks is a major step in the direction of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. “This order will help our khadi artisans to produce more yarn and fabric and will further add to their income in these difficult times,” Saxena said. KVIC has added that so far it has sold over 10 lakh face masks which include double layered cotton masks and triple-layered silk masks. The biggest order for face masks that the KVIC received was from the Jammu & Kashmir government for 7 lakh masks that has been delivered on time. Approximately 1 lakh metres of cotton fabric worth over Rs one crore and nearly 2,000 metres of silk fabric of different colours and prints has been used in making these masks till recently. KVIC received repeat orders from the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Prime Minister’s Office, Central Government ministries and orders from general public through KVIC’s E-portal. KVIC has supplied over 20,000 face masks to the Indian Railways too. Apart from the sale, KVIC has free distributed nearly 10 lakh khadi masks to the District Authorities though its Khadi Institutions across the country. “Face masks are the most critical tool to fight the Corona Pandemic. These masks prepared from Double Twisted khadi fabric not only meet the quality and scale of demand but are cost effective, breathable, washable, reusable and bio-degradable” Saxena added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/big-boost-to-khadi-as-indian-red-cross-society-set-to-buy-18-lakh-face-masks-from-kvic-867522.html
30-07-2020||West||Swab taken from woman's private parts; lab technician held||In a shocking incident, a government hospital’s lab technician has been arrested for molestation and rape after he took swab from a woman's private parts for conducting a Covid-19 test in Amravati district of Vidarbha region. The incident took place on Tuesday in Badnera in Amravati district, reports reaching here said. The accused, Alpesh Deshmukh (30), has been arrested and placed under arrest on Thursday. He has been remanded to police custody till Friday and further investigations were in progress. “The accused will not be spared,” said state Woman and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is also the Guardian Minister of Amravati district. The incident took place when the 23-year-old victim had gone for a Covid test at the Trauma Care Testing Lab in the Badnera government hospital, according to Inspector Punjab Wanjari, the investigating officer of the case. The girl, a shopping complex employee, has gone for the mandatory test as a colleague had tested Covid-19 positive. She and 20 other colleagues reported to the lab for testing. After the test, the lab technician, called up the complainant to inform her that the Covid-19 test was positive and she was required to undergo another urinal test.  "On reaching there, the accused took swabs from her private parts,” police said. Later she narrated the sequence of events to her brother, and they reported the matter to the police. The accused has been booked under section 354 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code. Strongly condemning the incident, Bhumata Ranragini Brigade President Trupti Desai said besides the first women President, Amravati district has a woman minister and Guardian Minister, a woman MP Navneet Kaur-Rana, which made it all the more shocking, and wondered what will be situation elsewhere. “This is a sheer assault on the dignity of a woman,” said Desai, a prominent women activist.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/swab-taken-from-womans-private-parts-lab-technician-held-867539.html
30-07-2020||West||Gujarat court rejects Hardik Patel's plea to change bail condition||In yet another setback for newly appointed Gujarat Congress' Working President Hardik Patel, a sessions court in Ahmedabad on Thursday rejected an application seeking modification of his bail condition that prohibits his movement outside the state boundary without prior permission from the court. The sessions judge B J Ganatra while rejecting the plea stated that granting such relief would only mean that the trial in the sedition case, which the Congress leader is facing as one of the main accused, will be delayed as he had skipped several hearings in the past. The judge held that "intentionally" the applicant remained absent from the trial which delayed the proceedings. He had approached the court soon after he was elevated by the court as its working president of its Gujarat unit. 26-year-old Congress leader Hardik Patel is facing several criminal cases including two cases of sedition registered at Ahmedabad and Surat in 2015 during the Patidar agitation for reservation movement under his leadership. He has also been booked for illegal assembly, rioting and arson among other charges. There are over 10 such cases against him. In 2018, he was convicted in a rioting and arson case by a court in Mehsana and was sentenced to two years imprisonment in 2018. He was granted bail but the conviction has not been stayed which makes him unfit to contect polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-court-rejects-hardik-patels-plea-to-change-bail-condition-867543.html
30-07-2020||West||Covid-19 restrictions impeding transportation of cattle for Eid sacrifice||Transportation restrictions due to Covid-19 has made it difficult to source cattle, especially for sacrifice for the upcoming Bakri-Eid, president of the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats Shaikh Ahmed has said. Ahmed also said that sourcing of cattle in Goa due to various restrictions related to slaughter of animals had made it difficult to source bulls for Eid slaughter in the coastal state. "This time it has been difficult to source animals for sacrifice because of Covid-19 and the restrictions which are in place on account of the pandemic," Ahmed said. "Very few animals are available in Goa (for sacrifice) especially because of government rules, which mandate that only animals above 12 years can be slaughtered. This is why we have to try and source animals from outside Goa, especially Karnataka. But that too is difficult due to Covid-19 restrictions," Ahmed said. Beef is a regularly consumed commodity in Goa, where minorities account for more than a third of the state's population. Beef is also routinely served in restaurants in the coastal fringes of the state which are frequented by nearly eight million tourists every year, out of which half a million are foreigners. Majority of the beef sold in Goa is sourced from the neighbouring state of Karnataka, especially from the border district of Belgavi. The Association of Jamaats through a circular has also urged people not to attend public prayers functions, while also advising all mosques and prayer houses to remain closed in view of the pandemic and the rising number of viral infections in the state. "We would usually celebrate after Eid prayers. After namaaz in masjids or Idgahs, we would visit relatives and friends. We would share sweets and happiness. But this year we cannot do all this to ensure safety. There is no point in taking risks due to Covid-19," Ahmed also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-restrictions-impeding-transportation-of-cattle-for-eid-sacrifice-867556.html
