31-07-2020||Comment||Will Xi Jinping launch a war?||India’s recent clash without arms against China across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) raises the question about Beijing’s propensity to use armed force in the border dispute. Viewing the border dispute through the lens of Chinese strategic culture and to assess Beijing’s track record of waging war as an instrument of foreign policy would enable New Delhi to evolve an understanding of the Chinese political leadership’s mindset conditioned by history, geography and philosophy.  ‘Strategic culture’ enables one to comprehend the strategic intentions of a nation-state, whether a nation tends to project offensive or defensive behaviour patterns vis-a-vis other countries, better in the context of its culture and ethos. It is an important concept to comprehend the national security and foreign policy. Strategic culture is not immutable or static but is conditioned by politico-military developments like military defeats, invasions, occupations, radically new political systems, etc.  In his 1977 RAND Corporation report on Soviet strategic culture, American political scientist  Jack Snyder defined ‘strategic culture’ as “the body of attitudes and beliefs that guides and circumscribes thought on strategic questions, influences the way strategic issues are formulated, and set the vocabulary and perceptual parameters of strategic debate.”      In his book ‘China’s Use of Military Force: Beyond the Great Wall and the Long March’,  American academic Andrew Scobell explains the concept of strategic culture as an amalgam of layers with political culture at the bottom, strategic culture forming the second, civil-military culture at the third layer, and finally the military’s organisation culture as the fourth layer on top. The PRC’s traditional strategic thinking of ‘People’s War’ and its philosophical antecedents may not at first sight appear relevant to contemporary China’s security requirements. However, considering that cultures do not change dramatically over time, especially a culture as old and complex as China’s, there is bound to be an element of continuity between the past and the present. Some tenets of Chinese strategic culture are: (a) Man is central but technology is crucial. The fact that China became a nuclear weapons power in October 1964 substantiates this thinking to cope with an altered strategic environment in the Cold War era. The significance of strategic culture in the Chinese context is evident from Mao’s statement “An army without culture is a dull-witted army and a dull-witted army cannot defeat the enemy”; (b) If someone does not attack us, we will not attack them. In a sense, this principle suggests an element of continuity,  considering that it adheres to Confucian thinking that “Peace is precious.” This is amply reflected in the nuclear doctrine that highlights ‘No First Use’; (c) Primacy of national unification. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA)’s role is, among others, to recover ‘lost’ territories and this is where the risk of hot war is likely to occur between China and regional nations which share contiguous borders with her; (d) Heightened threat perception.  The Chinese government tends to perceive threats everywhere and especially of the ideological nature, considering that it is among the only authoritarian regimes that remain in the world. The biggest threat is perceived from democracy and this explains why the State-run television channels tend to show the chaotic side of democracy, like agitations and protests, whenever occasion arises. Indirectly, they warn their citizens that such a fate can also befall them if they hanker after democracy.     In terms of strategic culture, a distinction would, however, have to be made between ancient China, as a kingdom, and modern China, post-1949 or the People’s Republic of China (PRC) -- the revolutionary Communist State. The PRC is a revolutionary regime and such States are inherently violent, aggressive and expansionist. A classic case in point was the PRC’s military occupation or invasion of Tibet in the 1950s. China has fought seven wars in the post-1949 period: the Korean War (1950-53), First Taiwan Straits Crisis (1954), India-China border war (1962), Sino-Soviet border clashes (1969), Sino-Vietnam war (1979) and the Second Taiwan Straits Crisis (1995-96), which involved missile-flexing.   China’s emphasis on safeguarding its territorial integrity flows naturally from its geography, history and culture. Over the past two centuries, China has been threatened by land-based invasions from Russia and Japan, through Mongolia and Manchuria respectively. The PRC as a continental power shares borders with 14 countries, four of which, namely Russia, India, Pakistan and North Korea, possess nuclear weapons, which shapes its regional strategic environment. Chinese culture is associated with Confucius whose thinking “Peace is precious” is also reflected in the country’s strategic culture. Viewing Chinese strategic thinking through Confucian tradition dictated that China tends to favour harmony over conflict and defence over offense. On the other hand, Chinese strategic thinker Sun Zi (or Sun Tzu)’s classic work ‘Art of War’ stresses a predisposition for stratagem over combat, psychological and symbolic warfare over head-to-head warfare on the battlefield. Clearly, Chinese strategic culture, therefore, comprises two strands -- Confucian and Realpolitik -- while the former is relevant to China as a kingdom, the latter is to modern China. The Realpolitik strand symbolises that war is central to inter-State relations. Chinese leaders like to engage in offensive military operations as a primary alternative in pursuit of national goals, while rationalising these actions as being purely defensive and a last resort. To interpret China’s international and domestic behaviour in the 21st century, one needs to look beyond the Great Wall and the Long March. How would China use military force in the post-Cold War strategic environment? For the Chinese military, the reunification of lost territories is among its major objectives. Therefore, to what extent would Beijing launch an all-out war with India to recover these disputed territories in India’s possession and if so, how would it impact India-China relations in the future?   (The writer is a former Professor of International Relations and Strategic Studies, Christ Deemed to be University, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/will-xi-jinping-launch-a-war-867720.html
31-07-2020||First Edit||GST: Compensate states on time||The release of Rs 13,806 crore by the Centre to the state governments by way of GST compensation has provided some relief to the states whose finances have been badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. The compensation was for March 2020, and with that the Centre has paid the full compensation amount of Rs 1.65 lakh crore that it owed the states for the last financial year. The delay in payment was due to the shortfall in GST revenue. The Centre had promised the states that it would make up for the loss of revenue the states suffered because of the introduction of GST for five years, and so they are entitled to it till 2022. The compensation was to be paid from a levy specifically imposed on luxury goods and ‘sin’ goods. The Centre had actually collected only Rs 95,444 crore by way of the levy because of the economic slowdown since at least last year. The Centre had to draw on some reserves to pay out the full Rs 1.65 lakh crore.  The states have been persistently demanding the compensation. The payment of the March dues does not put an end to the demands. The states should now get the compensation for the last four months, but the Centre is in a more difficult situation financially than it was last fiscal. It is going to get worse in the rest of the financial year because the compensation cess collections would be still lower. The reserves from which last year’s compensation was paid will no longer be available in the current year. A GST Council meeting was expected to be held in July to discuss the matter, but it has not been held.   It is important that the Centre makes good its commitment to the states without dilly-dallying. The payment was guaranteed by the Centre to the states in 2017. But the commitment seems to be weakening now. Finance Secretary AB Pandey is reported to have told the parliamentary standing committee on finance that “the GST Act has provisions to rework the formula for paying compensation to the state governments if the revenue collection drops below a certain threshold.” This will be unfair and would amount to a breach of faith. It will also violate the spirit of cooperative federalism. It is the states which are actually fighting Covid-19. All of them are in dire financial straits and need to be supported. The Centre has many means of raising revenues, including borrowing, but the states’ resources are limited. They should not be denied their entitlements and dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gst-compensate-states-on-time-867719.html
31-07-2020||In Perspective||Repurposing the Police Complaints Authority||Recent incidents of police brutality, torture and abuse provide an opportunity, once again, to examine the role and impact of Police Complaints Authorities (PCAs) in India. In 2006, the Supreme Court of India required states to constitute PCAs both at the state and district levels to inquire into alleged misconduct by police officers, and push for accountability. Headed by retired judges, and consisting of independent members, it was envisioned that the PCAs would emerge as a dedicated, impartial and easily accessible (located in every district) remedy against police wrongdoings, thereby representing a missing measure to challenge police impunity.  Yet, 14 years later, PCAs have barely made a dent in invigorating accountability. Less than 10 states in India have functional authorities, that too just barely so. States have either ignored the Court’s directive, or rejected it by divesting the function of PCAs to existing oversight bodies like the Lokayukta. Worse, states have brazenly infringed on crucial independence safeguards while constituting the authorities. Tamil Nadu, for instance, provides for a state PCA headed by the Home Secretary instead of a retired judge, and the police DG and ADG as members, instead of non-official persons. Neglect and violations apart, a major problem has been the PCAs own limited understanding of their oversight role. Rarely have the authorities displayed pro-activeness and taken suo moto cognizance of reported misconduct. It is unclear whether a single authority has taken note of the several reported instances of excessive police violence during the lockdown, for instance. Very few have carried out inspections of police stations or lock-ups, even where they are explicitly authorized to do so in the respective state police acts. None have exercised a broader role in identifying patterns of misconduct and pushing for corrective action with the police leadership. In responding to complaints, too, the authorities have tended to mirror court processes with frequent adjournments and inquiries that spread over months, even years at times. This makes the experience of PCAs just as intimidating as the courts, with even fewer remedies to offer. In other words, far from serving as a strong watchdog, the authorities have slipped into a business-as-usual mode of functioning, adding to the existing problem of other oversight bodies faltering in their mandate. This is a moment, like no other, to press pause and to repurpose PCAs. To this end, the Model Police Act 2015, formulated by an MHA-appointed committee to guide legislative reform, provides a strong base to build upon. Three features laid out in the Model Act, in particular, are crucial if PCAs are to emerge as an effective remedy. First is their structure. A balanced composition with 3-5 competent persons from diverse fields including the judiciary, police, public administration, law, civil society and human rights is central to upholding the independence and integrity of PCAs. Single-member authorities or instituting serving bureaucrats and police officers as members of PCAs can only be an eyewash. This not only gives the impression that the PCA is just an extension of the system rather than an oversight; the presence of serving officers prevents the PCA from working independently. Only retired officials, preferably those who have served in a different state, must be eligible. The Model Act also requires the state PCA to have its own investigation wing, along with the power to direct other agencies including the CID, the Vigilance and the Anti-Corruption Bureau to conduct investigations. This is critical to end the current practice where the same police station/district to which the respondent personnel belong is often assigned the task of conducting the inquiry for the authority. Second is the mandate. Key points of debate include whether complaints of custodial death and rape should be dropped from the PCAs’ mandate laid down by the Court and elaborated upon under the Model Act. The police are already required to report such cases to the National Human Rights Commission, and criminal law further mandates judicial inquiry into every death and rape in custody. At the least, a clear arrangement is needed between PCAs and human rights commissions to respond to such complaints to avoid duplicating accountability processes, which would also necessitate equalizing the PCA powers to that of HRCs. Alternatively, PCAs could instead focus only on all other forms of negligence, misconduct and abuse. Either way, they can be empowered with powers of ordering protection of witnesses, victims and their families who might face threat or harassment for making a complaint and recommending payment of monetary compensation to victims. A local body with the ability to order these redress measures will greatly assist victims. And finally, the recommendations flowing from the PCA inquiry must be binding on state governments/police departments after having followed a due appeal process. Without this, PCA inquiries carry little meaning. Only 6 out of 18 new/amended state police acts currently provide for this. In fact, like other jurisdictions with powerful oversight bodies, the Model Act also makes unreasonable delay by the police in reporting on the status of departmental inquiries to the authorities misconduct in itself. This will give the authorities much-needed teeth to enforce accountability. That a dedicated external accountability mechanism is needed to handle public complaints against the police is evident from the routine experiences of police negligence and abuse. Lack of transparency with internal disciplinary proceedings and overburdened or inaccessible human rights commissions add to their compelling need. It is important though that the authorities and the police leadership work together to review and correct practices giving rise to transgressions. Improved accountability, after all, will benefit the police as much as the people, and is central to preventing and overturning an unrelenting pattern of police violence, abuse and custodial deaths. (The writer is Senior Programme Officer, Police Reforms Program at the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/repurposing-the-police-complaints-authority-867721.html
31-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Threats to sister of slain RTI activist Vinayak Baliga||Slain RTI activist Vinayak Baliga’s sister has been receiving threat calls from foreign countries. As the investigation into the murder of Baliga was pending, his sister Anuradha had urged the city Police Commissioner to complete the probe. Accordingly, she was asked to visit the Commissioner’s office on July 28 at 5 pm. She started receiving threat calls from July 27. In her complaint to the Commissioner, Anuradha stated that she was receiving anonymous calls from Dubai. The callers have been issuing death threats for complaining against the suspects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/threats-to-sister-of-slain-rti-activist-vinayak-baliga-867787.html
31-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bakrid observed in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Bakrid was observed in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Friday with all adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state government. By maintaining social distance and wearing masks, prayers were offered at masjids. The mass prayer at Idgah Masjid was banned. As a result, no prayers were held at Idgah Masjid at Light House Hill Road, which otherwise witnesses thousands of devotees offering prayers. Mass prayers were not allowed in halls, shaadi mahals and in open ground. A few masjids had even arranged for checking the body temperature using the thermal scanner. The prayer mats were taken by the people from home for offering prayers. In Udupi, the prayers were offered at Jamiya Masjid at 7 am. Only those who possessed passes were allowed to offer prayers. At Hashimi Masjid in Nayarkere in Brahmagiri in Udupi, the namaz was allowed at 6.30 am and at 7 am.   In spite of Bakrid, there was no brisk sale of goat and sheep in Udupi on Thursday. Normally, the traders would make brisk business at Beedinagudde maidan ahead of Bakrid. Only a few traders from outside the district had arrived with goats and sheep. In his message, MLA U T Khader wished the people for Bakrid and Varamahalakshmi Vratha festival. “Bakrid is the symbol of sacrifice, love, patience. Let us all pray for the welfare of the society and for the eradication of Covid-19.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bakrid-observed-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-867799.html
31-07-2020||Karnataka Districts||Eight more Covid-19 fatalities in Dakshina Kannada||Among the victims, was a 36-year-old woman from Puttur suffering from refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, septic shock, renal failure, who failed to respond to the treatment and died on July 28, according to officials. Her swab test was confirmed that she was Covid-19 positive. The others virus-related deaths include a 60-year-old woman from Mangaluru suffering from refractory hypoxemia respiratory failure, who died on July 29, a 60-year-old woman from Davangere with acute respiratory infection, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension who also died at a private hospital on July 29, a 57-year-old man with symptoms of refractory hypoxemia/refractory, ARDS, renal failure, acute coronary event, who succumbed to the virus on July 29, a A 75-year-old man from Mysuru suffering from asthma, high BP, pneumonia who failed to respond to the treatment at Wenlock Hospital, a 64-year-old man from Puttur, with symptoms of refractory hypoxemia/refractory ARDS, a 52-year-old man from Mangaluru with symptoms of acute coronary event, pulmonary thromboembolism who also died on July 29. An 87-year-old woman from Mangaluru with symptoms of refractory hypoxemia /refractory ARDS along with Covid-19, was admitted to a private hospital on July 18 and died on July 29. 198 fresh cases On the other hand, Dakshina Kannada district recorded a total of 198 fresh cases, taking the tally to 5,509. Of the positive cases, 80 persons suffering from Influenza-like Illness (ILI) and 14 with symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), have been confirmed with Covid-19. Twenty-seven infected are the primary contacts of the already infected persons, while the contact tracing of 73 persons is underway. Four persons with international travel history too have been confirmed with the virus. On a positive note, 105 persons have been discharged on Thursday, thus taking the total discharges to 2,561 in Dakshina Kannada.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eight-more-covid-19-fatalities-in-dakshina-kannada-867873.html
31-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP sends legal notice to Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar||The Karnataka BJP has issued legal notices to Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar demanding that they apologize for accusing the government of corruption or face a defamation suit.  Both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar, the Karnataka Congress president, have been doggedly pursuing allegations of corruption against the BJP government and have demanded a judicial inquiry.  BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar said that while the Congress leaders claimed that Rs 4,157 crore was spent during Covid-19, they also allege that the government has not responded to any of the 20 letters written by them. "If the government has not provided any answer to the Opposition, where did they get the figures from," he said. None of the allegations of corruption is specific and the statements made are factually incorrect. "These statements, without any basis, have been issued calculatedly to lower the image and damage the reputation of the government, the Bharatiya Janata Party, representatives of the party and the ministers in the government," the notice issued on behalf of Ravi Kumar read. The allegations constitute a “classic case of slander which constitutes both civil and criminal defamation,” the notice read, demanding Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar to withdraw all allegations and tender an unconditional apology. "Failing which, my client will be constrained to take appropriate legal action," the notice read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-sends-legal-notice-to-siddaramaiah-d-k-shivakumar-867869.html
31-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Hang me if our allegations against Karnataka govt are false: D K Shivakumar||KPCC President D K Shivakumar said that his party is ready to furnish all documents related to the corruption in Medical equipment purchases for containing Covid-19 situation if a judicial probe by a sitting judge is initiated. “The BJP-led government is mired in corruption in Karnataka. If Rs 2000 crore corruption charges against the BJP government is baseless, then they can hang me and book a case against me. The Congress has proof for all allegations,” he told at Congress Bhavana in Mangaluru. Ridiculing BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel’s claim that 15 Congress MLAs are in touch with him (Kateel), he said “I thought all the 224 MLAs are in contact with him. I do not know why he said only 15 MLAs.” Earlier, D K Shivakumar along with KPCC Working President Saleem Ahmed visited former union minister Oscar Fernandes and enquired about his health. Later, he visited Mangalore Bishop Rev Fr Peter Paul Saldanha. He also met auto drivers association office-bearers and listened to their woes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hang-me-if-our-allegations-against-karnataka-govt-are-false-d-k-shivakumar-867899.html
31-07-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka BJP gets new team, CM B S Yediyurappa's son is now Vice President||In a major organisational exercise, BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel appointed new office-bearers on Friday, which included Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s son B Y Vijayendra as one among the party’s 10 vice-presidents.  The list of 30 office-bearers retained some old faces while accommodating several new ones. The new team comprises leaders from all factions within the BJP, while also ensuring caste balance. Earlier, the state unit had 45 office- bearers.  According to sources, Vijayendra was keen on being a general secretary, but his role has been limited to that of a vice president. The post of a general secretary usually comes with decision-making, while a vice president is seen as an ornamental position.  Vijayendra, Yediyurappa’s younger son, had been pushing to get a position in the party’s state unit. He was the BJP Yuva Morcha general secretary. In a tweet, Vijayendra thanked BJP national president JP Nadda, national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh, Kateel and Yediyurappa for being made vice president, adding that he will work hard to further strengthen the party. The party’s Udupi-Chikmagalur MP Shobha Karandlaje and MLA Aravind Limbavali, who were general secretaries, have been elevated as vice presidents. The inclusion of Limbavali has cast a cloud of doubt over his inclusion in the Cabinet, thanks to the ‘one person, one post’ policy. Limbavali is said to have been sulking for not being inducted into the Cabinet.  The other vice-presidents are Nirmal Kumar Surana, Malikayya Guttedar, Tejaswini Ananthkumar, Mysore-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha among others. Siddaraju from Mysuru and Ashwathnarayan, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha poll from Bangalore Rural constituency, are now general secretaries. Two others, N Ravi Kumar and Mahesh Tenginakayi, are retained. BJP candidate from Rajarajeshwari Nagar Tulasi Muniraju Gowda, who is involved in a legal battle against disqualified MLA Muniratna is among the 10 secretaries of the state unit. MPs Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti, who were nominated to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka recently, will head Raitha Morcha and Backward Classes Morcha, respectively. Dr Sandeep will head the BJP Yuva Morcha, Geetha Vivekananda Mahila Morcha, Chaluvadi Narayanswamy SC Morcha, Thipparaju Havaldar ST Morcha and Muzammil Babu will head Minority Morcha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-bjp-gets-new-team-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-son-is-now-vice-president-868146.html
31-07-2020||National||Over 10 lakh recovered Covid-19 patients, 1.9 times of active cases: Health Ministry||The number of recovered coronavirus patients crossed the 10-lakh mark on Thursday and is now 1.9 times the total active cases while the fatality rate has dropped to 2.21 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said. Addressing a press briefing, Officer on Special Duty in the Health Ministry Rajesh Bhushan said 21 states and Union Territories have case positivity rate less than 10 per cent, while in four it is less than five per cent.  The Covid-19 positivity rate in Rajasthan is 3.5 per cent, Punjab 3.9 per cent, Madhya Pradesh 4 per cent, and Jammu and Kashmir 4.7 per cent, he said.   While 32,553 patients have been discharged in a span of 24 hours across the country, the total recoveries have jumped to 10,20,582 and stand at 64.44 per cent amongst COVID-19 patients, he said.  There are 5,28,242 active cases of coronavirus infection at present in the country and all are under medical supervision, the official said. "India has achieved the landmark of more than 10 lakh recoveries from Covid-19. This is a testament to the sheer dedication to duty and selfless sacrifice of doctors, nurses and all frontline healthcare workers which has made such a tremendous recovery of Covid-19 patients a reality. This is an occasion when we must stand up and applaud their contribution," Bhushan said as he rose from his chair and clapped for them. Coordinated implementation of Covid-19 management strategy by the Union, state and UT governments has ensured that the recoveries are continuously on the rise with 1 lakh recoveries at the start of June to more than 10 lakh as on Thursday, he said. "The successful implementation of effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardized clinical management protocols based on a holistic standard of care approach have in a seamless manner resulted in a consistent trend of more than 30,000 recoveries/day for the seventh day in a row," the ministry said in a statement.  "There has been a continued increase in the average daily recoveries from around 15,000 in the first week of July to around 35,000 in the last week," it said. Bhushan said 16 states and UTs including Delhi (88.99 pc), Assam (76.68 pc), Telangana (74.27 pc), Tamil Nadu (73.85 pc), Gujarat (73.06 pc), Rajasthan (70.76 pc) and Madhya Pradesh (69.47 pc) have recovery rates better than the national average.   The OSD also stressed that effective clinical management has led to a decline in Covid-19 case fatality rate from 3.33 per cent on June 18 to 2.21 per cent on July 30.  "India's case fatality rate is 2.21 pc, as against 4 pc globally, and is amongst the lowest in the world. Case Fatality Rate in Mexico and the UK are five and seven times higher, respectively, as compared to India," Bhushan said. Also, 24 states and UTs  including Assam (0.25 pc), Bihar (0.60 pc), Andhra Pradesh (1.01 pc), Tamil Nadu (1.60 pc), Rajasthan (1.67 pc), Karnataka (1.91 pc), Uttar Pradesh (1.98 pc) have lower case fatality rate than national average, he said. Bhushan said the 'test, track and treat' strategy has shown good results in terms of managing the situation by curbing the spread of infections and keeping the mortality low. Guidelines on effective surveillance and tracking of close contacts of positive cases are available. "We have repeatedly told state governments that in 80 pc of the new positive cases it is possible to track their close contacts within the first 72 hours. Delhi government has shown that it can be done and other states should emulate that," he said. The combined and focused efforts of Union and state and UT governments have resulted in ramped up testing across the country to ensure early detection and isolation of COVID-19 positive cases, the ministry said in the statement as the number of tests for detection of coronavirus infection in India crossed 18 million. The average daily tests (on a rolling week on week basis) have increased from 2.4 lakh in the first week of July to more than 4.68 lakh in the last week of July. The enhanced testing infrastructure has led to a sharp increase in the cumulative testing from 88 lakh total tests till July 1 to nearly 1.82 crore till July 30, he said, adding that the Tests Per Million (TPM) rate has subsequently increased to 13,181. The testing lab network in the country has been strengthened with 1,321 labs in the country as on date with 907 labs in the government sector and 414 private labs, the official said. As many as 31 states and UTs are performing more than 140 tests per day per million population.    India saw a record single-day increase of 52,123 infections pushing India's Covid-19 tally to 15,83,792, while the death-toll climbed to 34,968 with 775 people succumbing to the disease in a day, the health ministry's data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-10-lakh-recovered-covid-19-patients-19-times-of-active-cases-health-ministry-867691.html
31-07-2020||National||Herd immunity not a strategic option for India: Centre||Herd immunity is not a strategic option for India in the fight against Covid-19, the Centre said on Thursday even as the disease continued to spread rapidly across the country. Herd immunity can be achieved either through immunisation or after patients contract a communicable disease and recover from it, Health Secretary-designate Rajesh Bhushan told reporters here. He said since a vaccine for Covid-19 was not ready yet, herd immunity was not a strategic option for India which has a population of 1.38 billion. “It can only be an outcome, and that too, at a very high cost as it means lakhs of people would have to be infected, get hospitalised and many would die in the process,” Bhushan said and advocated COVID-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, avoiding gatherings and maintaining physical distancing. India was fast approaching the 16-lakh mark of confirmed Covid-19 cases on Thursday, having added 52,123 new infections on Wednesday. Bhushan, however, added that India had an actual caseload of 5.28 lakh patients as more than 10 lakh had recovered and got discharged from hospitals. He said India had conducted an average of 4.68 lakh Covid tests daily through its network of 1,400 laboratories across the country, and 21 states had a test positivity rate of less than 10%. However, states such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka were still reporting more than 10% positive cases for the number of samples tested for Covid-19. Bhushan said the effective way to control the spread of the disease was through surveillance and aggressive contact tracing for positive patients. He said such an approach had helped health authorities control the spread in the national capital. He said the government has so far received 131 claims under the Rs 50 lakh Covid-19 insurance scheme for healthcare providers and payments have already been made in 20 cases. “The claims are a bit slow in coming as the families are initially in a state of shock and therefore it takes time to sign and fill up the necessary paperwork. Out of these 131 claims, in 20 cases payments have already been made. In 64 cases, payment has been processed and would be made in the coming few days while 47 cases are with different state governments,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/herd-immunity-not-a-strategic-option-for-india-centre-867696.html
31-07-2020||National||Pakistan indulging in activities to deflect attention from support to terror: India||As Pakistan plans to hold protests to mark one year of the scrapping of Article 370, India on Thursday said the neigbouring country indulges in such activities to divert international attention from its support to cross-border terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir. August 5 will mark the first anniversary of India's decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Indian Constitution from Jammu and Kashmir and to bifurcate the state into two union territories. "They indulge in activities to deflect international attention from support to cross border terrorism," external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at an online media briefing, replying to a question on Pakistan's planned activities to protest India's action of scrapping of Article 370 on its first anniversary next week. "As far as India is concerned, August 5 will be a historic day for us as on this day, we could remove the hurdles for overall development of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh," he added. As per reports, Pakistan is planning to hold protests and reach out to several countries against India's decision to scrap Article 370 that extended special status to Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-indulging-in-activities-to-deflect-attention-from-support-to-terror-india-867699.html
31-07-2020||National||Congress to air Rahul Gandhi's conversation with Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's dialogue with renowned Bangladeshi economist and Nobel laureate Muhammad Yunus will be aired on his YouTube channel on Friday in which they will be seen discussing ideas that could re-shape the post pandemic world and delving into limitations of adopting a western economic model, the party said. In the latest episode of conversations that the Congress leader has been holding on the coronavirus pandemic, Gandhi and the Grameen Bank founder will challenge the wisdom of pushing millions to migrate to urban areas, and examine the role of technology in fuelling an economic revolution in rural areas, it said. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the world over, the coronavirus pandemic has exposed serious fault lines in societies and the glaring inequalities that aggravated the crisis. "Even as conventional economic wisdom draws criticism, there is a growing global movement calling for alternative models of development, especially in developing countries," he said in a statement. "The pandemic provides a window of opportunity to fundamentally reimagine the future we want and push bold decisions in that direction," Surjewala said. Giving a preview of the conversation, he said Gandhi and Yunus will be seen discussing the big bold ideas that could re-shape the post pandemic world. "They delve into limitations of adopting a western economic model and call for a new vision that leverages on the strength of our rural economy and the informal sector," he said. "One of the pioneers of microlending, Muhammad Yunus shares valuable lessons on financial empowerment and what it takes to support micro-entrepreneurs among some of the most vulnerable social groups around the world," Surjewala said, giving a peek into the discussion that will be aired on Gandhi's YouTube channel on Thursday morning. Gandhi's last conversation was with four Indian nurses working in New Zealand, Australia, the UK and India during which they shared their experience of fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. As part of his dialogues with various experts, Gandhi has spoken to leading global economists Raghuram Rajan and Abhijit Banerjee, internationally renowned epidemiologist Johann Giesceke, global public health expert Ashish Jha, Indian industrialist Rajiv Bajaj, and former US diplomat Nicholas Burns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-to-air-rahul-gandhis-conversation-with-nobel-laureate-muhammad-yunus-867700.html
31-07-2020||National||Policymakers deliberating to identify groups of people to first receive Covid-19 vaccine: officials||Policymakers are actively holding deliberations to identify groups of people who will first receive the COVID-19 vaccine when it is developed, officials said. Speaking at an international symposium on Novel Ideas in Science and Ethics of Vaccines against COVID-19 pandemic, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Rajesh Bhushan said prioritising who should get the vaccine first is a topic being discussed both within and outside the government. "There is an emerging consensus that frontline workers are the people who have the best claim over who should get the vaccine first. But while that question engages us and there is no finality on the question, the issue of who will be on priority list and who comes after frontline healthcare workers and that is if they come first then who are the people that would follow them," he said. He said deliberations are on whether it will be the elderly or it will be people with co-morbidities or whether it will be people placed in socio-economic disadvantage whose immunity has been weakened because of prolonged exposure to poverty and malnutrition. "So these are the questions presently engaging the policymakers within Government of India," he said. NITI Aayog member V K Paul who is also part of the Covid-19 national taskforce said policymakers are actively deliberating to prioritise the groups of people who will first receive the Covid-19 vaccine once it is developed. "India's journey for a safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccine shall be driven by the best scientific and ethical principles and for that our regulatory and scientific mechanisms are already in place," he said at the symposium. He said India's journey to scale up and access to vaccines by all will be in full compliance with the high principles of equity and human rights. "We cannot accept a situation where the rich have the vaccine and not the poor. This is simply unacceptable. We will ensure that pathways are created. We are also working actively to prioritise the groups that should receive the vaccine before the other group and those decisions are in the active stage of being deliberated upon," he added. Paul said India visualises its capabilities against Covid-19, including the vaccines, not just for the country and its citizens but for the world and humanity. "The Indian government values and welcomes international partnerships, technical exchange, knowledge sharing and collective discourse in this journey," Paul said. Indian Medical Research Institute (ICMR) Director General Balram Bhargava said once a safe and effective vaccine is developed there will be four major challenges. "One is prioritisation and fair distribution to vulnerable groups, second is logistics of vaccine rollout, including cold chain, and third is stockpiling and fourth is training people who will administer this vaccine," he said. "In context of these four points, India will have to play a significant role and I can assure you that it is a part India will play with great care and responsibility. It will require immense collaboration across borders keeping in mind the noblest principles of science and humanity," he added. Underlining that the need for a vaccine is both great and urgent, Bhargava said a dilemma is that the pandemic is going at a devastating pace and to develop a vaccine one needs time and it is not only for science part of it, but ethics and the regulatory and social considerations that need to be kept in mind. "We need to crystallize a mix and match of these ideas which may run in parallel with the right balance of the speed and safety. A balance between speed and safety has to be maintained once we crystallize novel ideas," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policymakers-deliberating-to-identify-groups-of-people-to-first-receive-covid-19-vaccine-officials-867703.html
31-07-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on July 31||The spread of the novel coronavirus in India has quickened in the last few days with new cases of Covid-19 and deaths reported every day. The epidemic has expanded its footprint in the country and has affected more than 16.4 lakh people since the first positive case was confirmed on January 30 in Kerala.  On July 5, India surpassed Russia to become the third worst-hit country by the coronavirus, globally. Here’s the tally of Covid-19 positive cases in India and the state-wise impact:  Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths):  16,93,274 as of July 31 States/UTs death toll (details are updated as we receive information):  36,513 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with Covid-19. No. of people discharged: 10,57,805 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the Covid-19 spread by tracking, isolating and treating infected people, the daily rise in India cases is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-july-31-867738.html
31-07-2020||National||DH Toon | How will the new Education Policy fare?||After over three decades, the government on Wednesday approved a new education policy that seeks to revamp all aspects of education structure and aims to achieve universal access to education to all between age groups of 3-18 years by 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-how-will-the-new-education-policy-fare-867740.html
31-07-2020||National||India sees record single-day spike of over 55k Covid-19 cases taking India's tally beyond 16 lakh; death toll 35,747||With a record single-day surge of 55,078 infections, India's Covid-19 caseload raced past 16 lakh on Friday, just two days after it reached the 15-lakh mark, while the number of recoveries rose to 10,57,805, according to Union Health Ministry data. The country has so far registered 16,38,870 instances of the coronavirus infection. The death toll increased to 35,747 with 779 fatalities being reported in 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. This is the second consecutive day that Covid-19 cases have increased by more than 50,000. The total number of confirmed cases also includes foreigners. There are 5,45,318 active Covid-19 cases in the country. The recovery rate rose to 64.54 per cent while the fatality rate dropped further to 2.18 per cent. According to the ICMR, a cumulative 1,88,32,970 samples have been tested up to July 30 with 6,42,588 being tested on Thursday.   Of the 779 deaths reported on Friday, 266 are from Maharashtra, 97 from Tamil Nadu, 83 from Karnataka, 68 from Andhra Pradesh and 57 from Uttar Pradesh. West Bengal registered 46 deaths, Delhi 29, Gujarat 22, Jammu and Kashmir 17, Madhya Pradesh 14 and Rajasthan and Telangana 13 each. Ten fatalities have been reported from Odisha, nine from Punjab, five from Jharkhand, four each from Bihar, Haryana, Manipur and Uttarakhand, three each from Goa and Chhattisgarh, two each from Assam, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Kerala while Ladakh and Puducherry recorded one fatality each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-record-single-day-spike-of-over-55k-covid-19-cases-taking-indias-tally-beyond-16-lakh-death-toll-35747-867803.html
31-07-2020||National||Supreme Court bars BS-IV vehicle registration till further orders||The Supreme Court Friday directed that no BS-IV vehicles will be registered with the authorities till it decides the issue of sale of such vehicles during the lockdown period. The top court was earlier irked over the violation of its order and had pulled up the automobile dealers association by saying that the BS-IV vehicles were sold during the lockdown in last week of March and after March 31 also. The bench had on July 8 recalled the March 27 order by which it had allowed sale of BS-IV vehicles for 10 days across India, except in Delhi-NCR, after lifting of the COVID-19 lockdown. The relief, which was later withdrawn, to permit sale of the BS-IV vehicles for a small window period after lifting of the lockdown was granted to the dealers by the apex court keeping in mind the fact that the country had decided to not to allow their sale after March 2020. During the brief hearing conducted through video conferencing on Friday, a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra made clear that no BS-4 vehicles will be registered by the authorities till it decides the issue. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Krishna Murari, asked the automobile dealers association to place before it the details of vehicles sold either online or through direct sale during the lockdown period in last week of March. The bench said it heeded to verify the details regarding sale and registration of BS-4 vehicles in lockdown period. "You are in great trouble. We will prosecute somebody," the bench told the counsel appearing for the dealers association. "We will take appropriate action against these fellows," the bench said while referring to the surge in the number of vehicles sold especially on March 29, 30 and 31. The bench has now posted the matter for further hearing on August 13. The top court had on July 24 expressed displeasure over an oral plea by the automobile dealers association that dealers should be allowed to return unsold inventory of BS-IV vehicles to the manufacturers so that they could be exported to other countries. The association had said that there are some countries where sale of BS-IV compliant vehicles were still allowed. However, the bench had observed "Why should we pass orders for that? Manufacturers were aware of the deadline."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-bars-bs-iv-vehicle-registration-till-further-orders-867825.html
31-07-2020||National||Law against triple talaq strengthened self-reliance among Muslim women: Naqvi||Triple talaq was given "political patronage" by "merchants of vote bank", and it was the Narendra Modi government that made it a criminal offence thus bolstering self-reliance and self-confidence among Muslim women, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Friday. Addressing Muslim women from across the country via a video link at an event marking the first anniversary of the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, Naqvi said after the enactment of the law, triple talaq cases have come down drastically. The Modi government is committed to political empowerment and not "political exploitation", he said. Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Union Minister for Women and Child Development Smriti Irani also addressed the Muslim women on the occasion. Naqvi said August 1 is the day on which Muslim women were freed from the social evil of triple talaq and it has been recorded in the country's history as 'Muslim Women's Rights Day'. In an apparent dig at the Congress, Naqvi said triple talaq or 'talaq-e-biddat' was "neither Islamic, nor legal", but despite that, the social evil was given "political patronage" by "merchants of vote bank". The law against triple talaq could have been passed in the 1980s when the Supreme Court had given a historic judgement in the Shah Bano case, he said. "The Congress had an absolute majority in Parliament with more than 400 out of 545 Lok Sabha members and more than 159 out of 245 members in the Rajya Sabha. But the Rajiv Gandhi government used its strength in Parliament to make the Supreme Court judgement ineffective and deprive Muslim women of their constitutional and fundamental rights," he said. The Modi government made the law against triple talaq to make the Supreme Court's judgement effective, Naqvi said. "A year has gone by since the law against triple talaq was passed and there is about 82 per cent decline in triple talaq cases thereafter. If any such case was reported, action was taken under the law," Naqvi said. At the event, Law Minister Prasad and Women and Child Development Irani along with Naqvi addressed Muslim women from several cities including New Delhi, Greater Noida, Lucknow and Varanasi, Jaipur, Mumbai, Bhopal, Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu's Krishnagiri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/law-against-triple-talaq-strengthened-self-reliance-among-muslim-women-naqvi-867852.html
31-07-2020||National||SC asks Centre to ensure timely payment of salaries to paramedical staff on Covid-19 duty||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to ensure that states like Delhi, Punjab, Maharashtra,Tripura and Karnataka made timely payment of salaries to doctors and other healthcare workers engaged in Covid-19 duties. A bench, presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the Centre was not helpless and it has to see that the order passed on June 17 was followed. The Centre has power under the Disaster Management Act, the court pointed out. "The salaries of doctors who are going for compulsory quarantine after duty are being deducted. How can this be?" the bench asked Mehta.  The law officer, for his part, said no argument was required in the matter. "We will look into it and see that quarantine is treated as a part of duty," he said. The United Resident and Doctor’s Association (URDA) has filed a plea stating that several states have not paid salaries. Senior Advocate K V Vishwanathan, appearing for original PIL petitioner Dr Aarushi Jain, said that the Centre's advisory, issued on June 18, got no basis and effect as several states did not pay the salaries. The court posted the matter for consideration on August 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-ensure-timely-payment-of-salaries-to-paramedical-staff-on-covid-19-duty-867872.html
31-07-2020||National||Ram temple 'bhoomi pujan' not required amid coronavirus pandemic: Raj Thackeray||He also rejected Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's suggestion for "e-bhoomi pujan" and said the ground-breaking ceremony should be held with great fervour. Speaking to a Marathi news channel, the MNS chief said, "The bhoomi pujan is not required at this time as people are in a different mindset right now. It could have been held after two months when things normalise. People would have enjoyed the ceremony then." According to the members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra trust, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Ayodhya on August 5 for the bhoomi pujan to begin the construction of the Ram temple. Thackeray also found faults in the way the state government handled the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra and said that it was necessary to allay people's fears regarding the disease. "It is important to help people come out of this fear. The restrictions imposed by the state government, news on TV channels and messages on WhatsApp have all led to a kind of chaos. You need to make people feel relaxed," Thackeray added. Expressing concerns over the financial crisis and job losses in the state, the MNS chief made a strong pitch for the resumption of economic activities. When asked about his cousin Uddhav Thackeray's performance as a CM, the MNS chief said he had seen the Shiv Sena president "only on TV". "I could not see his work in the last four-and-a-half to five months," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-not-required-amid-coronavirus-pandemic-raj-thackeray-867879.html
31-07-2020||National||PM Modi to address grand finale of Smart India Hackathon on August 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the grand finale of Smart India Hackathon on Saturday via video conferencing and also interact with students on the occasion, according to an official statement. The hackathon is a nationwide initiative to provide students with a platform to solve some of the pressing problems people face in daily lives, and thus inculcate a culture of product innovation and a mindset of problem-solving, it said. "It has proved to be extremely successful in promoting out-of-the-box thinking in young minds," the statement said. The first edition of Smart India Hackathon in 2017 saw the participation of 42,000 students which increased to one lakh in 2018 and to two lakh in 2019. The first round of Smart India Hackathon 2020 saw the participation of more than 4.5 lakh students. "The grand finale of the software edition this year is being organized online by connecting all the participants throughout the nation over a specially-built advanced platform. More than 10,000 students will be competing to solve 243 problem statements from 37 central government departments, 17 state governments and 20 industries," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-grand-finale-of-smart-india-hackathon-on-august-1-867881.html
31-07-2020||National||Students should continue preparing for final exams, UGC tells SC||The UGC on Friday made it clear before the Supreme Court that students should continue to prepare for final examinations, proposed to be held by September 30. It said that pendency of a challenge to its notification to varsities for holding examinations would not mean there was a stay on the decision. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan agreed to the contention made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, saying, "Yes, we have not passed any (stay) order." During the hearing on a batch of petitions filed by Bengaluru resident Praneeth K and others, Mehta said, "Let nobody be under the impression that because the court is hearing, everything is stayed. Students should continue to prepare." The court posted the matter for consideration on August 10. It directed the Maharashtra government to place on record the order passed by the State Disaster Management Committee. Petitioners led by senior advocate A M Singhvi submitted that heavens would not fall if examinations were not held. He said there were over 16 lakh Covid-19 positive cases in the country. He said the UGC has filed its reply to the petitions challenging the July 6 guidelines for holding examinations without any application of mind. Singhvi said that there were no facilities for conducting online examinations in several universities. Many students would not be able to appear in examinations due to local conditions or pandemic. The decision to conduct online and offline examinations would also create confusion. The court, however, said it seemed be in interest of students, who have been given option to appear in the examinations on a subsequent date as well. The UGC, in its response, had maintained that its guidelines were issued in overall academic interest. The UGC's guidelines "adequately account for the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic because they provide sufficient time till September 30 to conduct final year examinations after following the protocols and procedures," it said. It also claimed the guidelines provided enough flexibility to universities and institutions to conduct such examinations online, offline (pen and paper) or blended (online and offline) mode. Further, it provided for an examination through a special chance for students who, for whatsoever reasons, are unable to appear for the examinations by September 30. It also submitted that the decision of some state governments including of Maharashtra and Delhi to cancel the final year examinations was contrary to its guidelines and would affect the standard of higher education. This would also cause encroachment upon the legislative field reserved for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-should-continue-preparing-for-final-exams-ugc-tells-sc-867885.html
31-07-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind gifts bicycle to boy who wants to become a cyclist||Riyaz, a budding cyclist and student of class 9 in the national capital, got his 'Eidi' on Friday when President Ram Nath Kovind gifted him a racing bicycle to help him achieve his dream of becoming a world-class cyclist. A student of Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya at Anand Vihar in Delhi, Riyaz originally belongs to Madhubani district in Bihar. His family, comprising parents, two sisters and a brother, lives in Madhubani, while Riyaz stays in a rented accommodation in Maharajpur, Ghaziabad, according to a statement issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan. To supplement his father's paltry income as a cook, the boy in his free time works in an eatery in Ghaziabad as a dishwasher, it said. Riyaz's passion is cycling, and he practises hard after studies and work. In 2017, he won a bronze medal in the Delhi State Cycling Championship. He went on to participate in a school games event in Guwahati, according to the District Magistrate, Ghaziabad, and achieved fourth rank at the national level. The president came to know of Riyaz's story of struggle through reports in the media. The boy has been taking professional training from coach Pramod Sharma, who regularly trains him at the Indira Gandhi Indoor Stadium in Delhi. Unfortunately, Riyaz had to depend on a borrowed sports cycle for his practice, and all that the budding champion wanted was a cycle of his own. His wish was finally granted on the occasion of Eid. "In a gesture of motivating youth for nation-building, President of India, Ram Nath Kovind chose a struggling school boy Riyaz, who dreams of excelling as cyclist, to gift him a racing bicycle," the statement said. The president also wished him to become an international champion and realise his dream through his hard work. The bicycle delivered to Riyaz on Friday, a day before Eid-al-Adha, comes as Eidi in true spirit of the festival that is marked by gifts given by elders to youngsters, it said. Complimenting Riyaz for his achievements defying all odds, President Kovind wished him very best in the life and said that his story should serve as worthy of emulation for the country's youth who must come forward for nation-building by dint of their dedication, hard work, courage and honesty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-gifts-bicycle-to-boy-who-wants-to-become-a-cyclist-867897.html
31-07-2020||National||Divorcees demand reduced alimony due to pandemic-induced layoffs and salary cuts: Report||While lay-offs and salary cuts have increased manifold due to the coronavirus pandemic, its ripples are being felt even more acutely by divorcees. Although the tendency to evade paying alimony is not uncommon, pandemic-enforced circumstances have left courts in a fix to to factor in these conditions while deciding cases of alimony. An actor, who paid an alimony of Rs 70,000 per month to his ex-wife and son, has been without a job since the nation-wide lockdown. He had initially told his lawyer that he will be able to pay Rs 30,000 but later he said he could not even afford that. “The wife is a journalist and has a fixed takeaway, even if there may be salary cuts, but in his case, his income was reduced to zero,” family court lawyer Vandana Shah told the publication. Her client asked her why he should continue paying the maintenance for daily needs when he paid for his son’s school fee, extracurricular activities and travel abroad. Mridula Kadam, a lawyer, said family court lawyers have already drafted interim applications for cases of reduction or waiver of alimony. The application would cite “changed circumstances” as the reason and urge the court to review its earlier decision on the order of maintenance. “I got a call from a banker who said he could no longer pay the same maintenance amount that he was paying because he has had to take a pay cut. It is easier for a salaried person to show the reduction in his income with a salary certificate but for businessmen it’s more difficult. Like in case of a restaurateur, he will have to show that the restaurant was closed for so many months and he had no income,” Kadam told Indian Express. Lawyer Amit Karkhanis said that this was an “obvious consequence” of pay cuts and the rising unemployment. After the courts reopen fully several applications will be open to modifications for the alimony amounts. A cut in maintenance will be decided which will be proportional to the husband’s income, Karkhanis observed. Women’s rights lawyer Veena Gowda said that a cut in alimony will make things difficult for economically disadvantaged women. The pandemic might be used as an excuse for men who tried to evade paying alimony. Gowda told the news outlet, “We really tend to ignore patriarchy when we look at this concept of ‘family’. When we see the pendency of cases in the family court, a lot of them are pendency of recovery of (maintenance) arrears. Even in middle-class, upper-middle class families, it is becoming an excuse to not pay and harass the woman. They know there is not much the courts are going to do now because their matters won’t come up as urgent.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/divorcees-demand-reduced-alimony-due-to-pandemic-induced-layoffs-and-salary-cuts-report-867910.html
31-07-2020||National||Nitish Kumar's rally postponed in view of COvid-19 outbreak||A much-anticipated virtual rally of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar next week, where he was expected to sound the bugle for assembly polls, has been put off for the time being, a top office-bearer of the ruling Janata Dal (United) said here on Friday. In a statement, the party's state unit president Vashishtha Narayan Singh said the rally, scheduled for August 7, has been postponed "in view of the coronavirus pandemic and floods. Nearly four million people in north Bihar have been affected by the floods caused by a rise in water levels of rivers originating in Nepal. A fresh date for the virtual rally will be decided in due course, the statement added. Senior leaders of the party, of which the chief minister is the national president, had been busy holding orientation workshops for grassroots-level workers over video conferences for the past two weeks. Prominent among those who took part in the exercise included the party's leaders in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha, RCP Singh and Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh respectively, and state ministers Sanjay Kumar Jha, Bijendra Yadav and Ashok Choudhary. RCP Singh, who also holds the key party post of national general secretary (organization), had coined a new catchphrase "main bhi hoon Nitish Kumar" (I too am Nitish Kumar) in a bid to enthuse the party foot soldiers. The catchphrase was said to be inspired from a poem penned by JD(U) media cell chief Amardeep and bore a canny resemblance to the "main bhi chowkidar" slogan adopted by the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls last year which it won with a thumping majority. Incidentally, the BJP shares power with the JD(U) in the state and the combine had been drawing flak from the opposition for being busy with electioneering at a time when the state was rocked by its worst spike in Covid 19 cases, which necessitated the re-imposition of the lockdown. Parties such as the Congress and the RJD have also been insisting that either the assembly polls, scheduled in October-November, be deferred or "traditional" mode of the campaign be allowed since digital electioneering put them at a disadvantage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumars-rally-postponed-in-view-of-covid-19-outbreak-867914.html
31-07-2020||National||SC directs states to explain steps for registration, employment of migrant workers||The Supreme Court on Friday directed all the states and Union Territories to explain within three weeks steps taken for registration of migrant workers, utilising their skills and giving them employment on return to their native places, following outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic in March. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah noted that none of the states and Union Territories has filed any affidavit giving details of the compliance of the direction, issued on June 9. The apex court had then passed its orders in Suo Motu matter related to the problems and miseries of migrant labourers. "The states are required to bring on record the mode and manner in which records of migrant labourers who have reached their native places are being maintained with their skill, nature of employment and other details," the bench said.    The court also asked all states and UTs to file affidavits, responding to steps taken with regard to implementation of Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1996 and Unorganized workers' Social Security Act, 2008, within a period of three months. In its response, the Maharashtra government has informed the court that about 5,84,219 workers have been enrolled under Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan Dhan Yojana. The Bihar government, for its part, said registration of all migrant workers coming to the state was being done on the migrant portal app on their arrival at their respective Blocks or Block quarantine camps. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi made submissions on the issue of food security, health insurance for migrant labourers, the presumption of work and relaxation on the insistence on registration. The court said all these issues would be considered after four weeks on filing of detailed response by the states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-states-to-explain-steps-for-registration-employment-of-migrant-workers-867919.html
31-07-2020||National||Independence Day: UAVs, paragliders, para-jumping prohibited in Delhi till August 15||With Independence Day a fortnight away, Delhi Police on Friday issued an order banning the flying of "sub-conventional aerial platforms" like Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), paragliders and microlight aircraft among others in the national capital till August 15. The order by the Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava said that the decision was taken following reports about certain "criminal, anti-social elements or terrorists, inimical to India may pose a threat to the safety of the general public, dignitaries and vital installations" using this equipment. Besides UAVs, paragliders and microlight aircraft, the order said operating remotely piloted aircraft, hot air balloons, small-sized powered aircraft and quad-copters are also prohibited for 16 days from Friday. Even para-jumping from aircraft is not allowed, it said. Those violating the order will be charged under Section 188 (disobeying the instruction of a government servant) and face a jail term up to six months or fine or both. A senior police official said a ground-to-air security apparatus is put in place in the capital to thwart any attempts by terrorists to disrupt the national day celebrations. Police have intensified patrolling areas around the Red Fort and have appealed to people to report any suspicious movement to the authorities at the earliest. Snipers from the National Security Guard (NSG) will be posted on the high-rises in the area, the official said. Covid-19 warriors and survivors have been invited to the function to highlight India's fight against the pandemic. Guests who are attending the function will have to wear face masks or face covers and adhere to social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-day-uavs-paragliders-para-jumping-prohibited-in-delhi-till-august-15-867920.html
31-07-2020||National||ITBP inks deal with KVIC to procure 'swadeshi', 'khadi' items for CAPF personnel||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) on Friday inked a deal with the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) to procure a variety of 'swadeshi' and 'khadi' goods for around 10 lakh personnel of the Central Armed Police Forces. The force will procure 1,200 quintals of mustard oil from the KVIC with "a total financial implication of over Rs 1.73 crore", an ITBP spokesperson said. "A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the two sides on Friday. The aim is to increasingly procure 'swadeshi' or indigenously made products," he said. The MoU was signed by KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena and officials of the ITBP procurement wing in Delhi.  The ITBP, a mountain-warfare trained force for guarding the 3,488-km-longs Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China, is the first among the paramilitary or CAPFs to ink such a deal. The other Central Armed Police Forces are the CRPF, CISF, BSF and the SSB. Home Minister Amit Shah had declared few months ago that the CAPF canteens will only sell 'swadeshi' or indigenous products from June. Apart from mustard oil, the ITBP is also procuring durries (mats), towels and blankets from the suppliers empanelled with the KVIC. "Approximately 2.5 lakh durries will be procured by ITBP at a cost of Rs 17 crore. The force is the nodal agency for procurement of durries for all CAPFs," the spokesperson said. The ITBP has also suggested that yoga kits, hospital bed sheets, 'khadi' uniform, pickels and some other items can be purchased for the CAPF jawans through KVIC, a senior official said. These items will also be sold to the personnel and their families through the CAPF canteens. These canteens, with a network of 1,700 stores, do an estimated business worth Rs 2,800 crore annually by selling their products to 50 lakh family members of about 10 lakh personnel of these forces tasked with a variety of internal security work apart from border guarding duties. The KVIC, according to its profile statement, is charged with the planning, promotion, organisation and implementation of programmes for the development of khadi and other village industries in the rural areas in coordination with other agencies engaged in rural development wherever necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-inks-deal-with-kvic-to-procure-swadeshi-khadi-items-for-capf-personnel-867927.html
31-07-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death: ED files money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a case of money laundering against Bollywood actress Rhea Chakraborty and her family in connection with the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, officials said on Friday. The move comes days after Rhea approached the Supreme Court seeking transfer of a case registered against her in Patna filed by Sushant's family against her accusing her of abetting his suicide and misappropriating his wealth. Officials said the ED case is based on the FIR filed by Sushant's father Krishna Kumar Singh with Bihar Police in Patna accusing Rhea and her family of unexplained transfer of money from the actor's account. The father had also accused Rhea of pushing Sushant to suicide. The agency will look into allegations of mishandling of Sushant's money and his bank accounts as well as whether the actor's income has been used for money laundering and creating illegal assets. Sushant (34) was found hanging from the ceiling of his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14. Mumbai Police has been investigating the case, including the financial transactions. In her petition before the Supreme Court, Rhea had said that she was in a live-in relationship with Sushant from a year up till June 8 when the petitioner had temporarily shifted to her own residence in Mumbai. She has been in deep trauma due to the death of the actor and moreover getting rape and death threats. Rhea had alleged in the petition that Sushant's father has used his “influence” in roping her in the FIR lodged at Patna in Bihar accusing her of abetment of suicide of his son. Earlier in the day, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis demanded an enquiry by the ED saying, the money laundering aspect too has come to the fore. "It has been observed that money was siphoned off from his account. In such a case, the ED has jurisdiction, so, I have demanded the ED should register a case and probe the matter," he said. BJP General Secretary Bhupendra Yadav also tweeted, "a spontaneous debate has begun in the society after the suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput, who made a name in the cine world after coming out of Bihar. Many questions, including the evils of nepotism, have been emerging from society. We are all together in bringing justice to Sushant's family."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-ed-files-money-laundering-case-867933.html
31-07-2020||National||Rajasthan Congress chief whip moves SC against status quo on disqualification of Sachin Pilot and rebel MLAs||After the Rajasthan Speaker, Congress Legislature Party's chief whip Mahesh Joshi has moved the Supreme Court challenging the July 24 order of status quo by the High Court on disqualification notice issued against Sachin Pilot and 18 other rebel MLAs. In his petition, Joshi contended that the HC's order is "ex facie unconstitutional, illegal and in the teeth of the settled law laid down by this Court in Kihoto Hollohan vs Zachillhu (1992)". The top court's Constitution bench had then held that judicial review was not available at a stage prior to the adjudication by the Speaker on the proceedings related to the anti-defection law. The petition settled by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and drafted by advocates Rajesh Inamdar, Javedur Rahman, Aditya Bhat, Amit Pai and Varun K Chopra asked the court to allow appeal against the HC's order and grant immediate stay on the hearing over there. The HC had then ordered status quo on disqualification notice issued by the Speaker C P Joshi on July 14 to Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs on their failure to attend the legislature party meetings. It had decided to examine larger issue including one related to the right to voice dissent. The Speaker had already filed a petition challenging the validity of July 24 order by the HC.  The Congress party's chief whip, in his plea, contended that interdicting the Speaker at the stage of notice effaced the very purpose and intent of the Tenth Schedule. "The order which constricts and restricts the jurisdiction of the Speaker to even adjudicate on the disqualification petitions is plainly illegal, unconstitutional and in the teeth of settled principles of law laid down by this court," his petition states. The consequence of the grant of status quo order is that the dissident MLAs have secured relief over and above their original grievance that the Speaker did not give them seven days time, he added. He pointed out the constitutional validity of the Tenth Schedule (anti-defection law) has been challenged before the High Court, which entertained the "pre-mature" matter, even though the Supreme Court, in Kihoto Hollohan’s case, has upheld the validity of the statute. Joshi also raised questions of law, including if the High Court over-reached its powers of judicial review of Tenth Schedule proceedings as laid down in a catena of judgments by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-congress-chief-whip-moves-sc-against-status-quo-on-disqualification-of-sachin-pilot-and-rebel-mlas-867965.html
31-07-2020||National||Congress did not enact law against triple talaq for 'vote bank politics': Ministers||Three senior ministers of the Modi government on Friday launched a scathing attack on the Congress at an event marking the first anniversary of the law against triple talaq, saying the legislation could have been enacted in the 1980s, but for the alleged vote bank politics of the grand old party. Addressing Muslim women from across the country via a video link during the event, Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said triple talaq or 'talaq-e-biddat' was "neither Islamic, nor legal", but despite that, the social evil was given "political patronage" by "merchants of vote bank". The law against triple talaq could have been passed in the 1980s when the Supreme Court had given a historic judgment in the Shah Bano case, he said. The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019, makes 'talaq-e-biddat' or any other similar form of talaq having the effect of instantaneous and irrevocable divorce pronounced by a Muslim husband void and illegal. It makes it illegal to pronounce talaq three times in spoken, written or through SMS or WhatsApp or any other electronic chat in one sitting. "The Congress had an absolute majority in Parliament with more than 400 out of 545 Lok Sabha members and more than 159 out of 245 members in the Rajya Sabha. But the Rajiv Gandhi government used its strength in Parliament to make the Supreme Court judgment ineffective and deprive Muslim women of their constitutional and fundamental rights," Naqvi said. Speaking on the occasion, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani echoed Naqvi's views, saying the Congress had the numbers in Parliament in the 1980s using which they could have done justice in favour of Muslim women, but for them "vote bank was more important". "For them, their political life was more important and they never aimed to improve the lives of Muslim women," she said. Irani said the real battle was fought by those Muslim women who went to court over the triple talaq issue so that not just them, but other women from the community also get justice. She also said that a day will come when Muslim women will also march ahead in digital literacy. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad also addressed the Muslim women and asked why did it take India 70 years to bring a law against triple talaq. "Why were there differences on the triple talaq law?" he asked. "On one hand there is the politics of Narendra Modi and on the other, is the politics which is stagnant from Shah Bano to Shayara Bano," he said, in an apparent jibe at the Congress. Prasad also slammed the Muslim personal law board for not acting on the issue of triple talaq and opposing the bill when the Modi government brought the legislation. He asserted that the law against triple talaq was a "law for women's rights and self-respect". Prasad said that he will work towards suggestions to make Muslim women digitally literate and run a campaign for it. Naqvi, in his remarks, also said August 1 should be recorded as “Muslim Women’s Rights Day” in the country as the day marked the anniversary of the law making triple talaq a criminal offence. The Modi government made the law against triple talaq to make the Supreme Court's judgment effective, he said. Naqvi said the law making the social evil of triple talaq a criminal offence has strengthened “self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence” of Muslim women The government has ensured gender equality and strengthened the constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights of Muslim women by bringing law against triple talaq. Several Muslim-majority nations of the world had declared triple talaq as illegal and un-Islamic much earlier, Naqvi said. But, Muslim women in India struggled for decades to get freedom from this social evil, he added. "One year has passed since the law against triple talaq was passed and there is a decline of about 82 percent in triple talaq cases thereafter. If any such case was reported, the law has taken action," Naqvi said. The Modi government is committed to political empowerment and not "political exploitation", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-did-not-enact-law-against-triple-talaq-for-vote-bank-politics-ministers-867967.html
31-07-2020||National||DGFT lays out procedure for exports of surgical masks, medical goggles, diagnostic kits||Online applications filed by exporters only from August 5 to 8 will be considered for getting licences or permission by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) for shipments of 2- and 3-ply surgical masks, medical goggles and diagnostic kits, according to trade notices of the DGFT. This is part of the procedure laid out by the Directorate for exporters to file applications to seek licence for shipments of these goods. According to the directorate, exports of 20 lakh medical goggles per month and four crore 2- and 3-ply surgical masks per month are permitted. Similarly, the monthly export quota fixed for different diagnostic kits includes 238 lakh VTM kits, 149 lakh RNA extraction kits and 114 lakh RT-PCR kits. As per the laid down procedure and criteria for submission and approval of applications for export of diagnostic kits, only manufacturer exporters can apply through DGFT's online system. Online applications for export of these items "filed from August 5 to 8, 2020, will only be considered", according to the trade notices of the directorate. It said the validity of the export licence will be for three months only. It added that only one application per import-export code (IEC) may be considered during the month. The exporter will have to submit certain documents that include copy of purchase order or invoice and a copy of IEC. Further, the masks and goggles can be exported by both manufacturer and merchant exporter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgft-lays-out-procedure-for-exports-of-surgical-masks-medical-goggles-diagnostic-kits-867972.html
31-07-2020||National||New Education Policy envisions imparting 21st century, employability skills: K Kasturirangan||he National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 envisions imparting 21st century and employability skills with no compromise on quality, says its draft panel head K Kasturirangan. The idea of a liberal or a multi-disciplinary education at the undergraduate(UG) level and also a type of four-year structuring of secondary education provides a lot of opportunities for picking up many types of skills, which can be even used as employment opportunities, he said. "These are all part of developing 21st century skills because education embeds these kinds of things to qualify the youngster with respect to what is needed in the 21st century which is communication, creativity, problem-solving and things of that type," he told PTI in an interview. The former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) said the policy was aimed at putting the education in the right track using best of technologies and developments in the field, strengthening institutions, increasing gross intake ratio, among others, and at the same time, ensuring that quality is not compromised. On the rationale behind introducing four-year UG courses, under the policy, Kasturirangan said it would prepare a youngster to have a comprehensive knowledge base for him to pursue professional interest at a particular level of maturity. Each one year of that period has the ability to carry forward education to the next step. It also has a provision at that particular point of time that if one wants to stop and engage in a certain profession, he would have developed a certain competence for "that kind of a thing". "So, if you work on that principle, first year you can have a certificate, because you need to show to the employer that you have done something... you get a certificate junior diploma, next level you will get a senior diploma, and then third level, you get a bachelors degree. "And if you do some research and beef up your knowledge, develop new abilities to deal with issues and problems, you get a fourth year degree, it's a kind of an honours, undergraduate degree with honours," he added. The idea is to provide multiplicities of options with a certain level of maturity of knowledge and ability to take up certain responsibilities at those points. "In four years, we can have reasonable comprehensive education to fulfill what an undergraduate education should." On abolishing the M.Phil degree, Kasturirangan said it has not had its effectiveness, especially because there were masters degrees whether it is science and arts, and different areas and subjects. "M.Phil has not been able to compete with them (masters) but at the same time I think in a sense one finds when you have a better way to get a degree with a better quality of knowledge and a better ability to carry out a profession, we think M.Phil does not play that role today," he said. Therefore, it will be more appropriate to put this role to other masters degrees that are already existing, rather than having a M.Phil which is a little diffused in terms of its ultimate outcome, Kasturirangan said. On the policy envisioning a childs mother tongue being used as the medium of instruction till Class 5, the space scientist noted that Indias English-spoken population is 15-16 per cent only, which is not a big number. "Our idea of making sure that the mother tongue is used because the child from the day it is born engages its communication with the outside world in the mother tongue. "Because of that the brains ability to respond to mother tongue as internal communication is much more effective than any other means," he said. After a few years, when the child gets into a English-based education, the effectiveness of the brain to comprehend cannot be at a level where mother tongue based comprehension has reached in terms of maturity. "So, we think it's better to go for your mother tongue (as a medium of instruction). And it's more natural for a child to pick up ideas, new science and mathematics through their mother tongue than working through another foreign language. There is enough evidence for this kind of effectiveness of using language for learning," he said. That's why the panel has recommended mother tongue or alternatively the home-spoken language, or if it is not home-spoken language, it can be local language, or regional language as medium of instruction till class 5. However, he added: "That doesn't prevent you from learning English, master English and make sure that if you want to further pursue your career where English is more critical, the policy certainly has a provision to take care of that. The NEP approved by the Union Cabinet at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986 and is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. Teaching up to class 5 in mother tongue or regional language, lowering the stakes of board exams, a single regulator for higher education institutions except for law and medical colleges and common entrance tests for universities are part of the sweeping reforms in the policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-education-policy-envisions-imparting-21st-century-employability-skills-k-kasturirangan-867973.html
31-07-2020||National||DGCA extends ban on international commercial flights till August 31 amid Covid-19 pandemic||India on Friday extended the ban on international commercial passenger flights till August 31 as the world battles the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the restriction shall not apply to international cargo operations and flights specifically approved by civil aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). “The government has decided to extend the suspension on the Scheduled International Commercial Passenger Services to/from India up to 2359 hours IST of 31st August,” a DGCA statement said. India has entered into bilateral air travel arrangements with countries such as the US, Germany, France and Kuwait to facilitate passenger movement. Under the Vande Bharat Mission, Air India and Air India Express have flown back 2,67,436 stranded passengers and other charters have ferried 4,86,811 stranded passengers between May 6 and July 30, the DGCA statement said. Scheduled international passenger flights have been suspended in India since March 25 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-extends-ban-on-international-commercial-flights-till-august-31-amid-covid-19-pandemic-867974.html
31-07-2020||National||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Bihar govt says it will oppose Rhea Chakraborty's plea in SC||The Bihar government said on Friday that it will oppose a petition filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty in the Supreme Court, challenging the jurisdiction of the Patna Police in lodging an FIR in connection with the suicide of Bollywood star Sushant Singh Rajput and starting an investigation. Advocate General Lalit Kishore said the state will be represented before the apex court by former Attorney General of India Mukul Rohatgi. While we have made no prayer for being included as a party to the case filed by Chakraborty, we will oppose her petition since she has challenged the jurisdiction of the state of Bihar," Kishore said. He asserted that the matter fell very much within the jurisdiction of the state as the FIR was lodged on the basis of a complaint filed by Rajput's father who resides in Patna. There have been many instances of cases being registered away from the site of an incident if links to the offence happen to be in the other place," the advocate general said. He also scoffed at Chakraborty's contention that all cases in the matter be shifted to Mumbai and pointed out that the police in the western metropolis had not even lodged an FIR". "It is the Patna Police which lodged the first FIR in the matter. I wonder how the Mumbai Police intends to investigate a matter without registering a proper case," he said. In his complaint, the actor's father KK Singh accused Chakraborty, who is said to have been in a relationship with Rajput, of having used his sons standing in Bollywood to promote her own career, trying to drive a wedge between him and his family, getting him fed with medicines for mental illness with the help of conniving doctors and blackmailing him with threats of making his medical history public to tarnish his reputation. The bereaved father also alleged that at least Rs 15 crore was withdrawn from his son's bank account to which Chakraborty and her family members had gained access to and that barely a week before Rajput hung himself to death at his Bandra residence, the actor had visited his house and stole his laptop, ATM card and other important documents. On reports of non-cooperation from the Mumbai Police to a four-member police team from Patna which is in the metropolis to probe the matter, the advocate general said, "If it is so, it is very unfortunate. It is normal practice for law enforcers to cooperate with visiting police teams from other states." Kishore said everyone in the country is bound by the Constitution to abide by an order that has been passed by the Supreme Court when he was asked whether the Bihar government would find it agreeable if the apex court directs for clubbing all the cases and moving these to Mumbai or orders a CBI inquiry. The Maharashtra Home Minister has expressed his own opinion in the matter. Let us wait for a few days. The apex court will come out with its order which will lend clarity," Kishor said. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has opposed the no need for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiry into Rajputs death and said the Mumbai Polices probe was sufficient||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-bihar-govt-says-it-will-oppose-rhea-chakrabortys-plea-in-sc-867979.html
31-07-2020||National||Singapore-based NGO to invest up to $100m on environmental projects in India||Alliance to End Plastic Waste, a Singapore-based-NGO working in the environmental sector, plans to invest between $70 million to $100 million in India over the next five years to majorly to reduce plastic waste, according to the top official of the organisation. Jacob Duer, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the organisation said that India is a very important focus for the Alliance. “The Alliance has set a target to invest between $70- $100 million in India over the next 5 years. And we are looking to establish a presence in India by the end of year. But all the dates are in the air now given the Covid-19 situation,” Duer told PTI. India currently generates around 26,000 tonnes of plastic waste every day, over 10,000 tonnes of which is not collected, said Duer, citing figures from the India Central Pollution Board. Duer, a former representative of a United Nations Environment Programme team that negotiated and concluded (Minamata Convention on Mercury with the Indian Environment authority in 2017), said the Alliance is already working on a good number of projects with more in the pipeline. The latest project by the Alliance and Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) is the Aviral – Reducing Plastic Waste in the Ganga. The initiative, which was announced on July 28, coinciding with Nature Conservative Day, aims to reduce the amount of plastic waste entering the environment in the northern Indian cities of Haridwar and Rishikesh. Aviral seeks to pilot an approach to address waste management challenges. In particular, it will focus on strengthening an integrated plastic waste management system, he said. Following the two-year pilot in the two cities, the partnership aims to scale this initiative across partnering cities in India, he added. The other big project by the Alliance, in collaboration with the UN-Habitat, is to implement solutions toward a circular economy, creating business and livelihood opportunities while enhancing resource recovery. Announced on July 22, the Alliance-UN Habitat strategic partnership has initiated projects in six cities, including Thiruvananthapuram and Mangalore. The others are Nairobi and Mombasa as well as Addis Ababa and Bahir Dar. “We will use the UN-Habitat Waste Wise Cities (WWC) Tool to map waste flows and assess potential plastic leakage from waste management systems and identify short- and long-term pathways to increase the amount of plastic waste collected, recycled and recovered,” Duer said. The programme supports the Alliance’s focus on developing meaningful city projects in high plastic waste leakage communities, and the WWC Challenge to clean up and establish sustainable waste management in 20 cities around the world by 2022. Among other projects are the Zero Plastic Waste Cities initiative in India and Vietnam, a combined vision of the Alliance and the Grameen Creative Lab, the creative laboratory for social business solutions co-founded by Nobel Peace Laureate Professor Muhammed Yunus. “This project tackles the plastic issue by improving and supplementing municipal waste management, repurposing collected waste and preventing it from flowing into the ocean. It will develop sustainable social businesses that improve the livelihoods of many while preventing plastic waste from escaping into the environment,” he said. The two initial cities involved in this project are Puducherry on the southeaReprest coast of India and Tan An in the Mekong Delta region of Vietnam. Currently, a feasibility study is being conducted to determine the best option for the plastic waste conversion output, to ensure long-term adoption in each community. The cities will run pilot programmes to find out which option best serves their needs, he said. Overall, the Alliance has a $500 million budget for environmental projects including the $100 million for India. The rest is for South East Asia and China. But Duer assured that the Alliance, as an independent NGO, is being supported by more funds coming in from multinational corporations including Reliance Industries which have a strong foothold in the regional markets and strong CSR commitment. He is expecting more multinational corporations to join as members of the already a 50-strong Alliance as it works out more and more environmental projects sanctioned by the regional governments. “Plastic waste has value,” Duer added, citing the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, a think-tank in circular economy. For India, bringing plastic waste back into the supply chain could bring annual benefits of Rs.40 lakh crore in 2050, said Duer quoting from the Foundation study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-based-ngo-to-invest-up-to-100m-on-environmental-projects-in-india-867982.html
31-07-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Karnataka govt transfers Bengaluru police chief to internal security division||In today's episode, Over 50 MLAs of the Ashok Gehlot camp, who were lodged in a hotel on the Jaipur- Delhi Highway amid the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan, are being shifted to Jaisalmer; The Karnataka government appointed Kamal Pant, ADGP intelligence, as the new city police chief and transferred Bhaskar Rao to internal security division and The Karnataka BJP has issued legal notices to Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar demanding that they apologize for accusing the government of corruption or face a defamation suit.  Here is the top news of today, Friday: July 31, 2020: Over 50 MLAs of the Ashok Gehlot camp, who were lodged in a hotel on the Jaipur- Delhi Highway amid the ongoing political crisis in Rajasthan, are being shifted to Jaisalmer, Congress sources told PTI, who added that Three chartered flights carrying 54 MLAs to Jaisalmer took off in the first round and the remaining legislators will go in the second round. “We are going to Jaisalmer for a change,” Congress MLA Prashant Bairwa said. The decision to shift the MLAs come a day after Gehlot indicated that he will seek a confidence vote when the Assembly convenes next fortnight and claimed that the money offered to the MLAs to switch sides had increased sharply ahead of the session. The chief minister said the rebels who have not accepted money should return to the party fold. The MLAs have been staying in the hotel since July 13 after Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs rebelled against the government triggering the political crisis. The Karnataka government appointed Kamal Pant, ADGP intelligence, as the new city police chief and transferred Bhaskar Rao to internal security division. Rao took charge as city police commissioner on August 2 and has served one year.  Kamal Pant, a 1990 batch of Indian Police Service officer, had served as Superintendent of Police in various districts and also additional Commissioner for law and order in Bengaluru City. Pant is senior-most in ADGP rank and also served as ADGP in KSRP, Administration and intelligence division. He is known for administrative skills, including the reforms he brought in prisons. B Dayananda, ADGP, Criminal Investigation Department and Economic Offences, was also transferred as ADGP, Bengaluru intelligence. The Karnataka BJP has issued legal notices to Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and D K Shivakumar demanding that they apologize for accusing the government of corruption or face a defamation suit.  The notices seek a public apology for the allegations levelled against the government on irregularities in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment and supplies.  Both Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar have been doggedly pursuing allegations of corruption against the BJP government and have demanded a judicial inquiry.  BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar said that while the Congress leaders claimed that Rs 4,157 crore was spent during Covid-19, they also allege that the government has not responded to any of the 20 letters written by them. He said: "If the government has not provided any answer to the Opposition, where did they get the figures from?" KPCC President D K Shivakumar said that his party is ready to furnish all documents related to the corruption in Medical equipment purchases for containing covid-19 if a judicial probe by a sitting judge is initiated. “The BJP-led government is mired in corruption in Karnataka. If Rs 2000 crore corruption charges against the BJP government is baseless, then they can hang me and book a case against me. The Congress has proof for all allegations,” he told reporters here at Congress Bhavana in Mangaluru. He accused the BJP government of looting money in the name of Covid-19, which is proved in the affidavits submitted to the court by the government. The Chief Minister has been asking for cooperation from the Opposition. Should we support them for looting the money? he questioned. Ridiculing BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel’s claim that 15 Congress MLAs are in touch with him (Kateel), he said “I thought all the 224 MLAs are in contact with him. I do not know why he said only 15 MLAs.” Earlier, D K Shivakumar along with KPCC Working President Saleem Ahmed visited former union minister Oscar Fernandes and enquired about his health. Later, he visited Mangalore Bishop Rev Fr Peter Paul D’Souza. He also met auto drivers association office-bearers and listened to their woes. The Enforcement Directorate has filed a money laundering case in connection with the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The central probe agency has taken cognisance of a Bihar Police first investigation report (FIR) registered against actress Rhea Chakraborty and some others to slap criminal charges under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in its complaint, they said. The officials said an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) has been filed in the case related to the death of the actor and alleged financial irregularities being suspected to have been done against the deceased. The ED had recently sought the FIR copy from the Bihar Police. Hong Kong's democracy supporters were dealt a huge blow Friday as authorities postponed local elections because of the coronavirus, capping a devastating month of political disqualifications, arrests for social media posts and activists fleeing overseas. The city's democracy camp has come under sustained attack since Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law on the city last month -- a move China's leaders described as a "sword" hanging over the head of its critics. The ensuing weeks have radically transformed a city used to speaking its mind and supposedly guaranteed certain freedoms and autonomy in a "One Country, Two Systems" deal agreed ahead of its 1997 handover from Britain. On Friday evening chief executive Carrie Lam, a pro-Beijing appointee, announced that September elections for the city's legislature would need to be delayed. She described the announcement as the "most difficult decision" she has made since the pandemic began and that Beijing supported the move.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-govt-transfers-bengaluru-police-chief-to-internal-security-division-867986.html
31-07-2020||National||Congress national spokesperson Khushbu Sundar welcomes National Education Policy; apologises to Rahul Gandhi for differing stand||Congress National Spokesperson Khushbu Sundar has welcomed the Centre's new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 and apologised to party leader Rahul Gandhi for her differing stand from that of the party, with her statement setting off a Twitter buzz. With the actor-politician insisting she "rather speak the fact than be a head nodding robot or a puppet,"Congress' state unit hit out at her for airing her views in the open, saying it was "indiscipline" and that the grand old party was ready to discuss "any controversial" matters in its forums. As speculation mounted that the actor could quit Congress and join its arch-rival BJP following her welcoming NEP 2020, Sundar clarified "I am not moving to" the saffron party. "NewEducationPolicy2020 A welcome move," she said on Twitter on Thursday along with a 'thumbs up' image, much to the surprise of many of her followers who are used to her critical comments against the ruling NDA on various issues. "My stand on #NEP2020 differs from my party n I apologise to @RahulGandhi ji for that, but I rather speak the fact than be a head-nodding robot or a puppet. Everything is n cannot be about agreeing to ur leader, but about being courageous to voice ur opinion bravely as a citizen," she said in another tweet. With her welcoming the NEP 2020, speculations were abuzz of her possibly joining the BJP, which she dismissed outright. "I am not moving to BJP. My opinion might be different from my party, but I am an individual with a thinking mind of my own. Yes, #NEP2020 is flayed n flawed at some places, but I still feel we can look at the change with a positivity," she said. The Centre's NEP 2020 announced on Wednesday has sweeping reforms like teaching in the mother tongue or regional language up to class 5, lowering the stakes of board exams, allowing foreign universities to set up campuses in India and a single regulator for higher education institutions, except for law and medical colleges. Former HRD minister and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor had welcomed it, but feared it may make education unaffordable for the poor as it showcases a tendency towards "centralisation, high aspiration and low feasibility" with an assumption that the challenge will be met by the private sector. Tharoor had also said that the NEP glosses over the desperate need for qualified and trained teachers in schools, of whom there is a critical shortage. Placing the burden of pre-primary education on over- stretched, under-funded and under-equipped anganwadis is "disastrous", he had said. Responding to Sundar's statement, TNCC President K S Alagiri said the Congress is the "world's biggest democratic political party." "We can speak any controversial subject within the party forum. It will be welcomed. If we speak in a public forum it is called indiscipline. Indiscipline comes from frustration. Yoga is the best medicine to cure," he said in a series of tweets on Friday. With her tweet supporting the Centre's education reforms becoming a subject of discussion, Sundar on Friday said, "one tweet.. One line.. and i see the storm."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-national-spokesperson-khushbu-sundar-welcomes-national-education-policy-apologises-to-rahul-gandhi-for-differing-stand-867998.html
31-07-2020||National||CBI raids former police officer's house in connection with Saradha scam||Sleuths of the CBI, probing the multi-crore Saradha ponzi scam, raided the house of former police officer Dilip Hazra who was a member of the SIT formed by the West Bengal government in connection with the matter, sources said on Friday. CBI conducted search operations at the residence of Hazra in Purba Bardhaman district on July 28, they said. CBI has seized a few documents in the raid, sources in the central agency said. Hazra, now retired, was posted at the Biddhanagar Police Commissionerate and was a part of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed after the scam was detected in 2013. He was earlier questioned by the CBI in connection with the SIT's initial investigation into the matter. The West Bengal government had formed the SIT in 2013 with officers drawn from the state's police forces to probe the scam. The Supreme Court had transferred the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2014. Thousands of investors were left in a lurch by the scam and it led to the arrest of many leaders and ministers of the state's ruling Trinamool Congress. All of them are now out on bail. Saradha group founder Sudipta Sen and his close associate Debjani Mukherjee, who were arrested in 2013 from Kashmir, are in jail custody. Several members of the SIT have been questioned by the CBI, including former Kolkata Police commissioner Rajeev Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-raids-former-police-officers-house-in-connection-with-saradha-scam-867999.html
31-07-2020||National||Why can't temples be opened in Unlock, asks Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday asked why religious places cannot be opened up when the country was gradually opening up in ongoing unlock phases. "When the country is opening up, why only religious places are shut? If there is total lockdown, it is different. But when other things are being opened, temples, mosques and churches should also be opened at least on important occasions," a bench presided over by Justice Arun Mishra observed. The court's remarks came while hearing a plea by BJP MP, Nishikant Dubey for the opening of the temple of Baba Baidyanath at Deogarh. The temple is known as one of the twelve 'Jyotirlingas', the most sacred abode of Lord Shiva. The court asked Jharkhand government if 'Darshan' can be allowed while adhering to social distancing norms. It said E-darshan was not the same as Live or actual darshan. Dubey challenged a Jharkhand HC's order, denying permission to hold the 'Shravani Mela', held annually at Baba Baidyanath Temple. He also sought a direction for the opening of Basukinath temple, situated close to Deogarh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-cant-temples-be-opened-in-unlock-asks-supreme-court-868009.html
31-07-2020||National||BMC to seal buildings with more than 3 Covid-19 cases: Report||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has once again revised its policy for sealing off buildings, the latest revision stating that only a building with more than three Covid-19 cases would be sealed off.  The decision was taken after several reports of people being inconvenienced due to a single active case in their building came out. The revision was reportedly made after BMC officials, including Additional Municipal Commissioner, Suresh Kakani, received multiple complaints.  The move resulted in people in multi-storey buildings being quarantined for fourteen days due to one active case.  After a spike in cases in Kandivali, Borivali and Dahisar, the civic body decided to revise its policy for sealing off buildings. The growth rate in these areas, according to the BMC, is between 1.1 and 1.7 per cent, higher than Mumbai’s average of 1.02 per cent.  By July 29th, Maharashtra had crossed 4 lakh cases and had the highest number of cases in the country.  The lockdown would be extended till August 31st in the state, guidelines for which have been shared under ‘Mission Begin Again’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-to-seal-buildings-with-more-than-3-covid-19-cases-report-868012.html
31-07-2020||National||Book Himachal CM, BJP leaders for violation of Covid-19 norms: Congress||Accusing ruling party leaders in the state of violating coronavirus guidelines, the Himachal Congress on Friday demanded that Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur and other BJP leaders be booked for not adhering to social distancing norms. Alleging that the BJP government has adopted double standards in this regard, state Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore said while it has booked his party leaders for protesting the hike in bus fares, it did not act against the BJP leaders for the violation of the Covid guidelines. FIRs should be lodged against CM Jai Ram Thakur, BJP Mahila Morcha president Rashmi Dhar Sood and other party leaders who had attended a "yajna" in Shimla on July 16 and violated social distance norms, Rathore demanded. The state Congress president said a case should also be lodged against former Nadaun MLA and HRTC Vice-Chairman Vijay Agnihotry as he had kept attending various functions even after his sample was taken for testing and later he was found coronavirus positive. Similarly, an FIR should be lodged against Education Minister Suresh Bhardwaj's son Anurag who recently attended a volleyball tournament as a chief guest in Rohru despite a ban on games to check the spread of Covid-19, he added. The Congress leader said if cases are not registered against them, his party will consider filing a complaint in the court. Rathore said the state Congress has decided not to hold demonstrations in view of increasing Covidcases. The Congress will keep on opposing anti-people policies of the BJP government but it will not hold protests till further decision, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/book-himachal-cm-bjp-leaders-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms-congress-868016.html
31-07-2020||National||SC to hear plea by actress Rhea to transfer FIR by Patna police on August 5||The Supreme Court is likely to consider on August 5 a plea by actress Rhea Chakraborty for transfer of an FIR filed by the father of deceased actor Sushant Singh Rajput with Patna Police to Mumbai. According to the Supreme Court's website, the case is tentatively shown as listed for hearing on August 5. In her petition filed on July 29, Rhea claimed she has been falsely implicated in the case at the instance of Krishna Kishore Singh, the father of Rajput. Singh, in his complaint, accused Rhea and others, including her family members, of cheating, holding his son hostage and forcing him to commit suicide. He also claimed as much as Rs 17 crore was withdrawn from his son's bank accounts.  In her petition, Rhea said she and the deceased were live-in partners till June 8. Rajput was suffering from depression for some time and had been on an anti-depressant drug. He committed suicide on June 14 at his Bandra residence in Mumbai. "The Mumbai police is still investigating the matter and the causes leading to such drastic steps were being examined," she pointed out, adding that her statement has also been recorded by the Mumbai police. She contended assuming if there was an iota of truth in the FIR lodged on July 25, the case must have been transferred to a jurisdictional magistrate in Mumbai. Claiming that she received various rape and death threats, Rhea said it would be just and expedient to transfer the case from Patna to Mumbai and no prejudice would be caused to the complainant on it. The Bihar government has decided to move the court to oppose her plea. Rajput's father has already filed a caveat in the top court, asking it not to pass any order without hearing him in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-by-actress-rhea-to-transfer-fir-by-patna-police-on-august-5-868018.html
31-07-2020||National||Create army of Covid-19 contact tracers: WHO offical to AMC||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Friday suggested that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) create an "army of contact tracers" to identify people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients and contain the viral spread. In a virtual meeting with senior AMC officials, chief scientist of the WHO Dr Soumya Swaminathan stressed on the need to create a big army of contact tracers consisting of students and graduates and training them as it had been done in the United Kingdom and Germany. According to a release issued here, the briefing, which revolved around showcasing "Ahmedabad Model" of fighting coronavirus, was attended by Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar and officer on special duty Rajiv Kumar Gupta. Dr Swaminathan showed interest in the AMC's Covid-19 management model, which comprises screening and testing vans, '104' fever helpline service and PPP model of roping in private hospitals for treating patients, the release stated. "These interventions were very useful and encouraging experiences, which could be adopted by other cities," she reportedly said. The WHO will soon be providing a platform for sharing the Ahmedabad model with other cities in India and across the world as part of its ongoing exercise of sharing and learning from best practices of Covid-19 management, the release said. Dr Swaminathan also appreciated the AMC's strategy of using Aarogya Setu Data Intelligence for focussed surveillance and testing, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/create-army-of-covid-19-contact-tracers-who-offical-to-amc-868019.html
31-07-2020||National||Tablighi Jamaat: HC seeks Centre, police response on foreigners’ pleas to quash FIRs||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the Centre and the police to respond to pleas by 24 foreigners seeking quashing of FIRs against them for attending Tablighi Jamaat event here and allegedly indulging in missionary activities in violation of visa norms and breaching anti-Covid-19 guidelines. Justice Anuj Jairam Bhambhani, conducting the hearing through video conferencing, asked the Centre and Delhi Police to file their status reports on the issue before the next date of hearing, August 10. The court was informed that these 24 foreigners, who have filed two separate petitions, have already admitted their guilt in the FIR lodged by the crime branch of Delhi Police in the matter and pleaded for lenient punishments under the provisions of plea bargaining. They were allowed to walk free on payment of varying fines and pleading guilty for minor offences related to the Covid-19 lockdown violations, the counsel for the foreigners said. However, they are not able to fly back to their countries due to the pendency of other FIRs lodged at Seelampur police station, said senior advocate Rebecca John, representing the foreign nationals.  When the petitioners wanted to go back to their countries, it transpired that a second FIR is also pending against them and the charge sheet has been filed before the trial court, she said. She contended that the police cannot lodge separate FIRs for the same alleged offence and they are unable to go back due to looking out circulars (LOCs) being opened against them. She said while the first FIR was lodged on March 31, this second FIR by the Seelampur police was registered on April 1, as they were staying in a masjid there and the police then took them to a quarantine centre. In the two petitions filed by advocates Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh, the petitioners have sought to quash of two FIRs registered at police station Seelampur under various sections of IPC and the Epidemic Diseases Act. The petitioners said that the FIRs registered at Seelampur is untenable in law in light of foreign nationals having entered plea bargaining in same charges registered by the crime branch. They have also sought directions to the respondents to close the LoC issued qua foreign national petitioners. In the case being probed by the crime branch, the foreign national petitioners have duly entered plea bargaining and consequent deportation orders have been issued by the court. They said that the allegations in the FIRs before this court are similar to the FIR of crime branch, in which 911 of the 955 foreigner jamaatis have entered into plea bargaining "Under the law, second FIR is impermissible and there is an operational bar from prosecution of same offences arising out of the corresponding cause of action under Article 20(2) of the constitution of India( widely known as the doctrine of double jeopardy) as well as section 300 of the CrPC," the plea said. In April, Covid-19 cases across the country spiked after hundreds of many Tablighi Jamaat members, who had attended the religious congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz in the national capital, tested positive. At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals, participated in the religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamaat-hc-seeks-centre-police-response-on-foreigners-pleas-to-quash-firs-868024.html
31-07-2020||National||Govt launches digital platforms for housing sales||Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday launched digital platforms of real estate bodies CREDAI and NAREDCO to market residential properties, besides releasing a guide book for an affordable rental housing scheme for migrants. The minister launched the CREDAI Awaas App and NAREDCO's online portal HousingforAll.com through video conference. CREDAI Awaas App is a residential project discovery online platform through which buyers will be able to virtually explore and experience the projects from 220 cities across the country. The app aims to facilitate transparent home buying in RERA approved projects by CREDAI developers. Puri released the knowledge pack of the government's Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) programme, which has been recently launched to provide rental accommodations to migrant and urban poor. The ARHCs scheme, which has been launched under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana- Urban (PMAY-U) as part of Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, will help in providing dignified and affordable living spaces for urban migrants/poor in need, he said. On industry demand for one-time debt restructuring and 100 per cent FDI in affordable rental housing, Puri said the ministry is with the industry and these demands will be considered. To achieve the government's Housing For All target by 2022, Puri said the ministry has almost sanctioned the entire 1.12 crore dwelling units as envisaged under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (Urban). About 70 per cent of the sanctioned houses have been grounded. Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said the two new e-commerce platforms by CREDAI and Naredco have potential to become Amazon of real estate. At the virtual event, Credai Chairman Jaxay Shah, Credai President Satish Magar, Naredco Chairman Rajeev Talwar, Naredco President Niranjan Hiranandani and Naredco West President Rajan Bandelkar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-digital-platforms-for-housing-sales-868028.html
31-07-2020||National||Armed with Jaya Jaitly's conviction, Congress targets BJP on Rafale||Armed with the conviction of NDA ally Jaya Jaitly in a defence scam dating back to the Vajpayee government, Congress on Friday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi claiming that the truth about the Rafale deal would come out only after a thorough investigation into the matter. “The verdict of the court in Jaya Jaitly case highlights the need to investigate the truth of the Rafale deal. It also proves that truth needs to be investigated and is not what the BJP claims to be,” Congress spokesman Jaiveer Shergill told reporters here. Earlier this week, Jaitly was convicted in the ‘Operation Westend’ case relating to the purchase of Hand Held Thermal Imagers in which she was caught on camera accepting bribes while sitting at the residence of the then Defence Minister George Fernandes. Fernandes was a leader of the Samata Party of which Jaitly was the President. Shergill recalled that former BJP President Bangaru Laxman was convicted by a CBI court in 2012 for accepting bribes while sitting in BJP office. “The conviction verdicts prove that the BJP and their partners are not corruption-free but investigation free and the truth about Rafale deal needed an investigation by an independent agency,” Shergill said. The Congress spokesman said the capability of the Rafale aircraft did not grant the BJP immunity from the accountability on the issues of inflated costs, bypassing of rules and regulations and giving preference to a zero experience private player over a public sector undertaking. Shergill demanded an apology from the Prime Minister and an explanation to the nation on the rampant corruption in defence deals under the NDA-BJP regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/armed-with-jaya-jaitlys-conviction-congress-targets-bjp-on-rafale-868030.html
31-07-2020||National||Gujarat govt's order to not charge school fees till lockdown struck down||The decision of Gujarat government prohibiting private schools from charging any fees from the students till the physical opening of schools was struck down by the high court on Friday, giving relief to self-financed schools which have been agitating citing expenses in running online classes. Soon after the order, the government issued a statement saying that it would comply with the order and would not challenge it. Calling the government's decision "absurd", the division bench of chief justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala ordered to remove clause-4 from the resolution that had prohibited the schools from charging any fees from students for tuition or any other activities till the lockdown is over. The court said schools and government should discuss, negotiate and arrive at a conclusion which strikes a balance beneficial to all concerned parties. The bench also suggested structuring fees in a manner as decided by private hospitals for treating coronavirus patients. The state government had issued a government resolution following litigation filed in the high court against hike in the school fees and situation of parents reeling under pay cuts and slowdown caused by the coronavirus pandemic. Following the decision, several associations of affected schools protested the move and approached the high court against the provision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govts-order-to-not-charge-school-fees-till-lockdown-struck-down-868031.html
31-07-2020||National||At 2.18%, India's Covid-19 fatality rate among lowest; just 0.28% patients on ventilator: Vardhan||India's Covid-19 case fatality rate is progressively declining and now stands at 2.18 per cent, one of the lowest globally, while just 0.28 per cent of the total active patients are on a ventilator, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. He also said of the total 5,45,318 active cases, 1.61 per cent patients need ICU care and 2.32 per cent are on oxygen support. Chairing the 19th meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19 through video-conference on Friday, Vardhan said India has achieved the milestone of more than 10 lakh recoveries, a recovery rate to 64.54 per cent. "This shows that the active cases under medical supervision are only 33.27 pc or approximately 1/3rd of total positive cases,” he was quoted as saying in a health ministry statement. “India's Case Fatality Rate is also progressively reducing and currently stands at 2.18 per cent, one of the lowest globally," he said. Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri, MoS Shipping (Independent Charge) Mansukh Lal Mandaviya, MoS Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey and MoS Home Nityanand Rai joined the meeting. Speaking on the severity of the disease, Vardhan said, "Out of the total active cases, only 0.28 pc patients are on ventilators, 1.61 pc patients needed ICU support and 2.32 pc are on oxygen support.” On the country's testing capacity, he said 6,42,588 tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours through a network of 1,331 labs -- 911 government and 420 private – which has taken the cumulative number to more than 1.88 crore tests so far. The GoM was briefed on the current status of Covid-19 in India and was apprised about the ramping up of the domestic production capacities of various sectors for manufacturing PPEs, masks, ventilators and drugs such as hydroxychloroquine, the statement said. In terms of healthcare logistics, cumulatively 268.25 lakh N-95 masks, 120.40 lakh PPEs and 1,083.77 lakh HCQ tablets have been distributed to states/UTs and Central institutions, it said. During the meeting, National Centre for Disease Control Director Dr Sujeet K Singh presented a comparison on daily cases, deaths and growth rate in 10 countries with the highest caseload, it stated. The GoM was briefed that the overall recovery rate for India is 64.54 per cent -- the highest 89.08 per cent in Delhi, followed by 79.82 per cent in Haryana. Karnataka has the lowest recovery rate of 39.36 per cent.  The GoM was also apprised on the distribution of confirmed cases and active cases in the containment zones across the country. The statement said the NCDC director also briefed the GoM on the growth rate in top 12 states -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Telangana, Bihar, Rajasthan and Assam. He also told the meeting about the number of tests and positivity rate across states and UTs and active cases and deaths in top 20 districts and containment zones across districts. He highlighted that efforts are being made to reduce mortality in high caseload regions and cities like Pune, Thane, Bengaluru, Hyderabad etc that are showing recent upsurge. The meeting also suggested some measures including revamping the strategy for effective management of containment zones through stricter perimeter control, widespread rapid antigen tests, intensive and rapid door-to-door search, more isolation facilities for suspects/cases and standard case management protocols. These have to be aided by an increase in oxygen beds and ventilators and assessing the true burden through planned serosurveys, the statement said. In moderate caseload districts/cities, the efforts would focus on preventing spill-over from the high burden areas, limiting local spread, early identification of cases, strengthening contact tracing with the use of technology and community involvement, the ministry said. As for the low burden districts, the efforts aimed at preventing infection among the population from other areas, strengthening Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) surveillance and targeted testing, rigorous contact tracing with targets to be set by the local administration and prior identification of high-risk population, it said.  Director-General of Foreign Trade Amit Yadav briefed the GoM on different items that were put under export restriction and prohibition during the Covid-19 pandemic and their present status. The GoM deliberated upon the protocols being followed at the airports and the systemic improvements in triaging of incoming passengers. Meanwhile, India's Covid-19 case tally zoomed past 16 lakh on Friday, registering a record single-day jump of 55,078 infections. The death toll due to the disease rose to 35,747 with 779 fatalities being reported in a 24-hours span, a health ministry bulletin updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-218-indias-covid-19-fatality-rate-among-lowest-just-028-patients-on-ventilator-vardhan-868035.html
31-07-2020||National||Mumbai International Airport operates 21 flights to US, Germany, France under air bubble pacts||Mumbai International Airport on Friday said it has operated 21 flights to the US, Germany and France since July 22 under the bilateral air bubble pacts with these countries. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport catered to a total of 3,059 passengers that include 1,185 from Newark, 660 from Paris and 1,214 from Frankfurt, Mumbai International Airport Ltd (MIAL) said in a release. It added that the passengers travelled through 21 flights between July 22 and July 31 after the finalisation of the bilateral air bubble pacts with the US, Germany and France. Under the pacts, airlines such as Air India, Air France, and Lufthansa are operating on these routes, MIAL said. It added that the first flight was departed from Mumbai to Paris by Air France on July 22, while the first flight arrived from Frankfurt by Air India on July 23. The airport has ensured utmost safety of its passengers with standard operating procedures in place along with following the guidelines laid by the government to ensure a safe travel, it said. An air bubble is a bilateral arrangement with a set of regulations and restrictions in which the carriers of the two countries can operate international flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-international-airport-operates-21-flights-to-us-germany-france-under-air-bubble-pacts-868038.html
31-07-2020||National||Ram Vilas Paswan seeks CBI probe into actor Sushant's death||Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Friday demanded a CBI probe into the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide, saying only the central agency can do justice in the matter amid "tussle" between Bihar and Mumbai police. The Lok Janshakti Party founder told PTI that Rajput's alleged suicide is shrouded in mystery and expressed his anguish at the "lack of progress" in the case so far despite the passage of nearly seven weeks since his death. The body of Rajput (34), who had starred in films such as "Chichhore", "Kai Po Che" and "Kedarnath", was found hanging in his apartment in Mumbai's Bandra area on June 14. Paswan noted that Mumbai Police has not registered a FIR yet in the case. The Bihar Police, which registered a case a few days ago on Rajput's father's complaint, and the Mumbai Police are not in a tussle, he added. "Then how they can do justice in the matter? Only a central agency like the CBI can do justice to the actor's family. The case should be transferred to it without any delay," he said. Noting that it was his son and LJP president Chirag Paswan who has taken up the issue, Paswan said now leaders of all parties have been speaking on the matter, and that it has become imperative for the case to be transferred to the CBI without any delay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-vilas-paswan-seeks-cbi-probe-into-actor-sushants-death-868040.html
31-07-2020||National||'Atmanirbhar' not inward looking: MEA official||An official of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) Friday said that the 'Atmanirbhar' programme has been launched by the government to make India as a hub of global supply chain and not inward-looking. Rahul Chhabra, secretary (economic relations) to the MEA said that the Covid-19 pandemic is like a 'black swan' event which has caused the fastest decline in global output in history. Speaking at a webinar organised by Calcutta Chamber of Commerce, Chhabra said that the government has responded to this by launching the 'Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) programme to make India a nerve centre of global supply chain. "It is certainly not inward-looking", he said adding the programme also underscores the government's faith in the private sector to deliver. "The world has seen the danger of relying on one country. Messages have also been sent to Indian missions abroad to promote the country as an alternative low-cost sourcing destination". Chabbra said India has proved that it is the pharmacy of the world as drugs were supplied to 125 countries for battling the Covid-19 crisis and 80 countries received the drugs as grants. India has also been providing lines of credit to many countries across the world to build infrastructure projects, he said. The goal of commercial diplomacy is based on the benchmarks of transparency, fair and equitable justice, Chabbra added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atmanirbhar-not-inward-looking-mea-official-868043.html
31-07-2020||National||Bhutan king writes to Assam CM, thanks him for support during lockdown||Bhutan's King Jigme Khesar has written to Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, thanking him for allowing movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities to the neighbouring country amid the lockdown and ensuring the wellbeing of the people. The king termed the gesture as a true reflection of the friendship and brotherhood between the people of Assam and Bhutan, according to a statement issued by the state government on Friday. Though Assam and its people fought hard to contain the pandemic with necessary lockdown and curtailment of peoples movement, the benevolence of the authorities of Assam in allowing movement of vehicles carrying essential commodities to Bhutan helped its people and ensured their wellbeing during the lockdown period," he said in the letter. I remain appreciative of your goodwill and look forward to your continued support," he added. The king also said the efforts of the Assam government would very soon stem the spread of the coronavirus as he empathised with the people of the state in these trying times. Sonowal on behalf of the people of Assam expressed his gratitude to the king. He said the ever-increasing bond of friendship and brotherliness between Assam and Bhutan will keep strengthening the mutual ties in days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhutan-king-writes-to-assam-cm-thanks-him-for-support-during-lockdown-868051.html
31-07-2020||National||Bureaucrat, police officer among 10 new Covid-19 deaths in J&K||Ten more people, including a senior Kashmir Administrative Service (KAS) officer and a police sub-inspector, died due to Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, taking the toll in the Union Territory (UT) to 378. A health official said the senior KAS officer, who was admitted at the JVC hospital in Srinagar on July 14, died on Friday. The officer, presently posted as special secretary Social Welfare department, died due to cardiopulmonary arrest as he was suffering from diabetes and other ailments, he said. A health official from Chest Diseases hospital, Srinagar said that a 52-year-old police sub-inspector, who was admitted on 30 July died on Friday. He was having complaints of breathlessness, fever and respiratory distress, he said. Besides, seven other patients died in different hospitals of Srinagar and one in Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu. With ten more deaths, the death toll in J&K has reached to 378, including 351 from Kashmir and 27 from Jammu.  Meanwhile, 490 new Covid-19 positive cases were reported during the past 24 hours taking the tally to 20359. Among the new cases, 143 were reported from Jammu and 347 from Kashmir. In Srinagar, the trend of a high number of cases continued today as well with 128 new cases added to the cumulative total of the district. 375 patients recovered from different hospitals on Friday taking the total number to 12217. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest Covid-19 case density areas in the country which is over 1600 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is almost 1220. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions, Kashmir also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bureaucrat-police-officer-among-10-new-covid-19-deaths-in-jk-868054.html
31-07-2020||National||IPS officer Ashish Bhatia is new police chief of Gujarat||The Gujarat government appointed 1985-batch IPS officer of Director General of Police rank, Ashish Bhatia, as the state police chief who replaced incumbent DGP Shivanand Jha after his superannuation on Friday. Bhatia, currently the commissioner of police, Ahmedabad city, is also the convener of the Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team (SIT) which probed nine major cases of 2002 post-Godhra riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-ashish-bhatia-is-new-police-chief-of-gujarat-868065.html
31-07-2020||National||Films depicting Indian Army to need no-objection certificate from Defence Ministry||Taking strong objection to the depiction of armed forces personnel in some web series, the Defence Ministry has written to the Central Board of Film Certification, urging that production houses may be advised to obtain a no-objection certificate from the ministry before telecasting any film, documentary or web series on an Army theme, sources said. The Defence Ministry had received some complaints raising strong objections about the portrayal of Indian Army personnel and the military uniform in an "insulting manner", they said. The sources said that in some web series streamed recently, the scenes related to the Army are far from reality and present a distorted image of the armed forces. The Defence Ministry has now formally written to the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) urging that production houses may be advised to obtain a NOC from it before the telecast of any film, documentary or web series on Army theme in the public domain, the sources said. They added that the communication has also been sent to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for consideration. The communication to Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) has been done to curtail the incidents which distort the image of defence forces and hurt the sentiments of defence personnel and veterans, they said. In the letter to the CBFC, the ministry said that it has been brought to its notice that some production houses making films on Army theme are using contents which are distorting the image of the Indian Army, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/films-depicting-indian-army-to-need-no-objection-certificate-from-defence-ministry-868075.html
31-07-2020||National||Opposition objects to railway, road expansion projects along forested Goa-Karnataka border areas||Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday made a strong case against three central government projects passing through forested areas in the Western Ghats — affecting both Karnataka and Goa — claiming that the projects would severely impact the coastal state’s ecology and dampen Goa’s tourism eco-tourism prospects.  In a letter to the Central Empowered Committee of the Supreme Court, Kamat also said that two of the projects, namely the expansion of the NH4 National Highway and the doubling of the Hospet to Vasco railway track of the South Western Railway would destroy forest cover in Karnataka’s Anshi-Dandeli tiger reserve, Bhagwaan Mahavir Wildlife sanctuary in South Goa and destroy several heritage homes in Goa respectively.  “The expansion of NH4A stretch (13 kms) within the protected area is totally unnecessary. The expansion of this same road through the adjoining Anshi-Dandeli tiger reserve has been halted. Why is there a need for expansion when the road passing through the sanctuary in Goa where there is already a double lane wide road,” Kamat said in his letter, adding that existing habitats of various endangered species including that of the national animal Tiger, would also be impacted.  “The great concern is the doubling of the railway track, from Hospet to Vasco, which will not only affect those living in the forests, but even those outside the forests. Numerous objections have already been raised from citizens as well as leaders; in fact gram sabhas have also passed resolutions against this railway expansion,” Kamat also said.  Nearly 50,000 trees located in the Western Ghat region of Goa are slotted for felling for multiple central government projects which include expansion of railway lines and highways and drawing of a new high tension power, spread across the two wildlife reserves, which are two of the biggest protected forests in the state. The projects have already been cleared by the National Wildlife Board for Wildlife in April this year. Two weeks back, the Bombay High Court in Goa had issued notices to state government as well as central government agencies, after a Goa-based green NGO alleged that norms had not been followed while granting permission to the three projects, a point which Kamat also reiterates in the communication to the Central Empowered Committee.  “Morever the National Board for Wildlife gave clearances (during the 57 and 57 meeting of its standing committee) for the expansion of NH4A highway and laying of the 400 kv transmission line during the Covid-19 lockdown. It appears that the stringent processes set in place to safeguard our protected areas have been disregarded,” Kamat also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-objects-to-railway-road-expansion-projects-along-forested-goa-karnataka-border-areas-868078.html
31-07-2020||National||Centre warns of spillover of Covid-19 cases on districts with low caseload||As largely rural states such as Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal report a high number of Covid-19 cases, Centre on Friday turned its attention to districts with moderate and low caseload to avoid a spillover of infections from high burden areas. As India reported an increase of more than 50,000 cases for three consecutive days, the Health Ministry said districts and cities with moderate or low incidence of Covid-19 cases have been asked to strengthen contact tracing, carry out door to door surveillance among persons prone to severe acute respiratory illness or influenza-like illnesses. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan chaired the 19th meeting of the Group of Ministers (GoM) on the Covid-19 response and issued directions for effective implementation of containment measures across the disease-hit region. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director National Centre for Disease Control briefed the GoM on measures such as stricter perimeter control in containment zones, deployment of Rapid Antigen Tests, door-to-door search and assessment of true disease burden through sero-surveys that were taken to reduce the mortality rate in high caseload cities such as Pune, Thane, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Health Ministry officials said contact tracing of a Covid-19 patient within 72 hours of detection of infection was an effective way to control the spread of the disease. Out of the 739 districts in India, 50 districts contribute 80% of Covid-19 cases across the country and the spread of the disease could be controlled by following an aggressive ‘track-test-treat’ policy, they said. Singh told the GoM that overall recovery rate for India was 64.54% with the highest being recorded by Delhi at 89.08%, followed by Haryana at 79.82%, while Karnataka with 39.36% had the lowest recovery rate in the country. Bihar crossed the 50,000 cases mark on Friday as it reported the highest single-day spike of 2,986 cases. Uttar Pradesh also reported its highest single day increase of 4,453 new cases taking the total tally to 85,261. Odisha and West Bengal also reported high numbers of new infections. The ministry suggested rolling out information, education and communication (IEC) campaigns and community involvement as the way forward to control the spread of the disease. A DH Covid-19 Tracker put the total confirmed cases at 16,53,524 and the total deaths at 35,841 at 8:30 p.m. on Friday. India has 5,55,550 Covid-19 patients under active medical supervision of which only 0.28% patients were on ventilators, 1.61% needed ICU support and 2.32% were on oxygen support, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-warns-of-spillover-of-covid-19-cases-on-districts-with-low-caseload-868088.html
31-07-2020||National||Panel recommends permission to Serum Institute for phase 2, 3 human clinical trials of Oxford vaccine candidate||A subject expert committee on Covid-19 on Friday recommended to the country's drug regulator that permission be granted to Serum Institute of India (SII) for conducting the second and third phases of human clinical trials of the Oxford vaccine candidate. The recommendations of the committee at the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for approval, highly-placed sources told PTI. They said that the SII had submitted a revised proposal on Wednesday after the expert panel on Tuesday, following deliberations over its application, had asked it to revise its protocol for the trials besides seeking some additional information. "An urgent meeting was held by the subject expert committee on Covid-19 on Friday to consider SII's application. Following deliberation, it has recommended that permission be granted for the phase 2 and 3 human clinical trials of the potential vaccine developed by the Oxford University - Covishield," an official source said. According to the revised proposal, 1,600 people aged above 18 will participate in the trials across 17 selected sites including AIIMS Delhi, BJ Medical College, Pune, Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRIMS) Patna, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research in Chandigarh, AIIMS Jodhpur, Nehru Hospital in Gorakhpur, Andhra Medical College in Visakhapatnam and JSS Academy of Higher Education & Research in Mysuru. "According to the application, it would conduct an observer-blind, randomised controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of Covishield in healthy Indian adults," the source said. The DCGI on Tuesday had asked SII to clearly define Phase 2 and Phase 3 part of the protocol and resubmit their application for the evaluation by the committee. The panel has also recommended that the clinical trial sites which have been proposed for the study be distributed across pan India. SII which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the Oxford vaccine candidate for Covid-19 had submitted its first application to the DCGI on Friday seeking permission for conducting phase 2 and 3 trials of Covishield. Initial results of the first two-phase trials of the vaccine conducted in five trial sites in the UK showed it has an acceptable safety profile and homologous boosting increased antibody responses, the source said. To introduce the vaccine, SII, the world's largest vaccine maker by number of doses produced and sold, has signed an agreement to manufacture the potential vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute (Oxford University) in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/panel-recommends-permission-to-serum-institute-for-phase-2-3-human-clinical-trials-of-oxford-vaccine-candidate-868098.html
31-07-2020||National||Adhir demands Mamata Banerjee's resignation over handling of Covid-19 pandemic||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday demanded the resignation of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging inefficient handling of the Covid-19 situation in the state. Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, alleged that taking advantage of the mismanagement in the government healthcare sector and lack of beds in state-run hospitals, private healthcare facilities in the state are looting Covid-19 patients by charging exorbitant rates for treatment. Claiming that top officials of two government hospitals in the city have been shunted out over alleged mismanagement in dealing with Covid-19 cases, he said that "if someone has to be removed for inefficiency, then the West Bengal chief minister should go first". Chowdhury alleged that the chief minister, who also holds the Health portfolio, has not given due importance to the pandemic and did not tackle the crisis in time, leading to a dangerous situation in the state. The Baharampur MP said the number of tests for Covid- 19 in West Bengal is abysmally low compared to most other states in the country and called for an immediate increase in order to find out the actual spread of the virus. "The corona situation in West Bengal is bad and the real picture will come to the fore if the rate of Covid-19 tests is increased," he said in a video message. "Private hospitals and nursing homes in the state are looting Covid-19 patients. Other states have put a cap on Covid treatment charges, but West Bengal is doing nothing," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adhir-demands-mamata-banerjees-resignation-over-handling-of-covid-19-pandemic-868104.html
31-07-2020||National||I expect free and fair probe in Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, to ensure the truth comes out: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Friday said he expects a free and fair probe into the Sushant Singh Rajput death case to ensure truth comes out. He was speaking at the Vision Maharashtra event organised by Marathi new channel ABP Majha here. "I expect a free and fair probe so that the truth comes out. Talent should get scope in the film industry," Javadekar said. Mumbai police have recorded statements of Bollywood personalities including Sanjay Leela Bhansali, film critic Rajeev Masand, actress Sanjana Sanghi, the actor's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, casting director Shanoo Sharma, filmmaker Mukesh Chhabra, and Aditya Chopra of Yash Raj Films in the case. The police have so far recorded statements of around 40 people, including those of Rajput's family and his cook. Rajput, 34, was found hanging at his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. He starred in films like "Shuddh Desi Romance", "Raabta", "Kedarnath", "Chhichhore" and "Sonchiriya". His most prominent role was that of cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the biopic "MS Dhoni: The Untold Story". Rajputs swan song, Dil Bechara, released on July 24. Also starring Sanjana Sanghi in the lead role, the Mukesh Chhabra directorial is an official Hindi remake of John Greens romantic novel The Fault in Our Stars. The book was adapted into a 2014 Hollywood movie, starring Ansel Elgort and Shailene Woodley in the lead roles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-expect-free-and-fair-probe-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-death-case-to-ensure-the-truth-comes-out-prakash-javadekar-868113.html
31-07-2020||National||Risk of disease spread bigger in era of globalisation: Vardhan||In an era of globalisation, the risk of the spread of disease is even bigger since it does not distinguish between the boundaries of countries, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. Vardhan urged the WHO members to forge multi-sectoral collaboration to galvanise global response and cooperation to fight communicable and non-communicable diseases more effectively. He presided over a virtual meeting of the World Health Organization's bureau of the executive board as its chairman. He stressed on the need to explore innovative ways to address new threats and challenges in the post-Covidphase, the Health Ministry said in a statement. The agenda of the meet included finalisation of dates of the 32nd session of the programme, budget and administration committee, and resumed sessions of 73rd World Health Assembly and 147th executive board. "The world has now realised the importance of health and the need for greater cooperation amongst countries to tackle the risks and dangers being posed by innumerable communicable and non-communicable diseases," Vardhan said. "In the era of globalisation, when the world is a large home to all humanity, the risk and challenge to spread of disease is even bigger since it does not distinguish between boundaries of countries," Vardhan was quoted as saying in the statement.  The health minister urged the WHO members "to forge multi-sectoral collaboration to mobilize and galvanize global response, support and cooperation to fight communicable and non-communicable diseases more effectively". He stressed on the "mutual need to come together to be more responsive in terms of managing the new challenges being faced so as to ensure a timely, adequate and coordinated global response". At the outset, Vardhan welcomed the participants to the first meeting of the bureau of the executive board and wished them well during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The bureau also includes the vice-chairs of the executive board and the WHO director-general. Observer participants and senior officials of the WHO headquarters were also present. Vardhan expressed his deepest condolences and concern at the loss of lives due to the novel coronavirus pandemic offered sincere gratitude for the efforts of those on the frontline. Recollecting the global crisis Covid-19 has unleashed, Vardhan said around 1.7 crore people had been infected and over 6 lakh lives had been lost. The magnitude of the damages caused to the world economy is also immense, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/risk-of-disease-spread-bigger-in-era-of-globalisation-vardhan-868116.html
31-07-2020||National||BMC to shut Covid-19 centres with low occupancy in Mumbai||With the improve in Mumbai’s Covid-19 recovery rate and doubling rate, small quarantine and isolation centres are being closed in a phased manner. In Mumbai, the doubling rate now stands at 75 days while the recovery rate has gone up to 76%. The twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban have a total 1,12,187 progressive patients while the death toll stand at 6,297. However, the recovery rate has been good and now it has 20,211 active patients. More than 40 to 45% of active patients, of which over 80% are asymptomatic or mild, are undergoing treatment at homes – as per the new guidelines. Hence, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to reduce the number of centres. The dismantling of centres have started from Dharavi, that was once the worst-affected area but now an example of Covid-19 fighting strategy with the Chase the Virus initiative that involves tracing, tracking, testing and treating. “The number of active patients has reduced and it is expected to go down significantly within the next week and fortnight,” BMC officials said. The Maharashtra government and BMC are relying on the multiple jumbo facilities that it has created in May-June when the Covid-19 cases were compounding. "We have jumbo facilities. Several of the small quarantine and isolation facilities are empty now," the officials said, adding that in case these are needed ahead these can be again requisitioned.  These include the Dome of National Sports Club of India in Worli, Mahalaxmi Racecourse, Bandra-Kurla Complex and the suburbs in Dahisar and Mulund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bmc-to-shut-covid-19-centres-with-low-occupancy-in-mumbai-868127.html
31-07-2020||National||BJP to release documentary on 'ordeals' of Hindu refugees||The BJP will release a documentary on its social media accounts on Sunday to highlight the "ordeals" of Hindu refugees from west Pakistan who have been living in Jammu and Kashmir.    "They were slaves in a free country! Not anymore in the new Jammu and Kashmir without Article 370. Watch their ordeals and tribulations for decades... Do tune in at 9 pm on 1st, 2nd and 3rd August," the party said on its Twitter handle on Friday.  Watch this heart-wrenching documentary, ‘Azad Desh Ke Ghulam Log', capturing the plight of Hindu refugees from West Pakistan for decades! Article 370, which had given special rights to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, was scrapped on August 5 last year, and the central government has since then worked to grant several rights which were denied to Hindu refugees earlier.    The saffron party also took a swipe at opposition parties like the Congress, TMC and DMK, among others, for their opposition to the triple talaq bill which was passed by Parliament on July 30 last year.    These parties stood "against" Muslim women and history will remember it, the BJP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-to-release-documentary-on-ordeals-of-hindu-refugees-868154.html
31-07-2020||National||Locust control operations done so far in over 4.56 lakh hectares: Govt||The continuing fight against desert locusts, the agriculture ministry on Friday said the control operations against the crop threatening migratory pest have so far been carried out in more than 4.56 hectares area of 10 states. On July 30, the control operations were carried out at 37 places in 11 districts of Rajasthan, Gujarat and Haryana during the night, it said in a statement. According to the ministry, the control operations are being carried out by Locust Circle Offices (LCOs) as well as state agriculture departments. LCOs have carried out control operations in 2.26 lakh hectares of the area so far in states such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Whereas the state governments have carried out the control operation in 2.29 lakh hectares in states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Bihar. "No significant crop losses have been reported in the states of Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Haryana. However, some minor crop losses have been reported in some districts of Rajasthan," the ministry said. On Friday, swarms of immature pink locusts, adult yellow locusts or hoppers were active in Jaisalmer, Barmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Churu, Nagaur, Hanumangarh, Jalore and Sirohi districts of Rajasthan, Bhiwani district of Haryana and Kutch district of Gujarat. Currently, 104 control teams with spray vehicles are deployed in the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat, and more than 200 central government personnel are engaged in locust control operations. Further, five companies with 15 drones are deployed at Barmer, Jaisalmer, Bikaner, Nagaur and Phalodi in Rajasthan for effective control of locusts on tall trees and in inaccessible areas through spraying of pesticides. A Bell helicopter has been deployed in Rajasthan for use in the scheduled desert area as per the need. Indian Air Force is also assisting in anti-locust operation by using Mi-17 helicopter, the ministry added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/locust-control-operations-done-so-far-in-over-456-lakh-hectares-govt-868158.html
31-07-2020||National||Monsoon: July ends with 10% deficiency, rainfall likely to be normal in second half of season||July ended with a 10-per cent rainfall deficiency but monsoon is likely to be normal in the second half of the four-month rainfall season, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said the month of July ended with a 10-per cent rainfall deficiency, mostly due to low rains in parts of north and central India. The IMD had predicted that July will get rainfall that is 103 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA), which falls in the "normal" category. June had received 17 per cent more rainfall than normal. In its Long Range Forecast for rainfall in the second half (August-September) of the 2020 Southwest Monsoon, the IMD said August is likely to receive rainfall that is 97 per cent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus nine per cent. "Quantitatively, the rainfall over the country as a whole during the second half of the season is likely to be 104 per cent of the LPA with an error margin of plus/minus eight per cent," it said. The LPA rainfall over the country for the 1961-2010 period is 88 centimetres. Monsoon in the range of 96-104 per cent of the LPA is considered normal. The official rainfall season in the country is from June 1 to September 30. The onset of monsoon over Kerala was on June 1 and until July 31, the country had received normal rainfall. The northwest division of the IMD has an 18-per cent deficiency. It comprises Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana and the Union territories of Chandigarh, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The deficiency in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh is 49 and 61 per cent respectively. Delhi has also recorded a 24-per cent deficiency. The central India division has a four-per cent deficiency. The division comprises Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu. The two Union territories have recorded deficient rainfall. Mohapatra said the deficiency in north and central India shot up in July as several parts in east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, west Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Jharkhand got less rainfall. "But a low-pressure area will bring rainfall over these areas and the deficiency will come down," he said. The south peninsula meteorological division of the IMD has received 12 per cent more rainfall than normal. The division covers Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, Karnataka and the Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry have received excess rainfall. Kerala has recorded deficient rainfall. The east and northeast India division has also recorded 12 per cent more rainfall. The division comprises West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and the northeastern states. Meghalaya and Bihar have witnessed excess rainfall. However, the rainfall has been deficient in Nagaland, Manipur and Mizoram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-july-ends-with-10-deficiency-rainfall-likely-to-be-normal-in-second-half-of-season-868161.html
31-07-2020||National||Union minister congratulates Hamirpur officials for efforts on TB eradication||Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur congratulated Hamirpur health officials for getting the second place in the country in tuberculosis eradication. Thakur congratulated the district officials for the achievement during a meeting of the district development coordination and monitoring committee held through video conferencing. The schemes and works being run through various departments were also reviewed in the meeting. The union minister said the Covid-19 pandemic has brought a big challenge but officials should make constant efforts for the treatment of the patients suffering from other diseases. Anurag Thakur instructed the Health Department to work on setting targets in the treatment of various diseases so that time-bound results can be achieved. It was informed in the meeting that as many as 53,232 cards have been issued under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the district and so far 2,038 beneficiaries have availed the scheme. A compensation amount of about Rs 81 lakh has been assessed under the scheme. Similarly, 51,238 cards have been issued in the district under the Himcare scheme and 9,428 have benefited from it. A compensation amount of about Rs 3.53 crore is being spent on them, officials said. Anurag Thakur said a special action plan has been prepared for groundwater conservation and flood control in the district. Under this, 749 works were completed in 2019-20 at a cost of about Rs 4 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-congratulates-hamirpur-officials-for-efforts-on-tb-eradication-868165.html
31-07-2020||National Politics||Rajasthan political crisis: Over 50 Gehlot camp MLAs moved to Jaisalmer in chartered flights, others to follow||With Rajasthan assembly session a fortnight away, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday shifted a group of MLAs supporting him from a Jaipur hotel to a resort in Jaisalmer alleging fresh attempts by the BJP to coerce them to ditch the party. Gehlot said MLAs supporting him started getting threat calls soon after Governor Kalraj Mishra fixed August 14 as the day for convening the Assembly session. Congress MLAs supporting Gehlot had been staying at Hotel Fairmont in Jaipur from July 13 when Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs backing him rebelled against the chief minister, plunging the 18-month government into a political crisis. Gehlot said Congress MLAs will stay in Jaisalmer till August 14, when the Rajasthan Assembly session is scheduled to begin. He hoped that some Congress MLAs, who were in Manesar in Haryana, supporting Pilot, will also return to the party fold when the session begins. Rajasthan BJP chief Satish Poonia targeted Gehlot for ferrying MLAs to Jaisalmer. “To prevent a split in the Congress, Gehlot has taken MLAs to Jaisalmer. How far will the government run? Ahead of Jaisalmer is Pakistan. Hand them over some utensils, at least they will help drive locusts away,” Poonia said. Gehlot hit back at the BJP, accusing it of increasing the rates for horse-trading several times. “First the amount was Rs 20 crore, Rs 35 crore. Now MLAs are being asked to name the price,” the chief minister told reporters at Jaipur Airport. Gehlot has the support of 102 MLAs in the 200-member Assembly, while Pilot has claimed support of 18 MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajasthan-political-crisis-over-50-gehlot-camp-mlas-moved-to-jaisalmer-in-chartered-flights-others-to-follow-867798.html
31-07-2020||National Politics||Was UPA 'sabotaged' from within in 2019, asks ex-minister amid Congress rumblings||Rumblings within the Congress came to the fore on Friday with a section of its leaders seeking introspection on the party's electoral losses and a former Union minister asking whether the UPA was "sabotaged" from within ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Demands for an honest appraisal surfaced during a meeting of the Congress's Rajya Sabha MPs on Thursday in the presence of party chief Sonia Gandhi. Some young MPs, including Rajeev Satav, the AICC in-charge for Gujarat, are learnt to have asked at the meeting for the link between the UPA government's performance and the Congress's electoral downfall to be reviewed. Reacting to the discontent within, former Union minister Manish Tewari on Friday said while it is valid to ask if the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) caused the decline in the Congress's fortunes, it is also important to determine if the UPA was sabotaged from within. "Was UPA responsible for the decline in Fortunes of Congress in 2014 is a valid question and must be gone into? Equally valid is was UPA sabotaged from within? 2019 defeat must also be analysed," he wrote on Twitter. Tewari said no charge against the Congress-led UPA has stood the test of law even after six years of its relinquishing office. His reference was to the alleged corruption in the 2G Spectrum allocation, which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) used as a major poll plank against the Congress in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Tewari's public remarks came a day after some MPs called for introspection within the party and ascertaining as to whether the Congress is paying for the follies during the UPA tenure. Sources said demands for resolving the leadership issue in the Congress were also raised at Thursday's meeting and the divide between the old guard of the party and young leaders was evident. The Congress has seen youngsters getting "disenchanted" with the prevailing power structure in the party with former MP and a long-time Rahul Gandhi confidante Jyotiraditya Scindia quitting to join the BJP this year. Another young turk, Sachin Pilot, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan, has raised a banner of revolt against his own government in the state, causing consternation across the rank and file of the grand old party. The Congress, however, dismissed reports of rift within the party, terming them "fiction" and a product of the "BJP's propaganda factory". Asked about the prevailing anxieties between the older and younger leaders, party spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said, "As a spokesperson of a national party, we only reply to facts and not fiction." "The stories about internal rumblings in the Congress party and the fight between the young and old guard is a figment of imagination, fiction and a product of the BJP's propaganda factory, merely unleashed in the market to cover their faultlines and failures in the health infrastructure and national security of the country," he said at a virtual press conference. Shergill said rather than focussing on the "so-called internal fights" of the Congress, which do exist, it would be better if the BJP concentrated on the coronavirus and the country's fight against China. "The Congress is united. We will emerge stronger in 2024 and silence all our critics," he said. Asked about the demands for introspection, Shergill said the party has neither shied away from introspecting on its electoral losses nor from taking responsibility. "Whether it is a win or a loss, the Congress has always introspected and will introspect on its poll strategy, election wins and losses. We have always taken victory with humility and learnt from our losses," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/was-upa-sabotaged-from-within-in-2019-asks-ex-minister-amid-congress-rumblings-868064.html
31-07-2020||National Politics||From Shah Bano to Shayara Bano: BJP says Congress missed the bus on triple talaq||The BJP on Friday revived the Shah Bano case of the eighties, linking it with the triple talaq issue as a preparation to celebrate one year of the passage of the law in a big way across the country. “While the Muslim women in India are celebrating one year of freedom from an unjust and evil practice to triple talaq, these political parties have gone down ignominiously in the annals of history for standing against their right to equality and dignity,” tweeted BJP, slamming all the Opposition parties. It added: “History will not forget the political parties that opposed the bill to abolish triple talaq.” मोदी सरकार ने जब संसद में तीन तलाक के खिलाफ बिल लाकर मुस्लिम महिलाओं को न्याय और समान अधिकार देने का फैसला लिया, तब ये पार्टियां मुस्लिम महिलाओं के विरोध में खड़ी थीं। BJP MP Varun Gandhi said: “Cases of this archaic and demeaning practice have significantly reduced across the country.” He shared the figures of cases in states like UP, Bihar, Rajasthan, Haryana, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh before August 2019 and after that. "The Congress had an absolute majority in Parliament with more than 400 out of 545 Lok Sabha members and more than 159 out of 245 members in the Rajya Sabha. But the Rajiv Gandhi government used its strength in Parliament to make the Supreme Court judgment ineffective and deprive Muslim women of their constitutional and fundamental rights," Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said addressing Muslim women from across the country via a video link at an event. BJP leaders in last few days have increasingly targeted Congress, arguing that the law against the triple talaq could have been passed in 1986 when the Supreme Court had given the historic judgement in the Shah Bano case, which was turned aside through legislation by Rajiv Gandhi government. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani joined the campaign. Irani said vote bank was important for Congress than improving the lives of Muslim women. Prasad asked why it took India 70 years to bring a law against triple talaq. He called it the journey from Shah Bano to Shayara Bano, a triple talaq crusader from Uttarakhand, who later hailed the triple talaq bill as a measure that will ensure that women are treated as equal. The triple talaq was passed on August 1 last year. BJP has been countering the charge of meddling into private affairs Muslim community arguing how several Muslim-majority nations of the world like Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Syria and Malaysia have already declared triple talaq as un-Islamic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-shah-bano-to-shayara-bano-bjp-says-congress-missed-the-bus-on-triple-talaq-868107.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan BJP chief seeks Assembly Speaker’s resignation||BJP state president Satish Poonia on Thursday said Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi should step down as his political leanings are towards saving the Ashok Gehlot government. Poonia’s remarks were in the context of an unverified video clip of a purported conversation between Joshi and chief minister's son Vaibhav Gehlot in which he is heard saying that had 30 MLAs left the Congress party, the government would have collapsed. "The conversation shows that Joshi’s political leanings are towards the Congress, which is completely against the conduct of the person holding a constitutional post,” he alleged. He said it is apparent from the conversation between the Speaker and the Chief Minister’s son in the video clip that the constitutional institutions are under pressure as the Assembly Speaker is more concerned about saving the government. Poonia said it would be better if the Speaker himself clarifies the authenticity of the video clip. "It does not seem appropriate for him to hold this post for the dignity and neutrality of the House. He should step down on the basis of morality," Poonia said in a statement. The BJP leader also said the state government will be responsible if coronavirus infection spreads when the Assembly is in session. During the Assembly session, more than 1,000 employees, 200 MLAs and their staff would be present during the session, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-bjp-chief-seeks-assembly-speaker-s-resignation-867695.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||AAP calls off protest in Punjab after CM says plasma to be provided for free||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab on Thursday evening called off a protest planned for Friday after Chief Minister Amarinder Singh announced that plasma will be provided free of cost by the state government to all those in need. The Punjab government had on July 26 said that it would provide plasma to private hospitals from its plasma bank at a cost of Rs 20,000 per unit. This prompted the AAP to announce a state-wide protest. But on Thursday evening, after the chief minister issued a statement saying plasma would be provided for free, the protest was called off. "We have decided to call off our protest which was scheduled for Friday after the CM's statement," AAP MLA Harpal Singh Cheema said. The chief minister also directed the Health department to strictly ensure that COVID patients were not charged for plasma therapy and nobody was allowed to buy or sell plasma, which has proven a life-saver in many cases in the absence of any cure for coronavirus. He appealed to the patients who have recovered from the disease to come forward to save the lives of others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-calls-off-protest-in-punjab-after-cm-says-plasma-to-be-provided-for-free-867701.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||India adds 35,000 troops on LAC as tensions with China simmer||By Sudhi Ranjan SenIndia is positioning an additional 35,000 troops along its disputed Himalayan border with China as the possibility of an early resolution to the deadly tensions between the two neighbors fades. The move would change the status quo along the contested 3,488 kilometer (2,162 mile) Line of Actual Control and stretch the nation’s already tight military budget, senior Indian officials said, asking not to be identified citing rules on speaking to the media. Twenty Indian soldiers and unknown number of Chinese troops were killed in an ugly skirmish on June 15 and since then, both sides have rushed thousands of soldiers, artillery guns and tanks to the region. With India-China border agreements not holding, the situation required additional troops, the officials said. “The nature of the Line of Control, at least in Ladakh, has changed forever,” the director of Delhi-based think-tank The United Service Institution of India and retired major general, B K Sharma said. “Additional troops rushed by either side will not move back, unless there is a rapprochement at the highest political level.” For now, the skirmishes have stopped. And after several rounds of high level military talks, Beijing said troops were disengaging in most locations. “Currently the two sides are actively preparing for the fifth round of commander-level talks to resolve outstanding issues on the ground,” China Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a regular briefing in Beijing on Tuesday. “We hope the Indian side will work towards the same goal with China, implement the two sides’ consensus and jointly uphold peace and tranquility along the border.” The Indian Army did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Stretched Budget The extra deployment to eastern Ladakh comes as the Indian Army is heavily committed -- from protecting the 742 kilometer (460 mile) disputed border with Pakistan, to counter insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir and north eastern states and monitoring every ingress point along its border with China. Positioning additional troops where temperatures drop to minus 30 degrees Celsius (-22 Fahrenheit) in the winters will severely test the Indian Army’s logistics capabilities. Extreme cold limits the construction of shelters for troops and equipment in the Himalayas to the summer months. Fuel, food, medicines and equipment are moved in advance to the area through two roads which close by December, increasing the difficulty further. Strengthening border defenses comes at huge cost and places new pressure on the nation’s military modernization program. While New Delhi is the world’s third-biggest military spender, its air force, navy and the army are still equipped with weapons that are largely obsolete. Funding Crunch Leaves Modi’s Military Purchases a Pipe Dream About 60% of defense spending goes to paying salaries for India’s 1.3 million soldiers -- one of the world’s largest standing armies. What’s left is spent on past purchases, leaving the forces with obsolete equipment and not enough ammunition. “The additional commitment in Ladakh would put further pressure on serviceability, research and development and capital expenditure as revenue cost rise,” Laxman Kumar Behera, a senior research fellow at the Delhi based think-tank Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defense Studies and Analyses said. “It will be painful if the defense budget isn’t increased.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-adds-35000-troops-on-lac-as-tensions-with-china-simmer-867729.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||HC grants anticipatory bail to former DMC chief in sedition case||The Delhi High Court on Friday granted anticipatory bail to former Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) Chairman Zafarul Islam Khan in a sedition case. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, granted the relief to the 72-year-old Khan after the police said he was no longer required for further investigation. Khan's tenure in the commission expired recently. The court was hearing a plea by Khan, through advocate Vrinda Grover, seeking anticipatory bail in the sedition case lodged against him, citing his age, health issues and risk of contracting Covid-19. On April 28, Khan published through his official page on social media a post that allegedly had seditious and hateful comments. On May 2, based on a complaint, the Delhi Police Special Cell lodged an FIR against Khan under sections 124A and 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the alleged offences of sedition and promoting feelings of hatred between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence and language.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-former-dmc-chief-in-sedition-case-867833.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Trader shot dead by two bike-borne men in Uttar Pradesh's Sambhal||A 60-year-old trader was shot dead allegedly by two bike-borne men who fled with his bag containing cash worth Rs one lakh, police said on Friday. The incident took place near Kokabash village on Thursday night when Ram Avtar Sharma and his son Vishal were returning home on a motorcycle after closing their shop, SP Yamuna Prasad said. The accused persons tried to snatch the bag but when Sharma and his son resisted, they opened fire at them and fled with the money, he said. Sharma, who had suffered injury near the neck, died on the spot, the SP said. The body has been sent for postmortem and efforts are on to trace the accused, the SP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trader-shot-dead-by-two-bike-borne-men-in-uttar-pradeshs-sambhal-867837.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Delhi High Court dismisses ex-councillor Ishrat Jahan’s plea in UAPA case||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a plea by former Congress municipal councillor Ishrat Jahan, booked under anti-terror law UAPA in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, challenging an order extending the time for completing the investigation by 60 more days. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait said there is no illegality or perversity in the trial court’s order. “Accordingly, finding no merit in the present petition, the same is accordingly dismissed with no order as to costs,” the high court said. Ishrat Jahan, who was arrested on February 26, has challenged an order of a trial court extending time for completing the investigation in the case by two more months, beyond the 90 days period. Delhi Police has opposed the plea saying that the high court should not intervene in the matter as far as the order of the additional sessions judge, extending the time to probe the case, is concerned as there was no infirmity in it. The high court on July 20, had reserved order on Jahan’s plea challenging the trial court’s June 15 order granting a 60-day extension to police to complete its investigation against her and activist Khalid Saifi. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-delhi-high-court-dismisses-ex-councillor-ishrat-jahan-s-plea-in-uapa-case-867841.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan Covid-19 tally at 41,298; 362 fresh cases||The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan reached 674 on Friday as seven more people succumbed to the disease, while 362 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 41,298, a health department official said. Four fatalities were reported from Bikaner, two from Ajmer and one from Barmer, he said. In Jaipur alone, the death toll due to Covid-19 is 184, 83 in Jodhpur, 53 in Bharatpur, 43 in Ajmer, 42 in Bikaner, 34 in Kota, 30 in Pali, 24 in Nagaur, 16 in Alwar and 15 in Dholpur, the official said. There are 11,319 active cases in the state, while a total of 27,889 people have been discharged after recovering from the infection, he said. Among the 362 new cases, 122 have been reported from Kota, 61 from Sikar, 42 from Bikaner, 38 from Jaipur, 34 from Ajmer, 22 from Alwar and 26 from Jhalawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-covid-19-tally-at-41298-362-fresh-cases-867857.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court asks authorities to consider providing TV to high risk ward prisoners||The Delhi High Court Friday asked the prison authorities to consider putting up a television outside the high-security ward in Tihar Jail for the inmates lodged there, saying it was a "small" request which would not affect their budget. "They (prisoners) are also suffering. They are not asking for heaven and sky. They are not asking for anything costly which would affect the prison budget. It is not such a big demand at all," a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said. It asked Delhi government additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan to take instructions on it and inform the court on the next date of hearing on August 7. During the hearing held via video conference, Narayan told the bench that no prisoner was being kept in solitary confinement as contended by the petitioner organisation - Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC). It has contended that in the present scenario, recreational facilities like television are necessary for such inmates to survive. "How many times can an isolated person read books," the DSGMC counsel said in court and added that a TV can be put in the common area outside the ward and the remote need not be given to the inmates. The present application for recreational facilities for the high-risk prisoners, including terrorists, has been filed in a pending PIL filed by the DSGMC in 2018, highlighting the plight of such inmates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-asks-authorities-to-consider-providing-tv-to-high-risk-ward-prisoners-867870.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||71 booked in triple talaq cases in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli in last one year||Seventy-one people have been booked and 62 arrested in triple talaq cases in Shamli district in the last one year, police said on Friday. Shamli SP Vinit Jaiswal said 19 cases of triple talaq were registered against 71 people and charge sheets were filed in 16 cases against 62 people in courts. During the investigation, nine out of 71 people were found innocent, the SP added. The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act prohibits the practice of instant divorce by Muslim men. Any violation of the law is punishable by a jail term of up to three years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/71-booked-in-triple-talaq-cases-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-in-last-one-year-867883.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Minor raped by 3 men in Uttar Pradesh||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by three men in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar, police said on Friday. According to a complaint lodged by the girl's family, the accused abducted the minor on Thursday when she had gone out of her house to throw garbage in the village dump yard. They allegedly took the girl to a forest and took turns to rape her, SHO of Bhopa police station Sanjeev Kumar said, adding that one of the three men recorded a video of the incident. A case was registered against the three men on the basis of the complaint and efforts were underway to nab them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-raped-by-3-men-in-uttar-pradesh-867889.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||After a year, J&K politician Sajad Gani Lone freed from detention||Ahead of the first anniversary of abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, the government on Friday released Peoples Conference (PC) chairman Sajad Gani Lone, who was under detention since August 5 last year. “Finally five days short of a year I have been officially informed that I am a free man,” he tweeted. “So much has changed. So have I. Jail was not a new experience. Earlier ones were harsh with usual doses of physical torture. But this was psychologically draining. Much to share hopefully soon.” On August 5 last year, most of Kashmir’s political leadership, including three former chief ministers – Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti – were detained. While Farooq was released on March 13, Omar’s detention ended on March 24 but Mufti continues to remain detained. Lone was part of ‘Gupkar declaration’ - the last document that was forged collectively by political parties on August 4, 2019, at Farooq Abdullah’s home on Gupkar Road to protect and safeguard Article 370, which granted special status to J&K. Lone, a former separatist, whose father was killed by the militants, had aligned with the BJP just before 2014 Assembly polls after his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had then termed Modi as an elder brother and soon after the PDP-BJP alliance, Lone was made a cabinet minister on the Saffron party quota. He is married to Asma Khan, daughter of pro-independence JKLF leader late Amanullah Khan. The BJP had even supported his bid to become Chief Minister of J&K after its relations with the PDP soured in 2018. However, once he opposed the revocation of Article 370, he was also held along with some other senior PC leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-a-year-jk-politician-sajad-gani-lone-freed-from-detention-867894.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Ram temple to be grander than planned earlier: Architect||The proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya will be almost double the size of what was originally planned as its design was modified following the Supreme Court verdict last year, its architect said on Friday. The temple, to be constructed in Nagara style of architecture, will have five domes instead of two as envisaged earlier to accommodate more number of devotees, the architect said. According to him, the project is likely to be completed in the next three years once the work commences. The 'bhoomi pujan' (ground-breaking) ceremony of the temple in Ayodhya is scheduled to be held on August 5, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to attend, as told by the members of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra, a trust formed to oversee its construction. "The design of the temple was modified after the Supreme Court verdict. Now it will be almost double the size of what was originally planned," architect Chandrakant Sompura, who has designed it, told PTI. "It will now have a shikhara (tower) over the sanctum sanctorum and five domes instead of the earlier plan of two domes. The height of the temple will also be more than what was in the previous plan," he said. In November last year, the Supreme Court had paved the way for the construction of Ram temple by at the disputed site at Ayodhya, and directed the Centre to allot an alternative five-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in Uttar Pradesh. Sompura, 77, who comes from a family of temple architects that have designed over 200 such structures, said that he was asked to prepare a design for the Ram temple by late leader of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), Ashok Singhal, around 30 years ago. He said designing the Ram temple was an uphill task 30 years back, as he had to prepare drawings using his footsteps as the unit of measurement. "When I first visited the site in Ayodhya in 1990, nothing was allowed to be taken inside the premises due to security concerns, not even a measurement tape and I had to measure with my footsteps," Sompura said. Based on his design of the temple, the VHP had started preparation for its construction in the 1990s by setting up a unit of carving of stones in Ayodhya, he said. "However, after the Supreme Court verdict in favour of construction at the Ramjamabhoomi site, the temple design was changed," he said. "Now there will be five domes. It has two reasons- first, there is no dearth of land for the temple now and the second one is that after so much of publicity, we expect that a large number of devotees will visit the temple everyday and the size has been increased to accommodate them," he said. According to Sompura, his son Ashish had presented this revised plan before the trust in June, which was approved. Ashish Sompura will look after the construction of the temple, although his father will have the final say on it. The septuagenarian architect said that he has designed many temples, but the Ayodhya Ram temple project is special to him just as the Somnath temple was for his grandfather Prabhashankar Sompura, who designed and oversaw its reconstruction. "This project is special as it is being built at the birthplace of Lord Ram. We have to ensure that it should be the best. With five domes, which is rare, it will set an example. It will be developed as the best place of worship in terms of temple architecture," he said. "The temple is likely to be completed in next three years after its work begins," he added. Sompura said his family designs temples in Nagara style and the structure in Ayodhya will also be built in that style of North Indian temple architecture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ram-temple-to-be-grander-than-planned-architect-867895.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||38 die after drinking spurious liquor in Punjab, CM orders magisterial probe  ||Thirty-eight people have died in Punjab's three districts allegedly after drinking spurious liquor, prompting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to order a magisterial probe, officials said on Friday. According to them, while 19 people died in Tarn Taran, spurious liquor claimed 10 lives in Amritsar and nine in Batala since Wednesday night. Police have arrested eight bootleggers, including a woman, in this regard. The SHO of the Tarsikka police station, Bikramjit Singh, has been suspended, Amritsar’s SSP (Rural) Vikramjit Singh Duggal said. Reacting to the incidents, the Opposition AAP demanded Chief Minister Amarinder Singh’s resignation. The Shiromani Akali Dal too sought a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. In a crackdown on Friday, the Punjab Police arrested seven bootleggers in over 40 raids in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran. A woman was held on Thursday night from Muchhal village in Amritsar's Tarsikka, DGP Dinkar Gupta said. The DGP said the death toll could rise further as the spurious liquor network was spread across many areas. He said the questioning of the arrested was expected to lead to further arrests in the case. Gupta said a huge quantity of spurious liquor, drums and storage cans were recovered from the accused and these have been sent for a chemical analysis. More arrests are likely, he said, adding that the raids are being conducted to nab those involved in the case. According to police, while Balwinder Kaur and Mithu were arrested from Amritsar, two people, identified as Darshan Rani and Rajan, were nabbed from Batala district. Four others--Kashmir Singh, Angrez Singh, Amarjit and Baljit--were arrested from Tarn Taran. The DGP said those arrested from Tarn Taran had admitted to supplying spurious liquor in Norangabad village. Mithu, who was arrested from Jasso Nangal village of Khilchian, has also admitted to his role in supplying spurious liquor, said the DGP. Earlier in the day, an official statement said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the deaths by the Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar.   The inquiry will look into the facts and circumstances leading to the incidents, it said. It will be conducted by the Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar, along with the Punjab Joint Excise and Taxation Commissioner and the SP (Investigation) in districts concerned. The CM has given the Divisional Commissioner the liberty to co-opt any civil/police officer or any expert to facilitate the expeditious conduct of the probe. The Shiromani Akali Dal rejected the Divisional Commissioner-level inquiry and demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. SAD leader Daljit Cheema said preliminary reports indicated that the supply of spurious liquor was widespread and required a thorough investigation by an independent agency. Cheema alleged that there was the sale of illegal liquor directly from distilleries, which are “patronised by Congress leaders”. In a tweet, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal said, “My heart goes out to the families who lost members in perhaps the worst #hooch tragedy in the state. Congress has blood of these Punjabis on its hand & @capt amarinder is too busy in publicity video shoots to act against his party colleagues responsible for this human tragedy”. Aam Aadmi Party said the magisterial inquiry won't work, with party's senior leader and MLA Aman Arora saying the party demands the resignation of the chief minister. “Being the Minister for Excise and Taxation and Home Minister, Amarinder Singh cannot escape from the responsibility of these deaths,” the AAP leader said. Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa also demanded a time-bound inquiry by a sitting high court judge, saying it was needed "to unearth the truth behind the deaths due to spurious liquor. Meanwhile, Sheela Devi, mother of deceased Bhupinder Singh, told reporters in Batala that his 24-year-old son had consumed liquor from a shop located near the Hathi Gate area. He fell unconscious after a few hours, she said. “He complained of discomfort and nausea and a few minutes later, he was no more,” she said. Many locals in Batala alleged that illegal illicit liquor was being openly sold in the Hathi Gate locality but no action was taken by the authorities. Rahul, a nephew of another victim Buta Ram, said his 40-year-old uncle consumed liquor Thursday evening. “He was lying on the floor outside our residence while froth came out from his mouth,” he said, adding that he was taken to the Batala Civil Hospital, where he was declared dead by doctors. Batala Senior Medical Officer Sanjiv Bhalla said the reason of the death will be clear only after a post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/38-die-after-drinking-spurious-liquor-in-punjab-cm-orders-magisterial-probe-867952.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Manish Sisodia tried to 'scare' people by claiming Delhi would have 5.5 lakh Covid-19 cases by July-end: BJP||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had tried to "scare" people by claiming that Covid-19 cases in Delhi will reach 5.5 lakh by July 31, but the situation was brought under control with the intervention of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the city BJP unit said on Friday. In June, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader had said that Delhi was likely to have 5.5 lakh novel coronavirus cases by the end of July and 80,000 beds would be needed to accommodate patients. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta in a press conference asked the Arvind Kejriwal government to answer why it had tried to "scare" people with Sisodia claiming that there would be 5.5 lakh coronavirus cases by July 31. There was no immediate reaction from Sisodia or the AAP on the issue. The national capital has seen a drop in the number of active cases over the past few days. On Thursday, Delhi had 10,743 active cases, down from 10,770 on Wednesday, 10,887 on Tuesday, 10,994 on Monday and 11,904 on Sunday. The number of active cases was 27,007 on July 1, according to health department bulletins. "The situation was beyond control of the Delhi government and when Home Minister Amit Shah intervened in mid-June, the cases of Covid-19 started declining, bed availability improved and now the Kejriwal government is taking credit for it," Gupta claimed. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been saying that the Covid-19 situation has been brought under control for now with the "combined efforts" of the Delhi government, the Centre and the two-crore people of the city, among others. The total count of coronavirus cases as on Thursday was 1,34,403 in Delhi, of which 10,743 were active cases, 3,396 deaths and the rest 1,19,724 patients have either recovered, been discharged or migrated. The Ministry of Home Affairs had issued several guidelines on Covid-19 management in Delhi, including increase in testing and mapping of containment zones, in mid-June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/manish-sisodia-tried-to-scare-people-by-claiming-delhi-would-have-55-lakh-covid-19-cases-by-july-end-bjp-867957.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Jammu & Kashmir administration extends detention of Mehbooba Mufti by 3 months under PSA||The Jammu and Kashmir government Friday extended the detention of former chief minister and PDP President Mehbooba Mufti under the stringent Public Safety Act (PSA) by another three months. An order in this regard issued by J&K Principal Secretary Home Department, Shaleen Kabra said that the extension was “necessary” as recommended by law enforcing agencies. She will remain detained at her official residence at Fairview Bungalow, here, which has been declared a subsidiary jail. Mehbooba, whose party PDP was an ally of the BJP till June 2018, remains one of the last mainstream political leaders booked and detained under PSA. She was first placed under preventive detention on 5 August 2019 and in February this year, she was charged under the PSA. Her detention under PSA was scheduled to lapse on August 5, 2020. The PSA dossier prepared by the police against 60-year-old Mebooba in February mentions her tweets in the run up to abrogation of Article 370 citing “lynchings’” and “highway blockade” among others. It also accuses her of promoting separatism corroborated by ‘several confidential reports’ filed by agencies. She has also been accused of making anti-national statements and extending support to organisations like Jamaat-e-Islamia J&K, which has been banned under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The PSA is a preventive detention law, under which a person is taken into custody to prevent him or her from acting in any manner that is prejudicial to “the security of the state or the maintenance of the public order”. It is very similar to the National Security Act that is used by other state governments for preventive detention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-kashmir-administration-extends-detention-of-mehbooba-mufti-by-3-months-under-psa-867961.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Plot to topple Rajasthan govt: SOG to move HC for Sanjay Jain's voice sample||The Special Operations Group of the Rajasthan Police will move the High Court to take the voice sample of Sanjay Jain arrested after being allegedly caught on audiotapes discussing the "plot" to topple the state government. Jain was produced before a local court on Friday where he refused to give his voice sample, saying he does not have faith in the SOG probe and the Forensic Science Laboratory report can be manipulated. Sanjay Jain was allegedly acting as a middleman and the Congress claims he is a BJP leader, a charge denied by the opposition party. "As the accused disagreed to give his voice sample in the lower court, we will take further legal steps and approach the High Court in this matter against him," ADG (SOG) Ashok Rathore said. Rathore further said a SOG team has been camping in Manesar of Haryana to trace rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma. He said the team has been acting on the basis of a tip-off. Jain was arrested on July 17 after he was purportedly heard talking to MLA Sharma and Gajendra Singh, who the Congress claims is union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, in the audiotapes. Congress' chief whip Mahesh Joshi had lodged a complaint with the SOG following which the agency had lodged two FIRs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plot-to-topple-rajasthan-govt-sog-to-move-hc-for-sanjay-jains-voice-sample-867980.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||LG rejects Delhi govt's decision to allow hotels, weekly markets under Covid-19 Unlock 3.0||Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Friday rejected the AAP government's decision to allow hotels and weekly markets under Unlock 3, official sources said. As the Covid-19 situation continues to be "fragile" and the threat is still "far from over", the lieutenant governor has taken this decision, they said. On Thursday, the Arvind Kejriwal government decided to allow hotels to reopen in the city. It also allowed weekly bazaars (markets) on a trial basis for seven days with social distancing and all necessary Covid-19-appropriate measures in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lg-rejects-delhi-govts-decision-to-allow-hotels-weekly-markets-under-covid-19-unlock-30-868000.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC questions police officer for issuing note to probe teams||The Delhi High Court Friday questioned the Special Commissioner of Police for issuing an order to its teams probing the northeast Delhi riots asking them to exercise due care and precaution while making any arrests. The court’s questioning came on a plea by the families of two victims who were killed during the February violence here, alleging that the senior officer’s order to the chiefs of teams probing the riot matters was sending a wrong message. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait asked Special Commissioner of Delhi Police (Crime and Economic Offences Wing) Praveer Ranjan, who joined the hearing through video conferencing, as to what was the need to issue such a letter on July 8 to his subordinate officials and queried if the police issues such orders in other cases also. To this, the IPS officer replied that this is a normal practice adopted by them to sensitise the officials to exercise due care and precaution. He said whenever any complaint or input comes to his knowledge, such a communication is issued, as was done on July 8. “An input was received by the agency and whenever such input is received, we sensitise our officers so that they shall exercise due care and precaution during the investigation,” he said, adding that besides the riots matter, they have passed several such orders in other cases in the past. He said all the cases of the riots had been registered before the July 8 letter, so no prejudice is caused to the members of any community. The high court directed Ranjan to place within two days five such orders or letters, in a sealed cover, which he or his predecessor has issued on receiving a complaint or representation and listed the matter for further hearing on August 7. As per a news report, on the basis of which the petition was filed, the Special CP passed an order on July 8 stating that the arrest of “some Hindu youth” from riot-hit area in northeast Delhi had led to a “degree of resentment among the Indu community” and “due care and precaution” must be taken while making arrests. It claimed that the senior police officer’s order said, “community representatives are alleging that these arrests are made without any evidence and are even insinuating that such arrests are being made for some personal reasons”. It also claimed that the police officer’s order stated: “Due care and precaution be taken while arresting any person. All evidences including direct and technical evidences be properly analysed and that all the arrests are backed by sufficient evidence be ensured. No arbitrary arrest should be made in any case and all evidences must be discussed with Special PPs (public prosecutors) assigned for each case.” The order purportedly added: “Supervisory officers ACPs/DCPs — SIT & Additional CP/Crime (Headquarters) may guide the IOs (investigating officers) suitably.” During the hearing, the high court said there is no dispute that senior officers have to guide the juniors as per the current ground situation. The court made it clear that whether notice is to be issued on the petition or not will be decided after pursuing the letters to be placed by the police. When advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the Delhi Police, contended that the petition was “highly mischievous”, the judge shot back “this letter (of special CP) is also mischievous. Tell me what was the need to issue this letter.” The high court was hearing a petition filed by Sahil Parvez, whose father was shot dead allegedly by communal rioters near his home, and Mohd Saeed Salmani, whose elderly mother was allegedly lynched in her house by rioters, seeking quashing of a July 8 order issued by Special Commissioner of Delhi Police (Crime and Economic Offences Wing). Advocate Mehmood Pracha, representing the petitioners, claimed that the July 8 order amounts to an unlawful and illegal interference in the performance of investigative functions by police officers. He argued that the police order was against the law and there was no provision in the law to pass such an order. “They (police) are sending this message that the riot was between two communities, which is shocking,” he contended. The high court had earlier asked the police to place on record the order passed by the special CP and had observed that no action can be taken based on a news report, on which the petition was filed, unless some authenticity to the claims is provided. The petition claimed, “Clearly under pressure from these efforts, respondent no.4 (Special CP) issued an order dated July 8 observing that there was a degree of resentment in the Hindu community against the arrest of certain Hindu persons, and directing investigating officers that they should be careful in the future when making arrests, and that arrests of persons should be made only after discussion of the evidence with special public prosecutors who have been illegally appointed to represent the police in these cases.” The petition has arrayed Centre, Delhi government, Delhi Police Commissioner, its Special CP, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North East) and Station House Officers of Police Stations Jafrabad and Bhajanpura in North East Delhi. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-questions-police-officer-for-issuing-note-to-probe-teams-868022.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||UP: Human clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' begins at Gorakhpur hospital||The human clinical trial of indigenously developed Covaxin, a possible vaccine against coronavirus, began at a hospital here, officials said on Friday. The trial began on Thursday evening at Rana Hospital and Trauma Centre, which is among the 12 institutes selected for clinical trials of the vaccine, officials said here. "The trials began under the supervision of physician Dr Ajit Pratap Singh and gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Sona Ghosh and the vaccine has been administered to 9 volunteers so far," Chief Administrative Officer of the hospital, Venketesh Chaturvedi said. The hospital is already experienced in vaccine trials of typhoid and Japanese Encephalitis. “On Wednesday, we received the first consignment of 34 Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech International and on Friday, we received 20 Covaxin developed by drug firm Zydus Cadila and we are expecting more vaccines from the companies soon,” Chaturvedi said. “We have started human clinical trials of Bharat Biotech's vaccine and soon the trial of Zydus Cadila vaccine will be started,” he added. Those who were administered the vaccine have been kept under observation and all of them are "absolutely fine", he said. Chaturvedi said, “We are searching for more volunteers and if any one who is healthy, class 12th pass and between 18 and 55 years of age wants to become volunteer for clinical trials and join hands against Covid-19 can contact us on phone numbers -- 8303028051 and 6388214084.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-human-clinical-trial-of-covid-19-vaccine-covaxin-begins-at-gorakhpur-hospital-868032.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Tehelka expose: Delhi HC stays Jaya Jaitly’s 4-year jail term in corruption case||The Delhi High Court on Thursday stayed an order passed earlier in the day by the trial court sentencing former Samta Party leader Jaya Jaitly to four years imprisonment in connection with a corruption case. A Delhi court has awarded former Samata Party president Jaya Jaitly and two others four years jail term in a 20-year-old corruption case, arising out a sting operation by Tehelka news portal.  However, hours later, the Delhi High Court suspended the sentence while admitting an appeal filed by Jaitly, saving her from going to prison. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait sought a response from the CBI on her appeal. The sting, 'Operation Westend', was aired by Tehelka in January 2001 in which the accused purportedly accepted bribe from reporters of the portal, who posed as representatives of a fictitious company, for supply orders for handheld thermal imagers from the army. The meetings took place in the official residence of the then Defence Minister George Fernandes. In its July 21 order, the court observed that while Jaitly accepted illegal gratification of Rs 2 lakh from Mathew Samuel, a representative of the fictitious company Westend International, Murgai received Rs 20,000. The three accused, along with Surender Kumar Surekha who later turned an approver, were a party to the criminal conspiracy, the court held. All the three accused - Jaitly, Pacherwal and Murgai - were convicted of the offence of conspiracy (Section 120-B IPC) read with Section 9 (Taking gratification, for the exercise of personal influence with public servant) of Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act. The court held that “from the evidence lead by the prosecution it is proved beyond doubt that in the meeting in the hotel room on December 25, 2000, Surekha and Murgai assured their assistance to Samuel in procuring letter of evaluation for the product of his company from the Ministry of Defence and also to arrange a meeting between him and accused Jaya Jaitly who would provide political cover to them in this regard.” It was agreed that Samuel would pay a sum of Rs. 1 lakh each to Surekha and Murgai and a sum of Rs 2 lakh to accused Jaitly in this regard, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tehelka-expose-delhi-hc-stays-jaya-jaitly-s-4-year-jail-term-in-corruption-case-868039.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Noida police raises nearly Rs 20 lakh for families of cops killed in Kanpur ambush||Police personnel in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar have raised nearly Rs 20,00,000 to support the families of their eight colleagues who were killed in an ambush in Kanpur on July 3, officials said on Friday. A demand draft of Rs 19,90,500 has been handed over to the additional director general of police, Kanpur Zone for disbursement of the financial aid among the families of the policemen who were killed by gangster Vikas Dubey's henchmen in Bikru village, the officials said. "Police officers and personnel in Gautam Buddh Nagar have voluntarily donated their one day's salary to provide financial assistance to the families of the eight policemen who were killed in Kanpur," Police Commissioner Alok Singh said. He also expressed his condolences over the incident. "The ADG, Kanpur Zone, has been requested that this amount be disbursed among the families of the policemen who died while performing their duties," he said, according to a statement. The policemen, including a deputy superintendent of police, were ambushed in Bikru in Chaubeypur area of Kanpur when they were going to arrest Dubey. They fell to bullets fired from rooftops shortly after midnight on July 3. Dubey was killed in an encounter on July 10 after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he allegedly tried to escape from the spot. Prior to his death, five of his gang members were killed in separate encounters in Kanpur, Etawah and Hamirpur districts of Uttar Pradesh, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-police-raises-nearly-rs-20-lakh-for-families-of-cops-killed-in-kanpur-ambush-868046.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya is cultural nationalism: RSS leader||Describing the construction of a Ram temple in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya as "cultural nationalism", senior RSS functionary Dattatreya Hosabale on Friday said patriotism cannot be suppressed in the name of secularism. With the construction of the temple, there will be both Ram and "roti", he said, adding Ram means cultural, sociological and spiritual development of the country and "roti" means its economic growth. Underlining that the temple in Ayodhya is not merely a religious affair, but it is for the cultural awakening of the country, the joint general secretary of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) said, "The Ram temple is for cultural nationalism of the country, which was engulfed by an English mindset." The government has a cultural responsibility to ensure that the temple is constructed, he added. Talking about the politicians who opposed the construction of the temple for the sake of secularism, Hosabale said nationalism and cultural nationalism cannot be suppressed in the name of secularism. Hoping that its construction will usher in a new era of cultural nationalism in India, the RSS leader said with the temple in place, the values and principles of the kings of Ayodhya will replace the western mindset in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/construction-of-ram-temple-in-ayodhya-is-cultural-nationalism-rss-leader-868053.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Indian Army foils infiltration bid by militants along LoC||The Army on Friday foiled an infiltration bid by militants along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Macchil sector, a defence spokesman said here. Alert troops noticed suspicious movement 600 metres into the Indian side along the LoC in Kupwara district around 3 am, the spokesman said. He said the militants were intercepted, leading to a firefight. "After the first light, a search was carried out during which a trail of blood was found," the spokesman said. He said three AK rifles, a sniper rifle, eight grenades and other "war-like stores" were seized from the scene of the gunbattle.  A combing operation was going on in the area when the reports last came in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-army-foils-infiltration-bid-by-militants-along-loc-868069.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Ghaziabad: Man throws 2 children off roof; arrested||A man was arrested after he allegedly threw two children off the roof of a four-storey building in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad district on Friday, police said. The incident took place in the morning when the two brothers, identified as Tribhuvan (9) and Prabhuvan (8), were flying a kite from the roof of the building at Guldhar road in Kavi Nagar area, they said. The children sustained serious injuries and were admitted to a nearby hospital, police said. The boys told police that one Harendra, who lives in the ground floor of the building, allegedly threw them off the roof. An FIR has been lodged against Harendra under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and he has been arrested, SP (city) Maneesh Mishra told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-man-throws-2-children-off-roof-arrested-868076.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Monsoon session of Chattisgarh legislature to begin on August 25||The monsoon session of the Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly will begin from August 25 and will be restricted to just four days in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, an Assembly official said on Friday. As per the official notification, the seventh session of the fifth state Assembly will begin on August 25 and conclude on August 28. There will be Question Hour on all four days, along with works pertaining to financial and government affairs, the notification stated. On the last day, a time slot of two and a half hours has been allotted for non-government affairs, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/monsoon-session-of-chattisgarh-legislature-to-begin-on-august-25-868089.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi Speaker confers Saraswat Samman on litterateurs on Munshi Premchand birth anniversary||Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel Friday conferred the Saraswat Samman 2020-21 on Hindi litterateurs to mark the 140th birth anniversary of celebrated Hindi writer Munshi Premchand. The wonderful writings of Premchand have served as a guide for generations, Goel said at a function held at the Vidhan Sabha. He said Munshi Premchand Jayanti will be celebrated every year at the Vidhan Sabha, according to a statement from Delhi Assembly. The Speaker awarded the Saraswat Samman to the litterateurs for their outstanding contribution in the field of language, literature and culture on the occasion, it said. The awardees are Bhagwan Das Morwal, Gyan Prakash, Vivek, Mahesh Darpan, Ram Kumar Krashak, Ranjana Aggarwal Shanti Agarwal, Santosh Anand and Surendra Sharma, the statement said. They were presented with a logo, a cheque of Rs 11,000 and shawl each by the Speaker. “You have made a significant contribution in the development of Hindi language and literature. I am feeling proud to honor all of you litterateurs," Goel told them. Paying his tributes to Munshi Premchand, the Speaker said, readers all over the world have a special place in their hearts for the novels and stories of the great Hindi writer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-speaker-confers-saraswat-samman-on-litterateurs-on-munshi-premchand-birth-anniversary-868101.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Centre derives 'sadistic pleasure' by inflicting pain, misery on Delhiites: AAP||The Centre derives "sadistic pleasure" by inflicting pain and misery on the people of Delhi and "undermining" the democratically elected government here, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party said on Friday. The party's reaction comes shortly after Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal rejected the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government's decision to reopen hotels and weekly markets in the city under Unlock 3. The BJP said the AAP's statement reflected its frustration and though hotels need to resume operations, health considerations cannot be overlooked. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Centre must stop interfering in the Delhi government's decisions. "The Centre derives sadistic pleasure by inflicting pain and misery on the people of Delhi and undermining the democratically elected government of Delhi," he told reporters. In the last few days, Chadha claimed, the Centre interfered in the decisions of the Delhi government several times. "The first example is the home isolation module which the Centre had earlier opposed but later it had to take back its decision after opposition from people. The second point is the lawyers' panel of the Delhi government on Delhi riots was changed and then the third example is rejecting the Delhi government's proposal to open hotels and weekly markets," he said. The AAP leader alleged that weekly markets are allowed to open in BJP-ruled states despite a bad situation due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "On June 8, 2020, the Centre allowed operation of hotels and weekly markets but today when we want to open them the Centre is not liking it. "The second point is that BJP-ruled states, where the people are in a bad situation due to coronavirus, there the Centre has allowed operations of weekly markets and hotels but not here. Thirdly, hotels are operational in neighbouring satellite cities of Noida and Gurgaon but not here," he said. "This clearly shows the intention of the government," he added. Baijal rejected the AAP government's decision to allow hotels and weekly markets to reopen under Unlock 3 as the Covid-19 situation continues to be "fragile" and the threat is still "far from over", official sources said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Chadha's statement reflects the AAP's usual frustration whenever the Lt. Governor objects to any of the Kejriwal government's hasty decisions. "No doubt the hotel industry, too, needs to be allowed to operate at the earliest, but we can't forgo health considerations. Anyhow, with tourism and commercial activities at their lowest ebb, there is no demand for hotel rooms, so why politicise the issue," he said. The Delhi government had on Thursday decided to allow normal functioning of hotels in the national capital as they are no longer attached to hospitals to accommodate Covid-19 patients. It had also allowed reopening of weekly markets on a trial basis for seven days with social distancing and all necessary coronavirus-appropriate measures in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-derives-sadistic-pleasure-by-inflicting-pain-misery-on-delhiites-aap-868140.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||If united, why Congress MLAs shifted to Jaisalmer, asks BJP Rajasthan chief||BJP Rajasthan president Satish Poonia on Friday questioned why Congress MLAs were camping in Jaisalmer if they were united, hours after the ruling party in the state shifted its legislators to the border district from here fearing "horse-trading". "All are united, there is no danger, there is democracy. If everything is fine then why is fortification required and who is for sale? Make their names public. Disbelief in the fortification too! After Jaisalmer from Jaipur, Pakistan is ahead," Poonia said in a tweet. His statement came after the state Congress, fearing "horse-trading" ahead of the assembly session, shifted its MLAs to Jaisalmer from Jaipur where they had been staying at a hotel for over a fortnight. In another tweet, he said that Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot “took the MLAs to Jaisalmer to save the Congress from breakdown, how far can government run?” While talking to reporters, Poonia said that the government will not be able to face the issues raised by the opposition even in this assembly session. He said that the situation of the Congress in Rajasthan is suicidal for both the Congress and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/if-united-why-congress-mlas-shifted-to-jaisalmer-asks-bjp-rajasthan-chief-868153.html
31-07-2020||North and Central||Delhi government's five-day sero survey to begin on Saturday||The next round of sero-prevalence survey in the national capital is slated to begin on Saturday, with authorities gearing up for the five-day exercise to comprehensively analyse the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on July 22 announced that after analysing the results of the last survey, it was decided that more such exercises would be undertaken every month to formulate better policies for tackling the Covid-19 situation in the city. The next sero-prevalence survey is scheduled to be conducted from August 1-5. A senior government official said 15,000 samples would be collected over a span of five days and the survey would kickstart in four districts, including north and northwest Delhi. It would follow the same protocol as that of the survey conducted earlier by the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). All CDMOs will be tasked with carrying out the survey in their districts. Random people will be tested for antibodies. The health department has prepared a detailed plan under which every district medical officer has been asked to conduct the survey in their respective jurisdictions, officials said. The last sero-prevalence survey was conducted by the Delhi government in association with the NCDC from June 27 to July 10. It had found that around 23 per cent of the people surveyed had been exposed to the novel coronavirus, the central government had said. "The results of the sero survey conducted from June 27-July 10 came out yesterday, and it shows that nearly one-fourth of people had developed antibodies, meaning they had got infected and recovered. Most of these people who were sampled did not know that they were infected earlier," Jain had told reporters on July 23. The Delhi government has now decided to conduct more monthly sero surveys to find a greater percentage of such people who had got infected and recovered so as to formulate better policies for tackling Covid-19, he had said. However, health department officials, when contacted, did not share much detail on the five-day exercise. A senior official in South Delhi district administration said no instruction as such been issued to them about the survey, but the administration will be ready for it. After the findings of the previous survey were released, NCDC Director Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh had said the remaining 77 per cent people in Delhi are still vulnerable to the viral disease and containment measures need to continue with the same rigour. The study had tested 21,387 samples. A sero survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check for the prevalence of antibodies against infection. For the survey, blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written informed consent and then tested for IgG antibodies and infection using COVID KAVACH ELISA approved by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). It was one of the largest sero-prevalence studies conducted in the country using the ELISA testing. With 1,195 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded on Friday, Delhi's tally climbed to over 1.35 lakh, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 3,963, authorities said. There were 10,705 active cases in the city, down from 10,743 the previous day. The total number of Covid-19 tests done till July 30 in Delhi stands at 10,32,785. The number of containment zones in Delhi stood at 692 on Friday. The number of tests done per million as on Thursday was 54,357.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-governments-five-day-sero-survey-to-begin-on-saturday-868168.html
31-07-2020||Opinion||How well-to-do children will weather the Covid-19 pandemic||One Sunday afternoon in July, around a dozen parents gathered in a backyard in Hastings-on-Hudson, a small village about a half-hour north of Midtown Manhattan. Another dozen joined them via Zoom. Folding chairs had been placed at prudent distances, and masks were dutifully worn. An Australian Labradoodle belonging to the home’s owners strutted among the guests. Despite the breezy suburban tableau, the occasion was fraught. Over the preceding months, the adults in the backyard had grown increasingly concerned about the coming school year, which, it had become clear, might put students in the class, at best, only part-time. Parents were determined to avoid having their children sit alone for hours each day, withering in the grey light of a Chromebook. A young woman named Cate Han, one of the founders of the Hudson Lab School, in Hastings, along with partners from Portfolio School, in TriBeCa, were in the yard to pitch a solution: Learning Pods. “We looked at the situation and asked, ‘What makes sense?’” Han said. “A social bubble, consistent schooling, and have it be with a teacher in person.” One thing was certain. It was going to be very expensive — maybe prohibitively so — but these parents wanted a solution. Many had chosen to live in Hastings because of its outstanding public schools. Now they were considering withdrawing their children and embracing a novel teaching model that could have implications for public education for years. There might be no more potent symbol of inequality during the pandemic than the pod school: A single semester in a Hudson Lab pod can cost more than $13,000. This fall, a majority of 50 million American children enrolled in public school are almost certainly going to be confined within their homes for part or all of the school day. The numerous harms of being kept out of school — academic, social, emotional, psychological, physical — are felt by all children, but a disproportionate weight will be borne by those with the least resources. The wealthiest children will be ensconced in private schools and catered to by tutors and nannies. For most, there are few options. But for a slice of enterprising American parents with resources, so-called pod schools have arrived. Cropping up all over, these small educational groups aim to offset the looming wreckage of a national experiment in distance learning. Among the many options are School House, based in New York City, which is offering “micro schools” around the country, and Whiz Kidz, based in nearby Irvington. The idea of learning pods, both formally organized by outfits like the Hudson Lab, as well as more ad hoc parent-run variations, appears to be speaking to parents who feel that government agencies and school districts have failed to plan for their children. Parents will form groups of three to 10 children, usually in the same grade. The “pods” will meet each day from around 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in a host parent’s basement or cordoned-off living room or perhaps somewhere outdoors, to learn from a teacher provided by the Hudson Lab. Each pod for grades K-4 will cost $125,000 for the academic year, or $68,750 for a five-month commitment. With five children in a pod, for example, the cost per student will run $13,750 per semester. The more children in the pod, the lower the cost per student. There is different pricing and reduced hours for preschool pods. (Both H.L.S. and School House are seeking partnerships with foundations so they can offer scholarships.) The loss of both the academic and social aspects of school was a refrain from more than a dozen parents I spoke with regarding distance learning. Why should a child suffer in isolation, struggling to learn how to read through a computer, when they could thrive with a small group of peers and a real teacher instead? To enrol full-time in the Hudson Lab learning pods, parents withdraw their children from the public school and register as home-schoolers, a process that requires parents to submit academic plans to their district for approval. Pod families also need to draw up agreements on the various facets of distancing behaviour each child and family will be obligated to. Is it OK if someone gets a haircut in the city? What about playdates outside the pod? Pod programs offer an inoculation against the possibility that public schools might close. As long as the community isn’t in complete lockdown, the learning pods can keep going. Lauren Lazarin is a single mother in Riverdale, in the Bronx, with a limited income, but she’s considering signing up for a Hudson Lab pod. “If I have to ditch my salaried job as an early childhood educator and work as a private tutor so my 5-year-old daughter can get her education and I can keep my family safe,” she said, “then I might have to make that choice.” For Sukenick, who works as a physical therapist, the choice is stark. She can either quit working while she looks after her sons when they’re home, or she can keep her very fulfilling job and deplete her savings to pay for the pods. “This is our emergency fund,” she said, noting they were thankful to have it. “And this is our emergency.” Erica Paris, a stay-at-home mom in Towaco, N.J., recently received her daughters’ fall schedule from the school district. Her 8-year-old, Alexa, will attend elementary school four half-days per week; Emma, 12, will attend middle school just two half-days per week. Paris said she will have to hire someone to help with remote learning during their copious time out of school. “I respect educators. I don’t know how to take the curriculum and do it myself,” she said. “I can’t be both a teacher and a parent.”  “The reason they have half-days is because the teachers’ contract guarantees a duty-free lunch, which is understandable,” she said. “But couldn’t we figure out how to hire aides for an hour? Two half-days of school a week is ridiculous.” I’ve been similarly disheartened over the pending school policies in Hastings. I was in the Sukenicks’ back yard that afternoon because remote learning this spring for my children, ages 9 and 11, had been an abysmal affair. My younger son would blast through the days’ assignments, often consisting of watching videos and checking boxes. By 9:30 each morning he’d confront me, panicked: “I’m done. Now what do I do?” My daughter was saddled with extensive projects and a detailed course load she often needed help with. Mainly it was a profoundly lonely time for them. The neighborhood kids shut off from one another, hours were spent alone in their rooms, dissolving into electronic screens. The many parents I’ve spoken with for this article have expressed sadness and unease over the inequities that a remote-learning model engenders. Yet allowing their children to suffer is not the remedy to a systemic problem. Data from Sweden, where lower schools have been open for the entirety of the pandemic, without specific distancing mandates or children in masks, show that teachers were at no greater risk than other professionals. Philosophically, I believe schools should be among the last institutions to close and the very first to open. Many experts have argued similarly. What I can say here, though, is what I know to be true for my family. After months of solitude, where screen time essentially became time itself, my kids have finally escaped.  That afternoon at the Sukenicks’ I quickly realized that the Hudson Lab pod program is well beyond my family’s financial means. I don’t know what exactly we’re going to do when school starts. In my district, there has been an interesting overlap between the send-them-back-to-schoolers and the keep-them-homers, in that most are seeking any alternative they can think of to their children sitting alone at a computer each day. A movement for outdoor classes seemed to bring many from opposing sides together. Yet despite the enthusiasm of parents, the likelihood of that coming to fruition seems dim. Lazarin, the single mother in Riverdale, isn’t only worried about remote learning. She’s also worried about the in-school environment, with “these unnatural experiences of eating lunch in cubicles, recess alone in a square on the pavement.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-well-to-do-children-will-weather-the-covid-19-pandemic-867724.html
31-07-2020||Opinion||The message of Eid al-Adha||Every year millions of Muslims from different parts of the world perform Hajj, but due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the number of pilgrims has been restricted by concerned authorities. Eid al-Adha will be celebrated in our country on August 1, which ends the period of Hajj. Those who do not perform Hajj, celebrate Eid al-Adha at their respective places. This year’s Eid and Hajj celebrations have indeed been very different as they are being observed in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Eid, of course, is rooted in congregation and expressions of fraternity. Imams and community leaders have been asked to abide by Covid-19 guidelines and restrictions faithfully throughout celebrations and to be mindful of physical distancing, personal isolation, wearing masks and the use of sanitizer. As the Covid-19 pandemic is raging, such celebrations necessarily have to be subdued. The message of Eid al-Adha even under the most adverse conditions is one should not despair. Despair and hopelessness can drive a community towards its decline. This Eid al-Adha is being celebrated remembering the sacrifices of Prophet Abraham throughout his life. Prophet Abraham is the patriarch of all Abrahamic religions. Let his blessings shower on all human beings and save us from this dreaded disease. Eid is a time of a spiritual reawakening and not just a matter of tradition.  On this occasion of Eid, we Muslims have to rededicate ourselves to the teachings of our Prophet by putting them into practice individually and collectively. Thus Eid reminds us of universal brotherhood and we must work hard for unity of the nation. Today we live in a materialistic world modern consumerism and mass production has a negative impact on society. In the age of political instability, racial violence, greed, and materialism, we are not ready to sacrifice anything, it is a time for us to change our mindset and apply the principles of sacrifice into our lives by remembering the sacrifices of Prophet Abraham. The very purpose of performing Eid is a purification of soul and refinement of faith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-message-of-eid-al-adha-867726.html
31-07-2020||Opinion||Will the real Rahul Gandhi please stand up?||This question comes to mind as the Nehru-Gandhi scion, like a quick-change artist, continues to reinvent himself every few years. In keeping with his penchant for a constant image makeover, the Nehru-Gandhi scion has donned yet another new avatar these days. The Congress leader has currently forsaken his ‘angry young man’ image and is positioning himself as a sober, mature politician who can engage at length with experts on weighty policy issues.  This was clearly the central purpose of the interviews he recently conducted with former Reserve Bank governor Raghuram Rajan, Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and industrialist Rajeev Bajaj in which Rahul Gandhi discussed the state of the economy and remedies to kickstart growth and revive demand.   In the latest move, the Congress leader has released four short videos in which he has raised questions about the Modi government’s handling of the ongoing face-off with China in Ladakh.  Rahul Gandhi’s tone and style of messaging may have changed but there is no let-up in his attacks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Instead of opting for angry and clever sound bytes and slogans like “suit-boot ki sarkar” and “chowkidar chor hai”, which got him instant media attention, the Wayanad MP has now chosen to pin down Modi on the Chinese incursions, his myriad foreign policy failures and the economic slowdown in a more sombre manner. This change has also been accompanied by a new sartorial look. The trademark kurta pyjama has been replaced with pants and shirt. The scruffy beard has given way to a neat new haircut and a clean-shaven look. Almost like a nerd. It’s nothing new But then Rahul Gandhi is no stranger to reinvention. When he entered politics sixteen years ago, he was happy to be a backbencher in the Lok Sabha. He took scant interest in Parliamentary debates and instead chose to travel around the country to interact with students, academics and activists, ostensibly to educate himself. But the real objective here was to project Rahul Gandhi as a youth icon.  Not weighed down by any responsibility, he would take off on periodic foreign visits which gradually gave the impression that he lacked staying power and was a non-serious politician.  Then there was a prolonged phase when belligerence became second nature to Rahul Gandhi. Whether it was Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav in the 2012 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls or Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party in the subsequent elections, the Congress heir apparent was at his aggressive ‘best’ as he launched a high-decibel campaign against his political opponents.  This was followed by a short period when Rahul Gandhi swung to the other extreme, spoke of winning over people (including political rivals) with love and affection. For a brief time, he chose not to target Modi personally and instead focused on the government’s failures and unkept promises.  This side of Rahul Gandhi was on display during the 2017 Gujarat assembly elections and also when he took over the party’s presidency a year later. To drive home his point, he even walked across to the treasury benches and enveloped Modi in a bear hug during a debate in the Lok Sabha. However, this phase proved to be short-lived as he soon went back to Modi-bashing, which has not gone down well with a large section in the Congress which believes Rahul Gandhi should pick his battles more judiciously. Has he been successful? With Rahul Gandhi undertaking periodic transformations over the past decade-and-a-half, it is pertinent to ask if these endeavours have served their purpose.  Unfortunately for him, the answer is a big No. It is evident that even after 16 years in politics, his communication skills have not shown any significant improvement. In fact, Rahul Gandhi’s attempt to improve his acceptability has a hollow ring to it, appearing laboured, superficial and orchestrated.   The Congress heir-apparent has been singularly unsuccessful in shedding the ‘pappu’ image he has acquired thanks to a relentless BJP campaign. The public perception that he is a poor second to Modi has not changed. Worse still, he continues to be caricatured. At best, Rahul Gandhi comes across as someone who is groping in the dark for the right profile, a confused person who is unable to decide who he is and how he wishes to project himself. If Rahul Gandhi is serious about pursuing a career in politics, he must first get rid of his current group of image consultants whose advice has done little to lift his profile. Instead of focussing excessively on the use of social media, it would be of far greater help both to him and the Congress if the Nehru-Gandhi scion used that time and energy in communicating with dispirited party workers who are constantly complaining about how inaccessible he is.  But most importantly, Rahul Gandhi should stop living in denial and understand that he personally does not have what it takes to mount a serious challenge to Modi. The days when the Congress was a one-man/woman show are over. The Nehru-Gandhi scion has to necessarily work with state and local leaders to take the fight to the far corners of the country. (Anita Katyal is a Delhi-based journalist and a keen observer of domestic political developments) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-the-real-rahul-gandhi-please-stand-up-867739.html
31-07-2020||Opinion||Trump attacks an election he is at risk of losing||For several years, it has been the stuff of his opponents’ nightmares: that President Donald Trump, facing the prospect of defeat in the 2020 election, would declare by presidential edict that the vote had been delayed or canceled. Never mind that no president has that power, that the timing of federal elections has been fixed since the 19th century and that the Constitution sets an immovable expiration date on the president’s term. Given Trump’s contempt for the legal limits on his office and his oft-expressed admiration for foreign dictators, it hardly seemed far-fetched to imagine he would at least attempt the gambit. But when the moment came Thursday, with Trump suggesting for the first time that the election could be delayed, his proposal appeared as impotent as it was predictable — less a stunning assertion of his authority than yet another lament that his political prospects have dimmed amid a global public health crisis. Indeed, his comments on Twitter came shortly after the Commerce Department reported that U.S. economic output contracted last quarter at the fastest rate in recorded history, underscoring one of Trump’s most severe vulnerabilities as he pursues a second term. Far from a strongman, Trump has lately become a heckler in his own government, promoting medical conspiracy theories on social media, playing no constructive role in either the management of the coronavirus pandemic or the negotiation of an economic rescue plan in Congress — and complaining endlessly about the unfairness of it all. “It will be a great embarrassment to the USA,” Trump tweeted of the election, asserting without evidence that mail-in voting would lead to fraud. “Delay the Election until people can properly, securely and safely vote???” The most powerful leaders in Congress immediately shot down the idea of moving the election, including the top figures in Trump’s own party. “Never in the history of the country — through wars, depressions and the Civil War — have we ever not had a federally scheduled election on time, and we’ll find a way to do that again this Nov. 3,” Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, said in an interview with WNKY television in Kentucky. “We’ll cope with whatever the situation is and have the election on Nov. 3 as already scheduled.” Trump’s tweet about delaying the election put a self-pitying exclamation mark on a phase of his presidency defined not by the accumulation of executive power but by an abdication of presidential leadership on a national emergency. Faced with the kind of economic wreckage besieging millions of Americans, any other president would be shoulder-deep in the process of marshaling his top lieutenants and leaders in Congress to form a robust government response. Instead, Trump has been absent this week from economic relief talks, even as a crucial unemployment benefit is poised to expire and the Federal Reserve chair, Jerome Powell, warned publicly that the country’s recovery is lagging. And any other president confronted with a virulent viral outbreak across huge regions of the country would be at least trying to deliver a clear and consistent message about public safety. Instead, Trump has continued to promote a drug with no proven efficacy, hydroxychloroquine, as a potential miracle cure and demand that schools and businesses reopen quickly — even as he has also claimed that it might be impossible to hold a safe election. William F. Weld, the former governor of Massachusetts who mounted a largely symbolic challenge to Trump in the Republican primaries this year, said Thursday that the president’s tweet was a sign that Trump was panicked and unmoored. Although Weld has argued for years that Trump had dictatorial impulses, he said Thursday that the election delay idea was “not a legitimate threat.” “So many dead and the economy in free fall — and what’s his reaction? Delay the election,” Weld said. “It’s a sign of a mind that’s having a great deal of difficulty coming to terms with reality.” Trump has attacked the legitimacy of U.S. elections before, including the one in 2016 that made him president. Even after winning the Electoral College that year, Trump cast doubt on the popular vote and postulated baselessly that Hillary Clinton’s substantial lead in that metric had been tainted by illegal voting. With that as precedent, there has never been much doubt — certainly among his opponents — that Trump would attempt to undercut the election if it appeared likely he would lose it. While Trump does not have the power to shift the date of the election, there is ample concern among Democrats that his appointees in Washington or his allies in state governments could make a large-scale effort to snarl the process of voting. Given the extreme nature of Trump’s suggestion, there was an odd familiarity to the response it garnered from political leaders in both parties. There was no immediate call to the barricades or renewed push from Democrats for presidential impeachment. Opposition leaders expressed outrage, but most agreed, in public and private, that Trump’s outburst should be treated as a distress call rather than a real statement of his governing intentions. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the most powerful Democrat in government, replied to Trump’s tweet simply by posting on Twitter the language from the Constitution stating that Congress, not the president, sets the date of national elections. Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-Calif., who chairs the congressional committee that oversees elections, suggested in no uncertain terms that Trump’s tweet was another symptom of his inability to master the coronavirus. “Only Congress can change the date of our elections,” Lofgren said, “and under no circumstances will we consider doing so to accommodate the president’s inept and haphazard response to the coronavirus pandemic or give credence to the lies and misinformation he spreads regarding the manner in which Americans can safely and securely cast their ballots.” Republicans, who typically answer the president with a combination of evasion or no comment, did not rush to become profiles in courage by thundering against an out-of-control presidency, and some ducked the issue entirely when confronted by reporters. But many others were blunt in their rejection of Trump’s position. “Make no mistake: the election will happen in New Hampshire on November 3rd. End of story,” Gov. Chris Sununu of New Hampshire, a Republican who is up for reelection, said on Twitter. Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida said on Capitol Hill, “Since 1845, we’ve had an election on the first Tuesday after November 1, and we’re going to have one again this year.” Rep. Kevin McCarthy, the House minority leader and one of Trump’s staunchest allies in Congress, echoed that position, saying, “We should go forward.” Others were more equivocal, following a well-worn Republican playbook for avoiding direct conflict with the president over his wilder pronouncements. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, asked in a Senate hearing whether he believed it was legal for a president to delay an election, said he was “not going to enter a legal judgment on that on the fly this morning.” That would be an assessment, he said, for the Justice Department. Even Trump’s campaign declined to turn his tweet into a rallying cry, instead playing down the notion that it might have been a policy prescription. Hogan Gidley, a spokesman for the campaign, said Trump was “just raising a question about the chaos Democrats have created with their insistence on all mail-in voting” — an obviously false paraphrase of the president’s tweet, one that minimized the gravity of what Trump had said. The timing of Trump’s tweet, as much as the content, highlighted the extent to which he has become a loud but isolated figure in government and in the public life of the country. In addition to failing to devise a credible national response to the coronavirus pandemic, he has made no attempt to play the traditional presidential role of calming the country in moments of fear and soothing it in moments of grief. Never was that more apparent than Thursday, when Trump spent the morning posting a combination of incendiary and pedestrian tweets, while his three immediate predecessors — Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton — gathered in Atlanta for the funeral of John Lewis, the congressman and civil rights hero. As mourners assembled at the Ebenezer Baptist Church, Trump had other matters on his mind, like hypothetical election fraud and, as it happened, Italian food. “Support Patio Pizza and its wonderful owner, Guy Caligiuri, in St. James, Long Island (N.Y.),” the president tweeted, referring to a restaurateur who said he faced backlash for supporting Trump. “Great Pizza!!!”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trump-attacks-an-election-he-is-at-risk-of-losing-867757.html
31-07-2020||Opinion||Why India is now the epicentre of global coronavirus pandemic||By Mihir Sharma It’s looking increasingly likely that India will wind up being the country with the most cases in the world. This is not just a function of its massive population; China, too, has over 1 billion people. It is a reflection of the fact that big, diverse countries are at a disadvantage in dealing with pandemics. Smaller nations such as New Zealand or Thailand can manage the flow of cases by shutting down their international borders. But internal borders are as porous in India as they are in the US Imagine, for instance, how impossible it would have been for Europe to flatten its curve if it hadn’t suspended the Schengen agreement and freedom of movement for its 450 million people. Generally, officials in large nations are reduced to playing whack-a-mole: Even if they suppress an outbreak in Kerala or New York, chances are it will pop up somewhere else. The pressure to “reopen” in such countries is also greater. Large nations do well economically because they have big, interdependent and diverse internal markets. Consequently, they can ill afford to have those supply chains broken for long. Unlike the US, India was quick to impose a proper nationwide lockdown — at great economic and human cost. Yet now the virus is spreading because people have to move across internal borders if the economy reopens even slightly.  That puts a premium on effective government. Keeping close track of such movements and of every little outbreak would require a centralized state with no shortage of spare capacity — ideally one already primed to spy on its own citizens, such as China’s. For better or worse, no other big-nation government has similar abilities. In the US, the pandemic has made the consequence of decades of misallocation and paralysis tragically clear. The American edifice of government has been hollowed out and its federal structure made unfit for purpose in a partisan and divided age. This ineffectiveness is reflected in data such as the World Governance Indicators, which has seen the US decline steadily over the past two decades. The world’s largest economy should not have a state that struggles to respond effectively to a crisis, even a once-in-a-century crisis. India’s state, on the other hand, has always been low on capacity. In fact, it’s a standard joke among policy analysts in India that any conversation about what needs to be done ends with the statement, “But we can’t do that anyway.” The Indian state, at every level, is chronically short of managerial resources, of talent, of resources and of time. Often, if it does one thing well, something else is shorted. Early on in the pandemic, the southern state of Kerala received praise for how well it had limited the spread of the virus through vigorous contact-tracing. But, it turns out, the state devoted so much of its capacity to contact tracing that it failed to ramp up testing. Now state leaders have had to admit that cases are increasing through community spread. One of the long-term consequences of this crisis will certainly be new thinking about federal states — and a fresh assessment of what in government constitutes “waste” and what is vital excess capacity. Even in the short term, though, there are quick lessons to learn. Consider one success story in India — the outbreak in the massive Mumbai slum of Dharavi, where “Slumdog Millionaire” was famously set. Early on, it seemed that Dharavi would almost certainly suffer an exponential rise in cases. Instead, an innovative combination of privately staffed fever clinics, repurposed public infrastructure and manpower from non-governmental organizations managed to flatten the curve there.  When the state has insufficient capacity, it needs to strike alliances like this with players in the private sector and non-profits. In fact, that’s one mistake Kerala made: The Communist-run local government waited too long to incorporate the private healthcare sector in its plans, undoing much of its earlier success. Large countries with under-performing states need to shift approach swiftly. In Brazil, an uncooperative national leadership has already forced communities to turn to local organizations and transnational non-profits for help. Governments are going to have to treat NGOs and companies respectfully, as partners, if they want to have a chance of getting through this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-india-is-now-the-epicentre-of-global-coronavirus-pandemic-867853.html
31-07-2020||Opinion||Many progressive ideas in the National Education Policy||In 2012, the PISA test results were announced by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. More than seventy nations had participated in this regular assessment to ascertain the level of school education. India was ranked below all nations except Kyrgyzstan. This is a telling comment on the state of school education in India. Have things improved since then? It is safe to presume that not much has changed because after India chose to drop out of the PISA tests, post-2012, it has chosen to not rejoin.  The silence of these teachers reminded me of what Tagore had said more than a hundred years ago that we, in India, had reduced education to the confines of the blackboard without caring for its connections to the world around us. The tragedy is that what Tagore had said then is far more valid today.  My intention in pointing out these lacunae that beset our education system is not to demoralise but to demonstrate that nothing much is being done in a serious manner to tackle the issue. If any of us harbour the notion that perhaps higher education is in better shape than school education let me dispel such impressions quickly.  The University of Delhi was ranked fairly high in 2014 in almost all global rankings. Since that time, it has continuously slid to the backwaters of all ranking systems. The state of higher education can also be inferred by other means. I was deeply disappointed to discover in a group of about eighty postgraduate students of the University of Delhi that they were unaware of Wardha. My concern was compounded by the fact that almost all of these students were aspiring for government jobs through the UPSC examination processes.  National Education Policy 2020  Perhaps then, that is why we needed a policy on education. It is a welcome step since it carries many progressive ideas. For instance, if India really wishes to bring about improvements in school education, it will have to make a concerted national effort to improve the quality of school teachers. I am heartened to note that this policy document has given very clear and deep insights on how to go about this problem. For instance, as things stand, a school teacher picks up a near fraudulent or meaningless teaching qualification – such as the B.Ed. – from the innumerable and dubious institutions that dot the nation. Under the new policy, these institutions shall have to shut shop or transform themselves to levels of true competence. They shall no longer be able to offer standalone B.Ed. degrees.  There are other very worthy features in the document. The policy calls for a significant reduction in the overwhelming amount of near meaningless teaching content that is currently being inflicted on school students. It also requires that the barriers that have been created between the so-called regular disciplines from the sciences and humanities and the so-called extracurricular, co-curricular and sporting realms be dissolved. It also calls for giving students more than one chance to improve their examination scores at the level of the board examinations. Positives at the first-degree level When it comes to higher education, I once again welcome the suggestions and directions given by this policy. I can say with much confidence that the many recommendations related to the platform of a first-degree offering are really marvellous. I say this with a great deal of confidence since most of these features are a reproduction of what had taken place in 2013-14 at the University of Delhi.  At that time, when I was the Vice Chancellor, we had had much success with these ideas. The surest ways are to look at student feedback from those days and what they actually produced. Undergraduates began to become entrepreneurs and they also began to produce research and patents. They had enormous freedom and flexibility in determining the course of their studies. If for some reason a student had to drop out, she could leave with a diploma and return within a span of ten years to complete her degree. A student could obtain a three-year undergraduate degree with specialisation in a subject called the major subject and also obtain a minor specialisation if she so wished. The student could also stay on and complete a fourth year which would give her an honours degree with greater specialisation towards research or even entrepreneurship. This would then lead to an automatic reduction in the postgraduate programme. The M.Phil degree would then die a natural and welcome death. These things worked very well for us so much so that the global ranking of the University of Delhi shot up. All of these features are incorporated in the New Education Policy document and since they worked so well for us I welcome them heartily. The other noteworthy feature is the decision to abolish agencies such as the UGC and the AICTE and create a single overarching agency to foster higher education.  The commitment to support education with more than six percent of our GDP is a very bold and much-needed step. If implemented in the manner that the policy has asked this shall also lead to much good. Of course, the real challenge and test now lies in the manner in which we choose to implement all of the above. (Dinesh Singh is former Vice Chancellor, Delhi University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/many-progressive-ideas-in-the-national-education-policy-867877.html
31-07-2020||Panorama||Herd immunity may be developing in Mumbai’s poorest areas||By Ari Altsedter and Dhwani Pandya Around six in ten people living in some of India’s biggest slums have antibodies for the novel coronavirus indicating they’ve recovered from infection, in what could be one of the highest population immunity levels known worldwide. The findings, from a July serological survey of 6,936 people across three suburbs in India’s financial center of Mumbai, may explain why a steep drop in infections is being seen among the closely-packed population, despite new cases accelerating overall in the hard-hit country. “Mumbai’s slums may have reached herd immunity,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, chairman of the Scientific Advisory Committee of India’s National Institute of Epidemiology, and the retired head of one of its premier medical colleges. “If people in Mumbai want a safe place to avoid infection, they should probably go there.” The findings of the study, which was conducted by municipal authorities and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, suggest that despite efforts to contain its spread, Mumbai’s poorest places may have unwittingly pursued the controversial strategy of herd immunity. This describes an approach in which infection is allowed to run through a population to faster neutralize the pathogen’s threat. The idea is controversial not only because of the risks to those who get infected, but because there is still debate over how much immunity an infection leaves, and how long it lasts. Some studies have shown antibody counts dropping after only a few months, creating the possibility of re-infection, though there’s been little evidence so far that re-infection has been occurring in this pandemic. Some experts have raised the possibility that other immune cells continue to provide immunity even after antibodies fade. About 57% of surveyed people in the slums of Dahisar, Chembur and Matunga had antibodies in their blood, compared to 21.2% found in an April study in New York City, and 14% reported in Stockholm in May. A “hands-off” approach has been criticized in places like Sweden, where it appears to have resulted in more deaths than neighbouring countries that implemented lockdowns. But the findings from Mumbai’s slums, where the population is young and less predisposed to severe cases of Covid-19, may support public health strategies more focused on protecting the vulnerable without trying to suppress the virus completely. The study’s authors noted the results suggests asymptomatic cases constitute a large part of all infections. With social distancing more or less impossible, Mumbai’s slums are singularly well-suited for the coronavirus’s spread. Dharavi, the largest, packs a population as big as San Francisco’s into an area the size of New York’s Central Park, with as many as 80 people often sharing a public toilet, and families of eight regularly packed in a 100-square-foot room. Yet the slums have seen steep drops in infections in recent weeks after cases first erupted in April, even as India’s overall cases grow at the fastest pace globally. Credit has largely been given to the intensive containment measures officials implemented in the slums, like door-to-door health screenings and rapidly-erected quarantine facilities. The serological findings suggest another possibility: the crisis may be largely over because the virus has spread efficiently, not because it was stopped. “One explanation is they did an excellent job containing it, the other is that herd immunity has been reached,” Muliyil said. “The virus does its work. The virus doesn’t worry about your quarantine and it is much more efficient than your efforts to contain it.” Herd Protection To be sure, the findings should not be taken as reason to relax precautions like mask-wearing and maintaining as much physical distancing as possible, said K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India. Tests like the ones Mumbai used to conduct its survey have a tendency to throw out false positives, so the actual rate of exposure may be lower, he said. Even if the numbers are taken at face value, most of Mumbai’s slum dwellers venture regularly into the rest of the city for work or other reasons, putting them at risk of transmission to or from people elsewhere.   “It’s not really herding immunity, it’s herd protection,” Reddy said. “If you wander out to another herd which has had a lower degree of exposure, there’s no such protection.” For Muliyil, what the government’s containment measures did achieve in the slums is help keep mortality rates low, because the proactive surveillance ensured that cases were caught early and given high-quality care. Of a population as big as a million people, Dharavi has recorded 253 deaths. New Delhi study Growing immunity may also be behind the dip in cases in the capital city of New Delhi, said Muliyil, where a study in early July found that a quarter of the population had been exposed. Epidemiologists generally believe that infection levels must reach 60% to create herd immunity. But exposure concentrated in the populations least able to socially distance, like slums, could still slow the overall spread of infection if those who’ve been better able to protect themselves continue to do so. In Mumbai overall, new cases dropped to the lowest tally in almost three months this week, although the July antibody survey found only 16% had been exposed to the virus among those living in places where social distancing is more feasible, like apartment buildings and houses. Hospitalizations seem to be going down in both of India’s hardest-hit major cities, another indication their outbreaks may be easing. Still, there have been persistent reports of cases and deaths being under-counted around India, raising skepticism over whether infections are truly dropping in Mumbai and New Delhi. The Delhi government was recently censured by a court for basing its numbers too heavily on antigen tests with high rates of false negatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/herd-immunity-may-be-developing-in-mumbai-s-poorest-areas-867723.html
31-07-2020||Panorama||Reverse diabetes with management||Technology and better understanding of how blood sugar levels fluctuate in the body are leading to a paradigm shift in the treatment of diabetes. If your blood sugar level is elevated and you are in the pre-diabetic or early diabetic stage, you can take heart from the fact that a simple diet and lifestyle management regimen can reverse the condition and prevent the onset of diabetes.  India is fast-heading towards turning into the diabetes capital of the world. Increased stress levels, sedentary lifestyles and poor diet have been the major causes of diabetes over the past two decades. It is estimated that around 75 million people in India are diabetic. India has the second-highest diabetic population in the world, with China leading with over 115 million. One in six people in the world with diabetes is in India. These are alarming figures.  A key to understanding how your body reacts to the food you consume is in continuous monitoring of your blood sugar levels. We have the technology to do this with a simple subcutaneous chip implanted in your arm that records sugar levels. The food items that push up your sugar level and the hours in the day when it remains elevated becomes clear over a week’s recording. This enables an endocrinologist to analyse the behaviour of your pancreas and its insulin-generating capacity. This data is then used to arrive at a management regimen that is most effective. In the past, you were put on medication without complete understanding of your physiology, merely on the basis of one test. One single fasting and postprandial blood test showing a high sugar level was enough for a prescription of a drug to bring it down. Now, with continuous monitoring possible for a better understanding of what is causing the spike in sugar level, the management has become more efficient. If you are in the high-risk group – high stress, sedentary lifestyle, overweight or diabetic parents – it is advisable to monitor your blood sugar levels regularly. At the first hint of pre-diabetes – the stage where the levels are elevated but within limits to be declared diabetes – you need to go in for continuous monitoring to detect causes and patterns. A fasting blood sugar level of 100-124 and postprandial level of 140-200 is pre-diabetes and indicates that the onset of the disease is imminent. On detection of pre-diabetes – the stage before diabetes – a smart combination of diet and exercise can reverse the condition to prevent the onset or delay it. The data from the continuous monitoring will tell you what food groups lead to a spike in your sugar levels and also at what times through the day it is elevated. This helps an endocrinologist plan management through the combination of diet and activity.  Excessive consumption of carbohydrates through foods made of rice such as idli and dosa leading to a spike in sugar levels will mean the pancreas has to work hard to bring it down. This stress on a weak pancreas will decrease its efficiency and lead to an earlier onset of diabetes. An understanding of the correlation between your food intake and sugar levels will help you plan your diet far more efficiently with minimum pressure on the pancreas.  Ideally, carbohydrates should constitute 40 per cent of your diet while micronutrients, protein and fat should contribute 30, 20 and 10 per cent respectively. Here, the diet plan needs to avoid those foods that lead to a spike in your sugar levels. An efficient management plan will prevent the need for drugs at the initial stages of diabetes. Smart management with lifestyle will strengthen the pancreas and keep diabetes at bay, without the need for medication. Exercise is a must Any form of cardio exercise burns blood sugar. It also tones the muscles that in turn draw sugar from the blood. This is a natural method of bringing down the sugar level. Yoga is known to cut the stress level as well as build the body’s metabolism. All this combines to manage sugar level. Smart management can reverse the condition of elevated sugar levels and prevent the onset of diabetes.  (The writer is an endocrinologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/reverse-diabetes-with-management-867725.html
31-07-2020||Right in the Middle||Footwear conundrum||Seeking assistance to remove and wear footwear by VIPs is considered as 'VIP racism', VIP culture', 'colonial mindset', 'practice of aristocracy', 'servility', so on and so forth. This is, however, a way of dismissing a nagging issue superficially. The matter needs to be analysed in detail before drawing arbitrary conclusions. The problem, as one sees it, has a great deal to do with our practices and culture. Irrespective of what footwear one wears, one would be required to dislodge them at various places. We cannot wear footwear while entering places of worship, we are also required to remove them while entering residences. Some commercial establishments display ''leave your footwear outside'' boards. In fact, while leaving one's residence one would not be sure where one would be required to remove his footwear and how many times. There are too many places and objects in our country which are considered sacrosanct. Some officers also are imbued with this aristocratic mentality. A government organisation in which I had worked was headed by a bureaucrat who had made it a rule that no one entering the chamber should wear footwear. Of course, just as every rule has an exception, this footwear rule also had one:: the rule did not apply to that bureaucrat. Then, what is the problem? The first problem is, of course, irrespective of what footwear it is-slippers, chappals, sandals or the shoes- when removed from the feet and kept elsewhere, there was the distinct possibility of their being stolen. There have been instances when even VVIPs have been the victims of the theft of footwear! The next problem is the exclusive preserve of the shoes. Removing them and again wearing them at odd places, is not an easy task for many of us. At most the places where one is required to remove footwear, there is no arrangement to sit. I have, on occasion, lost balance and managed to hold on with the help of a side-wall, railings or the shoulder of someone. What about the socks? Should they be removed along with the shoes? Removing them is a more tedious task, and, if one does not remove them they get soiled. As for myself, since discretion is the better part of valour, at some point of time in service, I decided not to wear shoes except on formal occasions where shoes appeared to be more appropriate. Post-retirement, the shoes that I had purchased while in service stand majestically on the shoe-rack with a thick coat of dust having settled on them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/footwear-conundrum-867722.html
31-07-2020||Second Edit||Save the lions, not false pride||The Gujarat forest department recently announced an increase in the population of Asiatic lions in the state from 523 five years ago to 674 now. The Gir forest sanctuary, which covers eight districts of the state, is the only home of the lions and a 29% increase in their numbers is very welcome. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took pride in tweeting the “good news”. But some doubts and reservations have been expressed by wildlife experts who have questioned the methodology adopted in the census, held on June 5 and 6. It was a limited operation conducted by about 1,400 forest officials who observed the lions near their watering holes. The lockdown is said to have made an elaborate census difficult. The 2015 census, which was undertaken by a larger group, including officials, experts and volunteers, is considered more transparent and reliable. It is felt that the actual count of lions could be less or more than the 674 announced now, with some experts feeling that a lower figure is more probable.  Any discussion on the count of lions in Gir has always brought up the issue of their safety in their only home. Many experts have felt that the sanctuary is overcrowded, and the territory not large enough for the growing number of lions. Many Gir lions have died in recent years for various reasons. Twelve of them perished in a flash flood in 2016; at least 25 of them died of an outbreak of canine distemper virus (CDV) and babesiosis in 2018. A babesiosis outbreak was reported this year also, which caused the death of around two dozen lions. Higher figures have also been cited for the deaths from diseases. Some have been killed by rushing vehicles. The lions in Gir are said to be vulnerable to diseases because of inbreeding. All this has strengthened the case for relocation of some lions to another sanctuary. The Kuno Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh has been found ideal and preparations have been made for shifting some lions from the Gir sanctuary to Kuno. But the Gujarat government has resisted the idea and has been unwilling to part with any lion.  Modi had also opposed the proposal when he was the chief minister of Gujarat. The Supreme Court had ordered the shifting of some lions to Kuno in 2013, but the order was never implemented. Modi and his successor in Gujarat consider the lions to be the state’s pride and do not want to share it with another state. But that attitude may be endangering the lives of the few hundreds of them that survive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/save-the-lions-not-false-pride-867718.html
31-07-2020||South||Tamil Nadu govt renames three Metro Rail stations in Chennai after Anna, MGR & Jaya||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced renaming of three Metro Rail stations here after late Chief Ministers C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa. According to a government order, the Alandur station will be called 'Arignar Anna Alandur Metro', the Central Metro as 'Puratchi Thalaivar Dr M G Ramachandran Central Metro' and the CMBT station as 'Puratchi Thalaivi Dr J Jayalalithaa CMBT Metro.' Chief Minister K Palaniswami said the stations have been renamed after the state government accepted the recommendations of a high-level committee. He also listed out the steps taken by the AIADMK government under Jayalalithaa in implementing the Metro Rail project in the city. On the second phase of Chennai Metro Rail, the chief minister said the Rs 61,843 crore project comprises three corridors: Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Light House to Poonamallee and Madhavaram to Sholinganallur, spanning 118.9 km. "The state government has passed orders and we are currently awaiting Central nod and funding," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-renames-three-metro-rail-stations-in-chennai-after-anna-mgr-jaya-867831.html
31-07-2020||South||Telangana reports 1,986 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths||Telangana reported 1,986 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 62,703. With 14 more deaths, the coronavirus toll in the state rose to 519, a state government bulletin said on Friday, providing data as of 8 pm on July 30. While the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the hotbed of the virus spread in the state, continues to report a high number of cases, there has been a significant rise in the number of cases being reported from different districts, including Ranga Reddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy, Warangal Urban and Karimnagar. Out of the 1,986 fresh cases, 586 were from the GHMC, followed by Medchal-Malkajgiri (207) and Ranga Reddy (205) districts, the bulletin said. The other districts which reported a substantial number of cases include Warangal Urban (123), Karimnagar (116) and Sangareddy (108). The case fatality rate in the state was 0.82 percent, while it was 2.20 percent at the national level, it said. As many as 45,388 people have recovered from the infection so far, while 16,796 were under treatment. The recovery rate was 72.3 percent in the state, while it was 64 percent in the country. The number of individuals in-home/institutional isolation was 10,632. The number of asymptomatic cases (of those under home isolation) was 84 percent, it said. The bulletin said 21,380 samples were tested on July 30, the highest in a single day so far. Cumulatively, 4,37,582 samples have been tested. Talking about age and gender-wise Covid-19 positive details, it said 65.6 percent were male, while 34.4 percent were female. On comorbidities status among deaths, it said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 percent. The percentage of deaths due to Covid-19 was 46.13 percent. The number of vacant isolation, oxygen and ICU beds was 11,179 and 2,268 and 1,352 respectively, the bulletin said. It said RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT testing facilities in government were 16 and 23 in the private sector. It also said 320 rapid antigen testing centres have been set up by the government. The government provided a list of laboratories, list of rapid antigen testing centres, details on the status of beds in government and private hospitals, the lists of containment zones in GHMC and in different districts. The bulletin said the government has made elaborate arrangements for treating Covid-19 patients and that sufficient beds are available in government hospitals. The call centre number for helpline, telemedicine and grievances is 104. People can contact 9154170960 on WhatsApp for any grievances pertaining to private hospitals/laboratories, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-reports-1986-new-covid-19-cases-14-deaths-867845.html
31-07-2020||South||Puducherry Covid-19 tally reaches 3,467; 174 new cases||A 56-year old woman succumbed to coronavirus in Puducherry, taking the toll to 49 while a single-day high of 174 new cases was reported. The 174 fresh cases took the overall tally in the union territory to 3,467, Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar said in a release on Friday. While there were 1,323 active cases, 2,095 patients have recovered and were discharged while the fatalities stood at 49, he added. The woman died at the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday evening, Mohan Kumar said. The 174 cases were identified at the end of testing of 973 samples during the last 24 hours showing a positivity rate at 17.9 percent while the fatality rate was 1.4 percent. Of the 38,734 samples tested so far, 34,606 were found to be negative and results of examination of the remaining samples were awaited, the Health Department Director said. While 135 of the 174 new cases were admitted to hospitals in Puducherry, 13 were admitted to the government GH in Karaikal and the remaining 26 were admitted to the GH in Yanam region, he said. Mahe continued to have one patient without any new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-covid-19-tally-reaches-3467-174-new-cases-867862.html
31-07-2020||South||Muslims in Kerala celebrate a low-key Bakrid amid Covid-19 pandemic||The Muslim community in Kerala on Friday celebrated Bakrid amid the Covid-19 pandemic, adhering to the strict health protocols laid down by the government. As per the guidelines, 100 people would be allowed in large mosques, but strict health protocols, including social distancing norms, wearing of masks and using sanitisers have to be followed. Mosques in containment zones cannot allow people to perform the namaz. Large Idgahs have not been allowed this year due to the pandemic. The famed sweet market (Mittayi theruvu) in Kozhikode which usually bustles with activity during the Id festival, wore a deserted look as it is in a containment zone. In his Eid greetings, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan wished all Keralites and said, "May Bakrid, which glorifies sacrifice and eternal faith in the Almighty, inspire us to remain united through love, compassion and mutual support, both in our daily lives and in our fight against Covid-19." Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also wished the people on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/muslims-in-kerala-celebrate-a-low-key-bakrid-amid-covid-19-pandemic-867893.html
31-07-2020||South||Gold worth Rs 1.66 crore seized from 11 air passengers in Hyderabad||Smuggled gold weighing 3.11 kg and valued at Rs 1.66 crore was seized at the international airport here from 11 passengers, Customs officials said on Friday. According to Customs officials, the passengers, who arrived here from Dammam (in Saudi Arabia) by a Vande Bharat Mission flight on Thursday had "concealed the gold" (bars) in the inner pocket of their trousers which they were wearing. Based on suspicion and profiling of the passengers, cases were booked against 11 passengers for allegedly "smuggling" of gold and they were being questioned. In another case, Customs in coordination with CISF detected five passengers who were trying to smuggle out sandalwood and a total of 78.5 kg of sandalwood was seized from them at the airport on Thursday. The five passengers were to travel from Hyderabad to Khartoum (in Sudan). Further investigation is being conducted by Customs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-worth-rs-166-crore-seized-from-11-air-passengers-in-hyderabad-867921.html
31-07-2020||South||Nine die in Andhra Pradesh after consuming sanitiser||At least nine people died after allegedly consuming sanitiser in Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh on Friday, police said. Prakasam district Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, who visited Kurichedu Mandal headquarters, said the people had been consuming sanitiser for the past few days, mixing it with water and soft drinks. "We are also investigating whether they laced the sanitiser with any other toxic substances," the SP said. "Their family members say these people have been taking sanitiser for the past ten days. We are sending the sanitiser stocks, being sold in the area, for examination," the SP added. Kurichedu is currently under lockdown due to spurt in coronavirus cases and as such the liquor vends are also shut for the past few days. Habitual tipplers, however, were said to be consuming sanitiser that has alcohol content, apart from illicitly distilled arrack. Two beggars near a temple were the first to fall victim on Thursday night. While one of them was found dead at the spot, another died in the government hospital in Darsi town, police said. A third person was also taken to the Darsi hospital late on Thursday night after he fell unconscious but he has declared brought dead. Six others who took ill after allegedly consuming sanitiser succumbed on Friday morning. A couple of other persons, who also complained of some problems after consuming sanitiser, were undergoing treatment at their residences in the village, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nine-die-in-andhra-pradesh-after-consuming-sanitiser-867954.html
31-07-2020||South||10 dead in Andhra Pradesh's Prakasam district after consuming sanitisers to get high||At least 10 people have died in the last two days in Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh after consuming sanitisers which became widespread in this Covid-19 pandemic. Most of these deaths are from Kurichedu town which is under lockdown due to the spurt in the Covid-19 cases. Several among these victims are beggars and daily labourers who took to consuming the high alcohol content sanitisers since alcohol was not available because of the closed liquor outlets. According to the police, quite a few people were found to be consuming sanitisers mixed with cool drinks and other toxic substances in the last few days. The first victims were two beggars at a local temple in Kurichedu, who, according to the locals, have been consuming sanitisers for the past few days. While one of them died near in the town on Thursday, another succumbed in the government hospital at nearby Darsi. Another person Ramanaiah who was found drinking sanitizer mixed with arrack also died by the time he was taken to the Darsi hospital on Thursday night.  Seven more people who consumed sanitisers in Kurichedu died on Friday.   Prakasam district superintendent of police Siddharth Kaushal visited Kurichedu on Friday and said that they are sending the samples of the sanitisers sold in the area for testing besides examining if the victims consumed the sanitizers after mixing with any other noxious liquids. Though the Jaganmohan Reddy government has hiked the liquor prices by about 75 per cent to deter people from queuing up at the wine shops in the pandemic situation, serpentine crowds are witnessed at the liquor outlets. Opposition TDP leader Chandrababu Naidu blamed the YSRCP government for the deaths. “10 deaths in Kurichedu is shocking. People are dying often in the state consuming local arracks, spurious liquor, and sanitisers but there is no action from the government. Why is the government not taking action on arrack manufacturers?” Naidu questioned on twitter. The Reddy government has announced the gradual phasing out of liquor from the state and has been reducing the number of outlets, which it took under its control last year. “Hiked prices in the name of the new policy, the supply of cheap brands, liquor mafia are the reasons for such incidents,” Naidu further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/10-dead-in-andhra-pradeshs-prakasam-district-after-consuming-sanitisers-to-get-high-867969.html
31-07-2020||South||Miraculous escape for aged woman from drowning||An aged woman had a miraculous escape after being washed away in a river at Pathanamthitta district in Kerala. Omana, 68, of Thirvalla was washed away in the Manimala river for several kilometres on Thursday. Some people spotted the woman and immediately one local native Reji Varghese rescued her using a country boat. She regained consciousness after first aid. Omana, who stay near the river bank with her son, was suspected to have slipped into the river in the morning. Her son had approached the police about his mother missing since early morning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/miraculous-escape-for-aged-woman-from-drowning-867975.html
31-07-2020||South||Jaganmohan Reddy's contentious three capital bills get Andhra Pradesh Governor's nod||In a major impetus for chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy’s plans of constituting three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, the state’s governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan assented to the capital decentralisation bills on Friday. The Reddy government had, in January, introduced two bills in the legislature - one to strip the Amaravati region of its capital status and other to set up three capitals for the state – the executive at Visakhapatnam, legislative capital at Amaravati and judiciary at Kurnool. The much contentious blueprint is being opposed by the principal opposition TDP and other parties. The Amaravati locals especially the region’s farmers are in an agitation mode since 17 December, when Reddy announced his intention to dismantle former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu’s plans of a world class, mega capital in the Guntur district. The Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions bill, 2020 and another one to repeal the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Act, 2014 were approved by the assembly on 20 January where the ruling YSRCP holds a huge majority. But the bills were referred to a select committee for further deliberations by the chairman of the council where the opposition TDP holds sway. Given the YSRCP’s disapproval, the committee could not be established. The bills were again passed by the assembly on 16 June during the short duration budget session. After a month’s time elapsed, the YSRCP government sent the bills for the governor’s nod, under the provisions of Article 197 of the constitution. The state head’s nod came now.   Telugu Desam Party chief Naidu termed the Governor’s nod for the bills as “a historic blunder.” “Who else would do justice to AP’s people, when the Constitutional head of the state takes such an unlawful decision in violation of the AP Reorganization Act 2014. This is a 'black Friday' in the history of Andhra Pradesh,” Naidu lamented.  Though the governor’s consent allows the enactment of the act thus clearing the legislative hurdle, the Reddy government still has to face the legal hurdles in the form of cases in the Andhra Pradesh high court challenging the three-capital move. And given the alarming Covid-19 pandemic situation in the state, where over 1.4 lakh cases are registered, analysts are unsure when the capital shifting could actually take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jaganmohan-reddys-contentious-three-capital-bills-get-andhra-pradesh-governors-nod-867977.html
31-07-2020||South||Jagan government reinstates Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as state election commissioner||The Jaganmohan Reddy government has reinstated Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as the state election commissioner over two months after the Andhra Pradesh high court’s orders to such extent. CM Reddy had then even accused the SEC as functioning unilaterally and in a partisan manner. However, on 29 May, based on petitions challenging the removal, the AP HC has ordered Nimmagadda’s reinstatement with immediate effect, while cancelling the appointment of Justice V Kanagaraj, a retired judge of the Madras High Court, in his place. The YSRCP government, appearing reluctant to restore Nimmagadda to his position, had approached the Supreme Court in the matter. But the apex court refused to permit any stay on the high court orders. Following the HC’s direction, Nimmagadda met AP governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan earlier this month seeking his restoration in the SEC chair. The governor then directed the state government to implement the HC orders. “In accordance with the orders of Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh in WP No.8163 of 2020 and batch cases Dt.29.05.2020, I, Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, Governor of Andhra Pradesh, hereby, restore the position of Dr.N.Ramesh Kumar, IAS(Retd.,) as State Election Commissioner. This Notification is subject to outcome of the SLP(C) No.7294 of 2020 filed by the State of Andhra Pradesh, in the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India,” a 30 July notification said. A government order issued by Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, principal secretary, panchayat raj and rural development department said that the notification was following the HC orders. Nimmagadda is expected to resume charge on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-government-reinstates-nimmagadda-ramesh-kumar-as-state-election-commissioner-867991.html
31-07-2020||South||Prasad Studios tampering with my music composition: Ilaiyaraaja||The battle between music legend Ilaiyaraaja and Prasad Studios, inside whose sprawling campus the former’s music studio is located, took an ugly turn on Friday. Ilaiyaraaja knocked at the doors of the Chennai Police Commissioner accusing the management of Prasad Studios of “breaking open his music studio” and selling his “invaluable composition notes” surreptitiously in the black market for a “huge sum.” Ilaiyaraaja, who has scored music for over 1,300 films encompassing all South Indian languages and Hindi, has been functioning out of his office-cum-studio inside the Prasad Studios for the past 25 years. However, the equation between the music composer and Prasad Studios changed rapidly after Sai Prasad, grandson of late film producer L V Prasad, took over the management. A case filed by Ilaiyaraaja against Prasad Studios restraining the management to interfere in the functioning of his office is pending in a court here. The latest accusations by Ilaiyaraaja against Prasad Studios are serious in nature as he alleges that the management has started “destroying or removing or tampering my musical instruments and notes.” “All my invaluable composition notes are lying there, and I received credible information that they are being sold surreptitiously in the black market for a huge sum,” the music composer said in his complaint. The keys of the music studio, Ilaiyaraaja said, was in his “lawful possession” and alleged that management of Prasad Studios have broken open even his personal room in the suit premise and have removed all “valuable materials”. “The worth of some of the materials cannot be quantified by way of money. I have learnt through my known circle that Mr Sai Prasad through his men has been removing, stealing, and damaging many of my belongings and articles which are worth several crores. Therefore, necessary action to be taken against the miscreants and my belongings to be recovered immediately,” Ilaiyaraaja said. However, there was no reaction from Prasad Studios until the time of writing. Calling the action by the management as “daylight robbery and grand theft”, Ilaiyaraaja has asked the police to take immediate criminal action against them to ensure that his compositions are not damaged. Tamil film industry sources said Ilaiyaraaja was asked by the late L V Prasad to set up his studio inside the Prasad Studios premises and it served as the music composer’s second home for decades together. A controversy broke out in late 2019 after Sai Prasad asked Ilaiyaraaja to vacate the premises so that he can continue with his renovation plan. The sources said the music composer’s offer to take the premises on the lease was also rejected by the Prasad Studios management. Prasad Studios has been very dear to Ilaiyaraaja as he used to spend most of his time a day in his studios composing music. His colleagues have been maintaining that Ilaiyaraaja should be allowed to use his studios throughout his lifetime as evicting him from the ‘temple of music’ would not be the right decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prasad-studios-tampering-with-my-music-composition-ilaiyaraaja-868005.html
31-07-2020||South||Old age home inmates among 1,310 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala||Around 35 members of an old age home in the coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram were among the 1,310 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Kerala on Friday. With 864 more getting recovered, the total active cases in Kerala stood at 10,495. The fresh cases also included 425 who tested positive on Thursday, the results of which were delayed owing to technical snags. Members of an old age home of Missionaries of Charity at Kochuthura, about 25 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city, were tested Covid-19 positive. It includes 27 aged persons. Six of the infected were nuns. The area comes under a Covid-19 cluster identified earlier. There are around 50 members in the old age home, said local ward member Biju Poulin. The Covid-19 scenario in Thiruvananthapuram was alarming. With 320 more fresh cases, the total active cases in the state capital reached 3,078, which is much ahead of other districts. Special bus to Karnataka The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation will be operating special buses to Karnataka from Kasargod on Saturday for the convenience of students appearing for a medical engineering entrance examination. Around 340 students from the district were expected to attend the entrance from Kasargod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/old-age-home-inmates-among-1310-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-868036.html
31-07-2020||South||JD(S) to petition Governor on 'anti-farmer' amendments to acts||The JD(S) on Friday decided to petition the Karnataka Governor on the state government's "anti-farmer" amendments to acts, days after threatening a state-wide agitation on the issue. "We have convened a meeting of our party MLAs, defeated candidates and district presidents at the party office on August 4 to discuss details about protests against the anti-farmer amendments by the state government," former Prime Minister and JD(S) leader H D Deve Gowda was quoted as saying by his office in a release. He said they had also decided to hold a separate meeting with presidents of JD(S) taluk units later at the party office. "On all these matters, we will also write a letter to honourable Governor," he said. The party would also bring to the Governor's notice, the state government not convening the assembly session, he said. Gowda had on Tuesday threatened to launch a state-wide stir against the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and had demanded its immediate rollback. He had also spoken against amendments to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act. Principal opposition Congress too has planned protests, along with some farmers organisations, demanding withdrawal of the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, that liberalises agricultural land ownership. Gowda further said there was no need to unnecessarily create an issue by dropping lessons on Tipu Sultan from school textbooks and added that the government must take a decision that is acceptable to all. "There are many residential schools in the name of Tipu in Gulbarga, Bijapur, Srirangapatna, Ramanagara, Dharwad. When government opened those residential schools there was no opposition," he said. Chapters on controversial 18th century Mysore ruler Tipu Sultan and his father Haider Ali were among those dropped from the class 7 Social Science test books, following the Karnataka government's decision to reduce syllabi for 2020-21 due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, the government subsequently asked the Karnataka Textbook Society (KTBS) to put on hold the trimmed syllabus of books that omitted chapters on Tipu Sultan, following criticism from various quarters. On BJP leader and MLC C P Yogeshwar's charge that his son and former Chief Minister H D Kumarswamy was indulging in "adjustment politics", Gowda said, "there is no need for Kumaraswamy to do so. "...Is there any proof for the allegation made by him? Politicians should not simply talk about anyone lightly." Yogeshwar had yesterday alleged that the JD(S) leader was trying to "adjust" with the government for his political survival, referring to Kumaraswamy's recent outbursts against Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jds-to-petition-governor-on-anti-farmer-amendments-to-acts-868044.html
31-07-2020||South||Kerala: Foetus found in Madrassa teacher’s house||Remains of a foetus were recovered from the house of a Madrassa teacher, who along with six of his friends was accused of sexually assaulting his minor daughter, at Nileshwaram in Kasargod. Police suspect that the foetus had a growth of around three months and was abandoned about one month ago. While six persons, including the girl’s father, were already arrested, one accused is absconding. The girl’s mother has been suspected of concealing the crime. The police have registered a case under sections of Pocso on July 20 on the basis of the girl’s statement. The girl had shared her ordeal with her uncle. Subsequently, the matter was reported to the police. A police officer said that based on the information received, the search was carried out at the premises of the house on Thursday and recovered the remains. The girl’s pregnancy was supposedly aborted five weeks back by giving some medicines and the foetus abandoned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-foetus-found-in-madrassa-teacher-s-house-868084.html
31-07-2020||South||V Narayanasamy announces extension of lockdown till August 31||In line with central guidelines, Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy announced on Friday that the lockdown now in force here has been extended till August 31 but with relaxation in restrictions. Addressing reporters at the end of a cabinet meeting, the chief minister said the territorial administration would fall in line with the Centre`s guidelines on easing of curbs during the shutdown. All shops and establishments would be permitted to do business from 6 am-9 pm every day as against 6 am-8 pm now. The chief minister said curfew would be strictly enforced and would be in force from 9 pm-5 am the next day. Narayanasamy said there would be no 'total lockdown' on Sundays as it would mean inducing people to throng shops and markets on Saturdays inuncontrollable numbers. Fearing that there would be big rise in number of Covid-19 patients in the Union Territory ranging between 2,600 to 6,000 at the end of August 31, the chief minister said the government had finalised steps to ramp up infrastructure facilities and appointment of additional health professionals. He said the Union Territory now had death rate at 1.4 per cent as against 2.5 per cent at the national level. All places of worship would adhere to the norms and guidelines evolved by the Centre. Narayanasamy said while Puducherry and Karaikal would have the lockdown and easing of curbs till August 31 as per Centre's guidelines, Mahe and Yanam regions would adhere to the pattern of lockdown adopted in neighbouring Kerala and Andhra Pradesh in which these regions are contained as enclaves of Puducherry. He thanked the private medical college hospitals for responding to the plea of the government to make facilities including beds available for accommodating coronavirus stricken patients. "The management of centrally administered JIPMER had assured to earmark 150 beds more in the hospital for accommodating the patients referred by the territorial government," the chief minister said. As part of the guidelines,no political party or any organisation would be permitted to hold demonstrations, dharnas or agitations and this ban would be strictly enforced. There should be no big turnout of people at social functions and funerals as there was necessity to prevent spread of the virus. People should adhere to social distancing and those who were above 60 should avoid venturing out as it had been seen that 70 per cent ofthe 49 people who had succumbed to the infection so far were sixty years and above, Narayanasamy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-narayanasamy-announces-extension-of-lockdown-till-august-31-868122.html
31-07-2020||South||Committed to bringing back all stranded Indians abroad, Centre tells High Court||The Centre on Friday informed the Madras high court that it is committed to bringing back all Tamils stranded aboard in a phased manner. It further undertook to operate as many flights as possible to evacuate the last Indian stranded abroad due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. "The government has proposed to operate 792 flights in phase V all over the world and out of which 127 flights are to be operated for Tamil Nadu alone. These operations shall be from August 4 to August 31, " the Centre said. The submissions were made in the plea moved by DMK seeking direction to the state government to permit operation of such rescue flights to Tamil Nadu. When the plea came up on Friday, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha recorded the submissions and disposed of the plea. In a memo filed by the Centre, it was submitted that the ministry of external affairs has operated 1,248 flights the world over in Phase-I, Phase-II, and Phase-III. This apart, it has proposed 1,203 flights in Phase-IV as of July 28 of which 130 flights are operated to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/committed-to-bringing-back-all-stranded-indians-abroad-centre-tells-high-court-868160.html
31-07-2020||South||NEP: Centre 'imposing' reforms that were against states' rights, says M K Stalin||DMK President M K Stalin on Friday lashed out at the BJP-led NDA's new National Education Policy (NEP), saying the Centre was "imposing" the reforms that were "against states' rights, social justice and pluralism." The Leader of the Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly also sought to know the ruling AIADMK's stand, particularly on the three-language policy, pointing out that the state has for long favoured only two languages. "The new education policy, being imposed by the BJP government, is against states' rights, social justice, India's pluralism and will push future of youth into darkness," he said in statement here. He recalled that DMK and other opposition parties opposed NEP, but charged the K Palaniswami-led AIADMK government of being "silent" on the matter. Stalin particularly singled out the three-language formula proposed as part of the reforms, saying it went against Tamil Nadu's two-language system propounded by the DMK founder and late Chief Minister C N Annadurai, who heralded the first non-Congress government in Tamil Nadu post-independence in 1967. The two-language formula, comprising Tamil and English, had proven to be effective for long and Anna had said "there is no place for the dominance of Hindi," Stalin said. The Centre was now trying to "impose" Hindi and Sanskrit through NEP, he charged and questioned what was the stand of the AIADMK on the matter. He said AIADMK's late chief ministers, M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa had never allowed "the domination of Hindi" and asked if the current dispensation had chosen to "betray them." Incidentally, school education minister K A Sengottaiyan had on Thursday said the Tamil Nadu government will respond to the NEP after a detailed discussion with Palaniswami on August 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nep-centre-imposing-reforms-that-were-against-states-rights-says-m-k-stalin-868175.html
31-07-2020||State||BJP MLC claims H D Kumaraswamy, D K Shivakumar indulging in 'adjustment politics'||Newly nominated MLC and BJP leader C P Yogeshwar on Thursday claimed top leaders of JD(S) and Congress were indirectly supporting the state government and were indulging in "adjustment politics". The actor-turned-politician alleged while JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy was trying to "adjust" with the government for his political survival, state Congress chief D K Shivakumar wanted Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the BJP government to continue. Both Kumaraswamy and Shivakumar dismissed his claims. Referring to Kumaraswamy's outbursts against Congress, Yogeshwar told reporters here: "If we take into consideration this, he is completely supporting our government." He said Shivakumar "talks about Congress in the morning, but during the night comes to the Chief Minister to seek his cooperation and blessings... he too internally wants this Chief Minister and BJP government to continue." "I appeal to JD(S) leaders and workers, when Kumaraswamy is supporting us (BJP), you people think about it and come to BJP... Join hands with our party and support the government, let's all work together....," he added. Yogeshwar faced defeat in Chennapattana constituency against Kumaraswamy in 2018 assembly polls as BJP candidate. He was once considered Shivakumars protege and had now turned foe. Hitting back, Shivakumar claimed Yogeshwar had come to him about 15 days ago with a request to join Congress and asked whether he had gone 'mad' now. Kumaraswamy in his reaction to Yogeshwar's comments said that he has never indulged in adjustment politics. He said, "I had spoken about support to the government at the time of floods and corona in the interest of the people without indulging in politics. Making inferior comments interpreting it however one wants was not good for anyone."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-mlc-claims-h-d-kumaraswamy-d-k-shivakumar-indulging-in-adjustment-politics-867698.html
31-07-2020||State||9 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 2 police personnel, in Kodagu take tally to 400||Covid-19 cases in Kodagu district crossed the 400-mark with the recording of nine fresh cases including two police personnel, on Friday. The total cases in the district stand at 408. DC Annies Kanmani Joy said that of the nine cases, seven were tested using RT-PCR method and two with the use of rapid antigen kits. The two who were tested using the rapid antigen kits are a 32-year-old woman, who is the primary contact of the Covid-positive patient from ITI junction Madikeri and a 10-year-old boy, who is the primary contact of a patient from Kakotuparambu in Virajpet. Following the recording of fresh cases, the district administration has notified three more containment zones -- Near Kalpavriksha building Goulibeedi Madikeri, Police quarters near Maithri hall in Madikeri and Near Basaveshwara temple Huluse in Kushalnagar. Eight containment zones --  Basavanahalli 2 in Somwarpet, 1st block Bhagavathi nagar in Gonikoppa, Jambur bane in Madapura, Near Shivaparavthi temple in Margodu,   Paremajalu Muttarmudi, Neergunda in Kodlipet, Maithrinagar in Ponnampet and Uruguthhi in Kodlipet have been denotified after no fresh cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/9-fresh-covid-19-cases-including-2-police-personnel-in-kodagu-take-tally-to-400-867828.html
31-07-2020||State||Furnish details on availability of ventilators online: Mangalore MLA U T Khader||Several poor patients are forced to move around in search of hospitals for treatment due to lack of availability of oxygen-supported bed facilities, ICU beds and ventilators, alleged Mangalore MLA U T Khader. “What is the use of empty beds without the ICU and the ventilators for patients suffering from breathlessness? Among every 10 ventilators in hospitals, only two are reserved for Covid-19 patients,” Khader said. Speaking to reporters, he said the district administration should furnish details on the availability of the ventilators online. The details should be uploaded daily. The beds in private hospitals should be converted into oxygen-supported beds. The district administration should control private hospitals, he said. Further, he said the non-availability of sand had affected the construction of houses by the poor. The rich and influential purchase sand by paying Rs 18,000 to Rs 20,000 per load. Taking a dig at District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary’s statement on DC’s transfer, he said the minister should give reasons for the transfer. “There is a rule that an officer should not be transferred before completing one-and-a-half-years to two years from a particular place. When I was the Minister, such transfers did not take place. How can development works be initiated if DC’s are transferred within six months. The DC has been transferred amid the Covid-19 situation.” He asked, “Why have minister and MLAs failed to condemn the incident of miscreants issuing death threat to the DC (Sindhu B Rupesh) on social media?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/furnish-details-on-availability-of-ventilators-online-mangalore-mla-u-t-khader-867844.html
31-07-2020||State||Elephant electrocuted in Chikkamagaluru||A male elephant was found dead in a maize field at Emmedoddi in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru on Friday. The officials said that the elephant was electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire. DCF N H Jagannath visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/elephant-electrocuted-in-chikkamagaluru-867858.html
31-07-2020||State||Board for unorganised workers on cards||The state government is planning to set up a board for unorganised workers on the lines of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said that a bill would be tabled in the next Assembly session for constituting a board for unorganised workers. He was speaking at a meeting of the labour department and representatives of labour unions here on Friday. The minister said that factories should survive the Covid pandemic and the jobs of labourers too need to be protected. He emphasised on the need for cordial relationship between the management and labourers in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/board-for-unorganised-workers-on-cards-868090.html
31-07-2020||State||CET passes off on a smooth note on Day Two||The day two of the Karnataka Common Entrance Test (KCET) concluded on a smooth note on Friday. A total of 90.23% students wrote Physics while 90.19% appeared for Chemistry paper, slightly lower than 2019. The total number of students registered for KCET, this year, was 1,94,419.  “We conducted the exams to ensure that no academic activities would stop due to pandemic. I would like to thank all students, parents, officials and all stakeholders for this success,” said Higher Education Minister Ashwath Narayan. According to the students, Chemistry paper was easy while Physics was slightly difficult. On day two students felt that the Chemistry paper was easy and Physics slightly difficult.  Vasanth Lenin, a student of Deeksha, Indiranagar, said, “The paper was easy and the time provided was adequate to finish it. The questions were the type to make you think a little. The health precautions undertaken were good and we were all comfortable. The KCET is only the first of several other competitive exams to come, so I am gearing up for those.” “The Physics paper was moderately difficult. It was quite lengthy, and there were some tricky conceptual questions. The health and safety measures undertaken for today’s exam was good. It felt good to finally write the exam after such a long wait.” said another student. 63 Covid +ve students write CET A total of 63 students, who tested positive for Covid-19, appeared for Physics and Chemistry papers. “We have set a model to the entire country by allowing even those tested positive for Covid-19 to appear for test by making special arrangements,” said Ashwath Narayan.   On the concluding day on Saturday, as many as 1,881 Horanadu and Gadinadu Kannadiga students have registered to write Kannada language test. The test will be held at centres in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bidar.  Helpline flooded with calls The helpline set up by KEA received over 200 calls by students seeking assistance, including the last-minute change in centre, enquiries on user IDs to download admission tickets, downloading admission tickets and seeking face mask.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cet-passes-off-on-a-smooth-note-on-day-two-868092.html
31-07-2020||State||New education policy: Private schools in a fix on medium of instruction||The New Education Policy-2020 has sparked a fresh debate on the medium of instruction, putting school managements in a fix in the state. The NEP 2020, which brings several reforms in the primary and higher education sectors, has said the medium of instruction up to Class 8 will be the home language/regional language or a local language of the state. This has put the school managements in confusion. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “Imposing language restrictions is a contempt of court. The Supreme Court had quashed a ruling which stated that a mother tongue or a regional language should be taught compulsorily. The court said in its ruling that choosing a language should be left to the parents. Imposing languages to learn is unconstitutional.”  “This is the same case which we fought in the court and again the NEP has created confusion. We request the Central Government to consider this particular point and make necessary changes. Or else, we may have to approach the court again,” he added. The experts also sought to know what will happen to the more than 1,000 English medium schools started by the state government. “Will these schools have to be shut now because the local or the home language in Karnataka is not English?,” they said.  Officials from the primary and secondary education and the higher education departments said that they will have to study the entire policy before commenting on this.  Relevance of NAAC  Meanwhile, the relevance of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) is at stake with the National Education Policy proposing to set up the National Accreditation Council. The NAAC is headquartered in Bengaluru. However, Dr Virander Singh Chauhan, executive chairman of NAAC, clarified that the NAC would be monitored by NAAC. “Setting up of NAC is a good idea and it will monitor all accreditation agencies, including the private players who may be allowed in future. But it does not mean that NAAC will disappear. I don’t think there would be fundamental changes except for overseeing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-education-policy-private-schools-in-a-fix-on-medium-of-instruction-868094.html
31-07-2020||State||No law against it: HC on Covid-19 lab in residential area||The Karnataka High Court has dismissed a PIL challenging the setting up of a Covid-19 testing laboratory in a residential locality. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka held that the petitioners could not cite statutory provisions preventing the setting up of a Covid laboratory in a residential locality. Two Nagarbhavi residents S Gangappa and V Shiva Murthy, the petitioners, said the private lab is located between two main roads of Nagarbhavi with 51 houses. Their petition urged the court to direct the cancellation of the permission given to the lab. They claimed the lab was not taking precautions which could further the spread of coronavirus. The petitioners also said the lab had queues throughout the day. The court observed that people forming a queue outside the lab is not a danger to the local residents and directed the petitioners to approach the relevant authorities if the lab fails to adopt precautionary measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-law-against-it-hc-on-covid-19-lab-in-residential-area-868141.html
31-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID Care train coaches will be Karnataka govt's last option||As many as 320 railway coaches that were converted into COVID Care Centres with a capacity of 2,560 beds will remain idle for two more months as the state government has decided to use them only in the worst-case scenario.  The South Western Railway (SWR) spent Rs 30,000 on each coach, and readied 320 of them by the first week of May. Each coach can accommodate eight to 16 patients depending on how many tiers are used.  The state had to only appoint nodal officers to requisition the trains and the manpower. But not a single coach has been used so far. SWR had agreed to depute paramedics and provide oxygen cylinders and other items in the coaches, besides planning segregation of biomedical waste.  An SWR official said they were ready to deploy the coaches whenever the government wanted them. "But as of now, we haven't received any official request. We can make the necessary arrangements within a few hours of getting the request."  Asked why the government was not utilising the coaches, a senior official attributed it to the "reluctance" of doctors and healthcare workers. "Many doctors say it's difficult to access and move around in the coaches while wearing the PPP equipment. We have told the government that the coaches should be used only when we exhaust the beds elsewhere."   Meanwhile, a task force headed by IAS officer Rajender Kumar Kataria has been taking over public halls and hostels so as to convert them into COVID Care Centres. Apart from setting up nearly 3,000 beds in nine centres, the government opened the country's largest Covid facility at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-care-train-coaches-will-be-karnataka-govts-last-option-867710.html
31-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Ban tobacco, gutka, pan masala: Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala asks CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Governor Vajubhai R Vala on Friday asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to consider banning the sale and distribution of tobacco, gutka, pan masala and “all types of pouches” being used for drugs in disguise. According to a statement, Vala suggested the ban to curb the use of drugs. “...in the name of gutka, drugs are being sold in the state. Due to this, youths and students are getting addicted and they are in danger,” the statement said. “The chief minister said that the issue will be discussed and action will be taken, and if necessary an ordinance will be brought about this,” it added. This was the second time Yediyurappa met the Governor in less than two weeks, sparking off speculation that a Cabinet rejig is around the corner. But this was not discussed, according to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who accompanied Yediyurappa to Raj Bhavan. “The Governor called CM and me to discuss a few things. He appreciated the government’s efforts on Covid-19. We also discussed the need to take more steps going forward,” Bommai said. “He also appreciated our efforts in waging a war on drugs. He said we should go big on our cyber crime and anti-drug operations.” Vala asked the government to make use of Ayurveda and homeopathy medicine to treat Covid-19. “The Governor said that Ayurveda should reach people in a big way so that resistance power can increase,” Bommai said. Yediyurappa last met Vala on July 22. This was followed by Vala nominating five people to the Legislative Council that included former ministers AH Vishwanath and CP Yogeshwar, who are ministerial aspirants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ban-tobacco-gutka-pan-masala-karnataka-governor-vajubhai-vala-asks-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-867925.html
31-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to appoint 700 lab technicians to ramp up Covid-19 testing||The Karnataka government has decided to appoint 700 lab technicians and an equal number of data entry operators on a contract basis to ramp up testing in various districts, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19. "To maximise the testing by completely utilizing the capacity of Covid-19 labs, it has been decided to appoint 700 lab technicians and an equal number of data entry operators immediately," Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar tweeted. According to the proceedings of the government, these lab technicians and data entry operators are for conducting Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT), and their appointment will be for the period of 6 months or until further orders. A total of 13,50,792 samples have been tested so far, out of which 36,936 were tested on Friday alone. Among the samples tested today 22,164 were rapid antigen tests. Sudhakar in another tweet said stringent action will be taken against private hospitals which do not cooperate with Arogyamithras (nodal officer) deployed by Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust. Non-cooperation with Arogyamithras, who facilitate triage and ensure that information on bed availability is updated on the dashboard, will not be tolerated, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-appoint-700-lab-technicians-to-ramp-up-covid-19-testing-868082.html
31-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka will implement NEP from August: S Suresh Kumar||Karnataka will strive to implement the new National Education Policy from August itself, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said on Friday. The minister was in conversation with the Draft National Education Policy Committee head Dr K Kasturirangan on Friday through video conference where the former told him that the state has also formulated its draft policy, which will be merged with the NEP. "Within a fortnight, both the policies would be merged to bring out a separate policy for the state and dedicated to the public by August 20," Kumar told Kasturirangan, who is a former ISRO chairman. Kumar said Karnataka will be at the forefront to implement the policy systematically. According to Kumar, the NEP is a complete policy which has been formulated after 34 years making it future ready. "Through quality education to all, the new policy will create a lively and stable society. Karnataka is eager to implement this policy," Suresh Kumar said during the conference. The NEP proposes some sweeping changes in the education sector including doing away with M Phil and four year's UG courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-will-implement-nep-from-august-s-suresh-kumar-868087.html
31-07-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka purchased RT-PCR kits at thrice the price||The Karnataka State Drugs, Logistics and Warehousing Society (KSDLWS) paid at least three times the price for RT-PCR and RNA extraction kits, documents with DH show.    The state-run agency clubbed the purchase of RT-PCR and RNA extraction kits, which is being seen as a way to conceal the price of each kit procured in May when the pandemic was peaking and a lockdown was in place.  The B S Yediyurappa administration is already facing several allegations in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment and supplies. According to documents, states like Odisha and Gujarat procured RT-PCR and RNA extraction kits separately, whereas KSDLWS clubbed them both and purchased them at a higher price. While Odisha purchased the RT-PCR kit for Rs 550 per unit, it paid Rs 100 per RNA extraction kit from a Hyderabad-based company. Gujarat placed a purchase order for 25,000 RNA extraction kits at Rs 179 per unit from the same firm.  Also from the same firm, Chhattisgarh purchased only RT-PCR kits for Rs 571.2 per unit.  However, the cost of RT-PCR and RNA extraction kit — manufactured by the same Hyderabad-based firm, but supplied through a Bengaluru-based company — purchased by KSDLWS was Rs 1,120. The KSDLWS purchased kits for 35,000 tests at a cost of Rs 3.92 crore at the end of May, with no break-up on the cost of each RT-PCR and RNA extraction kit. When contacted, KSDLWS additional director N Manjushree said the procurement was based on the indent received from the National Health Mission (NHM). But according to NHM Mission Director Arundathi Chandrashekar, who took charge recently, indents are given based on the necessity of testing labs. “But the final decision regarding procurement is generally taken by the KSDLWS,” she said.  Speaking to DH, Deepak C N, general secretary, Karnataka Rashtra Samithi, said the issue will be tagged with the complaints filed by them with the Public Accounts Committee and the Anti-Corruption Bureau. He charged that the ACB complaint dated May 12 made little headway. “According to the ACB, they have sought permission from the government to launch a preliminary enquiry. The government has not permitted filing an FIR yet,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-purchased-rt-pcr-kits-at-thrice-the-price-868196.html
31-07-2020||West||Gujarat Technological University system hacked, 1,200 students' personal data leaked||The personal information of almost 1,200 Bachelor of Engineering (BE) students, including their photographs, PAN card, Aadhaar card and Voter ID details were leaked on the Gujarat Technological University website, after its system was hacked on Thursday. It was GTU’s BE eighth-semester students’ documents, uploaded by them for online exams that were leaked. “When we declared that we would be filing a complaint with the police, soon after that the link stopped working,” said Sheth. “It has been verified that the system was hacked, and the hacker will also be identified. There was no exam-related information like question papers that was hacked and leaked,” added Sheth. The University has registered a complaint with the Ahmedabad Cyber Crime Cell following and an investigation has been launched into the case. “We have started an investigation into the case but no FIR has been lodged as of now. We have received a formal complaint from the authorities and as per the probe, the decision to file a case will be taken,” said J M Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Cyber Crime according to the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-technological-university-system-hacked-1200-students-personal-data-leaked-867789.html
31-07-2020||West||13 corporators from villages earlier part of KDMC disqualified||The administration of the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) in Maharashtra's Thane district has disqualified 13 corporators from 18 villages, which were earlier part of the civic body. Civic Commissioner Vijay Suryawanshi issued the disqualification order on Thursday night. The development comes months after the Maharashtra government announced that the 18 villages that were part of the KDMC will get a separate body called Kalyan Suburb Municipal Council. Total 27 villages in Kalyan tehsil had been demanding for years that they be separated from the KDMC, saying that they were not getting any benefits of being a part of the municipal corporation. In March this year, the Shiv Sena-led MVA government had issued a notification to form a separate council for 18 of the 27 villages. However, nine other villages would continue to be a part of the KDMC. Talking to PTI on Friday, a KDMC spokesperson said, "The civic commissioner issued the disqualification order on Thursday night after getting approval from the Konkan divisional commissioner." These 18 villages are Ghesar, Hedutane, Umbroli, Bhal, Dwarli, Manere, Vasar, Ashele, Nandivl Ambernath, Adivli- Dhokli, Daudi, Chinchpada, Pisavli, Golivali, Mangaon, Nilje, Sonarpada and Kole. As per the order, the corporators who have been disqualified are Moreshwar Bhoir, Ramakant Patil, Soni Ahire, Urmila Gosavi, Kunal Patil, Pramila patil, Prabhakar Jadhav, Damayanti Vaze, Jalindar Patil, Indira Tare, Vimal Bhoir, Shailaja Bhoir, and Sunita Khandagale. With their disqualification, the effective strength of the otherwise 122-member KDMC has come down to 109.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/13-corporators-from-villages-earlier-part-of-kdmc-disqualified-867843.html
31-07-2020||West||Congress questions Goa govt's plan to build new Raj Bhavan||The Congress in Goa on Friday criticised the Pramod Sawant-led BJP government over its plan to construct a new Raj Bhavan building in the state and asked for the need of it when the state was facing a cash crunch. The chief minister had recently said that a new Raj Bhavan complex would be constructed in Goa and works like identification of land would be initiated soon. In a statement, Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) chief Girish Chodankar alleged that the BJP government was planning to rent out the Raj Bhavan building to a private firm to run a casino, spa and resort. "The chief minister had admitted during the one-day assembly session that the state's finances are in a bad shape. Despite that, the government announced projects like construction of new Raj Bhavan building and renovation of the Assembly complex, which need crores of rupees," he said. Hitting back at the Congress leader, Goa BJP chief Sadanand Tanavade said, "Chodankar should first know the facts before making irresponsible statements."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-questions-goa-govts-plan-to-build-new-raj-bhavan-867909.html
31-07-2020||West||Public gatherings banned in Bhiwandi, Palghar on Bakrid||The civic body in Bhiwandi city of Maharashtra has urged citizens to celebrate Bakrid at their homes and not assemble in public places, especially mosques, to prevent the spread of coronavirus, an official said on Friday. The gathering of people in large numbers is not advisable in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, said Dr Pankaj Ashiya, municipal commissioner of the Bhiwandi Nizampur Municipal Corporation. Issuing an order to the effect, he also appealed to the citizens to conduct the 'qurbani' ritual in a symbolic manner during the celebrations on August 1. Palghar district collector Dr Kailas Shinde also issued a similar order banning Bakrid celebrations in public places. Meanwhile, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) revoked the permission given to Bail Bazar locality, where cattle were being sold for the upcoming festival. The concession was revoked as citizens were seen flouting the social distancing norms and violating the lockdown, the KDMC chief stated in an order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/public-gatherings-banned-in-bhiwandi-palghar-on-bakrid-867916.html
31-07-2020||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi government won't survive for long as no unity among allies: Raj Thackeray||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress will not last long as there is lack of unity among the ruling allies, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray said on Friday. On Covid-19, he said it was necessary to dispel the fear that people have in mind about the disease. "I can't see this government surviving for a long time...it is not my wish that it should fall. But the government, in which there is no unity (among the ruling partners) and who don't consult each other, will not survive for a long time," Thackeray said. He made the remarks while speaking during an event organised by a Marathi news channel. When asked about his opinion on wearing a mask during the pandemic, Thackeray said, "It is not required." The MNS leader recalled that the media had asked him questions when he did not wear a mask while attending an all- party meeting convened by the chief minister at Mantralaya in May this year to discuss the Covid-19 situation. "I did not wear a mask then (during the meeting) and never did after that," he said. "When reporters asked me outside Mantralaya about me not wearing a mask, I said you are presenting news wearing a mask and hand gloves. 120 media persons were tested then, of whom 55 tested positive despite wearing masks. "But those 55 recovered later. Some of my people (staff) too were infected, but they recovered...I am not some medical expert, but there are some instances before me and can speak from that," he added. Thackeray, however, said that instructions about precautions to be taken must be followed and called for maintaining hygiene properly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-government-wont-survive-for-long-as-no-unity-among-allies-raj-thackeray-867951.html
31-07-2020||West||Shiv Sena 'betrayed' poll mandate for Maha CM post: Prakash Javadekar||Union minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar on Friday said the Shiv Sena had "betrayed" the mandate of the 2019 assembly elections just to get the Chief Ministers post in Maharashtra. The Shiv Sena had snapped ties with the BJP, its pre-poll ally and long-term partner, and joined hands with the Congress and the NCP after the election results to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in November last year. "The BJP and the Shiv Sena fought the Lok Sabhaand later the assembly elections (in Maharashtra) under (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi's leadership and got the mandate for another term. "But, the Shiv Sena betrayed the mandate and joined hands with two parties who had been defeated in the elections just to get the chief ministers post," Javadekar said at an event organised by a Marathi news channel. The Information & Broadcasting Minister claimed differences exist among the ruling MVA allies in Maharashtra. "The recent history cannot be forgotten. There are inner contradictions among the present ruling allies and the obvious will happen," he said, in an apparent reference to the stability of the Shiv Sena-led government. Javadekar said the Congress has been left alone at the national level. "Whatever issues Rahul Gandhi raises like the China issue, has no takers from other opposition parties as well the within the Congress. "This is because the Congress has become family-centric," he said. The minister said the Delhi Metro was a classic example that environment protection and development can go hand-in-hand. "There are 300 stations and 50 lakh commuters use the environment-friendly metro. Five lakh cars are not on the roads (due to the metro system)," said the BJP minister who also holds the Environment, Forest & Climate Change portfolio. He likened the BJP with the river Ganga. "The BJP is like flow of the river Ganga. Those who join the BJP see improvement in their work culture," he said. Javadekar said the government is considering merging film units of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry like Children's Film Society and Films Division into one entity so that existing resources can be utilised effectively. "Mumbais place as a premier entertainment production centre will be protected, he said. He said the environment ministry's scheme of creating "jungles" in cities is taking off from Pune. "We want jungles to be created on forest land in cities. Mumbai has a natural forest cover in form of the Sanjay Gandhi National Park," Javadekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-betrayed-poll-mandate-for-maha-cm-post-prakash-javadekar-868027.html
31-07-2020||West||Shekhar Suman meets Governor, demands CBI probe into Sushant case||Hours after Bihar police recorded the statement of Sushant Singh Rajput's companion Ankita Lokhande, the demands for a CBI probe grew in Mumbai on Friday.  Amidst refusal by the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government to hand over the probe to the CBI, the BJP demanded that the case be handed over to the apex probe agency.  Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the CBI and ED must handle the case.  "There is a huge public sentiment about handing over Sushant Singh Rajput case to CBI but looking at the reluctance of state government, at least ED can register an ECIR since misappropriation and money laundering angle has come out," said Fadnavis, a senior BJP leader and former Chief Minister. Later in the evening, veteran actor and TV presenter Shekhar Suman met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan and presented to him a memorandum demanding CBI investigation in the Sushant Singh Rajput case.  Shekhar Suman was accompanied by Asif Bhamla and Arun Motwani, a Raj Bhavan spokesperson said. Meanwhile, the Patna police team recorded the statement of Ankita Lokhande, who along with Sushant had acted in TV serial Pavitra Rishta. Ankita and Sushant were together for six years, before they broke up in 2016.  It was after this that actor Rhea Chakraborty entered the life of Sushant. Ankita said that though she was not in touch with Sushant,  she had a good bonding with his family. "I really have a good bond with the sisters and daddy," she told a news channel. "Sushant was never the kind of person who would commit suicide over money issues... People do spend money on each other in relationships... If he spent 15 crores on the alleged companies formed by him and Rhea.. this is something we all want to know more of," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shekhar-suman-meets-governor-demands-cbi-probe-into-sushant-case-868055.html
