01-09-2020||Opinion||Out of control: Wildfires in California||Sir — As wildfires ravaged California in the United States of America, people were forced to check into hotels as most could not be accommodated in evacuation centres while adhering to social distancing norms. In spite of precautionary measures, the state expects a spike in Covid-19 infections. With over 7,00,000 confirmed cases, California’s healthcare resources are already stretched thin. Unless there is substantial aid from the federal government and help from other states, it will be difficult to control the crisis. 
Paramita Sarkar,
Calcutta About time Sir — It is heartening that seven chief ministers of Opposition-ruled states have demonstrated a keenness to put up a united fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre in a virtual meeting with the Congress interim chief, Sonia Gandhi (“Common vision”, Aug 28). The long list of complaints against the BJP include the unprecedented strain on the federal structure of the country, the toppling of elected governments in several states, the misuse of investigative agencies and the mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic among others. Thus, a united and strong Opposition is the need of the hour. In January 2019, prior to the Lok Sabha elections, several key leaders of the Opposition, including Sharad Pawar, H.D. Deve Gowda, N. Chandrababu Naidu and Farooq Abdullah had come together for a massive rally in Calcutta organized by the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee. While they are all strong leaders, it must also be remembered that they, too, have consistently failed to uphold the rule of law in their own states. In this hour of need, the Opposition parties must rise to the occasion. They should prepare a common vision document, take a clear and unequivocal position against archaic draconian laws, uphold the autonomy of the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Reserve Bank of India and initiate police reforms. These leaders must rise above their individual political aspirations and place the interests of the people at the forefront. It is only then that the country can hope to come out of this predicament. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The editorial, “Common vision” (Aug 28), rightly points out that the leaders of the parties in Opposition should have deliberated much earlier on the failures of the BJP-led government at the Centre. But it is better late than never. The meeting among the seven chief ministers along with Sonia Gandhi has provided the common people with a glimmer of hope that the BJP might finally be held accountable for its actions. The lack of a strong oppositional voice in countering the Centre’s claims that Chinese troops have not infringed upon the territorial sovereignty of the nation in Ladakh is a cause for concern. This meeting has led to the belief that the Opposition parties will finally discharge their duties to the best of their abilities and uphold the democratic ideals enshrined in the Constitution. Sumit Kumar Das,Hooghly||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||Fine balance: Prioritizing education||Inequalities must not become the new normal. Restrictions to check the pandemic have led to the closure of schools and colleges, kindling the demand for education to go online. This, in turn, has given rise to numerous concerns about accessibility, with vast sections of the population, especially underprivileged students, getting left behind since they are either unable to afford the technology or live beyond its reach. A recent survey by Unicef shows that these concerns are not unique to India. Nearly 463 million children worldwide have been deprived of education since schools closed owing to Covid-19, says the report. It also found that even when children had access to the necessary platforms, learning remotely was not always possible owing to such factors as the pressure to do domestic chores, the need to earn wages, a poor environment for learning and so on. Exclusion is not the only problem. Another recent study in West Bengal has reported that child labour among school-going children has increased by a shocking 105 per cent in the state during the lockdown, with girls, unsurprisingly, faring worse than boys. Poor access to learning seems to be having a domino effect, aggravating  other social ills like malnutrition, child marriage and gender equality. Prioritizing education in the budget as well as investments in digital literacy and infrastructure would be the first steps to bridge these gaps. But to imagine that the radical shift to online education is the way forward would be simplistic. Classrooms are diverse, vibrant learning spaces; clubbing them into a homogenous online model would destroy the ideal of inclusive pedagogy. Online education must thus complement formal systems of schooling — the opening of schools as early as possible is one of the suggestions of the Unicef report. The pandemic has exposed the shortcomings of both traditional and online modes of teaching. The former suffers from stagnation — the same method of one-way dissemination of information has killed the spirit of learning. Yet, online education — even if it became accessible to each student — would put many students at a disadvantage owing to the absence of the right learning environment. Take, for instance, the fact that in India, 71 per cent households with three or more members have dwellings with two or less rooms. The role of online resources should be that of a facilitator, opening up a world of opportunities and information for all students, be it at home or in school.  The problem lies in thinking that new technologies can replace tried and tested models of learning without dangerous consequences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||Locked up: Minority trials and convictions||Can life behind bars hold a mirror up to the world outside? This is, by no means, a rhetorical query. The latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau on the disproportionate share of India’s minorities — Dalits, Muslims and tribal people — among undertrials and convicts in prisons for the year, 2019, raise some uncomfortable queries. The numbers and the relevant anomalies are staggering. Muslims, with a population share of 14.2 per cent, form 16.6 per cent of all convicts and 18.7 per cent of India’s undertrials. For the tribal constituency — it comprises 8.6 per cent of India’s population — the figures are 13.6 per cent and 10.5 per cent, respectively. The Dalits, consisting of 16.6 per cent of the population in 2011, made up 21.7 per cent of convicts and around 21 per cent of undertrials. The corresponding figures for segments that are not on the margins — upper caste Hindus, for instance — are revealing. It is estimated that this group forms 19.6 per cent of the total population but their share among undertrials and convicts stands at 16 per cent and 13 per cent. The representation of other backward classes in these two categories in terms of their ratio to their total population is not that bleak either. Taken together the data are far from reassuring. There is reason to believe that India’s investigative apparatus harbours biases. This, again, is a reflection of deeper societal prejudices that seem to have contaminated institutions that are integral to the law-and-order ecosystem. What is worrying is that legal redressal continues to elude citizens on the periphery of not only the economy but also the national imagination. The slow wheels of justice play a role too. The consequences are obvious. The criminal justice system remains exclusionary, in favour of the privileged while the poor have minimal chances of affording quality lawyers or attaining bail. One way out would be fairer representation from these targeted communities in the police and the courts. But their dismal socio-economic capital implies that the creation of representative agencies would take time. The onus, therefore, would be on the legal fraternity to take the law to the poor. Expanding the scope of free legal aid should be pursued. However, not much is likely to change unless political will coalesces with public pressure to bring justice to those who have been deprived of it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||The horror returns: US troops' Afghan departure||Every political actor, from the Taliban to the United States of America, is in trouble in Afghanistan, whose descent into hell begins with the April 2021 US troops’ withdrawal. The US’s February peace deal with the Taliban merely prolongs the agony of a Kabul government with an attrited military steadily losing territory to the Taliban and its proxies, which control 20 per cent of the mountainous landlocked state and contest another 50 per cent with US-led occupation forces. Should the US leave behind a 5,000-man counter-terrorism force as debated or even delay the pull-out going against the campaign promises of the presidential candidates, Donald Trump and Joe Biden, it could provoke a defection of Taliban hard-liners to the Islamic State-Khorasan, upsetting the fragile balance of power in Afghanistan. The IS-K and its mother organization, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, want a caliphate everywhere where Muslims are settled while the Taliban’s ambitions are restricted to Afghanistan. Between the IS-K and the Taliban, states with Afghan interests — the US, China, Russia, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey, the Arab nations, India — consider the Taliban less odious. Nevertheless, the Taliban’s problem is that they cannot abjure violence because of the IS-K threat: regular bloodletting also keeps the pressure on Kabul and the US. Since the peace deal is threatened by proven Taliban violence, this is outsourced, ironically, to the IS-K, which masterminded a recent Jalalabad jail-break to the benefit of mostly Taliban inmates. The anti-India, pro-Pakistan, semi-autonomous Taliban outfit headed by Sirajuddin Haqqani tasks the IS-K for the proxy violence on behalf of the Taliban. Significantly, separate US-Kabul and Taliban military operations ahead of the peace deal had depleted the IS-K’s power without eliminating it. The IS-K is biding time for the Taliban to mess up.Shifting sands Preparing for the US pull-out in 2021, state actors with Afghan interests are aligning relations. The bloc comprising Russia, China, Iran, Turkey and Pakistan seems to be ahead. Problems with both Pakistan and China leave India out of this. Pakistan’s deep ties with the Taliban, especially the Haqqani Taliban with its history of violence against Indian assets in Afghanistan, cannot be ignored. It is hard to forgive the Taliban for its role in the IC-814 hijacking. Security agencies have working relations with the Taliban but they are not political. Iran helped out with the Taliban, but the ties have soured over Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and so on. Preoccupied with racism and the Covid-19 crises in an election year, the US has nothing of substance to offer to New Delhi. India’s predicament may be somewhat worse but it is not isolated. While grudgingly accepting the Taliban insurgency, the US cannot countenance the global terrorism of the IS-K or the Taliban’s ally, al-Qaida, in Afghanistan. Russia, China and Iran want the US out of Afghanistan but share its terrorism fears without knowing what to do. And while Pakistan may see the Taliban in power as vindication of its efforts and sacrifices and an opportunity to get even with India, a relapse of violence and terrorism to the advantage of the IS-K or al-Qaida could spark existential problems. The IS-K, after all, is constituted in the main of Pakistan Taliban veterans persecuted by the Pakistan army. Afghanistan is a country of rivalrous tribes and warlords that even Islam and xenophobia cannot unite and insulate from neighbourhood interference and terrorism and spur nation-building. With all its faults, the American occupation brought hopes of change and modernization and an escape for Afghan women from medievalism. The nightmare returns. Plus ça change.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||A plan is not in place for Dhaka||The Indian foreign secretary, Harsh Vardhan Shringla, was in Dhaka on August 18 and 19 with a message of peace and friendship. Before leaving the Bangladesh capital, he said his visit was “short but very satisfactory”. The seasoned diplomat, who had a successful stint as the Indian high commissioner in Bangladesh, didn’t elaborate on the reasons for calling the visit, which was planned barely 36 hours before the special Indian air force flight landed in Dhaka, satisfactory. However, a scrutiny of his engagements in Dhaka reveals that the career diplomat had several reasons to call the visit satisfactory. The most important of them was his one-on-one meeting with the prime minister, Sheikh Hasina Wajed, that went on for over an hour on Day One of his visit. Although no senior official from the government came to receive or see him off at the Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport and the Bangladesh foreign minister, A.K. Abdul Momen, was conspicuous by his absence in Dhaka during his stay in the capital, the fact that Shringla met Hasina, who hasn’t even met her party’s secretary, Obaidul Quader, for over five months was no mean feat. The visit drew all the attention in Dhaka and was undoubtedly the headline news. The who’s who of Dhaka, including businessmen and senior media personalities, were literally queuing up outside Pan Pacific Sonargaon to call on Shringla, the boy from Darjeeling who, later, went to Mayo College, Ajmer, and St Stephen’s College, Delhi. Shringla also held a bilateral meeting with his Bangladeshi counterpart, Masud Bin Momen, and they discussed an entire gamut of issues, ranging from collaboration for developing a coronavirus vaccine to the creation of an air bubble for travel between the two countries. The moot question, however, is whether the foreign secretary was able to deliver on the mandate of communicating the message of peace and friendship from India. For South Block, Bangladesh under Hasina has been a trusted friend and an ally. Even though the Chinese footprint has been expanding in the country and Pakistan has been trying to woo Dhaka aggressively, a significant majority in the foreign policy establishment in India has always been confident that Dhaka, despite the steady rise in anti-India sentiments in the country, cannot afford to look beyond New Delhi. Shringla’s sudden visit, which was made public barely 12 hours before he landed in Dhaka, was probably planned based on this hypothesis. The second important question about the visit is whether Dhaka responded according to Delhi’s expectations. Finding the answer to the first question is not that difficult if one analyses the coverage of the visit in mainstream media and the comments in social media. The Bangladeshi press, often accused of toeing the government line more diligently than is expected of them, produced some matter-of-fact reports on Shringla’s visit without getting into the details. Social media, however, was flush with Bangladeshi nationalistic pride that India — scared of advances by China and Pakistan — was desperately trying to reach out to Dhaka and that became the predominant narrative. If the visit of the senior-most diplomat of a big neighbour is seen as an act of desperation, there is little doubt that the message of peace and friendship didn’t trickle down. Now, if the response of the host country — the second question — is analysed, the pay-off seems to be dismal as the Bangladesh government was silent about the high point of Shringla’s visit. There was no official briefing on what transpired between the two at Gono Bhaban, the official residence of Hasina. The moment was not even captured on camera by the official photographer at the Prime Minister’s Office. The answers to the two important questions about the visit highlight certain deficiencies, which India, as the bigger neighbour, needs to address so that Bangladesh doesn’t become another Nepal. First, there is a major public relation failure by the Indian establishment in Bangladesh. The present approach — no point making much effort as Bangladeshis will always criticize India — smacks of hubris. Second, adhocracy can’t replace deft diplomacy if South Block is serious about its immediate neighbourhood. Instead of a sudden trip, New Delhi should have planned it better so that it yielded the desired outcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
01-09-2020||Opinion||Different ideas||Urjit Patel’s virtual dismissal and Viral Acharya’s resignation from the Reserve Bank of India are old news. Its capture by the Delhi government is extreme even by Indian standards; but no word of explanation came from North Block. Now, both have given their own accounts. Of the two, Patel’s Overdraft is more scholarly and impenetrable. Let me try and explain what it says. It is common for Indian businessmen to borrow from banks and then default on repayment and interest. Suing them to recover the money takes years; so banks routinely take security in the form of mortgage on the borrower’s assets, which they can get hold of and sell if the borrower reneges. That does not help them much; the borrower usually goes to court, and the bank cannot realize the security while the case travels up through the courts. The government has made laws from time to time to help banks collect bad debts. Manmohan Singh initiated The Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act in 1993; 33 debt recovery tribunals were set up under it. They were supposed to decide a case within six months, but they took four years on an average. Then the defaulter would appeal against their judgment to one of the five debt recovery appellate tribunals, where he could count on delays of some more years. Then came the high courts, which could be persuaded to intervene although the Supreme Court had told them not to. So the RDBFI Act proved pretty useless to banks. The Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act was passed in 2002 to enable banks to collect debts without recourse to courts. They could take over assets pledged as security by borrowers and recover their loans by selling them. But that too led defaulters to go to court against banks; it made little difference to the length of the legal process. So in 2016, Arun Jaitley introduced the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, which provides for liquidation of a business that cannot service its debts, provided its creditors can act together. It aims to create an entire industry specializing in liquidating businesses that cannot repay their debts. Their creditors can approach a new Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India, which would register and regulate insolvency-professional agencies. They would take over a defaulting business and either revive it or liquidate it and distribute its net assets amongst creditors. The industry is still to emerge. Banks’ bad debts are one theme; Patel’s other theme is the way government forces the banks it owns to buy its debt and finance its fiscal deficit. As a result, bank money which should have financed productive private investment and contributed to economic growth is wasted in government consumption; Patel calls this banking sector fiscalization. Banks recover some of their losses on bad debts by charging good borrowers higher interest; this raises the cost of investments. On banks’ bad debts, the RBI followed what Patel calls the “9R” strategy: Recognize the bad debts; make a Record of them; start Reporting any changes in them; Recover them; Resolve (liquidate) the businesses that cannot repay their debts; Reinforce the regulation; Recapitalize the banks whose capital had been wiped out by bad debts; Reset the controls and Ring-fence the banks that could not make provisions against bad debts; and Reform — introduce controls that would prevent the recurrence of bad debts. Jaitley went along with the strategy. He got the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code through Parliament in 2016; and Patel and he agreed that it should be the principal way of resolving the bad debts — namely, liquidate or sell off borrowers who could not repay, pay off their creditors, including banks, and write off any resulting losses. Then, the RBI issued a notification on February 12, 2019. It said that if banks could agree with their borrowers on a plan to resolve the debt, it had to be implemented within six months; and if no agreement had been reached, the borrower had to be liquidated under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. After that, the finance minister got cold feet; he started talking about relaxing or postponing the action for particular sectors and borrowers. Five banks with high bad debts, which were under Preventive and Corrective Action (that is, were not allowed to give fresh loans), were exempted from its application. The RBI was asked to give more time to borrowers. A press campaign ensued. Rather than succumb to the pressure, Patel resigned in November 2018. Borrowers went to the Supreme Court. The RBI’s advocate dropped out of the case the night before he was to appear before the Supreme Court. In April 2019, the Supreme Court declared the February notification ultra vires. Its judgment is extremely scholarly, referring to cases of no clear relevance from other countries. It ruled that the RBI could not ask any bank to take a borrower into bankruptcy without the command or agreement of the finance ministry; in other words, it disempowered the RBI in the crucial matter of dealing with bad debtors. I read the judgment, but I could make no sense of its reasoning. Acharya, who teaches in New York, was taken into the RBI as deputy-governor in January 2017. He is a Bombay boy; he stayed with his parents in Vile Parle instead of taking an official bungalow. He quotes one of his school teachers, who said, “My life is just a little matchstick, but it lit all the earthen lamps and inaugurated Diwali (the festival of lights).” As he flew down from New York to Bombay, he decided to concentrate on two things: repairing government banks, and developing financial markets as an alternative to banks. He did not get far on either; why, I have explained above. His book consists mostly of speeches he gave while in the RBI; it is a good introduction to the monetary situation as it developed in his two and a half years in India. He looks around the world and has broad interests; he educates, and often surprises. This is how he describes a central bank’s function in his book, Quest for Restoring Financial Stability in India: “A central bank can take the same stance as that of Rahul Dravid — first and foremost, protect the wicket, know where the off-stump is, leave the tempting balls outside the wicket, wait for the rank-bad ball to hit a cover drive or a pull rather than swing for fences on the first ball, especially on tricky wickets or in difficult weather conditions, and overall play the game of endurance, not of excitement — try to win the test match, not just a T20!” He would have made a good governor. That will not happen; the government will find its own homegrown henchmen, who would help it borrow and spend at our expense. Our material fate does not look bright. But we can cheer ourselves up in the meanwhile by reading people like Acharya. Let us hope he sticks to writing and speaking for our entertainment, and does not get dragged into rescuing India. Not everyone can have a well-run economy to live and thrive in; but we can generally find a good economist to read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-156
