02-09-2020||Opinion||Empty words: Modi and his Mann Ki Baat||Sir — In his monthly radio address, Mann ki Baat, the prime minister, Narendra Modi, has exhorted his compatriots to rear swadeshi breeds of dog in larger numbers and manufacture more swadeshi toys for domestic and global markets. But is the country not facing far more serious problems? The prime minister can surely take credit for the novel way in which he linked the rearing of Indian dogs and the manufacturing of Indian toys to his pet project of Atmanirbhar Bharat. But neither of the two endeavours will alleviate the distress caused to the people by Covid-19, revive the economy or halt the rising unemployment in any significant way. The other day, the prime minister was feeding peacocks on the lawns of his residence. But most of his countrymen are not in a position to emulate him and enjoy themselves. Given his carefully cultivated image as a nationalist of the first order, Modi escapes being evaluated objectively for the kind of leadership he is providing to the nation when it is in the middle of multiple crises. Unlike with most other leaders, the support for Modi that borders on worship has not dwindled in spite of his many failures — his public appeal is sustained by populist and religious rhetorics rather than any significant, demonstrable public service. One reason for this could be that he represents the right wing and is concerned with the interests of the elite. At the moment, education and awareness are considered to be the only weapons to fight the spread of Covid-19. But these are also the weapons that could help fight the scourge of blind allegiance towards a political figure. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — At a time when the economy is suffering, a deadly virus is taking lives, lakhs of aspirants for the Joint Entrance Examination and National Eligibility cum Entrance Test are left in a quandary and Chinese troops are threatening our national territory, it was quite odd that the prime minister chose to champion the cause of swadeshi dog breeds in his monthly radio address. Narendra Modi seemed equally unmindful of the global record recently set by India of the highest single-day rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, with over 60,000 deaths so far. Instead of coming out with a road map for addressing the crumbling healthcare infrastructure — reports suggest that hospitals are still turning patients away — the prime minister exhorted the domestic industries to be “vocal about local toys”. Is it really a surprise, then, that the video of this episode on his party’s YouTube channel was greeted by an overwhelming number of negative responses? Modi’s monologues are not only uninspiring, but such gimmicks are also becoming increasingly monotonous. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Time to stop Sir — Once again, a black man has been victimized in the United States of America allegedly on account of racial hatred (“US cop shoots black man”, Aug 25). The 29-year-old, Jacob Blake, was shot several times from point-blank range by a white police officer in Kenosha, Wisconsin as he approached his car. The city soon turned violent with protests against the attack, and the slogan, “My Son Matters”, found place alongside “Black Lives Matter”, a slogan raised by people seeking justice for George Floyd, who was murdered in May in Minneapolis by another white police officer. It is disappointing that even in a nation as advanced as the US, primaeval hatred against people of colour is still nurtured by many white people. Human beings continue to be oppressed on the basis of the colour of skin. This is surely not a sign of civilization. In what new way can people be taught that all human beings, regardless of their complexion, have the same colour of blood? The amount of melanin in one’s body cannot be used to discriminate against them. It is time for white people to reject racism, and turn their imagined enmity toward black people into amity. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Sir — The attack on Jacob Blake in front of his family comes on the heels of the murder of George Floyd. The US police has for long been known to discriminate against people of colour, and this attack might as well be just another instance of that. While condemning this incident in the harshest terms, Indians should introspect about their own inherent racism and casteism. The only way forward for mankind is to rid itself of such prejudices once and for all. Bani Sengupta,Howrah New trend Sir — Office etiquette has changed drastically ever since the lockdown began. As work-from-home systems have been deployed by many organizations, the demand for formal clothes has seen a setback (“WFH snips demand for formalwear”, Aug 30). Yet some corporate offices still fail to see that attire has little to do with an employee’s performance. Every time there is a virtual meeting, employees are expected to put on formal clothes. As a result, many people now pair up formal shirts with pyjamas, as only the upper half of the body is visible on screen. No wonder trouser sales have gone down. Priyanka Mitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Strange list: Annual sports awards||There is cause for concern when the numbers do not add up. The recent list for the annual sports awards approved by the Union sports ministry has, unfortunately, led to the aggravation of such concern. On the face of it, the list — the longest ever produced by the ministry — sings paeans to India’s sporting talents: on it are five Khel Ratnas and 27 Arjuna awardees. Matters get curious, though, when the possible motives that led to the creation of the list are put under scrutiny. For one, it would seem as though India has, rather miraculously, become a sporting giant in the international arena in a year when there has hardly been any sporting activity on account of a global pandemic. The assessment is thus peculiar. The men’s national basketball team captain, Vishesh Bhriguvanshi, has bagged an Arjuna even though in the last-recorded performance, the men’s team finished at the 14th place among 16 nations in the Asian Championship in Beirut. The omissions have been glaring too. Neeraj Chopra — arguably India’s only world-class track-and-field athlete — has not been considered for the Khel Ratna. The inferences are worrying. The composition of the list seems to indicate that factors other than merit and fairness may have been given precedence by the powers that be. Such speculation is bound to have a detrimental effect on the nation’s sporting ecosystem, which already suffers from the deadly combination of the ineptitude of sports officials and the apathy of politicians. This has led to India’s performances remaining below par in the international arena. This only makes the political propensity to exaggerate India’s sporting achievements and future risible. The sports minister, Kiren Rijiju, has stated that he aspires to see India among the top 10 at the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles. Mr Rijiju’s ambitions are honourable. But such an achievement can only come to pass if officials identify core sporting expertise and then implement long-term, targeted plans towards the modernization of sports that India excels in traditionally: hockey, wrestling, badminton come readily to mind. Granting autonomy to national sporting federations holds the key; the government must only be the facilitator of funds and infrastructure. A nudge to industry to make greater investments to nurture sporting talents is also an imperative. These steps could brighten the future of Indian sports, which, in turn, could make it easier to match merit with performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Cut up: Sub-categorizing reservation quotas||The purpose of reservations is the just distribution of benefits to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and socially and educationally backward classes. This principle appears to lie at the basis of the ruling by a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court last Thursday that states could create sub-categories within the legally mandated reservations limit in order to ensure that dominant groups did not seize the lion’s share of quota benefits, depriving the weakest sections. The final decision on the subject, however, would come from a seven-judge bench, since the latest ruling goes against a 2005 one by another five-judge bench that would not allow sub-categories within quotas. This issue has remained a troubled one even apart from its constitutional and legal aspects, because reservations have been increasingly used by politicians for vote-bank politics. Hence a form of positive discrimination has become tainted by political vested interests. The wary response to the court’s recent ruling is a telling example of this. The Centre had asked for the states’ views on the matter, and 17 states have rejected the idea of ‘quotas within quotas’. Evidently, there are problems in disturbing the status quo, although from the point of view of justice and ethics, reservation benefits should be targeted at the most underprivileged groups instead of being used to consolidate political parties’ support bases. Those agreeable are five states that had undertaken the sub-categorization exercise earlier. The imminent assembly elections in Bihar have made commitment to either side of the question somewhat delicate. The Bharatiya Janata Party is rather quiet. Perhaps it does not want to upset equations among Dalits and other backward classes when it seems to be doing well. Its alliance partner, the Janata Dal (United), however, seems more excited, touting Nitish Kumar’s schemes for Mahadalits, no doubt hoping it might help the party in the elections. The Rashtriya Janata Dal is more circumspect, declaring that it is not against sub-categorization, but without data from the socio-economic caste census, this would just be a tool to divide Bahujans. The party, however, has been trying to dilute the impression of being Yadav-dominated by courting Dalits and extremely backward classes. Whatever the seven-judge bench decides, it is unlikely to change the approach of politicians: reservations are all about votes, not about social justice and progress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Dealing with the deluge: Floods in India||The last few months have been the most challenging for India as it has faced a multitude of challenges such as Covid-19, earthquakes, cyclones, a locust attack, heat wave, lightning deaths and floods. The Covid-19 outbreak has crippled the economy. Massive floods have also put additional fiscal pressure. According to the ministry of home affairs, around 1,153 people were killed due to floods and landslides in 14 Indian states till August 27, 2020. The highest fatalities have been reported in West Bengal (258), followed by Gujarat (175), Assam (139), Madhya Pradesh (136), Kerala (116), Karnataka (104), Maharashtra (62), Jammu and Kashmir (45), Chhattisgarh (36) and Bihar (27). Moreover, around 17.3 million people have been adversely affected on account of upheavals that took place after floods. Assam and Bihar are the worst-affected states. In Assam, around 5.7 million people have been affected in 30 districts until August 27 and large swathes of cropland have got submerged. The moving visuals of the submersion of large areas in the Kaziranga National Park and the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary reflected the devastation caused by the floods. According to the Bihar State Disaster Management Authority, around 8.4 million people were affected by floods in 16 districts as per the data compiled till August 27. Bihar has borne the brunt of frequent floods in the last few decades mainly because it has one of the highest flood-prone areas (73.1 per cent of the total state area) among all the states. The breaching of river embankments in different parts of Bihar along with deforestation in the catchment area of the Kosi river has aggravated the silt content of the river flow. Floods are the most lethal of natural disasters in India. They account for over 40 per cent of the deaths out of all natural disasters. They are also the costliest among disasters, accounting for around 68 per cent of economic losses caused by all disasters (Emergency Events Database). Between 1980 and 2017, India experienced 235 floods, which led to 126,286 deaths and affected 1.93 billion people. The economic losses due to floods stood at a humongous $58.7 billion (EM-DAT). Moreover, around 45.35 million hectares of land are vulnerable to floods. The figure accounts for 14 per cent of India’s total geographical area. There are considerable variations in the geo-spatial distribution of rainfall, making some states more vulnerable to flooding than the rest. Our analysis shows that as per the variable of ‘liable to flood-prone area as a percentage of state geographical area’, Punjab is most prone to floods (80.4 per cent), followed by Bihar (73 per cent), Haryana (53 per cent) and Assam (48.7 per cent). Madhya Pradesh (1.1 per cent) and Maharashtra (1.1 per cent) are at the other end of the spectrum (XI Plan Working Group, Planning Commission). The population fatality by floods is the highest in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Bihar and Gujarat, with Manipur witnessing the lowest number. Also, the average total damage as a percentage of gross state domestic product is the highest in Himachal Pradesh (2.35 per cent), followed by Andhra Pradesh (1.62 per cent), Odisha (0.9 per cent) and Bihar (0.85 per cent). Maharashtra incurs the lowest damages at 0.03 per cent of GSDP. Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Manipur and Uttar Pradesh witness higher crop losses than other states (Central Water Commission). Empirical studies have also shown that flood damage has a negative impact on economic growth in the long run and considerably reduces female employment opportunities in the agricultural sector. To mitigate the impact of floods in Indian states, we suggest that the government should devise long-term disaster management policies. As a first step in this direction, it is crucial to improve flood-forecasting systems and instal flood-warning systems in low-lying areas. Second, the government should spend more on flood prevention, preparedness and mitigation measures. Third, river connectivity and construction of multipurpose cyclones and flood shelters in low-lying areas that help mitigate the loss of lives from floods should be undertaken on a mission-mode scale. Finally, the governments of Assam and Bihar should emulate the disaster management plan adopted by Odisha which is marked by regular cabinet meetings to evaluate disaster preparedness, construction of multipurpose cyclones and flood shelters, and the undertaking of district-wise Flood Inundation Mapping. These measures will go a long way in mitigating and preventing the damage caused by floods in Indian states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
02-09-2020||Opinion||Compliant and complicit||We are living a future that we are not recognizing as our present; it is taking us in, layer upon layer, in ways that we probably need to recognize if we are to be able to combat its consequences. Else we run the peril of leaving ourselves irredeemably diminished. We are living a repetition of lies — malevolent lies, constructed lies, deliberate lies; blatant, unembarrassed lies. Nothing happened in seventy years. But now we’ve arrived in achchhe din. The leader can do no wrong. Besides, there’s none other than him. Corruption has been wiped out. Women are safe, and the RSS is a cultural organization. Varanasi is galloping towards becoming Kyoto and India towards becoming Vishwaguru. We shall be tagged a five trillion dollar economy, an act of god has probably delayed things a bit, but we shall soon arrive there. A hundred smart cities are prepping in the mixer, about to spill out. All homes have been lit. There is no open defecation anymore. That is one of the reasons we have done better than most others in our fight against the coronavirus. Such lies. Or lies like the lie on the losses to the Chinese in eastern Ladakh: no one came, there’s nobody there, those that tried to come, we stared at and repelled. Passive lies too, passive as pronouns; the sudden annulment of “China” from the prime minister’s vocabulary is akin to the annulment of truth. We are living such annulment. But such are the truths handed to us by the establishment as fundamental articles of faith. We are living the wantonly piled weight of deficits upon us — the surging double-helix of unemployment and consumer prices, the bleakness of an economy wilfully mismanaged, the inspired erosion of social security, the onward-upward march of the coronavirus. We are living ridden lives — with hunger and scarcity, with joblessness, homelessness, dislocation, with uncertainties over today and cascading angst over tomorrow. What’s there to assure us that once the perils of this deathly epidemic have been contained and put away — some day, surely, though nobody yet knows — the clamour and chaos over what preceded its arrival will not again descend upon us — the flaming demagoguery and disquiet over who is Indian who is not, and how one shall be sorted from the other like rotten chaff from grain, our plurality tortured into homogeneity. We are living in the lee of such anxieties. We are living the frequent ridiculing and scorning of ourselves. In this marooning of ourselves by tough tides, we are invited to gawk at a tableau of medieval majesty, and applaud — the emperor strolling his bespoke estate, peacocks prancing and preening; the emperor cutting his path through the loops of the spectacle as if it were all so quotidian and dreary he could not be bothered to notice the splendour of peacocks at untrammelled dance; the emperor then taking a break to feed his favoured bird, a piece shot in two sequences, once seated on a sofa, once squatting on the ground; the emperor then resorting to a spell of reading, or so it appears, his favoured bird looking askance at his feet. All through this, the emperor having changed his clothes five times, probably six, it’s often tough to keep count. The visual treat is followed by an audio repast. An engaging vocal-for-local menu of dogs and the virtues of native breeds and pedigrees, and toymaking; the imperial proclamation of a nationwide meme competition staged by the official portal of the sarkar, teamed with multiple quizzing opportunities on food and nutrition. Shades of Haile Selassie feeding lions and other favoured pets in the menagerie of Addis Ababa’s Jubilee Palace while Ethiopia lay famished in her ruins. However, ours seems not to reason why, we are happy audiences to such sublime stuff of distraction from all that should really bother and concern us. We also want to live the indulgence of our delusions; we see an ascetic where there is only calculated pomp and callous extravaganza, from that cave retreat in Kedarnath to the private lawns of 7, Lok Kalyan Marg. We are a living parade of the compliant and the complicit. We clap when we are asked to clap. We turn off the lights when we are commanded to. We willingly sacrifice and suffer and believe it to be a necessary virtue because sacrifice and suffering have been so decreed. We have stopped to ask what for? Or who for? We have stopped to think for ourselves. We listen to the most absurd mumbo-jumbo with rapture and invest in ludicrous wisdoms against our good sense and knowledge. We wantonly ignore the disfiguring of our history and heritage. We seem to have forsaken our collective intelligence to embrace pure baloney, or at least we don’t seem to mind it. The prime minister spins a tale of extracting gas from the gutter and giving it flame. The education minister tells us that astrology is the highest of all sciences known to man. The aspiring finance minister reveals the magical innovation of using footwear sales to turn the economy. His boss once proffered the alternative of pakodas. Papad and gau mutra have been hawked as effective antidotes to the pandemic. It will not do to ignore such claptrap, or merely laugh and mock and move on. That is to miss the meaning of why such claptrap is being showered down upon us. Or why sacrifice is being demanded. Or why compliance is being assumed. Or why lies are being told and festered. Or why the prime minister devotes time and resources — public resources we must presume — to having himself shot among peacocks, or why he begins a discourse, with no reference or relevance, on native dogs and the benefits of breeding them. The truth may be this, and it is for us to grasp: we have been systematically turned into a laboratory of diminution, we are willing material for dipstick trials. Each time idiocy or affront is inflicted on us is a test of how much we can be reduced; each time we are ordered to swing and dance in unison is a test of how much we will obey; each time we are goaded under the burdens of cynically imposed adversity — remember demonetization? — in the name of national interest and the larger good, it is a test of how much we can be heckled; each time a miscarriage is enacted, each mindful mutilation — political, social, economic, administrative, judicial — is a test of what we will witness and let pass. Indians have never before been persuaded to hate fellow Indians so radio-actively as today, nor to celebrate the pillaging and plight of fellow countrymen. Indians have also never been so robbed and poorly across aspects of their lives and not thought of complaining. We are living the funereal carnival of our dispossession. And we probably do not know. Successor generations might turn to ask: What were you applauding? sankarshan.thakur@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-155
