03-09-2020||Opinion||Smoke screen: Vehicular pollution||Sometimes the real picture emerges even if the smoke has not quite cleared. That is what seems to have happened with regard to the findings of a study by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, which showed that goods vehicles are responsible for the greater part of automobile pollution in Calcutta and Howrah. These revelations are to be taken seriously, as they dispel a number of myths in the public discourse regarding the dominant role played by modes of public transportation — buses, taxis and autorickshaws — in growing pollution levels. The study has found that buses account for 24 per cent of the total load of PM10 and PM2.5 — ultra-fine particles that act as major air pollutants and contribute to a range of respiratory illnesses, including cancer; in contrast, the contribution by goods carriers to the same problem is significantly higher. Pollution caused by private vehicles is marginal. These readings bring to light the need to overhaul the ways in which interventions to address vehicular pollution are imagined and designed. For one, town planning initiatives for modern Indian cities must take into account the importance of keeping residential areas at a safe distance from major transport hubs. The government must allot land and then construct and maintain modernized hubs for goods carriers keeping in mind not only ecological and industrial concerns but also ensuring that costs of goods transportation do not rise. More important, however, is the need to assimilate green technology in the goods vehicles sector. Public transport — CNG autorickshaws are an example — is often prioritized over goods vehicles when it comes to such investments. Natural gas looks to be the closest clean energy solution for India’s transport sector but manufacturers and other stakeholders must undertake innovations — sops should not be ruled out — to induce goods carriers to turn green from grey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||An unusual leader: Remembering Pranab Mukherjee||Sir — With the demise of the former president, Pranab Mukherjee, India has lost a statesman par excellence (“A pragmatist within the paradigm that happened to be in place,” Sep 1). He was a well-respected politician and an exceptional troubleshooter for the Congress. Mukherjee’s dedication to public service combined with a rare kind of intelligence and statesmanship truly made him a political figure worth emulating. If there is one incident that could be considered a dent on his secular credentials, then it would be his acceptance of an invitation to address a valedictory function in Nagpur organized by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in 2018. Other than that, it can safely be said that Mukherjee’s commitment towards secularism remained unflinching till the end of his life. He was truly a nationalist figure. Tharcius S. Fernando,Chennai Sir — In a long political career spanning five decades, Pranab Mukherjee had cemented his credibility as a consensus builder when India moved from single-party domination to coalition politics. The former president, unlike many other statesmen, had friends across the political spectrum. Hence, his opinions were respected by all when he defended Congress-led governments in Parliament. Mukherjee was a key troubleshooter for several prime ministers including Indira Gandhi, P.V. Narasimha Rao as well as Manmohan Singh. It is interesting to note that he was conferred the highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, during the tenure of the incumbent prime minister, Narendra Modi. Although Mukherjee cannot be considered a mass leader, he nonetheless left an indelible imprint on Indian politics. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — It would not be an exaggeration to say that had Pranab Mukherjee held the post of the prime minister, India would have witnessed immense progress in all possible arenas of governance. But in spite of his capabilities, he was never offered the top job. One wonders how Indian politics would have fared had he, and not Manmohan Singh, assumed the post of the prime minister in 2004. While many considered his appointment as the president of India to be a compromise, it was nevertheless a just acknowledgement of his contributions to the country. The Bharatiya Janata Party government, too, honoured the statesman with the conferment of the Bharat Ratna. Upon hearing the news of his passing, many of his colleagues recalled his elephantine memory and insightful views. These traits, along with his geniality, earned him immense respect across party lines. The void left by his death will be truly impossible to fill. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn about the demise of Pranab Mukherjee at the age of 84 after a battle with a prolonged illness — he had undergone brain surgery at the Army Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi. He was one of the greatest leaders of independent India and had dedicated his life to the service of the nation. His expertise in multiple areas including defence, finance and foreign affairs was unmatched. As the incumbent president, Ram Nath Kovind, said, Mukherjee’s death is truly akin to the “passing of an era”. M.A. Iqbal,Darbhanga, Bihar  Wrong move Sir — At a time when India recorded the highest global single-day rise in Covid-19 infections, news emerged that the metro rail authorities in Calcutta are preparing to resume train services. Although several precautionary measures will be in place, they will certainly not be enough to prevent a further spread. When buses began plying the city in June, they initially adhered to social distancing guidelines. But crowded buses soon became the norm. It is unlikely that the Calcutta metro, which saw a footfall in lakhs per week in pre-Covid times, will be able to follow strict measures for long. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||Off the rails: Floundering Indian economy||The Indian economy is floundering. Before the National Statistical Office came out with its macroeconomic data for the first quarter ended June 30, there was only an academic curiosity in the pundits’ minds. How bad could it possibly be? At minus 23.9 per cent, the contraction in real GDP is the worst ever and the first since 1980. The greater concern is that the nominal GDP, calculated at current prices, has also contracted by 22.6 per cent in the first quarter. The worry now is that if this trend continues, Narendra Modi will achieve the unthinkable: he will end up shrinking India’s economy this fiscal, a feat that nobody has managed to do. Economists have been urging the government to come up with a real fiscal stimulus that is properly funded and extensive in its reach in order to gun the engines of growth. The government seems to show no intention to follow the proffered advice: it will not, for instance, monetize its fiscal deficit which is already running ahead of the budgeted estimate of Rs 7.96 trillion for the full year. The curious thing is that the Centre has already enhanced its fiscal firepower by raising its ceiling on gross borrowings by almost 54 per cent to Rs 12 trillion in May. But what does it intend to do with it? Will it fritter away these resources on populist schemes or will it conceive a credible plan to bring the economy back on the rails? The Centre is not telling. Policy experts in the finance ministry suggest that the government intends to keep its powder dry till the ‘right’ moment when it will unleash its plans. This suspense is deeply unsettling for the markets amidst a rising clamour for an immediate policy stimulus. The Centre’s fumbling efforts have only increased the nervousness in the market, which is reflected in the sharp surge in bond yields that prompted the central bank to adopt a variety of unorthodox measures to quell volatility. As a consequence, some disquieting facts emerge: the Reserve Bank of India will have to print more money to stop the governments — the Centre and the states — from crowding out other borrowers from the market. This is already visible with currency in circulation shooting up by 22.8 per cent year on year to Rs 26.88 trillion as of August 21. A surge in money supply should stoke inflation, which has already crossed 6 per cent, the upper bound of the RBI’s policy mandate. The conventional method to squelch inflation would be to raise interest rates. But the RBI cannot go down that road as it could scupper the prospects of an economic recovery. So the central bank has been flirting with the idea of allowing the rupee to appreciate against the dollar, an unconventional way to beat inflation. Some of these strategies may work; others will not. With the government sitting on its hands, how long will the RBI be allowed to continue with such hothouse experiments?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||Steep right turn ahead: Congress and the Ram temple||The foundation stone-laying ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5, 2020, is likely to have a long-term impact on national politics. The clearest sign of this is to be seen in the shift in the discourse of the Congress, India’s principal Opposition party, that is now a shadow of its former self. The Congress leader, Kamal Nath, who was till some months ago the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, issued an advertisement on the 76th birth anniversary of the former prime minister, Rajiv Gandhi, on August 20. Here, the Madhya Pradesh Congress committee chief sought to offer a new explanation of Rajiv’s legacy, celebrated as ‘Sadbhavna (harmony) Divas’: that he had a vision of a modern India in the 21st century as also of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, which in some manner becomes synonymous with a symbolic Ram rajya. The advertisement says that Rajiv was inspired by Mahatma Gandhi’s Ram rajya, started the telecast of Ramanand Sagar’s Ramayana on television, got the locks of Ram Janmabhoomi opened in 1986, permitted the shilanyas of a Ram temple in 1989 and said, in his last press conference, that a Ram temple would come up at Ayodhya. The message: Rajiv, and not Narendra Modi, is the true architect of the Ram temple movement and that modern India and the Ram temple movement complement each other. On August 4, Priyanka Gandhi had also tweeted that the Ram temple in Ayodhya could become a symbol of national unity. “Let Lord Ram shower his blessing so that this function becomes a celebration of national unity, fraternity and cultural affinity,” she said. While the Congress is unlikely to match the Bharatiya Janata Party when it comes to taking ‘credit’ for the Ram temple movement, the attempt itself shows that the centre of Indian politics has clearly turned rightward. If the temple visits by Rahul Gandhi in the last few years before elections were part of an old template of the days of Mahatma Gandhi’s Congress — something that the Congress had almost discarded in the heady days of a ‘secular’ opposition to the Ram temple movement in the decades after 1992 — the present template is new. For the Congress has for the first time held an old dispute between sections of Hindus and Muslims to be unequivocally a matter of national unity and cultural pride. “The rank and file of the Congress and all but a few leaders have turned right,” admitted a Congress leader on condition of anonymity. If Mahatma Gandhi’s Congress was open to being symbolically Hindu but in a pluralist sense and the Congress of Sonia Gandhi was clearly secular — even open to looking at measures aimed at Muslims as a community — there are clear indications that the new Congress of 2020 is open to accepting Hindutva as a legitimate subset of Hinduism and also nationalism. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whose six years in power have made Hindutva India’s prime ideology, said on August 5 in Ayodhya that the foundation stone-laying date for the Ram temple was as important a date as August 15 as both marked the ‘culmination’ of long struggles. Hindutva, in other words, earns the same place as the freedom struggle itself. But this is no longer the belief of the BJP alone. It is now increasingly becoming a symbol of the new normal in India, with Rahul Gandhi adding the caveat that Lord Ram stands for supreme humanism and not hatred. It is important to make sense of this paradigmatic shift. It is also the latest turn in the history of the Congress, even if it does not end up benefiting the party. The Congress in the days of the freedom struggle and beyond was open to seeing India’s ancient past as its strength. It was also accommodating of its medieval past. If Mahatma Gandhi openly talked about Ram rajya as the ideal of good governance while being a voice of Hindu-Muslim unity, Jawaharlal Nehru himself expressed great respect for Hindu mythology in The Discovery of India, saying that even if all the stories weren’t “true”, they were an inspiration for the common people and stood for what their ancestors were capable, in their imagination, of doing. Nehru celebrates these “imaginary histories”, as he calls them. The civilizational aspect of Nehru is missed by present-day Nehruvians, who focus on Nehru as the builder of modern India alone. The Congress in the Nehru years remained an organization that had conservative leaders in the states. There were those who celebrated Hindi and Sanskrit — like Sampurnanand in Uttar Pradesh or Seth Govind Das in Madhya Pradesh — in the 1960s. Cow slaughter was also banned by Congress governments in the north in this decade. Under Indira Gandhi, the institutional turn towards a more Western form of secularism and scepticism towards tradition began with the rise of the academic left in the 1970s. However, the biggest shift came after the 1990 rath yatra of L.K. Advani, which made the Congress embrace secularism as India’s defining official ideology. Communalism, a category constructed in the 1920s, as the historian, G. Pandey, has shown, became the prime Other of national unity after 1990. Secularism as a discourse became central to politics. The regional parties, displaying opportunistic secularism, were the first to dent its legitimacy, as they forged alliances with an ascendant BJP in 1998 and 1999. The quest for power made secularism seem like a logic of convenience. With the rise of Modi, the Supreme Court’s green signal to a Ram temple at Ayodhya and the BJP’s increasing growth across regions and caste groups, secularism no longer seems viable politics to many. The shift in the Congress is thus a tacit acceptance of the present reality of a Hinduized India. Secular intellectuals are still resisting this — and bringing up the normative promises of a Constitution put in place in the heyday of the Congress — but politicians who meet people on the ground are increasingly accepting a symbolically Hindu polity. The year, 2020, may go down as the year when India accepted Hindutva as the idea of India, and the Congress will be seen as the moderate collaborator of a strident BJP in this transformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
03-09-2020||Opinion||Airbrushed history||Over the past year, but particularly in the wake of the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States of America, there has been disquiet over what a British writer recently described as the “grievance industrial complex”. The phenomenon, which started off innocuously as ‘political correctness’ that established a language code among a few, has evolved into a ‘cancel’ culture that aims at suppressing all that is deemed offensive and unacceptable by self-appointed boards of intellectual standards. Coinciding with a curious left turn in US politics whose efficacy will be partly tested in November’s presidential election, cancel culture has crossed the Atlantic and is gradually permeating the rest of the English-speaking world. The manifestations of cancel culture range from the sublime to the ridiculous. It is understandable that the culture of Dixie worship that was till recently a feature of states that once formed a part of the defeated Confederacy in the American Civil War of the 1860s was deemed offensive by many Black Americans. The underlying romanticism behind the celebration of a way of life that, alas, was inextricably linked to slavery and the Jim Crow laws inevitably concealed the brutal underside of a deeply iniquitous society. It was inevitable that sooner or later there would be a reaction against the statues of Confederate heroes that dotted cities of the Deep South in America. Equally, while flaunting the Confederate flag may well have been an innocent way for some to assert their southern regional identity, it is undeniable that it meant something more sinister than Joan Baez’s moving rendition of “The Night They Drove Old Dixie Down”. Without doubt the flag of the defeated had also come to be equated with assertions of white supremacy. It is indeed remarkable that the worship of the Confederacy persisted as long as it did. Politically it may have been eclipsed after the fading out of George Wallace who won as many as 45 electoral votes and 13.5 per cent of the national popular vote, but it maintained a fringe presence that was seen as embarrassing by all mainstream politicians. All it took was a gentle push for many of the visible symbols of the old Confederacy to be relegated to museums and specialist shops trading in memorabilia. An earlier version of Black Lives Matter was witnessed in Oxford two years ago when some students — inspired by a movement in the universities of South Africa — took exception to the statue of Cecil Rhodes in Oriel College. The problem was that while Rhodes is rightly seen as a venal exploiter in southern Africa, his extraordinarily large bequests to Oxford University had a different meaning. The Rhodes scholarships, for example, had acquired a formidable reputation throughout the Anglophone world, including India, and it was problematic to separate the benefactor from his money. Indeed, this is not uniquely a problem limited to Oxford. A large number of the major universities on both sides of the pond have funded their road to excellence through bequests whose provenance may not pass the test of exacting ethical scrutiny. This is particularly true of the United Kingdom. Today’s spirited decolonizing activists may not like the presence of Lord Clive in the forecourt of the old India Office (now the Foreign and Commonwealth Office) and they may balk at statues of erstwhile heroes such as Lord Roberts of Kandahar and others who put down the 1857 uprising in India quite mercilessly. Yet there is no denying the fact that earlier generations fed on a diet of G.A. Henty — a largely forgotten writer whose books were obligatory for schoolboys of yore — thought these men to be heroes. In many cases, the statues were put up with public subscriptions. Britain may have successfully divested itself of its Empire, but the symbols of past glory are omnipresent. What is equally interesting is that while there are chapters of its history that appear shameful — and in some cases worthy of public apologies —the Empire, taken in totality, is something that doesn’t offend by its mere mention. Efforts to link the so-called absence of a decolonized curriculum in the liberal arts to imaginary racism in the classroom and the campus are largely contrived. If there aren’t more expressions of disgust at the attempted imposition of ‘white shame’ on an entire people, it is because of a strange political squeamishness that deems voices of colour to be automatically worthy of patient consideration. Yet, it is not knowing where to draw a line that could generate a backlash. Last month, for example, in a move that provoked legitimate outrage all over Middle England, the BBC allowed some overzealous music conductors to ensure that the words of “Land of Hope and Glory” and “Rule Britannia” were not sung — as is the custom — in the Last Night of the Proms. This was because they were deemed to be celebrations of a past that the politically correct have decided must be cancelled — airbrushed from popular memory and history. Earlier, there have been persistent reports of the iconic song, “Jerusalem”, being similarly bowdlerized. The epidemic has touched such ridiculous levels that a respected professor of theology in Oxford was the target of denunciatory petitions by fellow academics for having the temerity to suggest a research project on the ethics of the British Empire. Nigel Biggar, Regius Professor of Moral and Pastoral Theology at Oxford and the target of this outpouring of silliness, wasn’t attempting anything revolutionary. It is undeniable that there was an ideology of Empire that went beyond economic exploitation of the natives. The sense of paternalism or ‘civilizing mission’ — a term coined, incidentally, in America — may well have been misplaced or even evidence of what old-style Marxists like to call ‘false consciousness’ but these ideas were nevertheless real. I have before me a book, A Judge in Madras: Sir Sidney Wadsworth and the Indian Civil Service, 1913-1947, by Caroline Keen, published earlier this year by Hurst and Company, a reputed publishing company in London. It is entirely possible that most Indians have never heard of Sir Sidney or believe him to be significant. Yet it is worth reading the small appreciation of the book by David Washbrook, a Cambridge historian who has studied South India: “While colonialism these days stand rightly condemned, it is easy to forget that many of those caught up in its history were human too — and, in the case of Sidney Wadsworth, remarkably humane.” Washbrook is stating the obvious but it is also blasphemous in the context of the cancel culture that would rather the old judge was consigned to either silent oblivion or noisy disgrace — if, indeed, he was a known figure. However, it is reassuring, in the context of the Biggar controversy, that a reputed publisher still believes that a good book is worth publishing regardless of its underlying bias. This innate belief in pluralism may be terribly old-fashioned but is a virtue that is under threat in this age of certitudes. Revisionism certainly has an important place in the larger scheme of intellectual evolution, but that goal will become elusive if it is subsumed by a wave of iconoclasm — of the type that was witnessed by the indiscriminate destruction of the library at Nalanda by the army of Bakhtiar Khilji in the 13th century. These are dangerous trends and more dangerous if some Indians decide they are worth emulating. Some of the controversies over the management of social media and the pulping of a book on the Delhi riots because it suggested there was no one truth are disturbing. The cancel culture, like the barbarians, must be kept outside the gates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
