04-09-2020||Opinion||Covid: Poor timing for Goa CM||Sir — Hotels, restaurants and bars have opened in Goa — a prime tourist location in India — for the first time since the lockdown was imposed in March. The Goa airport even retracted the rule that mandated domestic travellers to carry Covid-19 negative certificates. Unfortunately, the next day, after Goa was thrown open to Indian tourists, its chief minister, Pramod Sawant, was reported to have contracted Covid-19. This shows that it is still not safe for the lockdown to be lifted completely. It is true that the tourism industry has been hit and the economy is suffering, but the government must prioritize the health of the citizens.  Ruchira Chakraborty, Mumbai Sir — The sentence has finally been served in the contempt case against the advocate, Prashant Bhushan. The Supreme Court declared that Bhushan must pay a fine of Re 1 or he would face three months of imprisonment along with being banned from practice for three years (“SC slaps Re 1 fine, Bhushan to pay”, Sept 1). There are many who believe that Bhushan was only exercising his freedom of speech in his tweets and should not have been penalized at all. As such, the verdict can hardly be interpreted as a vindication — Bhushan still stands guilty under the law. The only ray of hope in these dark times for democracy is the manner in which Bhushan conducted himself throughout the trial. He stood his ground firmly, refusing to apologize in spite of being offered several chances to do so. His stance is inspiring for the common people who believe that any public institution should be open to criticism. Bhushan has, of course, accepted the punishment, stating clearly that he would have accepted any other lawful punishment just the same. This reflects his respect for the judicial system of India, even when he is the one on trial. It was also encouraging to see how different sections of the legal system responded to this case. It was not surprising that Bhushan’s lawyer, Rajeev Dhavan, offered to pay the one rupee on behalf of his client, but the attorney-general of India, K.K. Venugopal, also urged the court to let Bhushan off with only a warning. Not only eminent lawyers but a number of law students, too, had written to the apex court, requesting it to reconsider its position. The law of contempt of court is an archaic one, and it goes against the right to freedom of expression that is guaranteed to every Indian citizen by the Constitution. All common citizens, advocates and judges should come together to scrap the law for good. R.P. Sengupta,Calcutta Sir — The verdict in the Prashant Bhushan case does not, in any way, mitigate the original order of the apex court, which appears to restrict the space for criticism. A victory for those who believe in free speech would have been a review of the order itself. The judiciary must be open to feedback from citizens, even as citizens accept its supremacy. From the outset, the court seemed willing to avoid controversy — it attempted to persuade the lawyer to tender an apology and “save the grace of the institution as well as the individual”. However, Bhushan did not oblige, standing by his bona fide opinion and placing his “conscience” above the need to have the case shut in the most convenient way possible. The punishment, which Bhushan has respectfully accepted, was inevitable in view of his refusal to apologize for expressing his opinions on the functioning of the judiciary. He should now seek a review of the verdict so that the court has another chance to strike down the sentence and erase this blot. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Prashant Bhushan has been held guilty by a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India and punished to pay Re 1, upon failing which he could be imprisoned for three months and banned from practice for three years. But Bhushan has shown no disrespect towards either the law or the top court. He just seems to be of the opinion that democracy in India is in danger. Bhushan has pointed out the gradual dilution of morality and values in hitherto democratic institutions. His views should not be ignored. Instead, his stance should provide a moral boost to all right-thinking people in society and nudge the administration to take a deeper look at ways to save democracy.Asok Kumar Majumdar,Calcutta Sir — Shinzo Abe has stepped down from the position of the prime minister of Japan, and left a great political vacuum (“Abe resigns as PM”, Aug 29). The prolonged disease with which Abe has been battling seems to have got the better of him. This has forced him to decide against remaining at the helm of affairs. The Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, shared a great rapport with his Japanese counterpart, resulting in strong cultural and economic relations between the two nations. India will now have to put in renewed effort to sustain the bilateral ties with Abe’s successor.  Rahul Chouhan, Ujjain Sir — It is unfortunate that Japan’s longest serving premier, Shinzo Abe, had to resign on account of his illness. He suspected that he would not be able to serve the nation to the best of his abilities. It was refreshing to see a political figure put the well-being of his country above his own ambitions. How many Indian ministers would choose to give up power for the sake of the nation? Akash Sharma, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||War of words: Faceebook and Ravi Shankar Prasad||Even a voluminous letter may have very little by way of substance. The Union information technology minister, Ravi Shankar Prasad, recently shot off a missive — it was well over 900 words — to Mark Zuckerberg, lecturing the CEO of Facebook on the alleged ideological tilt of some of his employees in India. Among Mr Prasad’s allegations are such charges as the Facebook team, including senior officials, being dominated by “people who belong to a particular political belief” and that the company’s employees abuse the prime minister and cabinet ministers. Mr Prasad, characteristically, did not provide evidence to substantiate his claims. Strangely, one of his colleagues had even taken the pains to split procedural hair and object to the parliamentary panel’s decision to grill Facebook’s representative. Of course, offence, the Bharatiya Janata Party has always believed, is the best form of defence in terms of political strategy. Mr Prasad’s hand may have been forced by the damaging revelations made by respected international media — The Wall Street Journal and Time Magazine — that reported not only Facebook’s enthusiastic endorsement of Narendra Modi’s political campaign but also its willingness to condone hate speeches of BJP leaders. This kind of complicity on the part of Facebook is not peculiar to its Indian market. There have been persistent whispers that Mr Zuckerberg’s firm shares rather cosy ties with predominantly right-wing regimes that run the levers of power in many countries. The United States of America, Mr Zuckerberg’s critics say, is another example of such an unholy, but influential, alliance. The truth of the matter — Facebook’s ideological tilt — can only be established after a fair investigation. But the worry — the charges and counter-charges are an affirmation — lies elsewhere. Facebook’s massive reach — it is the world’s largest social media platform — and its ability to influence the choices — economic or political — of its users have transformed it into a behemoth that can condition and even alter political realities. This makes Facebook attractive as an ally for the political fraternity. Such bonhomie can lead to patronage, which, in turn, can undermine the principles of neutrality and ethics. There is an allied concern. Dubious claims are increasingly being made along with the argument that challenging or refuting such accusations would be tantamount to an infringement of free speech. This is as curious as the contents of Mr Prasad’s letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||Unchanged: Definition of criminal contempt||It would seem that the sequence of events following two tweets by Prashant Bhushan has drawn to a close. But a conclusion is hardly satisfactory when it gives rise to more questions. Many see the ending of the Supreme Court’s case of criminal contempt against Mr Bhushan as a moral victory for him, for all he had to do was pay a fine of one rupee. Yet the Supreme Court convicted him of criminal contempt of court, which includes scandalizing the institution and its officers, thus lowering its dignity in the eyes of the people. This definition of criminal contempt is usually linked to words or acts that are intended to obstruct the delivery of justice or the administration of the judicial system. The court decides whether lowering its dignity is also affecting its functioning. This power is bequeathed to it by the Constitution: an earlier judgment makes this clear. Mr Bhushan’s tweets prompted an important section of the judicial community to discuss aspects of the law against contempt and the problems of its application. There was also widespread response on mainstream and social media, where his point of view, too, received publicity. This special focus would be lacking in the case of a citizen not so well-known. The court’s conviction for criminal contempt stands; it has further said that the right to freedom of speech is not absolute — it cannot be abused in order to scandalize a public institution and its officers who cannot defend themselves. Anyone who is not a known figure convicted of criminal contempt would be unlikely to receive the benefit of publicly expressed professional, analytical and popular opinion. Mr Bhushan’s case underlines the need for a review of the law. Why is criticism of the court or of judges, even if baseless, a crime? Britain abolished this law after 1930; the United States of America, Canada and Australia no longer apply it. Free public expression of opinion can only strengthen an institution, feel some judges in these countries, adding that the court is not so fragile as to wither away at criticism. India, too, might find it pertinent to reassess the relationship of the independence and dignity of the judiciary with public discussion and criticism. Not fear, but fairness, should be the foundation of an institution’s superiority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||There are no escape routes: Post-Covid manufacturing sector||Hit by the slump that’s become the norm across the world, a manufacturer of electric vehicles decided to diversify into the product that is now ruling the world: masks. Having bagged a massive order from California, the company got labour from its other plants and production started in full swing. But it came at some cost: in four months, five workers died and one lost his hand when he tried to retrieve a mask stuck in the machine. Was he stupid to disregard safety procedures? His fellow workers will never know because, as they wrote on social media, they could not stop production to see what had happened to their colleague. Not all five deaths in this mask factory were during production. One worker died when the elevator in his dormitory collapsed while he was in it. Others died in scuffles with one another or with security guards. Violent ruffians? Maybe. But working from 8 am to 8 pm with an hour’s break for lunch, covered from the tip of their heads to their toes, and getting just one day off from March to mid-June, might just have made them so. The hour-long lunch break seems generous. But imagine 5,000 workers undergoing the extra checks required on account of Covid-19, the very disease that had given them this opportunity to earn. Half an hour goes in queuing up to enter the dining room. So some of them just prefer to have snacks and rest.Point to ponder There is no escape from this punishing schedule, for their basic salary is just 1,900 yuan. Thanks to overtime, these workers manage to earn 5,000-6,000 yuan (around Rs 53,000-65,000), about three times the minimum wage. Is this the scenario envisaged by our government when it talks of India replacing China as the manufacturing hub? These workers must count themselves lucky in earning enough to sustain their families. That is more than can be said about a substantial section of Chinese workers post-lockdown. August saw as many as 51 protests by workers across the country for salary arrears, mostly on construction sites. Contrast this with the comfortable situation in which the residents of Macau — a Specially Administered Region of China — find themselves. From the start of the lockdown, the local government has given every citizen of this picturesque little port city — including every Chinese from the mainland who works there and possesses a resident permit — an allowance of 1,000 Macanese patacas (approximately Rs 9,100), which will continue till December. In a fix But even if you have no resident permit, you are better off than a worker on the mainland. Macau’s economy depends on casinos and tourism, and neither of these survived the lockdown. However, there were no layoffs, thanks to a stern warning from the local Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau. Nor were there any salary cuts for workers. Smaller establishments, however, have found a way out: leave without pay. “My salary was low already,” wailed Suyin, a supervisor at a Chinese restaurant who does not have a Macau resident permit, “now it’s worse. We hardly get any customers, so the boss makes us take four or five days of leave without pay every month.” Travel restrictions within China have been removed, but the 14-day compulsory quarantine for those travelling to Macau from the mainland has kept visitors away. Suyin has found a solution: she is off on a 10-day holiday to her hometown in Hunan to celebrate her mother’s birthday. If she must take leave without pay, she may as well enjoy it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
04-09-2020||Opinion||Loss of direction||Historically, the credit for establishing the conceptual framework of clinical neurophysiology goes to the Yorkshire-born John H. Jackson (1835-1911). My interest in his work got kindled when I was working on a little book on cultural amnesia. Jackson was among the first to be given an honorary doctorate by Leeds University. Among the varieties of neurological disorientation that Jackson identified, the one that fascinated me was “navigation impairment”, called “topological agnosia” in medical terminology. An individual afflicted by this agnosia — a Greek word, meaning ‘loss of knowledge’ — is unable to remember the way to a destination known to him although he may be able to recall important landmarks seen a long time ago. Jackson’s work made me look critically at the directional terms in use in the intellectual discourse of the 1980s. The terms that dominated it were Orientalism and its notional opposite, Occidentalism, under the impact of Edward Said’s landmark publication, Orientalism. ‘Orient’, in use since the 11th century, meant “the rising sun” or the east. And its antonym, ‘Occident’, meant the direction in which the sun sets. From the beginning of the Anglo-Saxon advent till the creation of the East India Company several centuries later, these terms meant what they were intended to mean. With the spread of the European colonial powers to countries geographically south of Europe, the Orient became a combination of the East and the South. The Occident primarily remained the North and, in an extended sense, included the West as well. As colonialism touched the zenith of its spread, the distinction between the South and the East disappeared almost entirely. In 1889, Rudyard Kipling (1863-1936) wrote in his youthful verse: “Oh, the East is East, and the West is West, and never the twain shall meet;/ till Earth and Sky stand presently at God’s great Judgment seat.” Around a decade earlier, in 1878, Dr Jackson had published his most important findings. He would have called the colonial ‘disorientation’ of the South/East a ‘topological agnosia’. Precisely during the times neurologists in Europe were busy studying varieties of cognitive disorders, European linguists were busy laying the foundation of a hypothesis that later caused one of the worst genocides in human history. In Essay on the Inequality of Human Races (1853), the linguist, Arthur de Gobineau, floated the idea that the term, ‘Aryan’, corresponded with a pre-historic European culture originating somewhere in the north, probably Ireland. The historical fact was that it was used merely as a term for self-identification by the people who spoke Indo-Iranian and ancient Sanskrit. Karl Plenka in Die Herkunft der Arier (The Homeland of the Aryans, 1886) moved the imagined location to Scandinavia. He added to the hypothesis, against all scientific norms in Linguistic-Anthropology, the idea of Aryans as a ‘race’. It was imagined to consist of people with blue eyes and blonde hair. “Xanthochroi” was the term coined by anthropologists for consolidating the ‘Aryan racial supremacy’ theory. One does not have to spell out how this theory was used during Adolf Hitler’s regime towards engineering the genocide of Jews, communists, Poles and gypsies. For some decades at the turn of the century, the theory of Aryans and their imagined original home received attention from cultural adventurists in Europe and in India. B.G. Tilak (1857-1920) produced Orion (1893), arguing the ancient date for the Rig Veda and its connection with the people in Scandinavia. The theme of the imagined Aryans and their material and spiritual attainments as the culmination of human wisdom had a field day in India in the first two decades of the twentieth century. The esoteric cults and schools of mysticism, which lent credence to the wishful historiography, included Theosophy of Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (1831-91) brought to India by Annie Besant (1847-1933) and the early writings of Sri Aurobindo (1872-1950). It must be added that both of them quickly distanced themselves from the fascist strand in these thoughts, involved themselves in the national freedom struggle, and actively opposed Hitler’s fascism. But the Aryan supremacy bug — what the German called Herrenmenschen or the alleged master race — found a hospitable space in the ideology of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh established in 1925. B.S. Moonje (1872-1948), V.D. Savarkar(1883-1966) and K.B. Hedgewar (1889-1940) grew up in the decades when these ideas were on ascendancy in Europe and were clearly influenced by them. As a result, a kind of a competitive Herrenmenschen emerged in the world, with a German variety and an Indian variety. The two major flaws in this idea — an untenable transfer of a linguistic feature to ethnic-racial identification and the neurological disorder of topological agnosia — escaped their attention. In contrast, M.K Gandhi avoided the topological agnosia by refusing to pit the East against the West and spoke of a non-violent world and universal human unity. Like him, B.R. Ambedkar rejected the very foundation of fascism by disproving the Aryan supremacy thesis in the context of ancient India in many of his scholarly works. These were the most significant modern articulations of the South as the South. A century has passed since the rise of Hitler and his starkly racist ideas. The colonial empires are a thing of the past. It is necessary to readjust one’s understanding of the world, both ancient and modern. The idea of the faultily defined East has been nearly corrected and the selfhood of the Global South has been restored. Even a cursory glance at the various struggles for liberation over the last century indicates that they were all waged for restoring selfhood and dignity of the South, in South America, Africa and Asia. Of course, it is necessary to remember that the South is today both a metaphor for the poor and the oppressed as well as a topographical reality. Historically, a large number of progressive ideas and liberating movements had their origin in South India, including the emergence of the Bhakti panths from the eighth century onward in opposition to the codified and ritualistic varieties of Hindu practices during the medieval times. Jyotiba Phule (1827-1890), Shahu Maharaj of Kolhapur (1874-1922), Narayana Guru (1856-1928), Periyar E.V. Ramasamy (1879-1973), B.R. Ambedkar (1891-1956) — outstanding modern Indian reformers — emerged from the South. They rejected the idea of any racial and caste discrimination and any false glorification of the past. The topographical disorientation and the inherited flawed reading of history forming the ideological base of the present regime are adversely affecting us today. The economic indicators are dipping; the regime wants us to believe that they are improving. The real threat to Indian security is from the North. The government wants us to turn the nation’s attention to the West. Long lines of unemployed young persons are building up. Instead of focusing on them, we are asked to look back to ‘sanatan wisdom’, as the National Education Policy states. Is this topological disorientation or, in simple English, a directionless leadership with misplaced priorities? The author is a cultural activist and founder of DNT Rights Action Group; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-154
