05-09-2020||Opinion||Game over: PUBG banned in India||Sir — In keeping with its spree of banning applications developed by China, the Indian government has banned another collection of 118 apps, among which is the mobile version of the popular game, PUBG (“PUBG and 117 banned”, Sept 3). While the move comes in the wake of growing tensions between India and China over the border dispute, it must be asked whether disallowing Indian citizens from accessing such gaming apps, especially one that is as widely played as PUBG, will make any real dent to China’s power in the stand-off. It is laughable that the Indian government seems to have no real plan by way of diplomacy or foreign strategy to deal with hostility from its neighbour, and thinks that banning apps will make a difference. More worrying is the fact that the Centre is getting away with this propensity to outlaw anything it disapproves of. In a democracy, it is the job of the State to treat citizens like free individuals who have the power and critical abilities to make decisions for themselves. In fact, such fundamental rights to freedom are enshrined in our forward-thinking Constitution, and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has repeatedly displayed a marked disregard for it by regularly denying Indians their right to choose what to eat or read. Civil society should come together to reclaim these freedoms from an authoritarian State. Aranya Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — India has banned more than 100 additional Chinese apps, including the popular mobile game, PUBG. The government said that the move will benefit innumerable Indians who use mobile phones and the internet, as it will protect their data. As far as PUBG is concerned, the decision to ban it is welcome. The game had become far too popular with children, and was negatively influencing their minds and attention to other important facets of life. They would be glued to their phones and mobile devices for hours on end playing PUBG, sometimes even leading them to defy authority. One hopes that after this ban, teachers and parents will find it easier to discourage children and other young people from being online beyond a healthy limit. Shalini Ganguly,Calcutta Sir — PUBG played a big role in the growth of the gaming industry in India. Now that it is banned, one wonders what kind of innovations Indian gamers will come up with to fill the void, especially during the Covid-19-induced lockdown when people are playing more online games.Amrita Ray,CalcuttaParting Shot Sir — It was fascinating to read that a team of international gravitational wave astronomers have detected the most massive black hole collision recorded till date. This is the first time that a collision has led to the formation of another black hole. Two mammoth black holes — one weighed 85 times the mass of the sun, while the other was 66 times the solar mass —slammed into each other and formed a mass that is 142 times heavier than the sun. Theoretically, black holes with mass ranging between 100 to one lakh solar mass are termed ‘intermediate mass’ black holes. With this discovery, we have been given the first direct observation of such black holes in the gravitational wave window. This is a momentous occasion for scientific research as it offers a whole new line of interpretation in astrophysics. Khushbu Ved,Calcutta Ill omen Sir — It was quite a shock to learn that the Brazilian footballer and the Paris Saint-Germain forward, Neymar Jr, has tested positive for Covid-19. The star player and his club recently lost the Champions League final to the German club, Bayern Munich. The fact that he has fallen ill shows that it is still ill-advised to allow sports tournaments to take place. Even if football and cricket matches take place in empty stadiums, there will still be multiple people present in the same place at the same time, thereby facilitating the spread of the virus. Although Neymar Jr will certainly receive the best of care, sports bodies should see this as a lesson to postpone tournaments. Aritra Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Opinion||Unseen riches: Notes on Teachers' Day||The terrifying mathematics teacher is now a figure of myth. So are numerous others, whether it is the guru in the pathshala who nods off cane in hand while the pupils struggle with the letters on their slates or the learned and dedicated teacher busy helping indigent students without always being able to afford provisions for his own kitchen. Literature in Indian languages — fiction, memoirs, poetry — abounds in accounts of teachers unforgettable in some way, made somehow unique through the impression stamped on growing young minds. Schoolteachers are most readily remembered in this manner, but teachers of colleges and universities are recalled or described as well, although the latter are usually viewed with greater maturity. The schoolteacher in memory or representation has a peculiar quality of agelessness — stuck in the same age as when the pupil passed through school, as though it is impossible for him or her to develop or change. The abundant presence of teachers in literature is a celebration of their influence on people’s lives, unforgotten sometimes because of fear or hurt, but more often because of love, respect and sheer admiration. The remembrance of things past, however, does little to palliate the realities of the present. The village schoolmaster today often has a tough time economically and socially, and many have lost the enthusiasm for teaching. Understaffing is a major problem in many areas, not just in the villages, on top of which a teacher may have multiple duties, such as keeping track of supplies for midday meals or attending to requirements of data collection for the census or duties at election time. It is not just the unforgettable teacher who is more of a myth today, so also is society’s respect for him. Social desires and goals have changed greatly over the last few decades, and the attitude to teachers, too, has shifted accordingly. The shift is not uniform: it varies, inevitably, from teachers in government schools to those in private ones, from rural schoolteachers to professors in high-profile universities. Will there be a further change, a positive one this time, once the provisions of the National Education Policy 2020 regarding the training of schoolteachers are fulfilled? Teaching must match the New Age syllabi being introduced in schools, hence there is a focus on the details of teacher training in the policy, with certain basic changes being introduced, such as the length of the degree course in education. Developing skills in teaching new subjects and multilingual competence may help bring about changes, but among these, perhaps the emphasis on a teacher’s fluency in the local language is most welcome. Communication with and an understanding of first-generation learners are of overwhelming importance in forming the basis of an educated country. Teachers and students flourish in a relationship of mutual respect. Teachers’ Day is a reminder of that richness; the wealth should not be limited to an annual day alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Opinion||Success story: Ratings for BBC's 'A Suitable Boy'||BBC TV’s six-part adaptation of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy ended last week, with Lata Mehra picking the man her mother, Rupa Mehra, has wanted for her all along — the shoemaker, Haresh Khanna — over her friend from college, the dashing cricketer, Kabir Durrani, or the Calcutta poet, Amit Chatterji. Tanya Maniktala was luminescent as Lata but for me the standout performance was that of Tabu, who played the courtesan, Saeeda Bai. She was understated, dignified and has shown herself, I think, to be the finest Bollywood actress of her generation. I also loved the Chatterjis, especially Meenakshi (Shahana Goswami), with their rhyming couplets. BBC took a huge risk in putting on a Sunday prime-time drama with only Indian characters. Andrew Davies was skilful in compressing Seth’s 1,366-page novel and ensuring it was accessible to the broad mass of British viewers. The director, Mira Nair, and the author helped ‘Indianize’ the dialogue to add authenticity. The drama reflects the communal tension in 1950s India but also deep friendships that cut across religious lines. A big test will come when Netflix shows the series in India, but in the United Kingdom, judging by the reviews and audience reaction, the response to A Suitable Boy has largely been positive (even though some people were disappointed that Lata did not pick Kabir). “Best TV drama I’ve seen in ages!” was a typical tweet from an English viewer. “An enchanting adaptation of such a wonderful novel.” Another said: “Never would have guessed the ending. Great stuff!” Lata is now 20. Next time we see her, she will be 80 and looking for a suitable match for her grandson in the India of the year 2012. That is assuming Seth completes his sequel, A Suitable Girl. Queenly beauty Salman Rushdie is said to have invented the phrase, “naughty but nice”, as a young copywriter. I would adapt it to “haughty but nice” to describe Gayatri Devi, the erstwhile Maharani of Jaipur, whom I got to know a tiny bit as she would spend summers in London. She told me she did not think much of her ghost-written autobiography, A Princess Remembers, so I wonder what she would have made of John Zubrzycki’s fascinating The House of Jaipur: The Inside Story of India’s Most Glamorous Royal Family. I think I took the last photograph of her at an arts event at the British Museum, shortly before she fell ill and insisted on being flown back from a London hospital to Jaipur where she passed away, aged 90, on July 29, 2009. In June the following year, I attended an affectionate service of thanksgiving for “Ayesha” at the picturesque Church of St Michael & All Angels, Sunninghill, Berkshire, which was packed with British aristocracy. Lords and ladies filed out on a perfect English summer’s day to three of the Maharani’s choices when she had appeared on the BBC Radio 4 programme, Desert Island Discs, in 1984 — “Moon River”, “A Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square” and “My Way”. Afterwards, there was a polo match to remember her and her beloved “Jai”, Maharaja Sawai Man Singh II. She was seen as the last Queen of India, her beauty captured forever by Cecil Beaton.Love blooms Captain Tom Moore, who has turned 100, captured the imagination of people everywhere by raising over £30 million for the National Health Service by repeatedly circling his garden with the help of a walking frame. His autobiography, Tomorrow Will Be A Good Day, reveals that our war hero, who was a motorcycle despatch rider initially based in Poona before moving to Calcutta and then Burma, spent his spare hours in the pursuit of romance. “I must confess to having an ulterior motive for my repeated trips to Bombay,” he admits. “Her name was Sylvia. She was half-Indian, half-French and the pretty younger sister of the girlfriend of a pal of mine. After I met Sylvia, I knew I had to get back to her arms as often as I could. “She was delightful, so lovely that I started rushing the men through their training just so I could get to her every weekend. Sylvia and I would go to a bar for a drink and then out for a meal before returning to the house where she lived.” In July 1944, “I was promoted to Captain... I was owed some leave, so I decided to take a 2,000-mile train and road trip to Gulmarg... On my first night, sitting in the hotel bar, I met a pretty Anglo-Indian lady who reminded me of the lovely Sylvia. Her husband, she told me, was a prisoner of the Japanese and she’d gone to Kashmir to wait for news of him. We started chatting and became friendly. I hadn’t expected to find romance in the mountains, but there it was.” Memorable place The Hotel Shahjahan is a character in Sankar’s memorable 1962 novel, Chowringhee. In London, the Savoy has such status. It is the subject of a new book by Olivia Williams, The Secret Life of the Savoy and the D’Oyly Carte Family. One name that deserves inclusion among its famous past patrons is Jawaharlal Nehru, who treated it as a home away from home. Its American Bar is where editors once plied journalists with Kir Royale in an effort to entice them away from other papers. Footnote It is hoped that William and Harry, who fell out over the former’s alleged disapproval of Meghan Markle, will be reconciled when they attend the unveiling of a statue of their mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, at Kensington Palace on what would have been her 60th birthday on July 1, 2021. The boys were 15 and 12 when she died in 1997. The sculptor, Ian Bank-Broadley, has been working with the princes who want visitors to “reflect on her life and her legacy... our mother touched so many lives”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
05-09-2020||Opinion||Man of the world||Katyayani Shankar Bajpai, the veteran diplomatist who died last Sunday, was virtually unique among high-ranking Indians in being able to disagree without being disagreeable. I could not have been more critical of his stint as India’s political officer in Gangtok from 1970 to 1974. Yet, I had to thank him for many small kindnesses. I would have been stranded in Bagdogra on one occasion if he had not instructed the India House jeep collecting the diplomatic bag from the Delhi flight to collect me too for the six-hour drive to Gangtok in a strike-bound Sikkim. It seems blasphemous to recall an envoy to the three countries that matter most to us — Pakistan, China and the United States of America — in connection with what he himself dismissed in moments of frustration as “the Chogyal’s little bailiwick”. But looking back two years ago, when he was 90, Bajpai acknowledged in the Indian Express that the “four years in Sikkim, leading to its merger” were the “most instructive” of his career. He was a man of the world, educated in the US, Britain and Switzerland, steeped in international diplomacy, knowledgeable about classical music, period furniture and colonial art. I doubt if Indian diplomacy has produced (or can produce) another such accomplished renaissance man. But his mission in Sikkim and the obliteration of a tiny but ancient kingdom aggravated India’s relations with China. His demise coincides with a turn of the wheel when the two countries appear to be poised on the brink of an even more catastrophic confrontation. The mystery is that both crises seem utterly inexplicable. He was consul-general in Karachi during the tensions of the 1975 war, in Tashkent with Lal Bahadur Shastri, and ambassador in Washington during Rajiv Gandhi’s crucial visit to Ronald Reagan. It was a mark of the man’s sophisticated élan that he could afford to be light-hearted about weighty responsibilities, regretting from the sprawling villa at 2700 Macomb Street that his father, Sir Girja Shankar Bajpai, had acquired for the Indian government in the Forties, that the visit was so rushed that “he barely had time to find some taragon to add to the sauce” he was whipping up for the prime minister. Cooking was a passion. He enjoyed cooking for friends, especially at times of stress. It was a matter of profound regret that his charming wife, Mira, a diplomat’s spouse to her fingertips, did not think his French onion soup matched up to what Les Halles, the 11th century fresh food market in Paris, served to late-night revellers until it was demolished (like London’s Covent Garden) in 1971. It was some consolation that a Les Halles stall-keeper attributed Mira’s preference not to her husband’s culinary inadequacy but to the market’s nocturnal ambience. Food and wine were skills he shared with the Chogyal of Sikkim. He chided me once for not being sufficiently appreciative of the Chogyal’s recherché tastes. He was similarly respectful of the Gyalmo’s (the former Hope Cooke’s) “educated” appetites. He rubbished Indian suspicions of her alleged links with the American Central Intelligence Agency. People remember his “Shall we dance, Gyalmo, the last tango in Gangtok?” as he seized her at a party at India House. The person he could not stand was the Chogyal’s beautiful, talented and haughty sister, Coo Coo La, Princess Pema Tseuden Yapshi Pheunkhang. She was always “the dragon lady”, immune to the charms of the Last Resident who represented an imperial and imperious New Delhi that nearly deposed Gaekwad Sayajirao III of Baroda for not being sufficiently subservient at the Delhi Durbar. Representing the paramount power, he was adamant Gangtok was not a diplomatic posting but an extension of the Indian scene. Such positions made him appear to be the single-handed architect of what Britain’s liberal Guardian newspaper called “the swallowing of Sikkim”. The Observer doubted that India’s security interests were best served “by acting in a way that excites Chinese hostility and increases the suspicions of all its frontier peoples...” Actually, China may have been more bewildered than furious. The record of a conversation between Deng Xiaoping and Henry Kissinger in Beijing on November 27, 1974 suggests both men were puzzled. Deng told Kissinger he found Indian policy “very peculiar” since Sikkim was already “entirely under the military control of India”. It was even more baffling that India did not increase its troop strength there “after the military annexation”. Kissinger didn’t understand either. “It is incomprehensible,” he said, unable to answer Deng’s question, “Why did they have to annex it?” Over the years I tried to persuade Bajpai, last survivor of the dramatis personae of that operation, to answer that question with his insider’s authority. He promised to write. He said he was writing. He asked for a copy of my book because his was lost. He said he had drafted “something” and sent it to a foreign office mandarin. We lost touch after that but the versions in circulation were about as credible as current pledges by both sides that neither has the least intention of crossing a sacrosanct line of actual control between India and China. The legal fiction was that the Chogyal had requested New Delhi to take over his administration. Gullible Indians were assured that annexation was the only democratic response to a popular demand. Sympathetic Westerners were told that border defence had to be consolidated against China’s military build-up in Tibet. Hints were dropped that the Chogyal was secretly in cahoots with China, his wife with the CIA. For N.N. Jha, a former lieutenant-governor of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Chogyal’s meeting with the Chinese ambassador at King Birendra’s coronation in Kathmandu was the last straw. He reported it to New Delhi. It wasn’t a mere ambassador the Chogyal met: what cooked his goose, according to P.N. Dhar, Indira Gandhi’s principal secretary, was an encounter with China’s vice-premier, Chin-hsi Liu. Perhaps that’s what Bajpai had in mind as we strolled through the National Palace Museum during a visit to Taiwan in 1990. “Do you really think we could have allowed the Chogyal to get away with things?” he suddenly blurted out amidst the museum’s artefacts, apropos of nothing and without elaborating what dreadful “things” the monarch tried to get away with. We know that the sombre figure of R.N. Kao loomed in the background. We do not know if the Research and Analysis Wing acted on Gandhi’s orders or decided on its own (like some US spy agencies) to draw up a takeover blueprint and present it to her. If it was the first, Gandhi’s reasons for changing from warm friendliness to implacable hostility should be explored. If the second, the threat perception that prompted RAW bears examination. But whatever the motivation, and whatever instructions went out to Gangtok, nothing would have been accomplished without the Last Resident’s unflinching sense of purpose. Adapting Marshall McLuhan, the messenger became the message. Was his dedication rewarded? By all accounts his last posting as ambassador to the US came to a bungled end. The ultimate plum of foreign secretary eluded him. The tragedy of catching Covid-19 in hospital bore out his own bleak assessment of India’s administration. Warning in his Indian Express article that India faced more problems than it was even aware of, with the government quite unaware of the deficiencies of the mechanisms it had devised to serve its needs, Bajpai quoted Mohammed Iqbal’s warning, “Na samjho ge tho mitt jao ge, Hindustan walo, tumhari daastan bhi na rahegi daastaon mein (roughly translated: If you fail to understand, Indians, you will be erased, even your history will not remain part of history).” Like Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
