06-09-2020||Opinion||They do it with tea||There is a dark Russian witticism that goes: “Drink the vodka, not the tea.” One day last month, hugely popular Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny ordered a cup of tea at Tomsk airport in Siberia. He and his team from The Smart Voting Project --- the name explains itself --- had just finished shooting a corruption video there. This was around the time when Russia’s neighbour, Belarus, was roiling, with people demanding the current president resign and fair elections be held. At home, in Khabarovsk, there was anger over the arrest of a popular governor, supposedly indicative of the Kremlin's whimsies. “Putin resign,” demanded protestors. Navalny boarded the flight to Moscow, but took ill and collapsed in the bathroom of the aircraft. He now lies in a clinic in Berlin and Germany has confirmed that he was poisoned with a nerve agent, novichok. In the last few years, the poison has found other Putin critics too. In 2018, Pyotr Verzilov, a Russian opposition activist, suddenly lost sight, hearing and mobility and slipped into a coma. That year, Sergei Skripal, a former Russian military officer and double agent for the UK's intelligence services, and his daughter, Yulia, were poisoned in Salisbury. In 2015, a leader of Russian Opposition Vladimir Kara-Murza was poisoned. He recovered and was poisoned again in 2017. In 2006, former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko died three weeks after he had tea with former Russian agents in a hotel in London. It was later revealed that the tea was laced with the radioactive polonium-210. Among other things Litvinenko had been looking into the assassination of investigative journalist and staunch Putin critic, Anna Politkovskaya. In 2004, Politkovskaya had been poisoned on a domestic flight. She wrote later: “The plane takes off. I ask for a tea. It is many hours by road from Rostov to Beslan and war has taught me that it's better not to eat. At 21:50 I drink it. At 22:00 I realise that I have to call the air stewardess as I am rapidly losing consciousness.” She recovered, but two years later was shot dead. It is said Navalny is so popular that Putin cannot bear to pronounce his name. In the past he has reportedly referred to Navalny as “a poor excuse for a politician”, “a certain political force”, “the character you mentioned” and “this gentleman”. Around the time of the 2018 presidential elections, a pro-Kremlin film portrayed Navalny as a reincarnation of Hitler. Since then, the 1952-born Putin has ordered constitutional changes to allow for him to rule till 2036. Days after Navalny’s poisoning, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov briefed the press about “the patient”. When a journalist asked if it was not time to break the tradition and name the patient, he said, “He’s a patient and he’s sick. That’s what we’re calling him. And we still wish him a speedy recovery.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Poor balance: can India help its women?||A self-reliant India would naturally have women who are atmanirbhar. As the young law student from Ranchi declared after she had asserted her rights vis-à-vis the Indian Railways, the prime minister should be pleased. No doubt he is equally pleased when he hears of schoolgirls asserting their rights to study instead of getting married, alerting teachers, activists and the local administration to the danger from their own families. Yet women have been self-reliant in India since time immemorial: they could not have survived in a misogynistic society otherwise. The self-reliance may have been more emotional than economic, although that, too, is changing rapidly, and at all levels of society. The problem is that women earning outside the home are still not a large enough number and, ironically, earning women are often not independent within the boundary of their families. The institutional and cultural devaluation of their status is a barrier difficult to surmount for women trying to assert their rights from a persistently unequal ground. Is India a mirror for much of the world in this respect? The data released by the United Nations Women and the United Nations Development Programme indicate that the Covid-19 crisis will increase the poverty rate for women and widen the gap between poor men and women. The largest percentage of the world’s poor women live in sub-Saharan Africa, and the pandemic will be rough on them, but South Asia will be experiencing the impoverishing of more women too. By 2030, for every 100 men between 25 and 34 living in poverty, there will be 129 women. Since women take on the major share of household duties and care for the old and young in the family, they tend to have less secure jobs, if at all, and are often paid less. Their jobs are 19 per cent more at risk during the pandemic than men’s. A large segment of women work in the domestic sector and food services — an International Labour Organization report says that by June 2020, 72 per cent of women domestic workers had lost their jobs worldwide because of the pandemic. Of the 96 million people being pushed into extreme poverty at this time, 47 million are women. Women everywhere, and certainly in India, are looking at new hurdles erected by the pandemic. As it is, the lockdown has led to women having to shoulder more housework because the entire family, including schoolgoing children, has been at home. Insecurity, lost livelihoods, strained resources, fear of starvation made home-life difficult, and it is no wonder that domestic abuse has grown. There would be some hope of amelioration if restorative policies of the government pay special attention to women’s immiserization in order to close the gender gap. But history suggests that is unlikely. Indian women will have to rely even more on their own strengths to survive and win.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||How About An Act Of Dog?||Depends on which. Local dog? Or vocal dog? Biting dog? Or barking dog? Or dogs that are capable of both? Local dogs that are also vocal dogs? You’d know these. If you grace the nights long enough, you’d know. They do not allow the nights to be nights any more. If you live where most of us live, you’d know. They do not let you live as you would any more. They are local. Nothing you can do about that. They are vocal. Nothing you can do about that. They represent, well, ActsOfDog; nothing can be done about such things. Or little. Try someday. But don’t blame me for inspiring you. Statutory Warning: The risk is all your own, bark or bite or consequence. But there are more kinds than just those that bark or bite or do both. Now tell me about them. Ha! You know what I am talking about. No? I shall explain. There are dogs and there are dogs. Try calling a dog “kutta” or “kukur”. Try screaming: “Kuttayyyyy!” Now tell me. Go on, pat your favoured canine, let him, or her, have a lavish lick where he or she would prefer to lick, pull him or her into your lap or couch or bed, snuggle up, canoodle as you never canoodled, and tell me. How does “kuttayyyy!” sound? Or “kukur”? Don’t be offended, that is not the intention. We don’t intend to offend love. Love what you will. But tell me how that sounds. We are not on your favoured nouns, those lovely, esoteric, or desi names you chose to bestow on your loved ones. Tommy, oh what am I saying, whoever calls them Tommy anymore? Rum? Goonda? Doshi? Bindiya? Khukri? Katari? Whiskey? Rani? Chaaku? Panjaa? Claw? Bhookha? Daaku? Peg? But we are not on them, not on your darlings that you smooch and brush and shampoo and powder and cuddle and feed and disinfect and de-odour more than you did any living being around you ever in your life. It’s your thing, hai naa, your pet, your slave, your beholden one, creature of your command, sit, squat, go, fetch, no, yaaaaees, good dog, bad dog. Yours. Owned. Mine. Without signing onto or off anything; I mean you never have to worry about, you know, claims etcetera of the legal or illegal kind, and you still have a relationship. Me. My dog. My love. Now take me to court over it. If there is a bark, or a bite, you’ve deserved it. ActOfDog. Can’t blame the dog. Like you can’t blame an ActOfGod on the god, whichever your chosen one is. Like that. But we return to the question. How does “kuttayyyy!” sound? Or “kukur”? Or plain “kutttaaa”? Think. “Kuttayyyyy, main tera khoon pee jaaooonga!” Or, “Kutta kahin kaa, ek number kaa kuttaaa hai!” Or, “Kukur to, aar kee?” How does it sound? Somewhat like an expletive in the language employed here and its translation into desi, does it not? Imagine a... well just let that be, there may be children trying to read this paper, or at least we hope so, we need them to have a good education as they grow up, don’t we? Just roll all or some of that discreetly in your head, your frequent and favoured abuses, and translate them into your native and tell me. Tell me, then, about dogs and kuttas. At the end of the day, they are pretty much the same, well-groomed Ghungroo and street-corner pie, when they come to barking or biting. They are dogs. Or they are... no we shall not utter or print that word. Of course not. But you know. Those that beget more dogs. Mother dogs. One bit me. And she barked before she bit. I carry on my person an indelible ActOfDog. Never mind. Where the origin of this lay
Was not in local pedigree
Oh how I’d wish to agree
If it hadn’t begun with pillay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Blind spot||On September 3, The New York Times published an extraordinary article that detailed Richard Nixon’s loathing of Indians, especially Indian women. Its author, Gary Bass, who had earlier written The Blood Telegram, a book-length critique of US diplomacy during the 1971 war, based his piece on tapes recently declassified by Nixon’s presidential archive. In them, Nixon is heard saying at various times that Indian women are the most unattractive women in the world, that they are sexless, that they turn him off and there’s a particularly entertaining bit where he wonders how Indians reproduce at all, given how repulsive their women are. What are we to make of these revelations? The first thing to be said is that they shouldn’t be a great surprise. Tapes released more than 20 years ago established that Nixon was an equal-opportunity bigot. He was energetically anti-Semitic, for example. He used to complain that Washington “is full of Jews”, that “[m]ost Jews are disloyal” and that “...generally speaking, you can’t trust the b*****ds.” He was also racist and the tapes brim over with casual prejudice about minorities. Perhaps the more interesting revelation is Henry Kissinger’s complicity in Nixon’s bigotry, given the fact that Kissinger is Jewish and had been at the receiving end of Nazi racism himself. Annoyed by the assistance offered by Indira Gandhi to Bengali nationalists in East Pakistan in June 1971, Kissinger described Indians variously as “a scavenging people”, as “masters of subtle flattery”, as a people whose “...great skill is to suck up...” It’s fascinating how fluently Kissinger uses the stock phrases WASPs once used to disparage Jews (subtle, flatterers) to denigrate Indians. This great practitioner of realpolitik was happy to use second-hand colonial clichés about sub-continental types to characterize desis. So if Indians were clever suck-ups, Pakistanis were a “fine people but... primitive in their mental structure”. To students of diplomacy, the lesson of Nixon and Kissinger’s loathing of India and Indians might be that personal chemistry (or the lack of it) can seriously shape policy. Nixon’s generalizations about Indians and Indian women in particular, were based on a sample of one. He hated Indians because he loathed Indira Gandhi; she wound him up to a point where he became incoherent with rage. This was only partly because India’s tilt towards the Soviet Union and hostility towards Pakistan got in the way of Nixon’s strategic objectives. He also just hated her. Which might explain why someone as peculiar-looking as Nixon would even venture a view on the ugliness of other people. Say what you like about Indira Gandhi’s politics, in the looks department she was Rita Hayworth to his W.C. Fields. Bass has a marvellous story about the origin of this detestation. After losing to Kennedy in 1960, Nixon was in the political wilderness for the best part of a decade. He ran for governor in California and lost. In 1967, when he was plotting a comeback, he called on the Indian prime minister in Delhi. Twenty minutes into their meeting, a visibly bored Indira Gandhi asked an aide in Hindi when her ordeal was going to end. According to Bass, “Nixon had not gotten the precise meaning, but he sure caught the tone”. To be fair to Nixon, he wasn’t alone in his dislike of her. Ten years earlier, when Indira Gandhi had accompanied her father to Kennedy’s White House, Jacqueline Kennedy hosted a ladies lunch for her. It didn’t go well. Indira wanted to be by her father’s side listening in on affairs of State and the First Lady resented that. In an interview recorded in 1964 but published much later, she didn’t hold back: “She liked to be in with the men. And she is a real prune — bitter, kind of pushy, horrible woman. You know, I just don’t like her a bit. It always looks like she’s been sucking a lemon”. Both Jacqueline Kennedy and Nixon disliked Indira Gandhi for getting above herself, for not being ‘womanly’ enough. By the time Indira attended that unsuccessful ladies luncheon, she had already served as the President of the Indian National Congress. Given that Jacqueline was happy to admit that “I get all my opinions from my husband” and that her avowed purpose in life was to “...become the kind of wife that you can see that your husband wants,” it isn’t hard to see why she disliked the ambitious dynast she was hosting. It is to Indira Gandhi’s credit that she was detested for being herself by two people as different as Richard Nixon and Jacqueline Kennedy. She was also in good company. In the same set of interviews, the former First Lady called Martin Luther King a “phony”. Outrage apart, the sobering lesson of Bass’s revelations is how peripheral India was to American calculations in 1971 and how peripheral it remains today. Nixon might have loathed India and Indira but he loathed them in passing. India wasn’t important enough to be detested for its own sake. Nixon’s attitude towards the Bangladesh war was shaped by his strategic focus on China. Since Yahya Khan was helping him with the Chinese, he tilted towards Pakistan. China had to be reckoned with; India wasn’t important enough economically, politically or militarily to matter in itself. It was a sideshow in a great game being played out elsewhere. This is India’s geopolitical tragedy. It is consistently cast by the great powers as an attendant lord, who, in Eliot’s words, will do to “swell a progress, start a scene or two”. In its own mind, though, India is, if not Hamlet, at least a considerable player. There is no way of reconciling the roles India reads for and the roles it is cast in. India was a passing annoyance in 1971 because Nixon was trying to make up to China. Half a century later, India is of passing interest to Donald Trump because he’s reversing the United States of America out of the relationship with China that Nixon pioneered. The growing belief that this phase in the US-China relationship has given India a ticket to the top table in the shape of the Quad is a happy delusion generated by comfortable think tanks. The US, Japan and Australia are amongst the three most affluent nations on earth. There is a solidarity and camaraderie about being rich together that draws wealthy countries into club-like alliances. In the looser frame of the Quad, India’s designated role is that of the poor relation who might do the heavy lifting that the others can’t or won’t do. The truth is that as far as our borders with China are concerned, our circumstances haven’t changed since Nehru: we’re still on our own. More generally, it’s harder than ever to see Nixon’s prejudices and profanities as relics of some bygone era. Nearly 50 years after electing one bigoted, profane and misogynistic president, Americans elected another one. If Trump’s private conversations were taped and transcribed, they’d be unprintable. America might have changed but given Trump, it’s hard to believe, with Martin Luther King, that the arc of America’s history bends towards justice. It seems, instead, to zigzag between high piety and rank prejudice. If Trump takes the next election, it’s going to be a very long zag. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Fatal fashion||Sir — The price of human desires is steep; but humans rarely pay this price. An alligator-skin handbag from a boutique in France worth $26,000 has been destroyed because it was imported without a permit. But what about the alligator that was killed and skinned for the sake of fashion only for the bag to be destroyed? Many fashion brands are going ethical; yet as long as designs that use faux fur and leather exist, there will always be a demand for the real stuff. Each and every animal is a key part of the earth’s ecological balance; without them, no amount of emission cuts can save us. Roshni Sen
Calcutta Sir — Sankarshan Thakur must be lauded for speaking the hard truth in his article, “Compliant and complicit” (Sep 2). Indeed the series of brutal and heartless incidents taking place in New India — the bringing down of the iron fist in Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, ministers telling people “goli maaro sa***n ko” — have not been imposed upon us; rather it is the ordinary Indians who have voted and re-elected this regime with the goal of exercising muscular majoritarianism. This is why this regime dares to indulge in laying the foundation stone of the Ram Temple amidst a pandemic that is killing thousands every day. Yet, instead of being criticized for it, the government is applauded by the people. People should have asked why the government was busy entertaining Donald Trump and putting up a grand show for him, imposing unnecessary, divisive laws and toppling an elected dispensation in Madhya Pradesh when it should have been ensuring that the coronavirus pandemic did not spread in India. But they chose instead to bang pots and pans at the clarion call of the prime minister at a time when the pandemic was tightening its grip on the nation with millions of poor Indians on the streets following the lockdown. Have we lost all sense of what is right and wrong that we are dancing to the rhetorical tune of certain individuals without questioning either their authority or their motives? Just because the government of the day is pandering to the Hindutva constituency — this seems to comprise large pockets of India — all scandals and failures of the regime are being condoned in spite of its horrendous record in tackling any problem, whether it is the sovereignty of India or its economy. People do get the government they deserve and we are compliant and complicit with those who are causing untold damages to India and Indians. Kajal Chatterjee
Calcutta Sir — The article, “Compliant and complicit”, zeroes in on some of the most dismal aspects of present-day India. Sankarshan Thakur elaborates on numerous instances which show that we are living with lies wantonly piled upon us by a regime that will not stop at anything to consolidate power. At the bidding of the prime minister we clap, turn off lights and believe in unbelievable, absurd fantasies. We watch him feed a bird before going on to narrate a rather well-crafted ‘mann ki baat’ where he speaks of the virtues of native dog breeds, toy-making and food and nutrition at a time when the country has failed in all aspects — political, social, economic, administrative, judicial and diplomatic. Jahar Saha
Calcutta Sir — In his article Sankarshan Thakur has rightly analysed how the current political dispensation is keeping us in the dark about its failures by spreading lies. He has rightly remarked that “we are a living parade of the compliant and the complicit”. People are blindly following what they are asked to do without thinking of the consequences. It looks as though they have been hypnotized and have lost all sense of scepticism. Instead of asking questions we are applauding every useless act and unnecessary decision of the current establishment. Both social and mainstream media have played a vital role in sweeping the failures of the government under the carpet by diverting people’s attention from real issues. This attitude is not good for democracy. The media must play its role sincerely and honestly. Yousuf IqbalCalcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
06-09-2020||Opinion||Play defence: BJP speaks up for Kangana ||The Bharatiya Janata Party was initially shocked when the actor, Kangana Ranaut, compared Mumbai to ‘Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’. The party wanted to stand beside Ranaut because of her clear pro-BJP positions but could not figure out how to do so. One member of the legislative assembly from the BJP in Maharashtra even put out a statement that he does not agree with Ranaut comparing Mumbai to PoK. The Central BJP leaders, however, were not ready to give up so easily. The party has been frustrated of late with what it calls the ‘Left-Congress cabal’ beating it on social media platforms. It wants its electoral domination to reflect on social media too. After a brief lull, members of the Central leadership jumped to Ranaut’s defence, without, however, referring to her comment equating Mumbai to PoK. “When you tell you feel unsafe in India you are a celebrity [sic],” said the BJP general secretary (organization), BL Santosh, in a tweet, referring indirectly to Aamir Khan’s comment in the past. “If you tell Mumbai is unsafe you are hounded day in & day out. This double standards has discredited the left liberal eco system [sic],” Santosh added. He and some other BJP leaders also sharply criticized the Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray, for trying to deflect attention from the state government’s failure to tackle the coronavirus by targeting “individuals”. They conveniently forgot that their government at the Centre has been using a similar tactic to shift focus from the Covid-19 mess in the country and the recession caused by the Centre’s pre-pandemic actions. Amid growing concern over the surge in Covid-19 cases in Assam, there was also something to cheer about as two political arch-rivals — the Congress veteran, Tarun Gogoi, and his one-time blue-eyed boy-turned-bête noire, Himanta Biswa Sarma — used the unprecedented health crisis to convey that politics need not come between personal relationships. Sarma has gone all out to ensure that the Covid-19-infected former chief minister receives the best treatment available at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital: from having a doctors’ team monitor Gogoi’s health 24x7 to personally visiting him thrice in complete PPE gear. Gogoi, too, has publicly acknowledged Sarma’s gesture; burying the bitterness of the past even if only momentarily. Assam’s popular singer-composer, Zubeen Garg, is back in his anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act groove following the controversy triggered by the agriculture department’s announcement last month about roping him in as its brand ambassador. Garg’s fans and admirers reacted strongly to the announcement. They felt that Garg, who was at the forefront of the anti-CAA protests last year, has gone soft on the government and the contentious legislation that is seen as a ‘threat’ to Assamese culture and identity by those opposed to it. Garg made it clear this week that he would not take up the agriculture department’s offer and would continue to raise his voice against the CAA. The BJP ecosystem might have hyped up the Sushant Singh Rajput case keeping the Bihar election in mind but the ultimate political gains and losses will have to be calculated by observing the entirety of the controversy. The markedly high level of interest shown by the Nitish Kumar government in the case made it clear that the motive was to whip up Bihari sentiment. But the leaders from the ruling combine in Maharashtra believe that the BJP badly damaged its prospects in the state, as a majority of the people in Mumbai and other places did not appreciate the aggressive campaign against the Shiv Sena leadership. The condemnation of the Mumbai police and the transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation also hurt local sentiments. The attempt to drag Aditya Thackeray’s name into the controversy also appears to have boomeranged, forcing the former Maharashtra chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, to offer clarifications. Interestingly, Aditya Thackeray has a clean image and leaders across political parties vouch for his integrity and character. The controversy had an unintended benefit: it brought the three allies — the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party — closer than ever before. One Congress minister said, “The BJP and its pet TV channel committed a blunder by dragging Aditya’s name into the controversy... People are going to teach the BJP a lesson in the next Maharashtra election. They will be wiped out if this alliance survives till then”. The Union power ministry had grandly launched an Atal Distribution System Improvement Yojana — ADITYA — a while back as an effort to help power distribution companies pare down losses and ‘effectively monitor’ consumption and its patterns. When the Shiv Sena broke ties with the BJP and crossed the floor to form the government in Maharashtra with the Congress and the NCP, the name of the scheme was suddenly dropped. Some reckon it was because the Centre wanted no reflection of the Thackeray scion in its schemes. The scheme apparently continues to run, but is yet to get a new name. From the day Sonia Gandhi airdropped Shashi Tharoor as the nominee for Thiruvananthapuram around 11 years ago, the local leaders were unhappy. But when his Lok Sabha colleague, Kodikunnil Suresh, called him a ‘guest artist’ and ‘immature’, the party was forced to rally behind Tharoor. Even those who refused to campaign for him went against Suresh’s diatribe. But party veterans will not give the new-found unity much of a chance, especially since the state polls are just months away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-153
