07-09-2020||Opinion||Elusive justice: The media trial of Rhea Chakraborty||Sir — It is a sad truth that bad news grabs more eyeballs than good news. But rarely has a tragic event attracted so much attention as the death of the actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. The case is being accorded a disproportionate amount of media attention. While the whole world is preoccupied with the coronavirus pandemic and the response to it, Indian news channels, with a few honourable exceptions, are obsessed with excavating and expatiating on the circumstances surrounding the actor’s death. They have reduced the pandemic to a footnote. The entertainment this case seems to be providing, one is forced to conclude, is almost making up for cinema closures. Fervid television anchors are spinning the viewers a yarn to suit their needs. They have taken it upon themselves to conduct a trial and pronounce guilt. Devoid of humanity and gladiatorial, they are baying for blood. The case is spiced up with new twists each day for the TV-watching public to devour with relish. At first it was alleged nepotism in Bollywood that was linked to Rajput’s death. Then it was brought to light that there was no love lost between the actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, and his family. When it could not be substantiated that Chakraborty had siphoned off crores of rupees from Rajput, the plot shifted to drug peddling and use. The story has transitioned from nepotism to narcotics. As if this was not bad enough, things get worse from here. All kinds of information extracted during official interrogations reach select media outlets as ‘inside scoops’. This speaks poorly both of investigative agencies and media houses. This matter should now be put to rest, at least by the media. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Women, it seems, will be blamed for everything — from the original sin to the suicide of an actor. The persistent hounding and persecution of Rhea Chakraborty by the media and the public is sad and shameful. All this because society refuses to acknowledge mental illness and the debilitating effect it can have on a person suffering from it. Whether or not Sushant Singh Rajput and Chakraborty smoked cannabis — why must the woman be blamed for what an adult man chooses to do? — is not relevant to this case; the fact is that it could not have pushed the actor to take his life. Even while the country obsesses over the suicide of Rajput, data released by the National Crime Records Bureau show that a total of 1,39,123 suicides were reported in India in 2019 — an increase of 3.4 per cent in comparison to 2018. Of these at least 2,851 persons killed themselves owing to unemployment. One can assume that given the pandemic-induced lull in the film industry and the impact that the recession will have on the purse-strings of producers, Rajput — less established than big stars who may have nest eggs to fall back on — could not but have been distressed. Have prime-time news divas considered this possibility before incriminating a girl without any solid evidence? Yashodhara Sen,Calcutta Sir — The endless speculations about and character assassination of Rhea Chakraborty by a large section of the media even before she has been pronounced guilty by the court are problematic on various counts. The leaked chats between the actress and various other people being flashed on news channels are a violation of the right to privacy. It is also shameful that the entire episode has been hijacked by politicians in an effort to eclipse the failures in governance before the Bihar elections. The aforementioned circumstances call for a court-monitored, independent and time-bound investigation into the whole incident to ascertain the truth. In the meantime, the media must stop playing the role of the jury-cum-investigative agency and shift its focus to more vital issues affecting the country. Chandan Kumar Nath,Barpeta, Assam Sir — When we should be addressing the mental health crisis in India and interrogating the power structures of Bollywood, we are faced instead with medieval misogyny and cultural chauvinism. Rhea Chakraborty has received rape threats, been accused of murder and called a ‘Bengali witch’ because her boyfriend committed suicide. What we are witnessing is the most predictable reaction of a deeply dysfunctional, patriarchal society — blaming the woman. It has happened before with Anushka Sharma who is abused every time her cricketer husband has a bad day on the pitch and Sania Mirza who has been trolled on numerous occasions for the successes and failures of her husband who hails from Pakistan. Kangaroo courts and mob verdicts have become par for the course in India. Shreya Basu,Delhi Size matters Sir — It was exciting to see the picture of the blue whale that was spotted off the coast of Sydney for possibly only the third time in almost 100 years. They are not often seen because they tend to live very far out into the ocean, their populations are widely dispersed and there is limited data on their migration and critical habitats. The blue whale belongs to the category of “charismatic megafauna” — a rather unattractive way of describing those animals which capture the public imagination and help drive environmental and biodiversity campaigns. But this often means that the fate of creatures with less obvious appeal is overlooked. Rima Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Blank noise: Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat||While hearing a case on tender requirements for ground-handling operations in regional airports, the Delhi High Court made a remark about the Centre’s policies on ‘Make in India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The court called them hypocritical because there were no efforts to promote domestic production and entrepreneurship. This remark could not have been nearer to the truth. The policies reflect a long-standing culture of the political class saying something and not doing anything about it or, worse, doing exactly the opposite. Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat represent instances where announcements were made with much fanfare and media applause without clarity on what the strategies meant and how they would be implemented. Indeed, a little reflection reveals that the two policies are self-contradictory. Anybody can make in India, such as foreign firms and multinationals. Atmanirbhar implies self-reliance. It can have different meanings. It could imply that the nation manufactures and grows everything it can and imports only those goods that are essential but not available in adequate quantities, like petroleum. Firstly, all production should be carried out by Indian producers since foreigners producing in India would have the right to exit. Unless this right is granted they would not come to India in the first place. Secondly, even if the nation has to import oil because there is just not enough found at home, it is dependence of a high order for a critical input. Thirdly, what the prime minister meant perhaps was to produce as many things as we can and not import non-essentials like toys from China. Here, there is an important economic issue at stake. What if the toys India can make are more costly and less attractive than the ones the Chinese produce? Should India still manufacture at higher costs? Should India not import specific food items like onions or lentils if the need arises from a crop failure? Should India refrain from looking at the world market for the weapons best suited for the nation’s armed forces by compelling all defence items to be manufactured in India? Is the nation headed back to the 1960s? Or are these words, as the high court pointed out, mere sound and fury? The nation needs to know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Hope Again: Dr Kafeel Khan released||India seems to have grown used to the culture of arrests. Detention is followed by denial, often repeatedly, of bail. Yet the Supreme Court had in 1978 enunciated the principle that bail is the rule and jail the exception. This principle, however, seems to operate rarely nowadays. Those arrested two years ago in the Bhima Koregaon case, for example, detained still without trial, have been refused bail even on medical grounds, whether grievously ill like Varavara Rao, or vulnerable to the Covid-19 infection, such as Sudha Bharadwaj. Therefore it is indeed reassuring that the Allahabad High Court has ordered the release of Kafeel Khan, the doctor detained for seven months under the National Security Act for allegedly trying to promote hatred in an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act speech in Aligarh Muslim University last December. The court dismissed the allegation, reportedly saying that the speech was a call for national unity and integrity. Selected references from the speech had been used to formulate the charge while its intent had been ignored. This was “bad”: the court asked the Uttar Pradesh government to release Mr Khan “forthwith”. The Allahabad High Court’s pronouncements on Mr Khan’s detention matter greatly in the context of the use of law by different authorities against those who displease them. Mr Khan was first arrested in 2017 when he was charged with irregularities in the conduct of his duty in trying to save children in Gorakhpur’s Baba Raghav Das Medical College by arranging for oxygen when cylinders fell short. The efforts of Mr Khan and his colleagues exposed the negligence of the authorities. There can be little doubt, especially after the court’s ruling, that the government’s displeasure led to the doctor’s further detention in a different case. The Delhi High Court, too, granted bail to the student and Pinjra Tod activist, Devangana Kalita, charged with criminal conspiracy for allegedly instigating women of a particular community in northeast Delhi. The court said the material submitted by the police did not establish the charge. Although a similar charge against her remains to be heard, the decision for bail is important in the present atmosphere of fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Portal for profit: e-NAM needs redesigning||Agriculture and the allied sector employ 54.6 per cent of total workers. Yet, the estimated growth rate for 2019-2020 is 2.9 per cent. India’s agricultural markets are regulated by state legislation and fall under the purview of local market committees. Consequently, the sector is characterized by fragmentation across geographical regions, abysmal competition, price manipulations, inefficiency and the presence of middlemen. Then there are the additional needs for logistics and infrastructure. Furthermore, the past decades have witnessed a collapse of farm gate prices across commodities. In its budget of 2016-2017, the Centre had proposed to double farmers’ income by 2022. The National Agriculture Market Portal was launched in 2016 to connect mandis across India. The aim was to increase transparency, thereby improving market conditions. The common electronic platform sought to permit farmers to sell their produce to buyers, promote contract farming and facilitate the direct sale of products to consumers. E-NAM 2016 sought to improve competition and efficiency in markets, eliminate the presence of middlemen, realize better prices for producers and competitive prices for consumers. During the Covid-19 induced lockdown, such new features as Farmers’ Producer Organizations trade modules, logistic modules, and the electronic negotiable warehouse receipt-based module were introduced on the e-NAM platform to strengthen agriculture marketing. E-NAM has networked with 585 Agriculture Produce Market Committee mandis in 16 states and two Union territories. However, the government’s goal faces several impediments. Of the existing 585 mandis, only 252 have shown proof of engagement with the online portal. While the programme wants to reach out to the masses, its successful implementation has been deterred by an information asymmetry, especially among marginalized groups. There is also the absence of a nationwide legal framework; most of the decisions regarding agriculture and allied activities fall under the purview of state legislation. Licensing varies among states and there is no single point for levying of mandi charges. It is collected at several points, facilitating the inclusion of middlemen. Time and cost overrun due to delays in facilitating exchange prevent mandis’ progress towards high-volume commodities. Additionally, e-NAM is used only once a week or during the off-season. New design The scheme needs redesigning. Establishing an online portal market requires an approach that is context-specific and is capable of fostering a deeper engagement with physical mandis and the faulty conditions under which they function. Region-specific market requirements are necessary; this implies decentralization and enhanced institutional capacity-building. What is also necessary is greater coordination among several stakeholders. Statutory restrictions must be removed and the bargaining power of farmers improved with the help of competition in local wholesale markets. The dissemination of information must be ensured. The states have to open up the marketing system for better competition. This might lead to a fall in the MSP but it will ensure the quality of the produce. Further, agricultural production needs to be diversified to keep up with the competition at the global level. Although this looks difficult, it can be achieved with public investment and training. A comprehensive framework backed by science and technology, institutions, and policy support may enable the Centre to tap into the potential of e-NAM, which, with context-specific implementation, may prove beneficial during Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
07-09-2020||Opinion||Shifting faith||In 1979, Pakistan changed the name of its third-largest populated city, Lyallpur, located on the banks of the river, Chenab, in Pakistani Punjab to Faisalabad in honour of the late King Faisal of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Lyallpur was the name given in honour of the then British lieutenant-governor of Punjab, James Broadwood Lyall, in the early 20th century. The KSA gave money for the construction of the picturesque Faisal mosque in Islamabad, again named in honour of the late king. The relationship between the KSA and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan has often been cast in terms of ties between two fraternal Sunni Muslim majority countries. One was the country where Islam was founded and another was created in the name of Islam. So the Pakistani foreign minister, Shah Mehmood Qureshi, surprised many by publicly admonishing the KSA leadership for its failure to convene a foreign ministers’ meeting of the KSA-led 57-member Organisation of Islamic Cooperation. “If they will not play their role, then I will ask Prime Minister Imran Khan to go ahead with or without Saudi Arabia.” This was preceded by Pakistan repaying the KSA’s loan of $1 billion (USD) out of $3 billion with China’s help before the maturity period. The reason cited was that the KSA was facing financial difficulties because of the recent decrease in oil exports owing to the ongoing pandemic. The reason didn’t convince many as the KSA has several hundred billions parked in foreign assets and a sovereign wealth fund was established to diversify its investments. The loan to Pakistan was at an interest rate of 3.2 per cent. In addition to this, an old agreement signed between Pakistan and the KSA for the provision of $3.2 billion worth of oil on deferred payments per annum by the KSA was not renewed after May, 2020. Given the manner in which the two countries have locked themselves in the last few decades, this was a rare instance of criticism of the KSA leadership. The KSA, being one of the financial benefactors, has often shaped political developments in Pakistan. In a deal that was believed to be brokered by the KSA, the former prime minister, Nawaz Sharif, was allowed to leave Pakistan by Pervez Musharraf a year after the general had deposed Sharif  in a military coup. In the late 1970s and the 1980s, the KSA and Pakistan became the most important frontal allies of the United States of America in its bid to bleed and defeat the Soviet Union. The KSA, along with the US, provided funds to Pakistan’s military to train and arm the mujahideen in Afghanistan. In fact, as is widely known, some KSA nationals, including Osama bin Laden, had fought alongside the Afghan mujahideen. After the retreat of the Soviet Union and the defeat of the local groups it supported in Afghanistan, the victorious mujahideen coalesced to form the Taliban and took advantage of the political vacuum. Only the KSA, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan recognized the Taliban leadership when they took power in Afghanistan. The relationship has other aspects. Pakistani troops have been deployed in the KSA at various critical moments, including the Gulf war in 1991, as part of a strategy to deter any potential Iraqi attack. The KSA had helped Pakistan to weather international sanctions after the 1998 nuclear tests in the form of a “four-year deferred oil financing facility worth roughly $3.4 billion”. Although the KSA, officially, is a non-nuclear-weapons state, its public commitment hinges on whether or not its regional foe, Iran, acquires the nuclear bomb. It is widely believed that nuclear-armed Pakistan may be one of the countries that will enable the KSA to acquire nuclear capability. Pakistan’s singular obsession with raising the Kashmir issue and the KSA’s desire to remain equidistant from the Indo-Pak rivalry seem to be the trigger behind Qureshi’s outburst. That may not be all. In the last year or so, Pakistan’s foreign policy has put itself in the cross hairs of the renewed rivalry between the KSA and Turkey. This rivalry has its roots in the four-centuries’ old Arab-Ottoman animosity as the Ottomans had colonized vast tracts of present-day Middle East. Pakistan’s prime minister, Imran Khan, has lavished praise on the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and encouraged Pakistan’s State media to broadcast the famous Turkish show, Ertugrul, and dub it in Urdu. Khan stated that in contrast to Hollywood and Bollywood, Turkish television shows are more in conformity with Islamic and family values. Musharraf used to refer to Kemal Atatürk, the founder of modern Turkey, as his role model. Atatürk, the polar opposite of Erdogan, secularized the country’s polity with an iron hand. The KSA-Turkey animosity has acquired topical salience in the last few years. Turkey’s decision to deploy more troops in Qatar, which was facing a blockage from the KSA, exacerbated the tensions between the KSA and Turkey. In July 2020, Erdogan visited Qatar to further cement the strategic relationship between the two countries.  The KSA and Turkey are following divergent foreign policy goals in many places. For instance, in Libya, Turkey is backing Libya’s Government of National Accord to push back Khalifa Haftar’s Libyan National Army, which is supported by the KSA. The tensions had become more apparent after the killing of the Saudi journalist, Jamal Khashoggi, in the KSA’s Istanbul consulate in 2018. The facts presented by the Turkish authorities hinted at the direct involvement of Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman in the killing. A trial had already started in Turkey that accused 20 KSA citizens in absentia; the KSA has declined to extradite them. There is a counter-reaction sweeping within the KSA as the leadership has decided to refer to the Ottoman rule over its territory in the context of colonialism and revise textbooks. In Riyadh, a sign bearing the name of the Ottoman sultan, Suleiman the Magnificent, was reportedly removed from one of the main streets. The global challenge to the KSA’s leadership in the Muslim world is at play. In December 2019, Erdogan along with the former Malaysian prime minister, Mahathir Mohamad, had taken the initiative to organize an Islamic summit in Kuala Lumpur. This initiative was seen by the KSA monarchy as a threat to replace the Jeddah-headquartered OIC, which is under Saudi Arabia’s de facto leadership. In a statement, the OIC secretary-general, Yousef al-Othaimeen, had said, “It is not in the interest of an Islamic nation to hold summits and meetings outside the framework of the (OIC), especially at this time when the world is witnessing multiple conflicts.” Although Malaysia and Turkey supported the position of Khan on Jammu and Kashmir-related issues in the context of the developments after August 5, 2019, the KSA leadership convinced Pakistan’s prime minister not to attend the summit. The deference is not unexpected. Apart from financial support, at least 2.6 million Pakistani nationals of all professional classes work in the KSA and they are the biggest source of remittances to Pakistan. At a time of a grand contestation taking place between the two big powers of the Islamic world, Pakistan faces a choice between the KSA, which is expected to invest $20 billion in Pakistan as part of a memorandum of understanding signed between the two countries in February 2019, or join hands with Turkey, the KSA’s arch rival in the Muslim world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
