08-09-2020||Opinion||Shameful: Dr Maroona Murmu's casteist trolling||Sir — We, the undersigned teachers of the Department of History, Jadavpur University, strongly and unambiguously condemn the vilification and the rancorous trolling on social media platforms of our colleague, Dr Maroona Murmu. We believe that every individual citizen of the country has the right to articulate her opinion. However, such articulations cannot entail malicious responses, especially ones that hurt a person on the basis of her religion, caste, gender, linguistic affiliation and ethnicity. As her colleagues we feel humiliated that Dr Murmu has been attacked in such disparagingly casteist terms. It is high time that we redefined the idea of ‘merit’ as something that is painstakingly and honestly acquired by an individual through passion and hard work. Any casteist vilification of an individual or community is disgraceful and needs to be condemned in strong and outright terms. We stand by Dr Murmu for her uprightness, integrity and her outspoken demeanour. We reiterate the stand resolved by the Jadavpur University Teachers’ Association to support Dr Murmu in this time of crisis.Mahua Sarkar, Anuradha Roy, Nupur Dasgupta, Rupkumar Barman, Sudeshna Banerjee, Suchetana Chattopadhyay, Tilottama Mukherjee, Chandrani Banerjee Mukherjee, Samarpita Mitra, Debajit Dutta, Utsa RayOut of control Sir — It was disheartening to hear that nearly 300 pro-democracy activists have been arrested in Hong Kong  for protesting against the postponing of the legislative council elections (“HK erupts against deferred elections”, Sept 7). Hong Kong was originally scheduled to go to the polls last Sunday, but the elections were ultimately pushed back citing public health concerns. Hong Kongers thus assembled in hundreds — it was one of the largest gatherings since China’s implementation of the anti-sedition laws in the region — to fight for their democratic rights. The protesters also called for the release of the 12 people who were arrested by Chinese coastguards while attempting to flee to Taiwan by sea. This decision by the government comes amid a continuing crackdown on pro-democracy figures and raids on newsrooms, including the arrest of media tycoon, Jimmy Lai — he is a vocal critic of the pro-Beijing establishment — in August under the new national security law. The situation in Hong Kong is deteriorating by the day with a near absolute disintegration of its democratic ethos. The international community must do all it can to come to the aid of Hong Kongers in this hour of need.Rohan Mishra,Delhi Sir — As the Hong Kong police clashed with the pro-democracy activists on Sunday, a horrifying video began circulating on social media showing several officers brutally tackling a 12-year-old girl to the ground. This conduct, no matter the justification of the police — they argued that she “ran away in a suspicious manner” — is unacceptable. The administration must be held accountable for its actions. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta Be vigilant Sir — The level of air pollution in Delhi saw a marked improvement during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, recording five “good” air quality days since March. But will it be possible to maintain this for long? As traffic increases and industrial sectors open up, emission levels are already on the rise with Mumbai witnessing a substantial drop in the air quality index. Unless people make an effort to curb toxic emissions, air quality will soon go back to pre-Covid conditions. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||Tragic end: Suicides on the rise||A total of 1,39,123 suicides were reported in India in 2019 — an increase of 3.4 per cent from 2018 — according to latest data released by the National Crime Records Bureau. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal topped the charts, accounting for 45,074 of all suicide deaths in India. It is possible that the actual figures are higher in reality because suicide, much like mental illness and rape, is something that families try to cover up. What is telling, though, is that 10.1 per cent of those who ended their lives were unemployed. This is not surprising given that joblessness touched a 45-year high last year. Farmers, daily wage earners and housewives also make up a large share of those who killed themselves. The prime minister’s shrill pledge to double farm incomes and other measures to protect farmers from fatal debts now has a hollow ring to them. For women, gender-based discrimination, intimate partner violence, the shame attached to mental illness and the inability to ask for help have converged and led to grievous consequences. Much has been said about suicide after a young actor took his life recently. What this discourse revealed is the enormity of public ignorance about the causal factors. A majority of the external triggers — debt, unemployment and so on — that lead to suicide are also linked inextricably to a tormented inner life. Yet, the burgeoning mental health crisis remains widely stigmatized in India. Suicide is the ultimate sign of distress; the lack of social and institutional recognition of depression as a serious illness and the paucity of counsellors to combat it play a big part in this problem. There are just three psychiatrists and even fewer psychologists for every one million people in India. It is also clear that pandemic-induced anxieties and social isolation have pushed many more people to the brink. A study by the International Labour Organization found that one out of two young people around the world is now subject to anxiety and depression. Suicides can be prevented with timely interventions, but the fallout of sidelining mental health for decades has been immense. There is a pressing need for a concerted campaign to dispel societal prejudices, including the breaking of the silence encouraged by the families of the afflicted. More important, mental health must be linked with the public health discourse. According to some estimates, the nationwide implementation of the Mental Healthcare Act will cost Rs 94,000 crore a year. Till adequate budget allocations are made for this purpose and funds and infrastructure are complemented by an empathetic approach to mental health, suicide prevention may remain elusive for Indians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||Overlooked: India's migrant workers||It was when thousands of migrant labourers started their walk back to their villages miles away from their workplace after the lockdown in March that respectable India seemed to get some impression of their numbers. India’s indifference to the men and women whose underpaid labour creates the comforts of everyday life is indicated by the fact that there is no firm count of migrant labourers. The figure in the census is 51 million, although the number has unofficially been put at anything between 120 to 140 million. Seasonal migrant workers, who go for agricultural or construction work for some months each year are often left out of the count. The focus is on workers who move for longer periods from rural areas to growth centres. Whether seasonal or long-term, or caste-based workers traditionally engaged in the leather industry, say, or sanitation, internal migrants work mostly with low pay in hazardous environments, often trapped in debt to their contractors. Short on educational and social security, they need the government’s attention. Yet a recent study based on experiments in the field shows that local politicians are far less inclined to help migrant workers than residents of their constituencies. Researchers from Columbia University and the University of California, San Diego have found that in 28 large cities, municipal councillors favour long-term residents in their wards when they need help over migrant labourers come recently to the area. Among the reasons for this that could be inferred from the results of the field experiments the chief one was political. Internal migrants are not registered voters in the places they go to work in; they return to their own localities at election time. Since the electoral fate of local politicians does not depend on their goodwill, they figure low on the politicians’ list of people to be helped. Other factors are at work too, bias being one of them. Secondary results of the researchers’ experiment indicate that councillors are more responsive to residents with Hindu names than others, and to professional and skilled people, such as doctors and engineers, than those in low skilled work, such as cleaners. But overall, migrant workers suffer most from politicians’ neglect. Will heightened public awareness about their suffering help ameliorate this “systemic political neglect” after the pandemic passes?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||Rethinking democracy||Paul Cartledge, the renowned Cambridge historian, brought out a biography of democracy in 2016 with the nuanced title, Democracy: A Life. The book is a tour de force, lucidly covering a stretch of two-and-half millennia, from pre-Periclean Athens right up to Brexit. Classical Athens gets the major share of the cake since Cartledge identifies it as the unambiguous birthplace of modern Western democracy. This is not surprising. In many discussions since the 19th century, the citizenship tradition of Athenian democracy has been upheld as the revolutionary beginning of modern democracy. It needs to be made clear at the outset that modern multi-party democracy has two inescapable differences with the ancient system. First, ancient Athenian democracy through its different phases was a direct democracy while across the democratic world today what prevails is the representational system. Second, ancient democracy was based on the concept of individualistic, voluntaristic conception of democratic entitlement through persuasion and deliberation. This flies in the face of modern, political-party-based democracy, as Cartledge himself points out. Amartya Sen is one of those who challenged such myth-making, arguing that classical Athenian democracy is not unique among ancient civilizations to give importance to in public discussions and reasoning. The intellectual developments of ancient Greece, he points out, cannot be dissociated from ancient Egypt, Iran and India. In the same vein but on a more ambitious scale, the contemporary Greek historian, Kostas Vlassopoulos, argues for an interlinked history of the wider Mediterranean and Near Eastern world. The whole idea of an autonomous polis, he argues, is the product of nation-bound, imperialist thinking in the 19th century as is the dichotomy between oriental despotism and Western freedom. To continue with Sen, the Indian Constitution, although framed on Western liberal notions, borrowed a great deal from the ancient Buddhist traditions of the country, especially from the teachings of Emperor Ashoka, and the idea of religious tolerance and heterodoxy of the great Mughal emperors, particularly Akbar, with Aurangzeb being an exception. Cartledge discusses Sen’s positions in considerable detail. However, he prefers to use Sen contra Sen, highlighting the latter’s admission that democratic India has neither adequately addressed ‘conspicuous deprivations’, nor has it succeeded in guaranteeing the rights of minorities. With this move, Cartledge possibly wished to legitimize the near-total absence of India from his long history of democracy. Yet in one of the essays of Sen Cartledge refers to, the economist clearly points out that the oft-repeated argument of the poor being more interested in bread rather than democracy is fallacious on two different counts. First, the protective role of democracy is particularly important for the poor. People in economic need also need a political voice. Second, there is very little evidence that poor people prefer to reject democracy. On the contrary, in the election following the Emergency, the Indian electorate, poor even though they were, overwhelmingly reaffirmed democracy over the call to eradicate poverty. There is no denying that those looking for institutional purity of democracy as practised in India have reasons to be disappointed. Yet it is precisely universal franchise and the adoption of a thoroughly democratic Constitution that have opened up the space for the mobilization and the contestation of the underprivileged which the regime(s) in power willy-nilly have had to address. Here lies the source of dynamism of contemporary Indian polity. It would be obdurate not to acknowledge the global significance of the moot question the debate throws up: does the understanding of democracy as presented in Western scholarship and projected as modular across the world — irrespective of the specific historical experiences of nation-states — need a change in focus? Should democracy be defined and judged in terms of its formal purity or should we be attending more to the scope democracy has provided for voicing grievances and demands of the oppressed who do not enjoy the protection citizenship formally professes but have a vote each? Democracy in India is the primary weapon in the struggle for literacy, healthcare, gender equality and right to employment. The restlessness of the post-Independence Indian polity, especially since the 1970s, is a combination of two simultaneous and related processes. First, thanks to universal franchise, the historically wronged and oppressed are fighting for their right to dignity and basic livelihood. Second, those who have witnessed a degree of upward mobility are engaged in a process of embodiment of capital, translating economic gains into cultural and symbolic capital. Admittedly, the question of the proper functioning of institutions is no less important. But institutions cannot have a life of their own outside the everyday struggle of the majority of the populace. It is only in the course of struggle that people realize a fundamental truth of political life: for their basic demands to be taken care of, what is needed is the efficacy of institutions. In the past few years, India has been witnessing a serious undermining of the country’s basic democratic institutions. If Indians stand united against this corrosion, it would prove the strength of India’s democracy. Here, the role of leadership is crucial. Democracy entails ceaseless contestations and any yardstick to measure the efficacy of democracy cannot escape taking those into account.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
08-09-2020||Opinion||The alchemist||In January 1977 I was just out of school, the last batch of the ISC Class XI graduates, which meant I had a good seven months before I joined any college. At that time I came across a flyer for a course that had just started in ‘media communication’ somewhere on Wellesley Street. When I first made my way to this strange place called Chitrabani I didn’t quite know what to expect. I went into an old, slightly dilapidated colonial building in the compound of Lord Jesus Church, and I found my way to the office of the man directing the course, a certain Mr Deepak Majumdar. Deepakda was one of Calcutta’s true intellectual mavericks; he had been in America during the 60s and then in Greece and was now back in the city, launching this unusual course which would explore media communication in India while keeping in mind all the different theories and ideas about mass media that were coming into discussion around the world. As I got to know the institution better, I discovered that the media course was only one activity among many. There was an amazing library with books on different media, there was a black and white photo laboratory and a recently begun contemporary photo archive. There was a small but well-equipped sound studio, there was the Catholic radio station, there was a small screening room attached to the library and then there was the inner sanctum, referred to in hushed tones as ‘Father’s Office’, which was the seat of the man who had conceived and launched this whole project. If Deepak was unkempt, bohemian, chain-smoking, often in western clothes especially in winter, then Father Roberge was the opposite, always in a crisply starched kurta and wide pyjamas, black hair on head, pens in kurta pocket, sparkling clean specs, everything neatly squared away and battened down to help him weather the constant turbulent storm that was this city of his chosen domicile. If Deepak (and many others of us) could be excitable or loud, Father R never raised his voice. Across the years of our association I did see him occasionally displeased or upset, but never once did I hear him snap loudly or shout at anyone. At the beginning of the course us younger students used to refer to him as Father, or among ourselves just as Roberge. Later I heard various people my age call him by his first name, Gaston, but I never attempted such familiarity; by the 1980s, though, when I was working in Chitrabani on a project, he had picked up the affectionate (strictly third person nickname) of Papa Roberge between some of us. The first thing you noticed about the man was that he always seemed to be either amused by something or searching for something by which to be amused. The smile and the warm laugh or mischievous chuckle were his first choices, though these were never an excuse for flippancy. Soon, however, in any interaction, his seriousness came to the fore, the quick getting down to business, the simmering impatience with any shuffling or dissimulation that could waste his time, but also, usually, the quick appreciation of any genuinely expressed position, even if it ran counter to his own views. The second thing — which came as a real surprise when I first encountered it as a teenager — was this French Canadian’s formidable command of Bangla. Like his English, his spoken Bangla too was redolent with Gallic gutturalities, liberally garnished with the French ‘r’, and that particular sing-song lilt that a lot of Gallic speakers develop once they spend time in India. In time, I developed a side-line in replicating Father’s accent, in both English and Bangla, sometimes even fooling other students on the phone. It’s a truism that you don’t realize the value of something if it’s too close at hand, too familiar or too easily available. While doing the media course at Chitrabani and later, after college, working there on occasional projects, many of us treated the place like a second home, or a club where you also produced work. Travelling in India in the late 70s and 80s, if you mentioned Roberge or Chitrabani in serious cinema or media study circles, there was an immediate recognition and respect that we registered only later. We read the books Father wrote, we attended the lectures, we absorbed the direct and angular lessons Deepakda and others imparted to us, we relished the freedom given to us to explore photography, cinema, theatre, music, radio and television, and the mess of theory surrounding these; often, without any baggage of apprehension, we went out and did things that were weird, out of line, that hadn’t been done before in our milieu; and we took all of this for granted. It’s only later, when the camera of memory cranes back from time to time for the long, all-encompassing shot, that one realizes other things. Here is a young man who comes from Canada to Calcutta at the beginning of the 1960s, he has found his calling as a Jesuit but also a parallel calling as an explorer of images, still and moving, and of the audio-visual, and of the particular, multi-layered context the subcontinent provides for the consumption of these images. Roberge develops a warm connection with Satyajit Ray, a man generating some of the most sophisticated audio-visual material in the world, but Roberge also initiates the study of how Sholay is viewed across India, of how a very different hit like Bede’r Meye Jyotsna is consumed across Bengal. He studies contemporary popular urban material but also supports the documentation of rural performative traditions that are disappearing or radically mutating. At the same time, he creates a space for a theory and praxis of a different kind of photography and of a photo-archiving practice hitherto unknown in these parts. It was only much later that you appreciated the environment that Gaston Roberge had created, the openness of it, the generosity of spirit that powered it, the radical daring that streaked through the channels of the institution. All this despite and through the compulsions and constraints simultaneously laid on it by a deeply conservative local Catholic hierarchy and an inimical Leftist state government. It was only after Father Roberge relinquished the directorship and Chitrabani became yet another grim, bureaucratic, mediocrity-run institution that you looked back and realized what a fragile, flawed, Calcutta-contraption of a miracle the man from Québec had managed to cobble together for all too brief a period. It’s only later you realize all the different precious alchemies of process that were let loose from that pocket of time and you feel no small gratitude.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-152
