09-09-2020||Opinion||For freedom: Dr Kafeel Khan released||Sir — The doctor from Uttar Pradesh, Kafeel Khan, a victim of political conspiracy, has now been released from prison on the order of the Allahabad High Court (“Hope again”, Sept 7). He was detained under the National Security Act earlier this year for criticizing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and its discriminatory nature. The court found that far from being provocative, the speech, read in its entirety, does not even reveal an effort to promote hatred or violence. The only explanation, then, is that the NSA was invoked to avoid his release in keeping with the February court order. The verdict exposes the state government’s vindictive attitude towards a particular community. The use of national security laws against dissenters, arbitrarily and in the absence of evidence, should be condemned. Khan has been hounded and persecuted by the government ever since the 2017 incident at a medical college in Gorakhpur where a number of children lost their lives. He was then arrested on charges of negligence and corruption even though circumstances indicated his strenuous efforts to ensure continuous oxygen supply. He spent months in prison before an inquiry absolved him of the charges but his suspension has not yet been revoked. There is reason to believe that Khan was persecuted because the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, had a grudge against him. His trigger-happy police force inflicted insufferable torture on Khan in jail. The court has corrected an act of injustice and put an end to the harassment of a citizen on political grounds, at least for now. There is no guarantee that vindictive political leaders will not implicate him under other trumped-up charges. That would surely be a defeat of India’s democratic values. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Last week, the Allahabad High Court ordered the release of Kafeel Khan, denouncing his illegal arrest under the NSA. In a similar case, the Delhi High Court granted bail to Devangana Kalita, a student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, in one of the cases lodged against her — she remains in prison as charges under the Unlawful Activities (Preventive) Act have not yet been repealed. In both cases, the respective high courts observed that adequate evidence of incitement to violence had not been furnished against the accused. In India, the use of draconian laws such as the NSA and the UAPA to book people under various false charges seems to have become common. While some of the accused are later found to be ‘not guilty’, many continue to languish in jails. Meanwhile, activists across the country have condemned the indiscriminate use of such laws, claiming that these have been misused over the years and that states should thereby refrain from invoking these unless there is substantive evidence against the accused. Indeed, the abuse of such laws is dangerous to democracy. Even though the immediate arrest of a suspect is not mandatory under the law, there are enough cases where arrests are made in order to frame innocent people or to subject them to harassment. In this respect, the cases of Khan and Kalita can serve as eye-openers. All state governments should review their position immediately and release those people who have been unnecessarily detained under these laws. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Kafeel Khan’s account of the torture inflicted upon him in prison is horrifying (“‘Safe’, Kafeel lists torture”, Sept 4). It appears that a false case was lodged against Khan simply because he tried to expose the flaws in the system following the death of a number of children at a Gorakhpur hospital. A benevolent doctor seems to have been treated like a criminal by a vindictive system — Khan alleged that he even used to be hung upside down and beaten while he was in jail. The judgment of the Allahabad High Court exonerating him of the charges signifies the defeat of a vengeful state government and the victory of truth and justice at a very dark time. Only a few people dare to speak up against the prevailing injustices in society; the rest choose to remain silent. The latter seem to be progressively outnumbering the former, possibly owing to the fear of retaliation. But when dissenting voices are gagged, the very foundations of democracy and secularism begin to shake. This is what is plaguing the country at present. Serajuddin-Khurram,Calcutta Step up Sir — Last week, the name of the cartoon character, Shinchan, appeared at the top of a merit list put up by a college in West Bengal. This was shortly after the names of an actress and a singer were posted in the admission lists of some other colleges. While this may seem funny at first, it reveals the fragile condition of online infrastructure in the state. This is especially worrying at a time when online education seems to be the only way forward, as schools and colleges remain closed owing to the pandemic. The education ministry must step up its game and address the gaps in the system at once. Arghya Roy,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||Divine excuse: Covid-19 as 'act of god'||The Centre has declared the Covid-19 pandemic as an “act of god”. Does this imply that the force majeure clause can be invoked to cover contractual obligations? The term, force majeure, refers to an event or impact that can neither be anticipated nor controlled by the parties involved in a contract. It is a contractual provision for allocating the loss arising from unanticipated risks if fulfilling the contract becomes impossible or impracticable. Indian law does not fully deal with all the implications of force majeure; some reference is found in Section 32 of the Indian Contract Act of 1872. There is mention that if a contract is contingent on the happening of an event that becomes impossible to control, then the contract becomes void. If a contract does not include a force majeure clause and some unforeseen or uncontrollable event occurs that can be potentially treated as a force majeure, then the two parties need to agree upon the terms of their contractual obligations and take guidance from Section 56 of the Indian Contract Act, which pertains to a contract to do impossible acts. The parties can mutually settle or get a judicial decision as to whether they can be free from their contractual obligations. In the light of Covid-19 and the prolonged period of lockdown, many contracts have become impossible to fulfil. This implies that a lot of litigations will ensue between contracting parties where the clause was not explicitly written down. Even government contracts with a private party could come under the scanner of this clause. For the government, an added issue will be whether Covid-19 was controllable or not. Did the government take the correct decision to impose a tight lockdown? One major issue indirectly connected to the pandemic is the low collection of the goods and services tax revenues. The Union government is committed to pay a share of the revenue to the states guaranteed for five years and growing annually at the rate of 14 per cent. The Centre is now claiming that revenue collection was unexpectedly low on account of Covid-19 and, hence, the Union government is unable to pay the states their due shares. This could become a messy legal tangle, with a Union government official claiming that it is permissible to revisit the constitutional guarantee to pay the states at the rates agreed upon without discussing the issue with the GST Council. The states are raising a number of objections to this stance. A constitutional guarantee, however, cannot invoke a force majeure clause.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||Hollow words: Modi's Chinese incursion denial||Words can be turned into weapons. India’s prime minister, who prides himself on his formidable oratorical skills, seems to have ignored this possibility. In June, a few days after the clash with China at the border in Ladakh that cost the lives of 20 Indian soldiers, Narendra Modi had informed an all-party meeting that India’s territory remained free from intrusion. Since then, there is mounting evidence to suggest that Mr Modi had been economical with the truth. Both the foreign ministry and, equally suggestively, the army have expressed grave concern about the situation on the ground. Several assessments have suggested that China has gobbled up Indian land near Pangong Lake, Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains. But the most damaging consequence of Mr Modi’s distorted account of events unfolded at the Union defence minister’s recent meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow. Beijing, without naming the Indian prime minister, continued to stonewall New Delhi’s rightful insistence on restoring the status quo by weaponizing Mr Modi’s words, suggesting that the allegations of incursion by Chinese soldiers into Indian territory are unsubstantiated. The prime minister’s public utterance has handed Beijing a potential weapon to neuter India’s diplomatic thrusts, putting New Delhi on the defensive. The hopes of a resolution during the talks between India’s foreign minister and a Chinese diplomat are dim. Mr Modi can certainly take credit for the impasse. This, however, is not only a diplomatic or military crisis. There is an additional dimension that must not escape public attention. Mr Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party never stop displaying their ‘patriotic’ hearts on their sleeves. One of the hallmarks of patriotism is a government’s commitment to truth and transparency. Mr Modi, as an elected prime minister, is mandated to let the people know the truth about Galwan and the simmering border situation. But transparency, be it on issues like the floundering economy or a heated border, is not the prime minister’s forte. With generous help from a supine media, the government, characteristically, is busy demonizing those raising searching questions about the serious lapses committed by Mr Modi on China. Ironically, the motto of the nation that Mr Modi has been given the responsibility of serving claims the triumph of truth. Perhaps this bit of Upanishadic wisdom does justice to the spirit of Old — not New — India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||MGNREGA : A case for rural regeneration||Narendra Modi’s cocky statement in Parliament in 2015 about the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act being a monumental failure of the Congress regime may have been a political jibe, but it showed that the government had no intention of boosting a programme which, since its inception, has suffered from the lack of political intent, leakages and bureaucratic negligence. Over-the-top technological interventions have pushed the MGNREGA towards centralization, with transparency and local accountabilities being compromised. However, the economic distress caused by unilaterally imposed lockdowns has brought the focus back on the rural job programme. The MGNREGA has become a lifeline for millions of rural workers in their struggle for survival. The Periodic Labour Force Survey had shown in 2017-18 that the unemployment rate stood at 6.1 per cent, the highest in the last 45 years. Independent research suggests that 6 out of 10 workers in rural areas and 8 out of 10 employees in urban areas in the informal sector have lost employment during the lockdown. A large number of people remain excluded from the public distribution system. These figures call for reformatory action. The measures announced by the Centre are inadequate to address the issues of food and nutrition insecurity, unemployment and livelihoods. Moreover, a major share of the first economic relief package worth Rs 1.7 lakh crore had already been accounted for in the budget. The second package of Rs 20 lakh crore, too, had little by way of fresh allocations. The Centre did make a supplementary budget allocation of Rs 40,000 crore to the MGNREGA. This is heartening. But the allocation of Rs 1,01,500 crore for 2020-21 is inadequate to meet the current demand. Significantly, more than Rs 10,000 crore out of the current allocation had to be spent to clear past liabilities. The People’s Action for Employment Guarantee, a group of individuals working on the MGNREGA, recently released an MGNREGA tracker, which cites data from the government’s website. Some of the figures are as follows: 48 per cent of the total allocation has been spent till August 3, 2020, with about 7.5 months left in the financial year; till August 3, 43 per cent of payments for July had not been released by the Centre; less than 12 per cent of the funds released are left with state governments; 38 lakh new job cards were made since April, 2020; 11 per cent more persondays of employment was generated in the first quarter of this financial year compared to the projected labour budget in this period; about 17 per cent of work demands remained unmet. The website further shows that more than 4.5 lakh households have already exhausted 100 days of employment and more than 38 lakh households have worked between 71-99 days and are on the verge of exhausting their entitlements. A closer look at the work demand pattern during the financial year reveals that on an average the work demand was about 60 per cent higher than that of last year during the months of May, June and July. Persondays generation till July is 49 per cent higher than that of last year. Even in ordinary times, the bureaucracy finds it difficult to manage execution. Consequently, large-scale work demands do not even get registered on the Management Information System, neither do workers get receipts against their demands. All this implies that the actual demand for MGNREGA work is much higher than what the figures show on the official database. Even if a sizeable number of migrants who have returned to their villages decide, once again, to go back to the cities in search of ‘skilled’ work, the reliance on the MGNREGA for rural employment generation would remain considerable. The Centre needs to allocate one lakh crore more to provide at least 60 days of employment to 14 crore job-card-holding households at the current per person per day average cost of Rs 240. The MGNREGA has three immediate needs — declaring the pandemic to be a national disaster, the Centre should increase workdays to 150 in the entire country; another supplementary allocation of at least one lakh crore should be budgeted given the spike in demand; social audits will be necessary in all states to plug leakages. The Centre may consider constituting a Central cell for the monitoring of social audits. The Centre and the states must prioritize the issues of employment and livelihoods of the poorest and allocate more resources to help the vulnerable at this hour of crisis. The ruling party in Delhi may have understood the importance of the MGNREGA. It must now understand that the programme needs additional funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
09-09-2020||Opinion||Against excellence||Since the totality of speech consists of both what is said and what is not said, for understanding the new National Education Policy we have to look both at its words and its silences. Then we cannot escape the conclusion that the NEP involves a paradigm shift in India’s education system that is highly retrograde and deleterious. This shift is from a conception of education as a means of ‘nation-building’ (for want of a better term) to one that prepares students to become mere fodder for neoliberal capitalism, even while giving them a dash of Hindutva chauvinism. The NEP thus visualizes an education that is in perfect sync with the politics of the corporate-Hindutva alliance that currently rules India. The existing education system no doubt is deeply flawed and can scarcely be credited with serving such a lofty goal as ‘nation-building’; nonetheless it has certain markers whose removal, suggested by the NEP, will be severely damaging for the nation. The first removal is of inclusiveness; the NEP, contrary to its claims, will make education confined, more so than before, to a socially and economically privileged elite. This is clear from the fact that nowhere in the document is there any mention of ‘reservations’ for Dalits, other backward classes and other deprived groups, even though the document devotes sizeable space to the need to draw what it calls “socio-economically disadvantaged groups” into the ambit of education. Its total silence on ‘reservations’ suggests its unwillingness to continue with them. A further reason for believing the NEP to be exclusionary is that it envisages significant privatization of education, which will clearly make it more expensive, well beyond the pockets of the socially and economically deprived. The NEP talks of scholarships being given by private higher educational institutions; but such scholarships will raise their fees for non-scholarship-holders even further. This will destroy all collegiality among students, with rich students sneering at the poor ones (‘My father pays for your education’); the tendency among the latter will be to get demoralized and drop out. Education of the poor in private institutions has got to be tax-financed; the NEP does not recognize this. In fact, such dropping out is implicitly acknowledged in the NEP. Its enthusiastic references to Open Distance Learning and to Vocational Education are a cover for such exclusion. With state examinations, now instituted even at Class III, V and VIII levels, it can be claimed that those who get bad grades and have to drop out will be ‘accommodated’ in these alternative streams. These streams, however, cannot substitute academic education. Vocational training should follow only after a certain minimum level of academic education; Open Distance Learning cannot replace formal education, since the latter involves social interaction, which is a crucial aspect of learning. Likewise, a person dropping out of college after one or two years is to be provided under the NEP with a consolation piece of paper called a “certificate” or a “diploma”; notwithstanding this piece of paper, he/she still remains a drop out. Exclusion is thus a central feature of the NEP; those excluded can, at best, be vocationally trained in some ‘skills’ but they would not get an education. The vision is that a few, depending on the needs of neoliberal capitalism, will acquire an education that will enable them to fill executive and official positions; others excluded from such education will be given skills, and will join that vast and growing segment of the workforce among whom limited number of available jobs are rationed out with declining per capita earnings over time. The dualism characterizing the economy will now also characterize the education system, not just de facto but also de jure. Those who receive education and are destined for proper jobs will have a curriculum that imitates those of metropolitan universities. The globalization of capital characteristic of neoliberal capitalism also creates a global labour market that requires, in turn, a homogeneous education across countries. This detaches education, say in India, completely from its Indian setting. A student of economics, for instance, simply cannot understand the Indian economy without reckoning with the legacy of colonialism; but a student in the metropolis, even a student of Development Economics, does not learn a thing about colonialism, has not heard of the ‘drain of surplus’ or ‘deindustrialization’. Having an imitative curriculum, which becomes necessary if foreign universities are invited to set up shop in India, as the NEP visualizes, will, therefore, make Indian students ignorant of their past and incapable of understanding their present. It is a panacea for uncritical, imitative and erroneous thinking that dooms the education system to mediocrity; ironically this imitativeness is introduced in the name of ‘excellence’ and for creating ‘world class’ institutions. To camouflage this imitativeness, the NEP suggests imbuing students with what is essentially a Hindutva-type chauvinism. The curriculum is supposed to harp on the glories of ancient India and instil in students pride in being Indian. Indian society, alas, has also been marked by horrendous practices like untouchability, which nobody can be proud of. To overcome such practices, students must learn to abhor them. Instiling pride in them for being Indian amounts to shutting out this abhorrence, to ignoring or prettifying caste-oppression and other injustices. It is to make them conformists in a world marked by oppression and exploitation. This accent on breeding conformism among students and teachers permeates the NEP. It suggests a “tenure-track” for teachers, which opens up the possibility of victimization through denial of tenure in case a teacher protests against government policies or university decisions. Boards of Governors in colleges are to be all-powerful vis-à-vis teachers and students. Departmental Headships and Deanships are no longer to be rotated among teachers, but to be entrusted to those with “leadership” qualities, which will mean a return to the old days of feudal subservience. Altogether, therefore, the democratization of universities that had occurred over the last several decades by creating an atmosphere of greater equality among faculty members is being rolled back under the NEP. The intellectual passion among teachers and students that this democratization had generated in several institutions, including my own, which, in turn, had produced good quality teaching and research is now being lost. It had also given rise to a range of new subjects, straddling multiple disciplines, such as Dalit Studies, Gender Studies and Labour Studies. Admittedly, these subjects fragmented the study of the oppressed; but they did at least study the oppressed. The NEP, despite stressing multi-disciplinarity, does not mention any of these subjects, which reinforces one’s suspicion that it fosters conformism. Education belongs to the Concurrent List of the Constitution; but the NEP has been formulated without consulting states, which represents a drive towards centralization. The proposed research-supervisory body, the National Research Foundation, is to be headed by the prime minister. The apex decision-making body on higher education, the Higher Education Commission of India, will be headed by the Central education minister. The syllabi will be Centrally prepared, with states adding only local flavour. The state-level secondary boards will be devalued, with undergraduate admission being determined by a Centrally-administered entrance test. This indubitable tendency towards centralization complements the anti-democratic thrust of the NEP. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
