10-09-2020||Opinion||Unfortunate loss: Novak Djokovic out of US Open||Sir — With the disqualification of Novak Djokovic, the top seeded player in men’s tennis, the US Open 2020 has lost much of its charm (“Novak out of US Open after accidentally hitting line judge”, Sept 8). With Rafael Nadal withdrawing from the tournament owing to safety concerns amidst the Covid-19 pandemic and Roger Federer recovering from a knee injury which might keep him from playing till 2021, Djokovic was a fan-favourite to win the championship. While modern tennis has seen many outbursts — John McEnroe was infamous for his antics on court — any untoward behaviour must be penalized. The Serbian was dramatically disqualified after striking a line judge with a ball in frustration during the fourth round. Although he has apologized, he should consider taking a leaf out of the playbook of Federer, who is known for his politeness and calm demeanour on and off the court. While this mishap was clearly accidental, Djokovic is a habitual offender and has a history of losing his temper. It is deeply disappointing to see the 17-time Grand Slam winner exit like this. The argument that his punishment was too harsh and that he would have simply been asked to pay a fine had the ball not hit the line judge in the throat misses the point. Perhaps now Djokovic will be far more professional in his conduct on court. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta True grit Sir — The 25-year-old law student from Ranchi, Ananya Choudhary, must be lauded for taking a stand against the decision of the Indian railways to cut short a trip from Delhi to Ranchi that left hundreds of passengers scrambling for alternative transportation (“‘Atma nirbhar’ Ananya tames rail”, Sept 5). The Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express truncated the trip at Daltonganj citing a track agitation and asked the 900-odd passengers on board to catch buses to their destination. While most passengers submitted to the railway authorities, one young woman opposed the decision and refused to budge from her seat. Choudhary — she was returning home after appearing for her exams in Varanasi — insisted that the move was irresponsible, especially when it was the only train linking Delhi to Ranchi. After a long agitation the authorities gave in to her demand and finally resumed the journey with Choudhary as the lone passenger for 300 kilometres, even providing her with a Railway Police Force escort. Although the railway authorities have since tried to downplay Choudhary’s fight for her rights — they argued that the train had to be taken to Ranchi at some point anyway — it must be admitted that the Banaras Hindu University student displayed exceptional grit. Moreover, if the route could have been eventually diverted and the passengers taken to their final destination, the Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express should have done so to begin with. The railways ministry must look into the matter at the earliest. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta
Sir — While Ananya Choudhary must be commended for taking a stand against the Indian railways and refusing to leave her seat on the Delhi-Ranchi Rajdhani Express, it is unfortunate that she had to evoke the prime minister’s mantra of being “atma nirbhar”. The moral strength shown by the 25-year-old law student from Ranchi, who single-handedly fought for her rights, is truly one of a kind. However, the call to atmanirbharta by Narendra Modi does grave injustice to the millions of ordinary Indians who have always struggled for their basic rights without any support from the government. The Centre must be called out for suggesting that people become self-reliant at a time when they need the government to fulfil its duties the most. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Health first Sir — An alarming study conducted by a team of experts at the University of Navarra, Spain, found that excessive consumption of sugar and fat-laden foods doubles the chance of shortening telomeres — a section of chromosome that helps determine biological age. Processed foods have long been linked to obesity, heart disease and diabetes. Given the fact that our health infrastructure is already groaning under the weight of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is of utmost importance that we pay close attention to the food we consume so that we can at least avoid falling prey to other serious illnesses. Ritabrata Ray,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||Road to hell: Failure of Motor Vehicles Act||The outcome of irresponsibility is seldom favourable; in the worst case, recklessness can even lead to the loss of lives. The latter is what the new Motor Vehicles Act — the amended legislation was passed by Parliament in July last year — aimed to prevent or, at least, significantly reduce. That, unfortunately, does not seem to have happened for the most part. According to new data from the National Crime Records Bureau, while the number of road crashes stood at 4.37 lakh for 2019 — it has come down marginally since 2018 — two-wheeler deaths accounted for 38 per cent of all road fatalities. This figure was around 35 per cent in 2018. Moreover, national highways continue to be the site of the highest number of accidents. When these numbers are viewed in conjunction with data that show that over 80 per cent of road accident-related fatalities in the country occurred on account of speeding or dangerous driving, it becomes clear that the law has not had its intended effect. In fact, a large number of states had either resolved to not implement the new rules under the amended legislation or had significantly diluted the heftier penalties it prescribed, thereby rendering the legislation ineffectual. How is a road safety law supposed to work if it meets with such vociferous opposition from populist governments? The implications of these findings are deeply worrying. It is clear that the failure to ensure road safety can be attributed to a lethal combination of administrative apathy and poor implementation of laws. The latter, undoubtedly, is a key contributor to the problem: in the Global Status Report on Road Safety 2018, which analysed the traffic laws of 175 countries, the enforcement of laws on speeding and drink driving in India were rated 3 and 4 out of 10, respectively. Comparatively, China notched up a rank of 8 and 9 for these same parameters and Sri Lanka was rated 9 on both counts. Even though structural changes along with focused awareness campaigns can make a difference, the likelihood of India’s roads turning safer without the active engagement of ordinary citizens is low. There is a case for making road safety a matter of public responsibility in India, especially given the marked lack of collective consciousness around protecting lives — this is evident, for instance, in the regular sight of helmetless children riding pillion on motorcycles. Policy must be designed to push for such a meaningful transformation so that all stakeholders — citizens, law enforcement agencies and the government — begin to prioritize road safety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||At risk: 100% literacy still a far cry||With the passing of another International Literacy Day, India needs to confront the problem of its literacy levels. A report based on a 2017-18 survey by the National Statistical Office puts the country’s overall literacy rate at 77.7 per cent. This is far from the goal of full literacy by 2030. Among states, Kerala still leads with 96.2 per cent literacy, followed by Delhi, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. These smaller states seem to have done better than many larger ones, although Gujarat, Assam and Maharashtra are above the national average, as is West Bengal. But scoring above 80 per cent is still not good enough. The situation in Andhra Pradesh is worrying; its literacy rate is 66.4 per cent. There is nothing playful in this competition. Illiteracy demonstrates one of the gravest failures in a country that has been independent for 73 years. More, illiteracy in the 21st century is dangerous from the point of view of survival: reading is now a life-skill. Not to be able to read a sign on a highway, for example, or the label on a medicine bottle can be costly. Besides, female literacy is consistently lower than levels of male literacy, even in the better performing states. This not only points to women’s status and the neglect of their education, but also puts their children at a disadvantage. The government, however, seems oblivious to these dangers. Is it an advantage to have an illiterate population? The Saakshar Bharat Mission, a literacy-cum-continuous learning programme begun in 2009, trained 7.6 crore people in literacy by March 2018 through an informal but structured process out of the 24 crore that the 2011 census had counted as illiterate. The SBM has lapsed, with the present government promising a remodelled programme: the Padhna Likhna Abhiyan that has not begun yet. The education minister has made vague noises about a volunteer army of students and teachers which raise doubts about the government’s seriousness. Neo-literate individuals need practice or continuous learning; the two-year interval means that many would have returned to illiteracy. As it is, India already has 16 crore illiterate people. This is an easy indicator of the most disadvantaged segment in the country. No government concerned about its people can be comfortable leaving its citizens in this position.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||Conscience is selective||The American criminal justice system has been put on trial by the Black Lives Matter movement. BLM accuses the system of being racially biased against blacks. The evidence includes the statistical over-representation of blacks on death row. This critique provides an opportunity for India to reflect on the structural inequalities in its death penalty jurisprudence. One source of this structural inequality is the nebulous concept of collective conscience of society. In the Macchi Singh case, the Supreme Court introduced the principle that crimes that shock the collective conscience of society must be punished with the death sentence. This principle is legally unsound but is, unfortunately, used to pronounce death sentences. The apex court subsequently criticized this principle, but has not overruled it. This principle is unsound on various grounds. It presumes that ‘society’ is a monolithic entity and that in a free marketplace of ideas, the most heinous crimes will garner the most serious protests. This is not true. Indian neighbourhoods are gentrified along the lines of class, caste and faith and there is significant difference in the reactions to similar crimes. Serious crimes in urban, middleclass localities are considered an aberration; violent crimes in lower income areas are considered the norm. Hence, violence and crime in poor neighbourhoods do not elicit outrage, while such transgressions in urban, middleclass areas are met with protests. Caste identities, too, play a role. The State machinery drags its feet while investigating charges filed by Dalit complainants. The criminally low conviction rate under such special statutes as the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 is proof of this. Conversely, crimes of similar magnitude committed by Dalits are punished severely. This difference in the severity of punishment results in Dalit convicts having a higher chance of being given the death penalty than upper caste perpetrators. A case in point is the Bara massacre in which a group of Dalits killed some upper castes in retaliation to a Dalit massacre committed by the same caste group earlier. Many of the Dalit retaliators were handed the death penalty; while the accused in the killing of Dalits were acquitted. It is often assumed that societal ‘shock’ can be quantified. This is also a fool’s errand. Media coverage is instrumental in the success of any public protest. Unfortunately, all protests are not equal. Protests against crimes in metropolitan India dominate news cycles, while protests against similar crimes in a village barely register in the zeitgeist. Lastly, collective consciousness posits an arbitrary hierarchy of victims. It implies that some victims are more sacrosanct than others, and that crimes against such people should be punished more severely. Such an arbitrary hierarchy of citizens violates the equal protection clause of the Constitution. This point is usually countered by stating that the death penalty is reserved only for the most heinous crimes. It is not the victim but the manner of crime that determines the punishment of the criminal. There are two responses to this. First, the Supreme Court has held that brutality alone cannot be the sole criterion to inflict the death penalty. It is mandatory to assess various mitigating factors, such as the age of the accused, his/her upbringing, level of education and so on. It is also necessary to hear the accused on the question of his sentence so as to understand his/her mindset transcending the narrow lens of laws. The mandate of Section 235 (2), CrPC is required so as to ensure that an appropriate sentence will be inflicted and that sentencing as an exercise would become consistent and uniform. Thus, not just the judiciary but also the legislatures have recognized that brutality or severity of crime cannot be the sole criterion in death penalty cases. Second, the media elevate some victims above others. The reasoning of the judiciary may be influenced by the media spotlight and the reaction of society in a certain case. Unfortunately, the judicial safeguard of assessing the mitigating circumstances and the legislative safeguard of hearing the accused are routinely circumvented. In the Nirbhaya case, the sessions court and the Delhi High Court skipped the mandate of law under Section 235(2). The course correction of the same only happened at the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, research conducted by Project 39A has shown that the Nirbhaya case was not the only exception. The Media and public protest should not be the barometer to determine punishment in a country where access to the media is not uniform. The doctrine of collective conscience seems to have become a legal standard. The doctrine has, in fact, become an exclusive space amenable to selective outrage and even majoritarianism that severely hamper the dispensation of justice. Bryan Stevenson, the founder of the Equal Justice Initiative, had noted that slogans such as ‘three strikes’ in the United States of America were used as a dangerous rhetoric to condemn vulnerable constituencies. Similarly, the principle of collective conscience betrays the sentiments of a society comfortable with executing oppressed members to retain historical hierarchies and a sense of security. Is there a case for scrapping this doctrine to make the criminal justice system in India less discriminatory?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
10-09-2020||Opinion||A strange era||Those who follow international political developments have observed that there has been an increase in the number of countries with authoritarian heads of state. Surprisingly, most of these governments headed by authoritarian leaders have been democratically elected through reasonably free and fair elections. After being elected, they have in some cases postponed elections or made themselves heads of state, commander of the military, and chiefs of their political parties. However, other heads of state have been termed as authoritarian for the activities and practices they promote or promulgate within the democratic process. In other words, authoritarianism is no longer linked to the political science text-book definition of a government that does not conduct elections on a regular basis. After the Second World War, with the retreat of old-time colonialism, a number of nations, in spite of their hard-earned independence, could not prevent internecine conflicts and turned to dictators who became military commanders as well. In many cases, these leaders were supported by large business corporations with economic interests. This was observed in Africa and Latin America and in some countries in Asia. Gradually, during the 1990s, more and more nations began to turn to democracy with elected representatives as a superior means of governance. Multi-national institutions like the United Nations were pleased to notice this trend of expanding representative democracy. It was the high tide of liberalism modelled along Anglo-American political and economic structures. Liberalism, very broadly, was built upon two pillars: parliamentary democracy and free markets. Within this brand of ideology, there were shades of difference. For instance, there were those who believed in the minimum role of the State in economic affairs, and there were those who wanted the State to be party to a contract that assured access to basic economic resources for all citizens. The former political group was referred to as right-of-centre conservatives, while the latter group was known as left-of-centre liberals. All of them believed in keeping certain institutions free from political interference, such as the judiciary, the armed forces, the civil services, academic institutions and religious organizations. Private enterprises would be going about their own business, and the rule of law would prevail to ensure property rights, the right to earn profits, and uphold the sanctity of voluntary contracts. Each citizen had a defined set of political rights and civil liberties. These included, among other things, not being incarcerated without a fair trial, having freedom of speech and organization, enjoying the right to worship according to one’s own beliefs. Decades of experimentation with liberalism witnessed the rise and fall of challenging alternatives like fascism, communism and military dictatorships. The liberal model appeared to work better. This was indeed the underlying ideology of globalization where all nations were supposed to get transformed, economically and politically, into clones of Western democracies. During the two and a half decades of globalization since the early 1990s, with free markets, unhindered trade and astonishing technological developments, something snapped. People began to realize that democratically-elected governments did not always work for the ordinary citizen. Economic inequality and disparities had become extraordinarily high and labour rights and job security had almost disappeared. People faced uncertainties in employment, personal safety, and social stability. Political accountability of the elected representatives withered away. This was accompanied by a fall in the economic support that governments gave to ordinary citizens during hard times as part of the implicit social contract of the liberal State. With the rise in inequality, some of the wealthiest people and giant corporations began to exert enormous influence over the State. Politicians found tax cuts an easy way to please the rich and mighty class, which could then be nudged to donate funds for electoral campaigns. Welfare funding was thought to be a waste of resources because it tended to promote laziness among the poor and unemployed. Electorates began to increasingly find the conservatives and liberals alike when it came to governance. They were two sections of the same propertied class. Ordinary people found their political leaders wanting when it came to making their lives better. Corruption in politics was rampant. All these perceptions gave rise to a deep-seated suspicion of political establishments. Hence, any political leader who was not considered part of the establishment was preferred. The preference would be pronounced when the leader had a strong, tough-talking personality, and if he promised to make the nation great again, playing on the sentiments of a large section of people who thought that their nation was on the decline in terms of power and prestige. This erosion of perceived national strength could only be restored by a strong leader who would clearly ascertain the root cause and an identifiable enemy. The enemy could be immigrants, ethnic or religious minorities, the political Left, members of the intelligentsia, foreigners in general, or some targeted nations. Once in power, these leaders quickly turned to implementing their agenda of fixing society and economy. Gradually, they would exert influence on public institutions like the bureaucracy, the judiciary, religious organizations, the armed forces, intelligence agencies, surveillance systems, the media and, of course, big corporations that would be obliged to ‘purchase’ their ease of doing business. The strong leader demands complete obedience. An effective way of ensuring this would be to sabotage accountability. Accountability, in a democracy, implies non-domination through access to information and the right to disagree. Accountability can be sabotaged by scuttling these processes, providing false and incomplete information, and coercively disabling the voice of dissent. The definition of the enemy is expanded to include those who showed the courage to disagree and protest against authoritarian acts. Human rights abuses are a good way to attain the goals of disabling the voices of dissent and violating the autonomy and dignity of individuals. Institutions gradually get irrelevant as all decision-making gets centralized. People can be imprisoned without trial, shot dead in encounters with the police, murdered, lynched by sycophant mobs, or gang-raped. The media, the judiciary, the political spokespersons can all find ways to justify the authoritarian acts. It is pointed out that democracy is still alive. If one does not like the leader, he can be voted out the next time around. However, elections are manipulated, voters terrorized, electoral rolls tampered with, massive amounts of money distributed, and the rhetoric of hate let loose on the Opposition, even when they are impotent and terrorized. Different leaders — Donald Trump, Narendra Modi, Vladimir Putin, Xi Jinping, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Viktor Orbán, Rodrigo Duterte, Jair Bolsonaro, to name just a few — have different styles of functioning. But the end result is the same. Some of these leaders are friends with one another, willing to help each other out; others do not see eye to eye. Authoritarianism can be both competitive as well as collaborative. It is becoming a worldwide phenomenon, marking the end of liberalism. The recent changes are regressive in the sense they reduce freedom and increase inequality in unprecedented degrees. Many of these regimes, however, continue to enjoy the support of a large part of the electorate. It is indeed a strange time indeed when Trump gets applauded while he tells his supporters publicly to vote twice, or Modi’s approval ratings shoot up in spite of 19 million Indians losing their jobs and livelihoods in a matter of just a few days. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-151
