11-09-2020||Opinion||Prized company||Sir — The news that the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize has stunned many. But given the controversial history of the award, this should not come as a surprise. Several infamous world leaders — Josef Stalin, Benito Mussolini and Adolf Hitler, for instance — had been nominees in this category. The Norwegian body’s choice of awardees is no less dubious. In the recent past, as Greece was struggling with a massive debt crisis, the Nobel committee handed over the prize to the European Union. As such, this ‘honour’ should not be taken too seriously. Madhumita Das
North 24 Parganas Sir — At a time when most people take photographs or videos of people in trouble on the streets instead of helping them, Nilanjana Chatterjee and her husband, Deep Satpati, put their own lives at risk in order to rescue a 31-year old woman, who was allegedly being assaulted in a car by her acquaintance on a nearly deserted road (“Family rescues woman molested inside car”, Sept 7). The couple stopped their car as soon as they heard cries for help; they tried to intervene as they saw the woman get thrown out of the car. Chatterjee sustained severe injuries on her leg and head after the driver struck her with his car. But the family did not rest until they had called the police, who arrived shortly and helped take the two women to the hospital. The couple has proven that they are not just good but also brave samaritans. They have set an example for others to follow. It is unfortunate that crimes against women and children are increasing by the day across India. More disconcerting is the fact that such crimes are often committed by people known to the victim — be they relatives, neighbours or friends. The prime suspect in this case has been arrested. One hopes that the woman will testify without fear and exemplary punishment will be meted out to the culprit. The concern shown by the Calcutta police commissioner, Anuj Sharma, is also heartening. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has assured that the state will help Chatterjee bear the hospital expenses. This sends out a positive message to other states — they, too, should support honest citizens who risk their lives for a good cause. The Tamil philosopher, Thiruvalluvar, wrote in one of his couplets that just as rain does not expect anything from the world, people should demand no return for their duty to society. Chatterjee and Satpati have done exactly that. S. Balakrishnan
Jamshedpur Sir — It is heartening to learn that the brave couple, Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati, came to the rescue of a woman in the dead of the night. Such acts of courage have become few and far between as more people have begun to stay cocooned within their social-networking circles. The couple’s courage almost cost Chatterjee her leg. We often shout our lungs out demanding citizens’ safety, but we fail to understand that keeping society safe is dependent on our own actions to a great extent. People may suffer immensely in their pursuit of justice — consider the struggles of freedom fighters — but they must never veer off the correct path. There are movements against injustice both in India and abroad. But our protests should not remain restricted to hashtags. In the real world, too, citizens should take a stand and not look the other way when a fellow passenger is assaulted, a majestic tree is illegally felled or an animal is lynched. Only then can the world be a better place. Dyutiman Bhattacharya
Calcutta Sir — The recent incident on the EM Bypass has shown once again that women’s safety is at stake. But the bravery of Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati is commendable. Chatterjee’s action was exemplary. Chatterjee refused to abandon another woman in her plight even after suffering severe injuries. She would inspire many others to not just be empathetic but also to do the right thing at the right time. Sarupa Roy
Calcutta Sir — One salutes the couple, Nilanjana Chatterjee and Deep Satpati, for risking their own lives to save another person. One also wishes the two injured women a speedy recovery. This news truly deserved a place on the front page.Rajiv Roy
Patna Sir — Thanks to the courageous act of Nilanjana Chatterjee and her family, I will be able to proudly defend Calcutta the next time someone says that the city is becoming selfish. The family has brought glory to the City of Joy. Sabari Chatterjee
Calcutta Sir — This year there will be a 35-day gap between Mahalaya and Mahashasthi because, for only the second time in the 21st century, there will be two new moons in Ashwin. This phenomenon — called ‘mala maash’ — is considered unholy for rituals related to Durga Puja. While this could have dampened the spirits of pandal hoppers on any other year, this time it might prove to be a blessing. Given the Covid-19 situation at present, perhaps it would not be too bad to have the Puja postponed by a month.

R. Pal Choudhury
Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Rare balance: Kerala stems man-animal conflict||The ‘Kerala Model’ has shown India the way when it comes to achieving success in education and healthcare. The state, it now seems, has come up with a solution for what is believed to be an intractable problem — man-animal conflict. A report by the Wildlife Trust of India has shown that four years after the Thirunelli-Kudrakote elephant corridor — it is spread across 2,200 acres — was accorded State protection, it has facilitated unhindered movement for pachyderms, raised the presence of other species and — this is very significant — augmented the incomes of families that have been relocated. The success of this project — Kerala has announced that it would secure the remaining elephant corridors in the state — reiterates several important facts. First, conservation is not merely about numbers or the elimination of poaching; it is a holistic enterprise where the survival of species, great or small, is predicated upon the protection of their habitats. Corridors that ensure movement and, consequently, a healthy dispersion of species are a critical element. Second, man-animal conflict will not abate unless the welfare of forest-dwelling communities is taken into consideration. Kerala, hearteningly, has kept this principle in mind. The relocation of the settlers was seamless because the government ensured that they were resettled not only with proper accommodation, education and healthcare but also had better access to market facilities and employment. Alternative livelihood reduced their dependence and depredations on the forest. The question is whether Wayanad’s achievements can be replicated in the rest of India. There are serious obstacles in the path of such implementation. The topography of India’s wilderness varies greatly. Neither can every state boast of Kerala’s achievements in establishing a formidable network of schools and hospitals in the hinterland. There is also the thorny issue of the rehabilitation of forest communities, a process that is, more often than not, marked by coercion rather than consensus. But what can be emulated from this experiment is the spirit of political and administrative will. At a time when successive elected governments have been accused of bartering India’s biodiversity for profit with marauding industry, Kerala has shown that a conscientious government can still make a difference to the lives of men and animals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Stark irony: when rankings are decidedly dodgy||The irony could not have been starker. Late last month, the World Bank announced that it had decided to pause the publication of its closely-watched Ease of Doing Business report because of serious data integrity issues. Its officials expressed wonder that for three years in a row, India had consistently figured among the top 10 countries that had most improved their rankings. In the report for 2020, India had jumped 14 places to rank 63rd. A World Bank director voiced suspicions that things looked decidedly dodgy as very few countries showed the sort of success that India had shown over 20 years of the project. Less than 10 days later, the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, unveiled a new rankings table for the 36 Indian states and Union territories that carried big surprises. Uttar Pradesh had jumped 10 places to rank second while Himachal Pradesh had leapt nine rungs to come in at seven. Gujarat — the state that the prime minister once stewarded — tumbled five places to 10, a notch below West Bengal. There has been a lot of clucking of tongues over the new state rankings and it has nothing to do with the changed methodology and the new parameters on which performance was measured. The states were rated on the basis of 180 reform initiatives across 12 business regulatory areas, ranging from a single window system for submission of documents to secure business licences, to timelines for obtaining land, labour and environmental approvals. As in every year, each assertion made by a state government on its reforms initiative has been verified through feedback from firms. The difference this time is that the ranking has been solely based on feedback from over 30,000 firms. In theory, this is how it should work. In practice, feedback from firms can be manipulated by an autocratic leader. The department for promotion of industry and internal trade, which oversees this exercise, sought feedback on 80 recommended reform action points with the respondents. According to the feedback methodology, full marks were awarded for the question if 70 per cent or more respondents indicated they had “felt the reform”. Yogi Adityanath’s government has unveiled a new industrial policy with an attractive capital investment subsidy and is aggressively courting overseas investment, especially from entities looking to shift production facilities out of China. Gujarat must feel disappointed that it has plunged five places. That is an ignominy that Karnataka has suffered as well, dropping nine spots to 17. Maharashtra, the other popular destination for foreign investment, continues to lurk at the 13th spot. Rankings provide great chest-thumping moments. But if the exercise lacks credibility and stretches credulity, then all that enthusiasm can vaporize quickly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Heed the chorus of life||The chorus of vendors weaving their way through the streets of Calcutta has impacted auditory nerves for centuries, a trend well documented since the mid-19th century, in lithographs and etchings by artists like Balthazar Solvyns and Abanindranath Tagore. It also finds mention in sundry books. While our generation grew up to welcome sounds of the ice-cream cart (Kwality, Magnolia and Farini), the more rustic ghoti garam or the ‘cake man’ with a trunk on his head selling gaudy pastries and bakarkhani, the tribe of these alley vendors multiplied over the years, their entrepreneurship matching their ability to customize their wares to the changing needs of buyers. In May, the Zurich Museum hosted a virtual exhibition of these soundscapes recorded by two Swiss tourists, the diurnal cacophony of hawker and traffic sounds offset by Calcutta’s nocturnal serenity. Prior to our Covid-19 routine, most vendor calls went unheeded, primarily because daytime sounds took precedence and the demand for their wares or expertise was not all-consuming. Once the lockdown was clamped, these vendors became conspicuous by their absence. Housebound residents began to crave the arrival of the cobbler or the locksmith, or the man who chisels the grindstone. Their unique calls, sometimes indecipherable, were missed. When the “unlocking” phase began at the end of May, a different array of hawkers trooped in. Those selling vegetables, fish and fruit brought the market to the doorstep. Enterprising rickshaw-pullers peddled their wares door to door, their metamorphosis filling a need of the residents as well as their pockets. Even during ‘Unlock 4’, the fishmonger’s cry continues to be the first in our lane every morning: jyanto maach (live fish), he cries, the voice muffled by the customary face mask. He rattles off the variety on offer in the huge handi precariously perched on his bicycle: rui, katla, koi, tangra, chingri, pabda... sometimes even the hilsa and mourala. He is followed by the vendor selling bread and milk. The hawker seeking old newspapers had disappeared for a while, just as the printed dailies did in the initial stages of lockdown, but has resurfaced. There is no difficulty in deciphering his call; he does not wear a mask. There is also a man who will accept anything old and non-functional. His list is diverse — harmonium, watch, laptop, inverter, air-conditioner, washing machine — yet he rarely finds any custom. The mattress-maker’s “tasak-balish” intonations make it well-nigh impossible to guess his identity. In his wake, the vegetable vendor is accompanied by his wife, whose lung-power belies her diminutive frame. “Sobji nebe go?” she calls out, loud and clear. The fruit vendor too, mask under his chin but gloves in place, is audible well before he comes into view. He used to be a bus conductor in his pre-pandemic heyday, so the vocal cords are well exercised! Most of these hawkers, a godsend in the Covid-19 environment, have switched professions to survive. Many lost their jobs and opted for the vending route, masks and sanitizers offering good returns. In their desperation to earn a living, those who used to travel by local train now arrive in vans ferrying vegetables. We have grown accustomed to this ‘new normal’. Every time the state government announces random ‘total lockdown’ days, we suffer in unison: these vendors are deprived of their earnings and the residents of fresh doorstep supplies and domestic help. Unlike the strict lockdown in Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and even Arunachal Pradesh, have these stray lockdown days in Bengal, in spite of the Centre’s September notification to the contrary, served any purpose? They have certainly not ‘broken the chain’ of virus spread as intended. Can anyone please proffer the benefits of today’s lockdown or the one initially scheduled for tomorrow but scrapped at the last minute? Is there any method in the selection of dates, considering they are altered at will? Surely we have a right to know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
11-09-2020||Opinion||Join the tiny dots||Deeply embroiled as we are in a troubling stand-off with China in Ladakh and in the midst of a major pandemic that shows no signs of easing, the prevailing meta narrative of a risen and assertive China and a United States of America in retreat, if not in decline, has a certain compelling logic. Nevertheless, it is still instructive to take a look around us with a perspective that is more localized and regional: geopolitics is shaped not only by the grand encounters but also by subplots, which persist for long periods of time. To our east, we have Malaysia and the Philippines providing a useful reminder of how territorial disputes linger on and on. Both countries claim sovereignty over Sabah and like many disputes in Asia its roots lie in the ambiguities left behind by colonial overlords — in this case, the British. Sabah is an oil and timber rich area situated in the northern part of the island of Borneo. The latter is itself divided among Indonesia, the small kingdom of Brunei, and the Malaysian provinces of Sarawak and Sabah. Sabah is claimed by and governed as a Malaysian province — a claim that the Philippines has rejected and countered with its own claim ever since Malaysia’s emergence as a sovereign state. Sarawak and Sabah are separated from Malaysia by a vast stretch of the South China Sea; Sabah is much closer to the nearest Philippine island. Now there are reports that the Philippines passport will carry a map showing Sabah as a part of its territory. This is a war of diplomatic postures and démarches but as recently as 2013 there had been a violent clash in Sabah arising out of the disputed claim, although the Philippines itself was not involved. Territorial disputes in Southeast Asia are further complicated by the fact that during the late 19th and the first half of the 20th centuries, the region as a whole was impacted by five different imperial systems: the British in Myanmar and what is now Malaysia and Singapore; the Dutch in Indonesia; the French in Indo-China (Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos); and in the Philippines, Spain and, then, in the first half of the 20th century, the US. Post-decolonization claims and counter-claims had at one stage in the early 1960s led Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines to consider a union through ‘Maphilindo’ (from the initial letters of the three countries’ names). This came to nothing but the germ of the idea possibly resurfaced later as regional cooperation. It says something about the Asean and the ‘Asean way’ that such conflicts — and there are others — while they may have remained alive, have not impeded the organization’s principal mandate: regional economic cooperation. Asean’s success lies in transcending the history of bitter dispute and fiery rhetoric that characterized the region from the 1950s to the 1980s. These conflicts were often so intense that they had extra-regional implications. In the 1960s, Malaysia and Indonesia had fought an undeclared, low-intensity war in Borneo — the Konfrontasi. This coincided with the India-Pakistan war of 1965 — also undeclared but of much greater intensity. Their own conflict, not surprisingly, saw Indonesia and Malaysia ranged on opposite sides of the India-Pakistan divide. In the United Nations security council, when the India-Pakistan conflict was discussed on September 18, 1965, the Malaysian representative asked difficult questions to Pakistan about largescale armed infiltration and said that India’s reaction was defensive in nature. This so angered Pakistan that it broke diplomatic relations with Malaysia. Tunku Abdul Rahman, the then foreign minister of Malaysia, was said to comment to the effect that Pakistan had not broken diplomatic relations with India with which it was fighting a war but was doing so with Malaysia! This was, he said, an act “unprecedented in the annals of diplomatic history for its apparent lack of rational motivation.” The 1970s saw other conflicts, including a full-blown genocide in Cambodia, but from the 1990s Asean welded together in a manner that dampened and tempered disputes between its member states. In the process, it has also managed to keep the region relatively insulated from inter-regional rivalries. In the past decade, Chinese assertive behaviour has posed numerous challenges for individual Asean states, but the existence of a robust regional mechanism has been both useful and effective. Despite all this, the rekindling of the Malaysia-Philippines war of words over Sabah only goes to show that amongst neighbours you cannot take a linear trajectory in bilateral relations for granted. On our west, the growing proximity of the Gulf states with India has, in turn, triggered other reactions — in particular Pakistan’s obvious desire to use China’s relations with Iran and Turkey to erect and cement a Iran-Pakistan-Turkey triangle. If this looks similar to the Baghdad Pact or Cento of the 1950s, the differences are equally striking and clearly derive from the importance accorded to China by each of these countries. Some ascribe Turkey’s drift away from Europe — the Hagia Sophia reconversion into a mosque is an instance — to this. Others argue, however, that this drift was predictable once the European Union shut its doors on Turkey as an outsider to Europe in civilizational terms. In any event, Turkey-Europe differences are growing for other reasons and there is also a looming Turkish-Greek confrontation — although both are Nato members — over tiny Kastellorizo, a Greek island in the eastern Mediterranean. Unlike the Sabah dispute, which is straightforwardly territorial, this is an issue of complex maritime boundaries and claims. The issue flared up after a Turkish vessel started a drilling survey close to Kastellorizo. Disputes between Turkey and Greece are not new but this is one more layer in a very long history of political conflict and cultural contestation. How far back should one go to trace the roots of Greece-Turkish differences? Mehmet II led the Ottomans to establish an empire from Constantinople in 1453 when the Hagia Sophia was converted from a cathedral into a mosque. He is believed to have claimed, or so the mythology goes, that by conquering Constantinople the Ottomans had avenged the Trojans by taking revenge for the deceit used by the Greeks to capture Troy. A little less than five centuries later, in August 1922, after a Turkish victory against the Greeks, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is more reliably known to have said “Now we have taken revenge for Hector.” Turkey — from Ataturk to Erdogan — has traversed a great distance but in geopolitics history and mythology merge seamlessly. Is there a common thread in these developments? Possibly one takeaway is that regions and sub-regions will have their own dynamics and, most of all, neighbourhood relations will follow their own logic. This is not easily related to the larger meta narratives of the time but the bigger picture is equally important. The Sabah dispute is significant because it centres around the South China Sea, which has a new salience today because of Chinese assertion. The Greek-Turkish frictions assume importance because of the question being posed for Europe on whether it can steer a path on its own given a US that is self-absorbed and devoid for the first time in perhaps three quarters of a century of a global narrative to match its military and technological power. The author is a Director General of the Indian Council of World Affairs||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
