12-09-2020||Opinion||Odd change: Kangana Ranaut office demolition||Sir — Matters have come to a head with the Bandra office of the Bollywood actress, Kangana Ranaut, being demolished by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. Ranaut had already ruffled feathers by likening Mumbai to ‘Pakistan-occupied Kashmir’ and making a series of comments in the case involving the death of the Bollywood actor, Sushant Singh Rajput. It is a pity that Ranaut’s curve in the public eye has gradually become less dignified over the passage of time. It was impossible not to admire her for her fearlessness in calling a spade a spade in a deeply patriarchal and clique-driven film industry like Bollywood. She had no qualms about calling out powerful men and nepotistic film directors for furthering an unhealthy, closed work culture that favoured only the children of the privileged. Aside from this, she also gained accolades for her stellar acting in films such as Queen. She could have easily served as a role model for other young girls and, especially, aspiring actors. However, her increasing tilt towards right-wing extremist views and the growing perception that she is supportive of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s regressive agenda have chipped away at the respect she had garnered among forward-thinking citizens. Her unnecessary involvement in the Rajput case and her unwarranted comments about a matter that is under investigation make one wonder whether she can still be looked upon as a role model. While she is certainly at liberty to express her opinions in a democracy, she must remember that she is a public figure and thousands of young boys and girls will most likely be influenced by her opinions. She should be using her platform to spread progressive ideas. Rasika Seth,Calcutta Sir — It is still not clear why Kangana Ranaut chose to involve herself in the case surrounding the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. It is, after all, being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Ranaut made it clear that she has no faith in the Mumbai police, and indicated that she is aware of a number of Bollywood celebrities who have dealt in drugs and have been instrumental in destroying the careers of upcoming actors. If that is indeed the case, then ought not Ranaut to hand over the names of such offenders to the CBI instead of making comments in bad taste, such as her likening of the city of Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir? It is now widely believed that Ranaut is actively furthering the agenda of the BJP government, which wishes to destabilize the Maharashtra dispensation. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Slowly dying Sir — It was appalling to read that there has been a 68 per cent reduction in the global wildlife population between 1970 and 2016. Moreover, 75 per cent of the planet’s ice-free land surface has already been significantly altered, most of the oceans are polluted, and more than 85 per cent of wetlands have been lost during this period. At the root of such destruction is, invariably, human greed. Most of the loss of biodiversity can be attributed to the conversion of pristine habitats into agricultural systems, while much of the oceans have been overfished. Is the damage reversible? Manisha Ganguly,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — A study had found that 1.1 billion people around the world smoke cigarettes on a daily basis, even though most are aware that smoking causes debilitating diseases such as cancer. According to the World Health Organization, smoking is the leading cause of millions of deaths and diseases not only in our country but around the world. A non-governmental organization that works towards combating cancer says that it wants the Central government to declare cigarette and bidi butts as ‘toxic waste’. Initiatives have long called for a nationwide comprehensive ban on all menthol tobacco products, but to no avail. One hopes that the Central Pollution Control Board will soon lay down guidelines pertaining to the disposal of cigarettes and bidi butts. Khushbu Ved,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Opinion||Old word, new sense: NEP & 'maximum flexibility'||Flexibility is a funny word. Its connotation can be positive — a flexible body, for example. On the other hand, being flexible with the truth, something the ruling dispensation in India does habitually, is a mockery of governance. The word gained in enigmatic resonance when the prime minister said that the country should implement the National Education Policy, 2020 with “maximum flexibility”. Apparently, criticism from certain state governments, academics and non-governmental organizations prompted this call against ‘inflexibility’. It could be asked why the ‘stakeholders’ being addressed — being ordered — to be flexible had been left out of the picture when this historic document that is supposed to be taking education in a new direction was being formulated. Such questions are pointless when an elected government decides that principles of democracy and federalism are a bit of a headache and all that is needed is majority in Parliament to ram through its decisions carrying its agenda. Neither Parliament nor the states were included in developing the NEP; that education is on the concurrent list is obviously immaterial. So what the prime minister meant was that his government will remain inflexible, and the objecting states — ‘stakeholders’ — must be flexible. The parallel that he drew — with astounding irrelevance — was with the scope in the NEP for high-school students to choose subjects from different streams: state governments are not pupils, and they are not being asked to choose but being ordered to implement the policy. Language is being pushed beyond the bounds of sense into regions where even the greatest poets would fear to tread. The objections from critics, however, need to be addressed. The questions are just too many. Taking off from the prime minister’s point of pride in the free choice of subjects, for example, it can be asked whether the degree courses will be so integrated with the school system as to be able to offer a similar freedom, and whether there will be consistency in the scope for research or employment. Again, while the NEP is creating a system that matches certain overseas ones in higher education — with attendant benefits of foreign universities investing in campuses here, for instance — it is not clear why vocational training would be offered from Class VI in school. Addressing questions is not something the government is bothered about. It has casually committed states to spending more, whether they can afford it or not, in integrating pre-school and school systems while continuing to maintain the anganwadis, but it is a centralized regulatory agency that will conduct assessments and decide on funding. Excellence in education is as elusive a concept as autonomy, and the NEP is uninterested in opportunities for research in universities. But a golden age awaits India where the NEP, promised the prime minister, will prompt students to become creative and curious, and ask questions. So far, though, asking questions has tended to land students in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Opinion||Momentous day: Labor Day across the US||Labor Day was observed just a few days ago on September 7. It typically falls on the first Monday of September and is regarded as a federal holiday in the United States of America. It marks the end of summer and the beginning of fall, although Covid-19 has blurred the lines between season, work, vacations and staycations. Covid outbreaks have been especially intense during this time on college campuses. There were pictures and videos on social media of large gatherings, with students holding masks in their hands but dancing close together with no social distancing. New York University, Ohio State, Purdue and West Virginia University have all suspended students over violations of rules put in place to curb the virus’s spread on campus. According to data released by the Transportation Security Administration, the number of people screened at airports reached 9,68,673 on September 4, the highest since March 16. During the Friday-through-Monday Labor Day holiday weekend, close to 3.3 million passengers passed through TSA checkpoints. Boston celebrated with a socially distanced outdoor gathering by the Greater Boston Labor Council where the mayor remarked on the importance of essential workers especially during this pandemic. Americans typically celebrate Labor Day with cookouts, barbecues and a trip to the beach. This year the holiday has more meaning given the frontline workers who are truly keeping the country and economy afloat during the pandemic. Strong stand The National Basketball Association launched its season this year at a time when all major sports events have taken a hit. For the first time in history, an entire team — the Milwaukee Bucks — walked out on their scheduled game in August. They were set to appear for their playoff game just 40 miles away from the site of the shooting of Jacob Blake; the latter was shot by the Kenosha police when his back was turned to them. The shooting sparked protests all over the country, and games since then were postponed after other walkouts followed. As part of the agreement between players and the association to restart the games, it was agreed that every team that controls its home arena will work with local election officials in hopes of turning those buildings into polling places for the November 3 election, according to a joint statement from the NBA commissioner and the NBA players’ association. The NBA pact with the players’ union also called for the league to team up with its broadcast partners to include more advertising spots that highlight social justice initiatives and voter turnout efforts. “These commitments follow months of close collaboration around designing a safe and healthy environment to restart the NBA season, providing a platform to promote social justice, as well as creating an NBA Foundation focused on economic empowerment in the black community,” the joint league-union said in a public statement. Before the Kenosha shooting, the league has painted ‘Black Lives Matter’ on the game courts, and is allowing players to wear social justice messages on their jerseys.Remember them Yesterday marked the 19th anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks of 2001. The non-profit organization, Wreaths Across America, encouraged Americans to put up a flag at their house and wave it at four significant times of the day to honour the victims. The first flag wave was at 8.46 am, the same time that American Airlines Flight 11 was hijacked and flown into the World Trade Center’s North Tower in New York City, and lasted for a minute. Then, at 9.03 am, participants waved their flags for another minute, this time to remember the time the hijackers flew United Airlines Flight 175 into the South Tower. A third flag wave happened at 9.37 am to mark the time American Airlines Flight 77 crashed into the Pentagon, and the fourth and final was at 10.03 am, the time United Airlines Flight 93 crashed into a field in Stonycreek Township, Pennsylvania. The September 11 attacks killed 2,977 people across three different sites. In Lower Manhattan, 2,753 people died and 184 people were killed at the Pentagon. An additional 40 people were killed when Flight 93 crashed, according to the 9/11 Memorial & Museum.Game on The presidential election is weeks away and everyone from local shops to celebrities is doing their part to make sure people vote. A small shop called The Monogram in East Hampton has been selling plastic cups and napkins with ‘Trump 2020’ or ‘Biden 2020’ written on them. The shop is not trying to push either candidate, but simply keeps track of which candidate’s merchandise sells the most. As of last month, its Instagram displayed the Biden cups outselling the Trump ones. On National Poll Worker Recruitment Day, the actress, Kerry Washington, posted a picture of herself on a dancing pole to encourage people to vote. It was a cheeky nod to the idea of ‘working the pole’ to encourage people to assist with voting in the election when the country is facing a record shortage of poll workers due to Covid-19. Joe Biden’s team has gone a step ahead and created a virtual campaign that posted Biden signs for the popular Nintendo switch game, Animal Crossing. One sign bears the Biden-Kamala Harris logo; others say ‘Team Joe’ and ‘Joe’ with the ‘E’ rendered in pride colours. The fourth is an image of Biden’s signature aviator sunglasses. This is not the first time the game is being used to send a message. Both PETA and Black Lives Matter have used the game to raise awareness. Footnote Fall is officially here. Americans and visitors alike look forward to the changing colour of foliage and falling leaves. I Love NY, New York State’s official tourism website, is looking for volunteer “leaf peepers”. The job involves giving foliage reports each week with observations and estimations of foliage conditions for the upcoming weekend. This includes noting the location, the percentage of leaves the volunteer expects will change by the coming weekend and the colours visitors might see.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
12-09-2020||Opinion||Uncanny parallels||I read a lot of biographies, these often set in other countries than my own. A book I have just finished is Benedetto Croce and Italian Fascism, by the Canadian scholar, Fabio Fernando Rizi. It uses the life of a great philosopher to tell a larger story of the times he passed through. Reading Rizi’s book, I found uncanny parallels between the Italy of the 1920s and the India of the 2020s. The myth of Benito Mussolini, like the myth of Narenda Modi, was crafted by writers and propagandists “eager to sing paeans to the genius of the Duce.” These propagandists had begun to call the leader of fascism “the providential man”, “the man of massive faith”, or simply, “the Man of Providence”. Thus was created “the myth of the Duce, the chief who is always right, the leader who dares where others vacillate.” In December 1925, the Italian State passed a new law, which came down hard on the press and its freedoms. The consequences of this law were that “within a few months, the most important papers came under Fascist control, one by one. Some owners were compelled to sell under economic or political pressure. All the liberal editors had to resign and were replaced by more accommodating men.” In the same year, Benedetto Croce characterized the ideology of the ruling party and of Mussolini as a “bizarre mixture of appeals to authority and to demagoguery, of professed reverence for the laws and of violation of the laws, of ultra-modern concepts and of musty old trash, abhorrence of culture and sterile attempts at producing a new one…” In this regard, the Italian State of the 1920s bears a striking resemblance to Modi’s regime today which speaks respectfully of the Constitution while blatantly violating its spirit and essence, which appeals to ancient wisdom while displaying a contempt for modern science, which claims to exalt ancient culture while manifesting an utter philistinism in practice. While most independent-minded Italian intellectuals were forced into exile, Benedetto Croce stayed on in his homeland, offering an intellectual and moral opposition to fascism. As his biographer puts it, “[w]hereas the regime employed the mass media and the education system to promote the cult of Mussolini and to inculcate submission to authority, demanding from the new generations, in mystical union with the Duce, without asking questions, ‘to believe, to obey, to fight’, Croce, instead, offered a set of liberal values, preached freedom, defended the dignity of man, as a free agent, and urged individual decision and personal responsibility.” Reading further into Rizi’s book, I found this passage: “By the end of 1926, liberal Italy had died. Mussolini had consolidated his power and created the legal instruments for the continuation of his dictatorship. Political parties had been outlawed, and freedom of the press destroyed. The opposition had been disarmed and Parliament reduced to impotence. By 1927 it had become almost impossible to undertake any political action; it was also dangerous to express critical opinions in personal letters or in public places. Civil employees could lose their jobs if they expressed views contrary to government policy. Besides a powerful and revitalized police division in the Ministry of the Interior, under the direct responsibility of the chief of police, a new and efficient secret police organization, ominously and mysteriously called OVRA, was created with the aim of repressing any sign of anti-fascism and controlling any expression of dissent. In a short while, it collected files on more than one hundred thousand people, including Fascist leaders, and built an impressive web of special agents, spies, and informers whose reach extended throughout the country and even abroad.” As I was transcribing these words from Rizi’s book, news came in of the home ministry demanding, from the Finance Commission, a sum of Rs 50,000 crore to fund what it called “real-time surveillance” of citizens. This at a time when the states are being denied the money owed to them by the Centre; and while the home ministry has already dangerously abused its powers through the foisting of fake cases on independent thinkers, activists, and journalists. And here is Rizi’s description of the Italian Parliament, c. 1929: “Parliament had become a rubber stamp of the government’s decisions. Speeches of the few remaining members of the opposition were ignored, or more often shouted down to jeers from the floor and from the public galleries.” Fabio Fernando Rizi’s book focuses on one person in one country, and eschews comparative analysis. However, in passing, the author remarks that “Italian Fascism created an authoritarian regime, ever increasing its reach, but it did not have the time, perhaps did not even possess the strength, to build a totalitarian society.” This must be read as meaning only one thing; however awful Mussolini’s Italy was, it was not nearly as awful as Hitler’s Germany. After reading Rizi’s intellectual biography of Benedetto Croce, I turned to David Gilmour’s magnificent book, The Pursuit of Italy, a wide-ranging and compellingly readable history of that country from the beginnings of time. Thirty of the four hundred pages of this book deal with Mussolini’s years in power. As with Rizi, much of what Gilmour said about Italy in the past chillingly resonated with what I am witnessing in my own country at present. Consider thus these remarks: “In the 1930s the regime’s style became more ostentatious. There were more parades, more uniforms, more censorship, more hectoring, more speeches from the leader, more shouting, gesturing and grimacing from a balcony to vast crowds, which greeted Mussolini’s every reference to patria and gloria with chants of ‘Du-ce! Du-ce! Du-ce!’”. Much the same could be said about Modi’s rule, especially after he won a second term in 2019, his every utterance greeted with ‘Mo-di! Mo-di! Mo-di!’. Why did the Italian demagogue enjoy such great popularity among the masses? Here is Gilmour’s answer: “Mussolini survived so long partly because he incarnated certain strands of italianata; he embodied the hopes, fears and generations that believed Italy had been cheated of its due, both by its liberal politicians and by its wartime allies, who had forced it to accept the ‘mutilated peace.’” By the same token, Modi has successfully appealed to an alleged Golden Age in the distant past where Hindus were supreme in India and abroad, argued that Hindus had slipped from that pedestal owing to Muslim and British conquerors in the past, and pitted himself against conniving and corrupt Congress politicians who would drag Hindus and India down again. Reading these books about Italy in the 1920s in the India of the 2020s, I was depressed by the many parallels; but also consoled by the few departures. Unlike Mussolini’s Italy, in Modi’s India, the Bharatiya Janata Party has had to contend with political opposition from other parties; admittedly an Opposition much attenuated at the Centre, but still fairly robust in half-a-dozen major states of the Union. The press has been tamed, but not entirely crushed. And while Mussolini’s Italy had only Benedetto Croce to call it to account, Modi’s India still has many writers and intellectuals speaking out courageously in defence of the founding principles of the Republic, and in all the languages of the Republic too. In The Pursuit of Italy, after describing how Mussolini consolidated his rule, Gilmour remarks: “Fascism’s appeal was blunted, however, by its failure to provide prosperity. Italians might be deceived into thinking they were well governed but they could not be deceived into thinking they were well off.” Mussolini failed in providing jobs and prosperity; whereas Modi has, in fact, done far worse on the economic front, his ill-thought and quixotic policies annulling much of the progress that the Indian economy had made in the three decades since liberalization. Millions of young men today fanatically follow Narendra Modi. The fate that awaits them, and us, is anticipated in what Benedetto Croce said with regard to the millions of young men who fanatically followed Mussolini. After the Italian dictator had died and his regime had finally fallen, Croce wrote sadly of “the treasury of moral energies that the oppressive regime misguided, exploited and at the end had betrayed.” Benito Mussolini and his fascists thought they would rule Italy forever. Narendra Modi and the BJP think likewise. These fantasies of eternal rule will not come to fruition; but so long as the present regime remains in power, it will continue to extract a horrendous cost — in economic, political, social, and moral terms. Italy took decades to recover from the ravages of Mussolini and his party; India may take even longer to recover from the ravages of Modi and his party. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
