13-09-2020||Opinion||Blond on blond||Over the last week, the British government has made it clear that it plans to unilaterally modify the Withdrawal Agreement it signed with the European Union. Briefly, the Northern Ireland Protocol in the agreement specifies that goods shipped from Britain to Northern Ireland are subject to customs checks to ensure they conform to EU regulations. This is important because otherwise there would have to be customs checks along a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic. It would undo the achievement of the Good Friday agreement: a borderless island, at peace with itself. Boris Johnson has now tabled a law that would give it the right to waive customs checks and duties without reference to the EU in the event of no deal. His government acknowledges that this would be a breach of international law but argues that it is essential to preserve British sovereignty. How is this local European squabble relevant for the rest of the world? Johnson’s infringement of international law is trivial in itself but revealing in a historical way. Britain and the United States of America designed the norms and institutions of the world order after the Second World War. Much of the pearl-clutching by Johnson’s critics, within the Conservative Party and outside it, has been provoked by the spectacle of Great Britain, the inventor of modern international law, explicitly reneging on its international obligations. They are appalled by the reputational cost of this move, by the practical damage in terms of other trade treaties that Britain hopes to negotiate but most of all by the loss of the moral high ground in international affairs. Britain’s global edge has always been its talent for first writing the letter of the law and then finding the words to stay on the right side of it. Put another way, Britain’s genius for sublimating self-interest into legal, political or economic principle has been the envy of the world for two centuries. This is why Johnson’s cheerful owning of illegality is properly demystifying. From the Opium Wars of the 1840s, through the unequal treaties imposed on subordinated countries, down to the invasion of Iraq, the Anglosphere has successfully spun gunboat diplomacy into international law and illegal invasions into just wars. When I studied modern Chinese history at university in the Seventies, the standard textbooks had titles and chapter headings that set the subordination of China in a modernizing frame. When Britain forced Indian opium upon China, it did so in the name of free trade. ‘Tradition and transformation’ and the ‘opening of China’ told a story in which Western gunships figured as China’s unlikely bridge to modernity. The international order, free trade, the rule of law — the ability to use these mantras to the Anglosphere’s advantage was predicated on political, military and economic hegemony. The rise of Johnson and Trump and their explicitly rule-breaking brand of politics is significant as a symptom of a shift in the global balance of power. The outrage about Johnson’s move suggests that walking away from solemnly signed international agreements is unprecedented. This is unhistorical and untrue. Two years ago, Donald Trump withdrew the US from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, otherwise known as the Iran Nuclear Deal. This was a deal, which had the imprimatur of the five permanent members of the United Nations security council, plus Germany and the EU. The monitoring mechanism of the deal certified repeatedly that Iran had complied with its obligations but Trump declared that the deal was ‘horribly’ lopsided and walked away from it. The other signatories made plaintive noises but did nothing to buy Iranian oil or ease the punitive impact of Trump’s harsh sanctions. Having reneged on the agreement, the US insisted that Iran was bound by it and even tried to bully the UN into imposing sanctions. This provoked nothing like the indignation occasioned by Johnson’s nibbling at the Withdrawal Agreement. And if the withdrawal from the JCPOA is justified as it sometimes is on the grounds that it hadn’t been ratified by Congress, it’s worth remembering that the US withdrew from the Senate-ratified ABM treaty because George W. Bush wanted a shiny new missile that its terms forbade. Johnson’s re-writing of the withdrawal treaty provoked outrage for two reasons. First, owning the illegality of the new law was seen as an unforced error by his British critics. In their view, Johnson should have found a form of words, a fig leaf, to deflect the charge of law-breaking. The second reason for outrage was that Great Britain was doing this to a bloc of other European countries; not China or Iran or Mauritius. Boris’s unilateralism, his two fingers at the EU, was outrageous because he was blowing off Western trading partners. Had he done something similar to Turkey or India, there would be some tut-tutting because dispensing with necessary hypocrisy is always deemed unwise, but no one would be talking about a fatal blow to Britain’s standing in the world. We don’t have to speculate about the likely difference in reaction; there are concrete examples available. So long as China didn’t threaten the economic or technological supremacy of the US, the Western world and its public opinion were happy to acquiesce in the rise of China as the world manufactory. The moment China became a real rival and incubated hardware and software behemoths of its own like Huawei and Byte Dance, the rhetoric of free trade and global capitalism was binned and Trump intervened to blunt China’s 5G advantage and to force a distress sale of TikTok so that Microsoft or Oracle could buy it cheap. It is not a coincidence that Britain and the US today are defined by Johnson’s Brexit and Trump’s project to make America great again. Their explicit hostility to international obligations that constrain their populist agendas is a function of decline. Their countries never wholly recovered from the Great Recession and the continuing rise of China over the past dozen years prompted them to disengage from an international order that they no longer dominated. Their shambolic response to Covid-19 and its spread was the coup de grâce. Trump’s withdrawal from the WHO in the wake of the pandemic, accusing it of whitewashing China, and Johnson’s pursuit of a hard, no-deal Brexit are the latest examples of this increasingly disorderly disengagement. It is clarifying that these two men should preside over this time of Western decadence. Johnson is a clown and Trump a huckster, but their narcissism makes dissembling impossible. This is what the Anglosphere looks like when it’s home and not pretending: old, overwhelmingly white people, gathered around blow-dried blond fantasists who promise to turn a fading dominance into go-it-alone glory. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||Growth pangs: a lot worse than what pundits had anticipated||The Indian economy is in the doghouse — a notion that the Narendra Modi government stubbornly refuses to acknowledge and chooses instead to sit on its hands and wait for a miraculous V-shaped recovery to emerge out of thin air sometime next year. A spate of gloomy growth forecasts in the past week has only amplified concerns over which way the country is headed even as it grapples with an ever-increasing number of coronavirus infections. Analysts at global brokerages and credit rating agencies have scurried to revise their forecasts for real gross domestic product growth this fiscal after the National Statistical Office put out the official estimate on the last day of August that showed a contraction of 23.9 per cent in the first quarter that ended June 30. This was a lot worse than the pundits had anticipated. It should have set the alarm bells ringing in Delhi; sadly, it has not. Goldman Sachs put out the worst forecast for the year when it said the Indian economy would contract by 14.8 per cent this year, sharply down from its earlier projection of 11.8 per cent made in May. The alarming official growth estimate for the first quarter has now forced the Goldman Sachs team to come out with bleak forecasts for the second and third quarters. It now reckons that the economy will shrink by 13.7 per cent in the July-September quarter and by 9.8 per cent in the October-December period against earlier forecasts of -10.7 per cent and -6.7 per cent respectively. Most of the other agencies see a double digit contraction as well: Fitch at -10.5 per cent, Moody’s at -11.5 per cent, and India Ratings and Research at -11.8 per cent. Crisil seems almost charitable with a forecast of -9 per cent this fiscal. These numbers are far worse than the International Monetary Fund’s forecast in June of -4.5 per cent. The IMF will revise India’s growth projections when it releases its next World Economic Outlook in October, which may see its views converge with the rest of the crowd. All the analysts agree on the broad reasons for the mess we are in: a very weak fiscal stimulus, the lingering impact of a severe lockdown, the fragilities in the financial system, a rising virus caseload and the surge in inflation that has throttled the effectiveness of monetary policy responses. Some reports suggest that the government is readying another package of measures that will offer big incentives to companies that move production centres to India. The hope is that this will kick-start private investment and get the wheels of the economy moving again. What we need is a strategy to increase consumption spending immediately through income support at the base of the pyramid. An investment-driven approach is a medium-term strategy that will take many quarters to play out. We need to address the present before we try to take care of the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||All eyes on Nitish-Sushil jodi as Congress does a balancing act||The senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and deputy chief minister of Bihar, Sushil Kumar Modi, hailed the “dur-drishti (vision)” of his CM, Nitish Kumar, at an event recently. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, was launching some schemes related to the animal husbandry and fisheries sector, and speaking during the event Sushil Modi lauded Nitish. This did not go down well with a section of leaders in Delhi. Some even repudiated the veteran politician saying, “It was due to a meek leader like Sushil Modi that Nitish succeeded in subjugating the BJP.” It was even pointed out that the event was to showcase the PM’s gifts to poll-bound Bihar and many wondered about the need to shower praise on Nitish. But the CM and his deputy in Bihar share a long association; Sushil Modi has been Nitish’s deputy since 2005, barring a break of a couple of years, when the Janata Dal (United) boss snapped ties with the BJP. Nitish, who used to be firmly against Narendra Modi campaigning in Bihar for his alleged association with the Gujarat riots, would tell reporters that he already has ‘his Modi’ and doesn’t need another one. Much water has flown down Patna’s Ganga and Delhi’s Yamuna since then and some within the BJP feel that the Nitish-Sushil jodi may have to pay for their past deeds sooner or later. Whatever be the general perception about the lack of internal democracy in the Congress, the party leadership has perfected the art of political accommodation over the decades. There was a strong demand from leaders — both old and young — that the 23 members who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi about the drift in the party should be punished. However, the top leadership not only refused to act vindictively against them, but it also ensured they are represented in every important organ of the party. The most significant is the inclusion of Arvinder Singh Lovely, one of the signatories to that infamous letter, in the party’s central election committee. This is the body that will conduct internal elections to the post of party president and working committee, and Lovely’s presence will ensure the dissident group is aware of the processes and violations, if any. The six-member committee formed to assist Sonia includes Mukul Wasnik, one of the signatories to the letter, the top policy-making body — working committee — has three members from the group including Wasnik, Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma. The communication department has Manish Tewari and Anand Sharma while Jitin Prasada is in the ‘in-charge’ category. Although sections of the media misread the dropping of Azad, he has been requesting Sonia to be relieved of the general-secretary assignment for years. Other ageing veterans like Motilal Vora, Ambika Soni and Mallikarjun Kharge, too, have been relieved from that taxing job. Party insiders believe that Sonia is particular about consensual politics and avoids unnecessarily antagonizing party colleagues. The reshuffle had Sonia’s stamp, although she also partially accommodated Rahul Gandhi’s wishes. The veteran politician, Sharad Pawar, came to the aid of the Shiv Sena at the right time since the demolition of the office of the actress, Kangana Ranaut, would not only have diluted the anger against her among the common people of Maharashtra but also opened a Pandora’s box in terms of illegal constructions which are rampant in Mumbai and other big cities like Pune and Nagpur. Even political parties — be it the Nationalist Congress Party or the Congress, the Shiv Sena or the BJP — would have come under scrutiny had the list of unlawful constructions come out. Although the Sena cadre was livid, Pawar tutored the CM, Uddhav Thackeray, on political warfare which is often fought with a cool mind and off the battlefield. All the three allies — NCP, Sena and Congress — see her as a pawn in the BJP’s hands, but they may now avoid a public spectacle of their animosity. The ruling BJP in Assam is banking on “chemistry” to see them through next year’s assembly polls. The national general-secretary in charge of the Northeast, Ram Madhav, and senior Assamese minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, suggested as much in their respective speeches at the inaugural meeting of the newly-elected state executive in Guwahati last week. Dismissing the proposed alliance between the Opposition parties that is expected to mobilize the minority votes, Madhav said it is chemistry that works in politics, not arithmetic. And the BJP knows how to gel with its allies, reminding the office-bearers of the BJP’s convincing win in the 2016 polls by stitching up pre-poll alliances to end the 15-year reign of the Congress which ploughed a lonely furrow. In the remote chance that the Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha wins the election for the post of the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman, the Opposition may win a morale boost, but end up losing a powerful voice against the government. Jha has made his mark as a trenchant critic of not just the BJP but the sangh brand of politics. The Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, always had plans for his sons. While BY Raghavendra is a Lok Sabha member, BY Vijayendra was made a vice-president of the BJP in the state last month. The Lingayat strongman who is known as a master strategist couldn’t care less about his party’s rhetoric on dynastic politics when it comes to his own family. And, he is not alone, given the number of such instances within the BJP in other states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||March of time||Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) will one of these days dig up a time capsule buried on campus. The cache, meant for AMU of the future, was buried in 1877 at the time the institution was founded. In its centenary year, another capsule containing the institution’s journey thus far will be buried. A time capsule, no matter what its form and expressed intent, is at its innocent best a desire for the present to shake hands with the future. Other times, it is quite the Trojan horse sent galloping into the future to foreground one or more truths and their importance to future generations. In 1973, on the occasion of India’s Independence and 25 years of Congress rule, the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, buried a 280-pound time capsule outside the main entrance to the Red Fort. It was meant to be unearthed 5,000 years later and had been named Kaalpatra. S. Krishnaswamy, a professor of history at Madras Christian College, put together the material. In a 1974 paper on the subject published in the journal Social Scientist, V.K. Ramachandran notes that a rough draft of the 10,000-word document was submitted to the Indian Council of Historical Research and it received “a final polish from the Ministry of Education and Social Welfare”. Soon after, a member of the politburo of the CPI(M) released contents of the document to the press. He described the time capsule as "an insult to the Indian people”. Four years later, Kaalpatra was exhumed. In 1977, the Janata Party came to power. The chairman of the Parliamentary Committee for Examination of Time Capsules feared Kaalpatra was a ploy by Mrs Gandhi to tell future generations untruths of glory about herself and her family, instead of the proposed intent. The new government ordered the capsule be dug up and its contents evaluated. The evaluation, if it happened at all, must have been disappointing, because it was never shared with the public. Jump to 2010. There is Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi burying a time capsule under Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar. The Congress made noise enough as to how it was meant to be about the state’s journey but was actually about Modi and his years at the helm. And now there is talk of a time capsule being placed at the Ram Temple construction site in Ayodhya, 2,000 feet into the earth. While there have been reports of denials, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust member Kameshwar Chaupal did say that a time capsule will enable someone interested in the temple’s history to get "only facts related to the place". Here’s hoping in some future some facts will be closer to the surface.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||What passes and what does not||Sometimes there seems nothing to do but look up and behold the sky. Because this earth of ours, at least what we can see of it, has become so unbearable to look at. It groans and it moves not, and it lies wracked, replete in the consequences of its remorseless wrongdoing. This earth of ours, what did we do to it? What did we beget? Who did we beget? Who we did beget has now gotten us. And what we did beget is part of the ugliness. But not all of it. We are too. And what we did to it, this earth of ours is now doing unto us. That, in short, is what this is all about. Call it revenge. Call it reprisal. Call it correction. It has come from what we did not do right. We must understand this, though at the best of times and the worst of times and the times that lie betwixt, we do not understand. Or refuse to. We must understand actions have consequences. Try spitting into the sky and wait for what happens next. Or try spitting into the ground. Oh no, no, please do not. That now is by law forbidden and it has finite financial consequences for you and infinite epidemiological consequences for others. Please don’t spit. It will pass. I promise. Not everything passes. Or promises to. The state of waking does not pass. And then when it lapses upon itself and can remain the state of waking no more, the state of stupor does not pass. One state fuses into another, dying into it, being born of it, but it does not pass. Meantime, other things pass, other things are always passing. You may think they’ve come to stand still, but be not deluded. Other things are passing, and in their passing you are passing too while it may seem, in this delusion of a standstill, that everything is still and nothing is passing. Things are passing, and you are passing too. A candle’s not a flame alone, it is the passing of wick and wax. A river isn’t water alone, it’s silt and stone in the wash. More things pass than just a flame, or just a river. Even though they do not seem to pass. When time passes, it isn’t the ticking in the clock alone; when time passes, it softens wood, and grinds the ramparts of forts. When time passes, it shifts mountains and it alters the colours of leaves. In the beginning of time, it peppered grass with the sound of its passing and you could hear grass grow and then fall silent because it was growing no longer and had fallen upon itself. That was how time passes on what it once gave the sound of singing. But that’s not where we are. All of that passed, and kept on passing, and all of that passing has brought us where we are. Where we are still saying some things pass and some things do not pass at all. And we begin to miss most of what passes and we begin to get agitated and impatient about most things that do not pass. Oh, when will this pass? When you wait upon a passing, it does not tend to pass; when you let it pass, it often does. Like a train upon a platform it was never meant to stop. Or it will come to halt and you’ll ask again, oh when will this one pass? The train you won’t take passes, the train you would does often not arrive because it awaits the passing of other trains. And so it is on platforms, some things pass and some things do not because they haven’t yet arrived. And the waiting between one and another might make you wonder again, what is it that passes and what is it that does not? And why is it that some things pass and some things pass not. Behold the sky, and wonder. The spill of cloud. The flock of geese. The swirls of dust. The trail of jet fuel. And then, forever beyond them, the unpassing vacancy we call blue. Some things pass and some do not.What we thought a cloud It turns out was a shroud And I was a deeper fool That I saw fields of cotton wool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
13-09-2020||Opinion||Toy story||Sir — It could well have been a moment of frustration over Chinese transgressions or perhaps an idea whose time has come that led the prime minister to propose that India could become a toy-manufacturing hub. Few of us have thought of toys as serious business; toy-making is still largely a cottage industry whose consumers are primarily domestic. There was a time when children used their imagination to conjure up magical toys from broken odds and ends lying around the house. But as income levels went up, fancy toys filled the market. The toy market in India was worth over $1.75 billion in 2019, and is expected to grow to $3.3 billion by 2024. But most of these toys are made overseas and imported. Now that toy-making is being taken more seriously we need to focus on two important issues. The first is to create a support grid of financial, marketing and technical assistance for the toy sector. More importantly, children-friendly designs, comprehensive policies to protect children from abuse or exposure to adult content, and rigorous checks to ensure quality control for each and every toy must be put in place. India must remember that we are beginners in this niche market, and consumer safety and satisfaction will be paramount. It is thus heartening that the BIS compliance for toy manufacturers and importers or the Toys (Quality Control) Order, 2020 came into force earlier this month. But much remains to be done if India is to make its mark in the toy-making industry that is dominated by the likes of China, the United States of America and Europe. R. Narayanan Navi Mumbai Sir — At present, China dominates the Indian toy industry with a share of almost 75 per cent products sold in the country. Narendra Modi’s call to change this has brought much cheer to toy companies. But India must not follow the Chinese model blindly. Let us not forget that Chinese toys — even if one were to set aside concerns about their quality — are made overwhelmingly from plastic or other polluting substances. India, on the other hand, has a rich tradition of toys that are environment-friendly. Kaather putul, taal-paatar shipai, maatir phol ar shobji, lattu — these are just a few of the attractions that we looked forward to as children. The rather mela was the destination to procure such novelties. There was also a range of toys like the gulti, gilli danda and lagori that encouraged children to play outdoors, while other games like chaupad or chauka bara enhanced critical thinking. These, and not plastic trinkets, should be the focus of India’s toy-manufacturing initiatives. If we are to go vocal for local, we must also source our ideas and their creators locally. If undertaken seriously, this push for the toy industry could bring a lot of local artisans and craftsmen out of poverty. Currently, such indigenous toys have become collector’s items sold in high-end emporiums to tourists at cut-throat prices. But the people who actually make these toys see very little of the profit. They are cheated by middlemen and on occasion even the State of both earnings and recognition. Developing India as a toy-manufacturing hub has the potential to change this situation. A.K. Sen Calcutta Sir — A survey shows that the pandemic and an extended monsoon are costing Indians dearly. Apparently, 73 per cent households are spending more on essential items but getting less value for money than they did before the pandemic. While part of this is owing to the increased cost of fruits and vegetables owing to floods in many areas, one reason for this is also the enormous amount of food that is wasted in our kitchens every day. If we use every part of the produce we buy — peels and all — we could essentially decrease expenditure by making what we buy last longer and also avoid food shortage. Roshni Sen Calcutta Sir — It was exciting to hear that Bangladesh has lifted the ban on the export of hilsa to India. Perhaps now Bengalis will finally be able to taste the glorious fish without feeling a steep pocket pinch. Nilanjan Majumdar Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-150
