14-09-2020||Opinion||Vindictive agenda: Delhi Police's trumped up charges||Sir — All right-minded people should unreservedly condemn the attempt by the Delhi police to link Sitaram Yechury, Yogendra Yadav, Jayati Ghosh, Apoorvanand and Rahul Roy to the Delhi riots and name them as ‘co-conspirators’. Repressive measures like this prove that we are going through an inglorious chapter in the nation’s history. Implicit in the supplementary charge sheet is an attempt to deny space for democratic protest. Unfortunately, it has also shown that the people who thought that the pandemic and its ravages would drive some sense into the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party government were wrong. A situation where the government can make blatantly communal laws but people cannot protest against them is indicative of anything but a democracy. Any political system refusing to allow dissent becomes a tyranny. The Shaheen Bagh protest was a pivotal stand against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that attracted the world’s attention and unsettled the ruling dispensation. The charge of instigating riots against erudite and patriotic — in the real sense of the word — members of society is ridiculous; it is an attempt to tamp down all opposition to the government’s unilateral decision-making. No matter what the police do, the truth of the cause that these people raised their voices for remains an unassailable defence for them. That political motivations are behind these accusations is obvious from the fact that the Delhi police did not have the courage to initiate action against Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur and Parvesh Verma for their hate speeches. Post-truth politics cannot validate the “fair is foul, and foul is fair” philosophy. The gravest challenge before India right now is detoxifying the poison of religious hatred — everything else can wait. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Trumped-up charges against those who dare to speak up for the truth no longer come as a surprise in India. The recent slew of accusations by the Delhi police is thus only the latest in a long line of vindictive actions that are likely to continue in the future too. The State does not even pretend to have any qualms about using its agencies against its detractors. One can only be grateful that there are still people willing to speak up against the State. Soham Ghosh,Calcutta  Taste the labour Sir — Sundays are synonymous with mangsho bhaat in many Bengali households; nothing describes the holiday mood better than dipping into a piping hot bowl of curry. But little is said about the hours that need to be spent in a steaming kitchen for that curry to be cooked or the time it takes to scrub clean the pot in which the curry is made. This labour — mostly assigned to women — mars the flavour of the curry somewhat. Deepti Bhattacharjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
14-09-2020||Opinion||Thought control: Violence and rowdyism in universities||Rowdyism and violence have no place in centres of learning. Indian universities, unfortunately, have been witness to such excesses in campuses, time and again. Political animosities have, more often than not, transformed universities into turfs of violent rivalries. Such contestations, often between the ascendant rightwing groups and their leftist opponents, have been reported from Delhi University, Himachal Pradesh University, Jawaharlal Nehru University, among other institutions, in recent years. So there is some merit to the recent deliberations among premier Central universities on the issue of deviant campus behaviour. Most of the participants — Jamia Millia Islamia, Banaras Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University, Jamia Hamdard, JNU — reiterated the need to desist from imposing rigid rules. Nonetheless, there were some disquieting views. There was some talk of maintaining ‘files’ on students with differing views. The JNU proctor, astoundingly, called for segregation among learners after complaining that the campus had become the launching pad for political agenda. Even the vice-chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia, who had been critical of police depredations on the campus, apparently conceded that the responsibility of maintaining peace inside universities was now being jointly shared by the administrators and the police. The presence of police on the campus is not acceptable in any democratic polity. The proposal of maintaining dossiers on students with dissenting views is equally preposterous: it amounts to institutional surveillance on students. Taken together, these remarks amplify concerns that university officials are increasingly using campus violence as an excuse to curb independent thought. Such a suspicion is not unwarranted. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s rise to political dominance has coincided with a brutal campaign that seeks to demonize students and even teachers who resist hegemonic views or speak up for the cause of plurality of opinion. The right to debate as well as the freedom of thought is integral to the idea of the university as an institution. Yet, be it the targeted intrusion into JNU over alleged sedition or the crackdown against students in Jamia Millia Islamia and AMU in the wake of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the record of this government in safeguarding the sanctity of diverse opinion has remained exceedingly shoddy. This makes it difficult to believe that the endeavour to separate ‘students’ interests’ from ‘vested interests’ is as honourable as it is being made out to be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||Many voices: NEP and Hindi imposition||In a multilingual country, languages can be a site of tension and conflict, particularly when regional history, the sense of identity and power are factored into the equation. So the National Education Policy, 2020 is not the only spur to disagreement over languages. In Kashmir, the government has decided to add Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi, supposedly by popular demand, as official languages to Urdu and English that had had this status for 131 years. That there has been a collective objection from members of non-political society to this Central policy for the first time since the change of Jammu and Kashmir’s status on August 5, 2019 indicates how strongly people feel about languages and the history of their use. Not only would an excess of official languages — inciting a demand for the inclusion of others — trigger division, fear these citizens, it might also create a confusion that would help the imposition of Hindi. A similar fear has prompted the state of Tamil Nadu, both government and Opposition, to reject the three-language formula of the NEP. The state wishes to stick to Tamil and English that have been traditionally taught in schools, a policy born of the anti-Hindi agitation associated with the region’s identity. The belief that Hindi will be imposed originates in distrust of this Union government that proposed, for example, that Hindi be mandatory for members of parliament and Union ministers, and ensured, among other things, that airport announcements or names of schemes, campaigns and programmes are in that language. That leaves citizens with no Hindi and no English helpless. Yet language learning is not necessarily conflictual. Andhra Pradesh is producing a mirror text, with Telugu on one page and its English on the facing page for classes one to six. The state has thus countered the complaint that it was violating the NEP that required that children must be taught in their mother tongue till Class V. Obviously, states are being given very little space to teach as they think fit. What about linguistically displaced children? India is a country of internal migrants at all levels; how are their children to learn the mother tongue? The one-size-fits-all prescription suggests insensitiveness, thoughtlessness or ignorance; decisions about languages cannot be rammed down the throat of a multilingual society with its historically complicated cultures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||Impure ideas to ensure purity||I think I am doing slightly better than some others during the lockdown because I have been trained in a certain way since childhood. I was born into a family of Bengali priests and Sanskrit teachers. My family belonged to the Vaidik community of Brahmins and from early childhood I grew up following a set of household rules. I do not know how these rules were followed in the greater Vaidik community, or elsewhere, but in our family only a strict adherence would do. Otherwise there would be little punishments. All of the rules defined the “pure” against the “impure”, through the different but interconnected bodily activities, such as eating, sleeping at night or using the toilet. For example, early in the morning you would have to change the clothes you had slept in because the fact that you slept within them made them “basi”, one kind of impure. You could not enter the puja room or the kitchen in basi clothes. Similarly, you could not come back into the household proper after visiting the toilet, particularly after defecation — the toilet would be located outside the main house — because perhaps even coming into contact with your own waste was quite unpardonable. It was the second kind of impurity. But the most demanding form of purity and impurity, to me as a child, was defined by the rules of entho, which was transmitted through food and eating. I have never been able to locate the sources of impurity clearly: whether they were an object or substance, like food, or bed or excreta, or the activity of our bodies, such as eating, or sleeping (or sex), or defecating, which was the culprit. Somehow it always made one uncomfortable about one’s body, because it was either the source or the site of the production of impurity. Entho was of three kinds, to my mind: cooked rice was entho, what one had bitten into or tasted was entho and some things, such as maachher jhol (fish curry) or vegetable curry, were inherently entho. But not all cooked food was entho. Malpuas, fried flour cakes in syrup, were not entho. Malpua was innocent. Milk boiled was also innocent. The problem with all these impurities was that they could be transmitted instantly. A person wearing basi clothes would make another impure just by touching him. Both would have to change. Same for toilet-returned clothes and entho. So my cousins and I learnt to avoid the puja room and the kitchen. But meal times were unbearable. We had to sit on the floor, not touch anything while food was being served to us, dropped on our plates from above, so that nothing touched anything, and we could not even drink from our glasses with our clean left hand, because then the entho from our mouths would make the glass entho and it would then transmit to the entire floor. All we could do was pour water into our mouths from the glasses from above. When we became really desperate, we threw tantrums or just refused to eat. I think a mask on our mouths would have been welcome. In any case, our bodies were in lockdown. We were trained to alienate ourselves perfectly from our environments and our bodies as we ate, slept or visited the toilet, from the most fundamental human instincts and activities. The education is coming in handy, now that I have to shut myself from everything around me to protect myself from the virus. It is also helping me to protect myself from a kind of politics that is being transmitted relentlessly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||The root of the poison||India has witnessed growing violence against Muslims under the current regime, including mob-lynchings and the recent attempt of exclusion through the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Much of this is being countered through a critique of growing Islamophobia by the secular-democratic forces. Islamophobia refers to fear of and hatred for Muslims without reason or evidence. It is animosity not just against Muslims but also Islam as a religion. Islamophobia is considered to be xenophobic in nature and has the potential of triggering episodic and organized violence against religious minorities. However, confronting growing religious polarization through the narrative of Islamophobia could be counter-productive. Islamophobia has become all-pervasive and natural. The proponents of Hindutva wish to institutionalize it. What India has is organized communalism and not Islamophobia. The rightwing wishes to convert communalism into Islamophobia. Communalism, as opposed to Islamophobia, is not based on imagined hatred and visceral exclusion of religious minorities. It is linked to issues of history, memory, social location and economic activities. For instance, communalism in India is linked to the ‘Two Nation theory’ and the history of Partition. It is associated with the selective memory of violence perpetrated by Muslims as well as cultural prejudices against religious minorities. There is also, possibly, an element of economic exploitation where Muslims own land and the labour force comprises Dalits and other Hindus from lower castes. These are real-time conflicts of interest and cultural differences between communities that cannot quite be captured through the narrative of Islamophobia that is predicated on an unreasonable and irrational hatred on the part of the majority community. What is intriguing is that Hindutva majoritarianism precisely wishes to move beyond the complexity and selective rendering of history to an irrational hatred of Muslims. Such irrational hatred can finally unlock the majoritarian project and find hegemonic justification for the xenophobic exclusion of religious minorities. It can make hatred natural and universal. Violence would then not have to depend on organized riots but can be perpetrated ‘naturally’ or spontaneously. It does not have to be ‘imported’ like the way it was in the recent riots in Delhi, as the evidence from various fact-finding reports suggests. The discourse of growing Islamophobia concedes that hatred against Muslims in India is rampant and institutionalized. But the reality is what we have in India is ‘contextual communalism’ that is linked to local history and memory of violence between communities in the past and contemporary cultural differences that lead to claims and counter-claims of religious superiority. For instance, in Bengal, the memory of Partition plays a fundamental role. In Telangana, it has to do with the history of the rule by the Nizam and the violence perpetrated by his private militia, the razakars. What is unreasonable is not the claim of violence but its interpretation. In Bengal, both Hindus and Muslims suffered violence. In Telangana, the razakars were supported by Hindu landlords because it was the Nizam who had granted them the right to land and taxation to counter the armed struggle led by communists. What the sangh parivar does is offer a selective rendering of history that can propel the consolidation of a majoritarian Hindu identity. Majoritarianism can be consolidated only when one moves away from identifying the authentic sources of violence. Intriguingly, even the secular forces often fail to make a distinction between communalism and Islamophobia. What exists in India, as I see it, is communalism. What Hindutva wishes to achieve is the conversion of an insidious communalism into rampant Islamophobia. By collapsing the two categories, the secular-democratic forces, willy-nilly, accept that there is rampant, irrational and unfounded hatred towards not just Muslims but Islam as a religion. This is far from the truth. Even the worst among the bigots do not abuse the prophet but merely hate Muslims. They would agree that all religions are paths to truth but that the Muslims betray it. What Hindutva wishes to generate is hatred for Islam as a religion to rule out the possibility of any kind of cohabitation. This vision is inherently violent and expansionist and does not corroborate with the everyday experience of a majority of Hindus. Even those sympathetic to the project of Hindutva often argue that not all Muslims are bad. Many of them would concede that they know Muslims who are good and helpful. But they would also argue that Muslims have been associated with violence in the course of history. This association is what the Hindutva ecosystem depends on as a legitimate entry point to its project. It can be argued that even though the rightwing in India has succeeded in converting communalism into Islamophobia to some extent, it is nowhere close to achieving a complete consensus. Instead of taking recourse to Islamophobia, which, by default, is in denial of history and culture as they exist, secular-democratic forces need to re-focus on the roots of communalism and look for means of burying the memories of violence between religious communities in the past and resist it in the present. The sangh parivar undermines history to distort it. Secular forces cannot undermine it because they find it difficult to negotiate with its complexity and in doing so they might have already conceded the legitimacy of converting communalism into Islamophobia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
14-09-2020||Opinion||Meaningful reliance||While it may be possible to reject the idea of Atmanirbhar Bharat, before doing so, it would be a good idea to examine it as a concept. It may be recalled that, for instance, Rabindranath Tagore took a similar stand concerning Mahatma Gandhi’s dramatic call for the boycott of foreign goods. However, Gandhi saw the call as a motivator for self-reliance, as did many other national leaders of the time. This debate is available in an edited volume titled Truth Called Them Differently: Tagore-Gandhi Controversy. The call by Prime Minister Narendra Modi provides an opportunity to scrutinize the idea of self-reliance — atmanirbharta — by examining it along with similar concepts. Three are available. First is a reverberating call given by Lokamanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, namely, “Swaraj is my birthright and I will have it.” This content is inserted in the form of a slogan, which in modern India has become as aphoristic as the Upanishadic statement, Aham Brahmasmi Tat Tvam Asi, in classical India. Tilak’s powerful call spread like wildfire across India, infusing energy into enslaved Indians. It sought to ‘turn’ restive Indians into fighters for self-rule. The second concept is found in a talk delivered by a famous philosopher, Krishna Chandra Bhattacharyya, titled Swaraj in Ideas. This talk focused on a particular aspect of colonialism — “slavery of the spirit” — that had the potential to outwear political swaraj. He made a strong plea for ‘Swaraj in ideas’. In addition to a slogan and a talk, the concept of swaraj is also available, this time, in the form of a dialogue in M.K. Gandhi’s book, Hind Swaraj. The dialogue points out how the modernity that was implemented by the British in India was not only bad for India but also equally bad for the British, thus turning the perpetrator of oppression into a co-victim. This profound view is also a smart move against the oppressor as it took the debate to the enemy camp. These three that converge on swaraj can provide a scaffold for the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Instead of taking these as manuals to follow, I want to convert them into symbols — lighthouses — to understand the present context and evaluate the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat from the points of view of necessity, desirability and feasibility. This academic engagement is required as the recent call is an immediate response to both a public health challenge and a military emergency involving China. This can save it from remaining at an emotional realm and begin to communicate it to those who produce, distribute and consume locally. Capital and technology have created a disproportion between supply and demand, production and consumption, in the developed countries. To solve the problem of overproduction, these countries have arm-twisted the developing nations to participate in what is called globalization. Besides, in the case of India, its participation in this process involved the economic crisis faced by India during the P.V. Narasimha Rao government. Consequently, there is an increase in trade, employment and wealth-generation. The WTO agreements, the formation of the European Union and China’s Belt and Road Initiative are examples of this phenomenon. However, slowly, one has begun to see the fissures developing in this movement — for instance, in the form of Brexit. Reminiscent of the bubonic plague, which originated from Yunnan, China, during the 1890s that swung Tilak into action, it is the pandemic, again from China, that has woken up countries, including India. It has made them realize how much they are dependent for supplies on China and the impending dangers of this dependence. When India was struggling hard to deal with the pandemic, it was threatened by China at the border. These twin problems led to the call for Atmanirbhar Bharat. The prime minister’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat emphasized ‘resilience’ and the need to incorporate ‘ease of living’ along with ‘ease of doing business’. Here, it is essential to recognize that these ideas, in my understanding, are opposed to each other. And they are positioned not one in place of another but one in conjunction with the other. This conjunction is problematic, as ‘ease of doing business’ will create a dent in ‘ease of living’. Dealing with these is as tricky as squaring a circle as they belong to two opposed ways of life. One needs to put a lot of effort to deal with this problem. You need the talent of a creative genius like Leonardo da Vinci to combine these two as demonstrated by him in his famous drawing, Vitruvian Man, where the navel is correctly at the centre of the circle and genitals at the centre of the square. Similarly, there is a need to study the geometry of the ease of living and identify the exact location of its centre. Likewise, there is a need to determine the centre of the ease of doing business. Interestingly, the straight lines in the square represent progress, whereas the circle symbolizes contentment. And then come up with a vision resembling the Vitruvian Man where the incompatible square and circle are incorporated aesthetically. Work and health can be balanced. At the macro level, the discussion can begin by regarding the idea of dependence on and borrowing from the other. Globalization thrives on removing restrictions on reliance and borrowing. Both of these, it must, however, be admitted are not wrong per se. They can be positively used by reflecting on why depend, whom to depend on, how much to depend on and for how long as well as by asking why borrow, from whom to borrow, how much to borrow and one’s capacity to repay. This reflection will enable borrowers to get a realistic assessment of their condition and make the borrowing meaningful. The return towards ease of living can be made inclusive and egalitarian by sharing resources with the vulnerable sections of our population as well as their upliftment along health lines. This will help us overcome our internal weaknesses and begin to convert them into strengths. This can save the concept of Atmanirbhar Bharat from relapsing into regression or look like a defeat. Instead, it can be seen as transforming the adversary into an enabler. The author teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology, Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-149
