15-09-2020||Opinion||Secure law: The National Security Act||The value of a law depends on its application. The National Security Act, 1980 permits preventive detention — up to a maximum of 12 months — “in certain cases and for matters connected therewith”. These “certain cases” are fleshed out to indicate that a person can be detained, among other reasons, to prevent him from acting in a manner prejudicial to the security of India and the maintenance of public order. This is rather imprecise: public order remains subject to the State’s interpretation, and the security of India could be made to mean the security of the ruling regime and its agenda. Recently, after the release of the doctor, Kafeel Khan, by the Allahabad High Court which reportedly criticized the authorities for booking him under the NSA on a whim, legal experts have spoken up against the indiscriminate use of this law. They feel that states should not use the law without reasonable material to justify its application, and police officers using it wrongfully should be penalized. Although successive governments have misused the NSA from time to time, its application has become almost a daily practice under the present dispensation. From dumping cow carcasses to protesting against the lack of Covid-19 testing at airports, the NSA is slapped for anything that strikes the State’s fancy. Experts feel that the law is being used to punish, not prevent, because people can be locked in jail for 12 months although most cases, like Mr Khan’s, would not pass legal scrutiny. Uttar Pradesh leads in the intimidating and arbitrary use of the NSA. While 13 arrests under it this year have been of anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protesters — they evidently threaten security, even if not the country’s — 76 of 139 NSA arrests till August 19 were of those accused of cow slaughter. They allegedly threaten public order, because the accusation of killing cows is a ‘sensitive’ matter. This use of the NSA upends all notions of justice and fair process. It is telling that of the thousands of arrests under other laws for cow slaughter in UP, the police have filed closure reports for only 32 on account of the lack of sufficient evidence. But the NSA can enforce a 12-month stay in prison. Deliberately misused, it is a handy tool in the art of creating fear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion||Be cautious: Global clamour for Covid vaccine||Sir — The global clamour for a cure for the novel coronavirus has led to the unrealistic expectation that a vaccine is just around the corner. Thus, when AstraZeneca, piloting its vaccine candidate, AZD1222, revealed earlier that it would be voluntarily putting its ongoing clinical trials on hold — one of the participants developed an unexpected illness — the possible dangers of a rushed study came to the fore. Although the pharmaceutical company has since resumed the late-stage trials after receiving green signals from safety watchdogs, this development should be taken as a warning sign. The demand for a speedy solution to the pandemic has also taken a distinctly political dimension. The incumbent president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has indicated that a vaccine might be available in October, conveniently before the upcoming elections in November. India, too, is guilty of rushing the process with the Indian Council of Medical Research earlier urging Bharat Biotech to make its candidate vaccine, Covaxin, available by August 15. Recently, Russia became the first country to register a Covid-19 vaccine and is gearing up to release the first batch to the public. It must be remembered that developing a vaccine is a complicated process and usually takes years to be ready for public use. With the world rushing to find a cure to the pandemic, this has become a matter of who will get to cross the finish line first. Countries must prioritize a thorough and transparent evaluation of the candidate drugs. Otherwise the lives of billions will be at risk. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — As Covid-19 cases continue to mount around the world in unprecedented numbers, it is expected that pharmaceutical companies will rush to roll out a vaccine for the highly communicable disease. However, concerns have been raised over whether there is political pressure on companies to complete the trials as fast as possible in order to boost a country’s prestige in the international arena. China has already approved the emergency usage of Covid-19 vaccines that have been developed by select domestic companies. The American president is pushing for the release of a vaccine before the presidential elections scheduled for November 2020. In the midst of this, it was heartening to learn that nine American firms have signed a pledge not to seek regulatory approval or authorization of their experimental drugs until the shots have been shown to work effectively and safely through late-stage clinical trials. Meanwhile, Sputnik V, jointly developed by the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and the Russian defence ministry, has been registered as the first coronavirus vaccine. Although the data published by the medical journal, The Lancet, show promise, they are limited to the early stages of study which has been conducted on only 76 participants, an abysmally small number. A group of researchers have since written an open letter to the editor of the journal alleging discrepancies in the data evaluated. Reports indicate that India is in talks with the Russian government regarding the localization of the production of Sputnik V in India. Considering the glaring gaps in the efficacy of the drug trial, is it a good idea to proceed with the proposition? Rather than delving right into production, India should consider conducting bigger trials in the country and testing further before approving the drug for a mass rollout. The decision by AstraZeneca to temporarily put its clinical trials on hold when a participant developed an adverse reaction shows that the company prioritizes the health of the masses, as it ideally should. All countries should take a cautious approach and not jeopardize the health of the people. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The news that one of the volunteers taking part in the clinical trials jointly conducted by AstraZeneca and Oxford University fell severely ill is not surprising. While it is not unusual for such hiccups to occur in the final stages of vaccine trials, this episode should act as a reminder to governments and pharmaceutical companies that they must thoroughly vet a vaccine before it can be deemed safe for public use. There are no shortcuts to the process. Moreover, imposition of deadlines by governments will only lead to further problems, thus delaying the possibility of a safe and effective cure. At this critical time, the responsibility of the government lies in providing the scientific community with all possible resources and minimizing administrative hurdles that might further impede the process. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Steps forward Sir — In a historic judgment, a court in Saudi Arabia has ruled in favour of a woman writer who was put on trial for living and travelling alone without her father’s permission. The country has witnessed several changes in recent years regarding women’s rights, including the appointment of the first female director-general in the foreign ministry. However, Saudi women still have to abide by a strict dress code and are restricted from freely interacting with men. There is much more that needs to be done. Unless there is a change in the mindset of the people, ordinary women will not be able to access the rights they deserve. Banisree Saha,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion|| Keep talking: India-China conflict||Consensus is necessary to build confidence. The talks between the foreign ministers of India and China, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, respectively, on the sidelines of an international meet in Moscow prioritized the creation of new confidence-building measures between the two neighbours in order to defuse the ongoing tensions on the border. This engagement between the political leaderships must be welcomed because the situation on the Ladakh border areas continues to be grim. What is worrying, however, is that the commitment to bolster confidence on both sides was not matched by a concomitant eagerness to arrive at a consensus to resolve the prickly issues. The statements put out by New Delhi and Beijing bear evidence of their divergent interpretations of ground realities. For instance, China remains adamant about the boundary dispute not holding hostage the entire gamut of Sino-Indian ties. The five-point framework is not very clear on the restoration of status quo ante, a legitimate demand given that India has ceded territory to an aggressive China. But Beijing has not made any concessions on this crucial aspect. Again, no timelines have been set to resolve the crisis. This probably means that the onus of a resolution would now shift to the dialogues that would take place through the Special Representative mechanism as well as the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on Indo-China border affairs. The success of these deliberations is predicated upon the engagement proceeding on good faith. Unfortunately, the trust deficit is considerable. China stands accused of repeatedly reneging on the pledges made by its senior diplomats and military commanders to disengage. The allegation that a Shenzhen-based firm, patronized by Beijing, had been monitoring Indian citizens — politicians, businessmen and members of the judiciary — is likely to deepen the creases on the bilateral ties. There is, however, another potential avenue of trust deficit that should concern New Delhi. Such a fissure can afflict the bond between the Narendra Modi government and the conscientious citizens of India. Mr Modi and his government are mandated to be transparent on matters of national security. But the prime minister, after issuing an audacious statement that denied Chinese incursions, has been characteristically evasive on the matter. Worse, there are concerns that the administration, always an obedient executor of the will of its political master, is now trying to deflect public attention by penalizing those raising searching questions on several matters. This is pure intimidation. Mr Modi would do well to take the people along as his government battles to douse the fires on the frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion||Covid healthcare: Find the source of the pain||Last week, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation invited paramedics and doctors to join its Covid care centres. Offer: a short-term contract with good remuneration. Nagpur is not the only district desperately seeking new doctors and paramedics amidst a surging Covid-19 graph; several districts are floating such ads almost daily: doctors and nurses needed. The response, however, seems to be cold. Existing doctors, on the other hand, are breaking. No one wants to go and work in far flung areas, whatever the remuneration. Life isn’t rosy there. Take this: In Yavatmal, western Vidarbha, a private doctor whose hospital is a Covid-centre, shot off a terse letter to the district collector. Relieve me, he wrote, from the pandemic duty, given that his hospital was running thin on financial resources, supporting doctors and paramedics. In Madhya Pradesh, healthcare has collapsed like it has in many other states. Patients from that state are ending up in the hospitals in Nagpur, which are already out of beds, doctors, paramedics. In Bihar, the local medical association in August said that doctors there were dying of Covid-19 at nine times the national average. Nitish Kumar would have us believe how things have been better under the BJP’s and his watch, but if it can’t save the doctors, the less we speak about the masses the better. As the pandemic enters smaller towns and the countryside, the fatally serious battle is now left to the infected individuals’ fate. The shattered economy and public healthcare system are intertwined into one big mess. If you are infected and have serious symptoms, you’ll be lucky to find yourself a bed in the crowded hospitals in small towns. Count days until your infection abates. If you die, you die. This piece is not about jobs. But you’ll be lucky to find one other than in healthcare with high risks. Where you have beds, doctors are in dearth. Shift the focus India’s Covid-focus must shift to small towns, where the infection is fast multiplying. Here on, we have got to put more money in public health and medical education to produce a large number of doctors and nurses. India’s health profile has altered to non-communicable diseases, but we get ripped apart by infectious diseases. The pandemic has bared our crushing shortage of healthcare providers. A World Health Organization study in 2016 said that the lack of a trained workforce was a major constraint when it comes to achieving health delivery in a short period. We have 80 doctors and 61 nurses per one lakh people, their density in urban areas four times higher than in rural places. Moreover, many individuals claiming to be doctors are unqualified quacks. The study found huge variations in doctor-nurse density across states. For instance, in Chandigarh doctors were 10 times the number in Meghalaya; or in Punjab, an upper income state, 2.6 times higher than in Bihar, one of the poorest states. Half the lowest 30 districts ranked by doctor-density were in the Northeast and the remainder in central states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Of the top 30 districts, 18 were state capitals or the national capital (seven in Delhi alone). Seven of the top 30 districts with a high density of trained doctors and nurses were in Kerala. So, the country’s healthcare story is pretty much in 20-30 districts. To reach the Chinese level of doctor density, India needs over 7,00,000 doctors; we produce 30,000 a year. In China, many doctors hold three-year medical diplomas, a possibility opposed strongly by the qualified doctors here. But, to set our healthcare delivery in order and make it equitable, we can’t prolong a radical departure from the past. New viruses — not the peacocks — are at our doorstep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
15-09-2020||Opinion||Tumbling down||The -23.9 per cent shrinkage in the April-June GDP is not a surprise as nearly half the period witnessed a national lockdown. It’s also not surprising that this loss is the world’s steepest for India’s lockdown was the most stringent and the accompanying fiscal policy response the weakest. But the quarter per cent slump did surprise most analysts who have since rushed to savagely cut India’s annual growth forecast; on average, these have doubled down into the -10 per cent range, a possibility this author anticipated two months ago. Growth probably contracted more severely, although early estimates do not fully capture India’s large informal or unorganized segment whose performance is initially based upon the listed companies’; the -36.2 per cent decline in indirect tax revenues indicates a more severe decline. As we are now nearing the end of next quarter end, it’s useful to combine these numbers with newer information to get a grip on the distributive effects and the road ahead. Let’s first examine the April-June performance. Production contracted in near-similar magnitudes (40-50 per cent) as restrictions applied everywhere except agriculture where harvesting and procurement continued and the virus hadn’t then spread; construction and services saw somewhat larger declines. A bolt out of the blue is the -10.3 per cent decline in public GDP (public administration, defence and other services) where positive support was expected from sustained government expenditure. This has trained focus upon ‘other services’ (56 per cent share), which include education, health, recreation and numerous personal services; it is a revelation that the plunge here was too steep for the increase in public spending to counter. The negative income effects are acute. The fall represents a monthly per capita GDP loss of Rs 2,163 in the quarter. The -27 per cent fall in private consumer or household spending in April-June is not just from voluntary and supply-caused restraint but also due to raised unemployment and wage cuts. Corporate performance analyses show that large firms responded to sales and revenue losses in the period through rationalization of costs, including wages; such consolidation could persist ahead until firming demand signals are seen. Damages to households and corporate incomes and balance sheets also vary across sectors and firm sizes. Medium and small firms saw sharper contractions in net sales growth than large ones according to Care Ratings; this trend, too, could maintain as smaller firms are also less financially resilient. A contagious disease like Covid-19 impacts services more severely because being contact-intensive the sector is more susceptible to consumer risk-aversions. Evolutions beyond April-June support this. For example, manufacturing activities are back faster; the purchasing managers’ index crossed the expansion mark (50) to 52 in August. But services’ contraction persists: the PMI-services was 41.8 last month, though higher than the 17.4 average in April-June. India’s a world laggard here, seeing the sharpest slides and weakest rebounds in April-August; this also reflects its modest fiscal policy response compared to other countries, advanced or emerging ones. Eurozone’s evidence also shows services’ recovery falls back with virus re-eruptions. This does not bode well for services as India’s pandemic curve continues to rise. Income and employment losses have devolved majorly upon the low-paid, informal, blue and white collared and younger earners according to disparate evidence and employment intensities. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy surveys assess that about 21 million salaried jobs have been lost between April-August; in August, urban unemployment was almost in double digits even as informal jobs returned. Services, which constitute 54 per cent of India’s economy, is likely to bear the brunt of unemployment as a respective 59.7 per cent and 63 per cent of urban male and female workers are engaged in ‘trade, hotel and restaurant’, ‘transport, storage and communication’ and ‘other services’ (2018-19). Activities here are unlikely to be restored fully as long as infection risks and fears persist; many of these services are in-person and cannot be teleworked or remotely provided. Then, MSMEs employ about 111 million; agriculture serves as livelihood for nearly half the population with non-farm income support from construction, which employs the unskilled workers. These negative impulses will keep consumption depressed and below-potential ahead; this also depends critically upon the evolution of infection spread and growth, which show no signs of abatement. A reduced consumption base will also restrain investment that was already stagnant and cannot be easily expected to recover soon from such a shock on top. The worst perhaps is also yet to come as far as people and businesses are concerned because in a stretching pandemic it is not known how many firms will permanently close, how many youth will stay unemployed or for how long would they stay at their parents’ homes, how many disguised unemployed will subsist in agriculture, and how many will slip into poverty. These are permanent destructions that lower potential output or productive base of an economy. Even normal recessions cause permanent losses and this recession is an extraordinary one — caused by a health crisis. Loss magnitudes are thus expected to be large this year as following the April-June GDP shock outturn, 2020-21 growth is commonly predicted to decline in double-digits. Analysts have attempted to divide their anticipated income losses across households, corporate and government sectors. Credit Suisse, which forecasts GDP at -10 per cent (about Rs 2 trillion), assigns 25 per cent to wage earners, about 15 per cent to the informal firms, 10 per cent to corporate firms, and the rest 50 per cent to be borne by government (lower tax revenues). The rating agency, Ind-Ra, projects a -11.8 per cent GDP decline; the total income loss is apportioned as Rs 6.2 trillion towards wage income and Rs 12.2 trillion to corporate profits. A shrinkage of this proportion means that annual per capita GDP could reduce to Rs 95,803 in year from Rs 108,620 last year (2019-20), taking it back to almost the 2016-17 level (Rs 94,751). Monthly per capita GDP in the event would fall to Rs 7,984 from Rs 9,052 last year, barely more than the monthly average four years ago (Rs 7,896). What’s the prospect for recovery? Many, including the chief economic adviser, predict a V-shaped recovery in 2021-22. Technically, any rise from a trough will be that but the question is about the strength of the upturn — a gradual rise up or a steep one? It is also about the peak the economy returns to — former or a new, lower one? Consider that just to get back to the 2019-20 level of income, real GDP would have to grow about 14 per cent next year (in 2021-22, upon -11.8 per cent this year). This seems improbable given the scale of reductions in net worths of households, firms, financial intermediaries and the government; each was struggling much before Covid-19 happened, progressively weakening for three years. More so, the financial system and the government; were the former stronger, and if the government had more capacity to overcome some of the slack caused by the weakened households and firms, a quicker restoration would be enabled. The augurs are thus bleak: the path uphill will be a grind compared to the steep fall into the trough. Then too, incomes will not restore to last year’s level. That may take up to two years. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
