16-09-2020||Opinion||Loud vassal: Media as judge and jury||The jurisdiction of the kangaroo court is no longer limited to the hinterland. Its ambit, it seems, has now extended to the drawing rooms of urban India, with a prejudiced, virulent, agenda-driven electronic and social media donning the dreaded garb of jury and executioner. So much so that the extra-judicial role of the media has caught the attention of the court. The Delhi High Court has expressed deep annoyance with a popular television channel’s alleged enthusiasm for running parallel investigations into the unfortunate demise of a Congress leader. The Delhi High Court is not the only judicial body to have expressed such concern. While hearing petitions seeking various interventions pertaining to the death of a young actor, the Bombay High Court conveyed its dismay over the government’s inability to restraint a hawkish fourth estate. The court even went to the extent of asking whether television news could be justifiably regulated by the State in instances where the content has the potential of having “serious ramifications.” Taken together, these judicial admonitions reveal a frightening crisis in the media. The Indian media, in every conceivable form, have been transformed into cheerleaders of the powers that be. In this role as a dutiful defendant of the government, the media — given their exponential reach and power to influence opinion — have been entrusted with the responsibility of distorting the public discourse to suit specific political and ideological agenda. The complicity has resulted in the media willingly denouncing their primary responsibility of speaking truth to power on the behalf of the conscientious, dissenting citizen. Little wonder then that the prime minister of a democracy is being allowed to get away with his stubborn refusal to address searching questions on policy failure. One way of stemming the rot would be for journalists and media organizations to rediscover their ethical spine. The Delhi High Court’s insistence on responsible journalism must be looked at in this context. Diligence and morality can serve as powerful deterrents to the vectors of crassness and commerce that seem to have infected the media’s constitution. A responsible media would, in turn, neutralize the need for State regulation which, given the ambience, could lead to the stifling of independent voices. The media and the court are the bulwarks against authoritarianism. The former must deliberate on the wisdom of the latter if India is to survive as a functioning democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
16-09-2020||Opinion||A shining legacy: Remembering Swami Agnivesh||Sir — The demise of Swami Agnivesh is a great loss for the entire nation (“Swami’s last word: Resist”, Sept 12). In him, India has lost a progressive, firebrand social worker and leader who wore many hats in his lifetime — he served as a college lecturer, a lawyer, a spiritual thinker, and even a principled politician during his term as the education minister of Haryana. But perhaps the most significant contribution of Agnivesh to Indian society is his campaign against bonded labour through his foundation, Bandhua Mukti Morcha. He was also fiercely vocal against female foeticide, fought for women’s emancipation and participated in civil movements including the one led by Anna Hazare in recent times. For his crusade for communal harmony, Agnivesh received the Rajiv Gandhi National Sadbhavana Award, besides significant international awards. Agnivesh will be remembered as the face of India’s diverse and vibrant civil society. Ramesh G. Jethwani,Bangalore Sir — The social crusader in saffron, Swami Agnivesh, will be greatly missed. But he was not given recognition, even in death, by major English language newspapers. However, many Urdu dailies reportedly carried the news of his death on the front page, and had editorials and obituaries dedicated to him. Perhaps this lack of attention is on account of Agnivesh’s consistent opposition to Bharatiya Janata Party’s brand of Hindutva. A Brahmin from Andhra Pradesh, Agnivesh was a major proponent of the Arya Samaj whose influence spread across the Hindi heartland, among other regions. Agnivesh had given up a career as a professor in Calcutta to become a full-time social activist, with a mission to resist the sangh ideology at all levels. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — Swami Agnivesh, who passed away last Friday, was a vocal critic of social issues such as bonded labour and mob lynchings. It is unfortunate that many in India were not well aware of him until now. A reason for this could be the right-wing propaganda on television channels to deny recognition to such noble personalities. This is also evident from the comment of the retired Indian Police Service officer who called Agnivesh’s demise ‘good riddance’, accusing the latter of having done enormous damage to Hinduism and comparing him to a “lion” in sheep’s clothing. It is heartening that the historian, Irfan Habib, condemned this remark, saying, “Abusing the dead may be Hindutva but is certainly not Hinduism”. True to his own words, Agnivesh was clad not in saffron but in fire — of courage, compassion and tolerance. The pure colour of saffron has been tainted by the supporters of Hindutva to such an extent that the peace-loving citizens refrain from associating with it. The increasing amount of communally charged speeches on social media and in political rallies often incite the masses to violent acts against religious minorities. While the country is looking for a vaccine for the coronavirus, there is also an urgent need to find a cure for communal hatred. Avik Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — Throughout his life, Swami Agnivesh kept the flame of tolerance burning and himself became a beacon of hope for the oppressed. Agnivesh should be remembered as a modern-day social reformer — he fought against female foeticide and bonded labour, against corruption alongside Anna Hazare, and at one time even helped in negotiating with extremists to ensure the release of five policemen. Anwesa Chaudhury,North 24 Parganas Sir — The secular citizens of India mourn the death of Swami Agnivesh. He fought against many controversial laws passed by the Union ministry under the Narendra Modi-led government. Throughout his life, he stuck to his ideology of humanity and tolerance, and was a vocal critic of communal orthodoxy and mob violence. Forward-thinking citizens will not forget him. Md. Yusuf,Illambazar, Birbhum Fight back Sir — The film, Mulan, has once again been embroiled in controversy. Only last year, people were enraged when the lead actress of the film expressed support for the Hong Kong police at a time they were using forceful means to quell protests. Now, the makers of the film have drawn flak online for thanking eight government entities in China’s Xinjiang province — the site of mass detention and alleged human rights violations of over a million Uighur Muslims. It is heartening to see that although large franchises seem to have relinquished social responsibility, viewers have kept the hope alive. Sanjukta Bhattacharya,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Opinion||Slip or not: Delhi Police and riot evidence||Eleven lakh pages of technical data cannot be a joke. On these would be based the questioning of Umar Khalid, a former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University and one of the protestors against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. He has been arrested for inciting the riots in northeast Delhi in February. But are the Delhi police sure that the 10 days of custody granted by the court would be sufficient to ‘confront’ him with all the evidence? After all, they have not displayed as much efficiency in formulating credible accusations as in arresting young people on the charge of having incited or organized or taken part in the February violence. Based on the so-called disclosure statements of two students arrested earlier, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, the police named the academics, Jayati Ghosh and Apoorvanand, and the politicians, Sitaram Yechury and Yogendra Yadav, in a supplementary charge sheet. In a kind of black comicality, not only do the main sections of the two statements tally in spelling errors and wrong English, but both show that the purported makers of the statements have also written that they refuse to sign them. The purpose of these documents — hovering between assumed factuality and malicious fiction — is revealing. Lawyers point out that, according to the Indian Evidence Act, confessions to the police are not admissible as evidence in court. The Delhi police are not ignorant of this. So the supplementary charge sheet was possibly formulated as part of the police’s efforts to harass, intimidate and humiliate citizens who can be associated with dissent. A statement by academics, lawyers and activists speaking up against the continued arrests of anti-CAA activists, including Umar Khalid’s, suggests that the northeast Delhi violence is being used as a ruse to detain those who protested democratically against new citizenship laws; it is a kind of ‘witch-hunt’. It is a comment on the Delhi police’s actions that retired senior police officers have reminded the police commissioner of the question raised by Julio Riberio, former director general of police: are the police being true to their oath? The former Supreme Court judge, Madan B. Lokur, has said that the Centre is using an iron hand to curb free speech. But perhaps it is not surprising that the police are being obvious. To intimidate and silence, being barefaced is likely to be more effective.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Opinion||The plot thickens in Nagaland||From all indications, a comprehensive resolution to the Naga problem seems destined to remain elusive. As hinted by the Central government, what may come about is a partial solution which will leave out the most organized of Naga insurgent factions, the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah). While other Naga militant groups have come together under the broad canopy of the Naga National Political Group and have agreed to settle their 73-year-old struggle within the Indian Constitution, Thuingaleng Muivah, the NSCN(I-M) supremo, remains resolute in his demand for a separate Naga Constitution and flag, both of which the Centre has turned down. There is something romantic and heroic about not letting go of a past vision. However, such stances have often tended towards tragedy. Edgar’s intuitive wisdom in his casual verdict in one of William Shakespeare’s grand tragedies, King Lear, says it all. When Gloucester showed pique at the unkind fate King Lear was dealt, Edgar remarked: “What, in ill thoughts again? Men must endure/ Their going hence, even as their coming hither./ Ripeness is all. Come on.” Like King Lear, who remained a faithful adherent to a past era and its values, Muivah and many of the older-generation leadership of the NSCN(I-M) remain wedded to the original dream of a sovereign Naga homeland and are unable to accept the radically changed circumstances in the decades that have gone by. The only thing constant is change; hence no revolution can continue to be fought on 70-year-old slogans. At the turn of an epoch, those not resilient enough to accommodate and adjust to the paradigmatic changes are probably fated to be left with a bitter sense of betrayal and defeat. As it stands today, the Centre has fixed September as the deadline for concluding a peace accord with the Nagas. Quite obviously, the Bharatiya Janata Party government in New Delhi is impatient and is under tremendous pressure on account of the mounting Covid-19 crisis and a failing economy. It, therefore, wants a deal sealed on this front as evidence that all is not going downhill. Moreover, just a year ago, the Centre abrogated Kashmir’s special status; the NSCN(I-M) is insistent upon a similar special status. A concession here, it is probably feared, may discredit its Kashmir policy. There have been suggestions by commentators sympathetic to the NSCN(I-M) to allow the Nagas to treat Article 371(A) of the Indian Constitution with suitable modifications as the Naga Constitution. Obviously, the Centre has not paid heed to this. It is also not known whether this cosmetic solution would be acceptable to the NSCN(I-M). Also coming under scrutiny is the August 3, 2015 ‘Framework Agreement’ signed by the NSCN(I-M) and the government interlocutor, R.N. Ravi, which the NSCN(I-M) has now made public. This turned out to be a single-page document, simply agreeing to reach an agreement on the broad terms of ‘shared sovereignty’ and ‘inclusiveness’, neither of which is elaborated upon and is, therefore, open to varying interpretations. While some have chosen ‘shared sovereignty’ to mean the power-sharing mechanism listed in Schedule VII of the Indian Constitution, the NSCN(I-M) sees it as a relationship akin to a partnership between two sovereign nations. Likewise, Ravi has chosen ‘inclusive’ to mean all stakeholders, including every Naga underground faction, but the NSCN(I-M) thinks it means integration of all Naga-inhabited areas. All in all, the Framework Agreement is a surprisingly incomplete document. For the same reason, it is now proving to be irrelevant. Nobody is in any doubt that Naga sovereignty could ever have been negotiated across the table. However, so long as the vision of a sovereign Nagaland was on the horizon, the grand project of a unified Naga homeland remained attractive. But when it became clear that the settlement is to be for a state within India, many in Nagaland seem to be saying that strengthening the present state of Nagaland is the best option for them. Indeed, as a bigger state of India, with nearly three times the number of tribes, it is foreseeable that the problems of power and resource sharing would be compounded in the new Nagaland. The NSCN(I-M) under Muivah’s stewardship has more reason to object to the changed goalposts. If the settlement is for the state of Nagaland, a majority of its leadership and cadres, including Muivah, would be left out, as most of them are from tribes outside Nagaland. It is also a fact that after Isak Swu’s death, the NSCN(I-M)’s foothold amongst Nagaland’s tribes has depleted. Again, the NSCN came into being after rejecting the Shillong Accord of 1975 — it agreed for a settlement within the Indian Constitution — as a betrayal of the Nagas. If the NSCN(I-M) were to agree to an unconditional settlement within the Indian Constitution now, it would be an admission of a 45-year-old mistake that has caused immense trauma to ordinary Nagas. The author is editor, FPSJ Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
16-09-2020||Opinion||Caste and the Constitution||Are scheduled castes in India a homogeneous class? To anyone familiar with the caste system in India, this would appear to be a nonsensical question. The official list of all scheduled castes in India runs to 23 pages, comprising scores of distinct castes in each state and Union territory. There are approximately 60 scheduled castes in West Bengal alone with ritual rules governing their inter-marriage, dining and participation in religious ceremonies. We are all familiar with Saratchandra’s Abhagi, her body thrown in a pit by the river for being a Duley (a particular caste in the scheduled caste category), denied her last wish of ascending to heaven on a chariot of smoke from her own cremation. Yet, the fascination of a constructed homogeneity and equal benefits for all scheduled caste persons has meant that the law of the land as declared by the Supreme Court has remained insulated from this reality. In Chinnaiah’s case, the Supreme Court in 2004 struck down a sub-classification among different scheduled castes by the Andhra Pradesh government providing sub-quotas for each of them. The logic behind the sub-quota was simple — Malas were a dominant scheduled caste group, which disproportionately benefited from reservations at the expense of Madigas, Rellis and Adi-Andhras. The sub-quota would ensure that benefits flowed to the more backward castes amongst the scheduled castes who needed them most. The Supreme Court, however, said that such sub-classification was impermissible. This was because, in its view, the Constitution envisaged scheduled castes as a single class entitled to reservation in Parliament and state legislatures, and for whose benefit states could reserve government jobs. The enumeration of scheduled castes could only be done by a presidential order and amended by Parliament. Though done state-wise, states themselves could play no role because that would amount to politicization. But when Punjab provided a similar sub-classification reserving 50 per cent of all scheduled caste quota seats to Balmikis and Mazhabi Sikhs, the court, last month in Davinder Singh’s case, took a different view. It held that sub-classification of scheduled castes was a mechanism to ensure that the benefits of reservation percolate to the most backward groups and ought to be permitted. In principle, it felt that such classification was similar to the well-accepted creamy layer exclusion amongst other backward classes, which progressively reduced reservation benefits for economically better-off OBCs. While recognizing that the creamy layer was an exclusion from reservation, whereas a sub-quota was a distinct distributional principle amongst the identified castes, it called for a larger bench to settle this controversy authoritatively in light of the court’s earlier judgment to the contrary in Chinnaiah’s case. There is plenty of interpretive room in the Constitution to support both views. But the court’s view in Davinder Singh’s case is truer to the reality on the ground. In his doctoral research, Anup Surendranath has pointed out the startling fact that in Andhra Pradesh, Malas, one of the four major scheduled caste groups, with a population share of 40 per cent has 60 per cent of all government jobs reserved for scheduled castes (as of 1997) whereas Madigas, another major group, is significantly under-represented. Even within Malas, the priestly class is dominant, when compared with other Malas engaged in menial tasks. With some variations, this pattern repeats itself in most states. Distinctions between scheduled castes and within each caste abound, yet the law, laid down by the Supreme Court in Chinnaiah’s case and accepted so far, does not recognize them. This is neither judicial shortsightedness nor oversight but an entirely plausible reading of India’s pre-constitutional history of reservations. By virtue of the Communal Award of 1932, untouchability emerged as a bright line marker separating certain ‘depressed classes’ from caste Hindus. The Award not only reserved seats in legislatures for depressed classes, but it also permitted exclusive voting through separate electorates. This was in addition to members of depressed classes exercising their franchise for non-reserved seats. In effect, historical disadvantage was being offset by a double vote, including one through a separate electorate. This scheme was central to B.R. Ambedkar’s vision of depressed classes being distinct from caste Hindus, while remaining part of the general body politic. As central as it was to Ambedkar, to Mahatma Gandhi, separate electorates repudiated his fundamental belief that scheduled castes must remain part of the Hindu fold. Untouchability was like a cancerous growth in Hindu society, which had to be clinically excised, rather than be eradicated root and branch by dismantling the caste system itself. When Gandhiji went on a fast-unto-death against separate electorates, the bright line of untouchability became an entrenched feature of India’s caste politics overshadowing differences above and below. Forced into a corner by Gandhiji’s fast, Ambedkar entered into a pact, commonly called the Poona Pact, by which depressed classes would have significantly more reserved seats in lieu of separate electorates. From then on, sociological differences among various depressed classes became largely irrelevant in law. The Government of India Act, 1935 created a homogenous construct of “Scheduled Castes” all of whom would benefit equally from reservation. This arrangement continued into the Constitution where the power to recognize scheduled castes was vested in the president. Differences amongst them were subsumed as a minor secondary cost. Such unity, necessary for a collective struggle for the self-respect of Dalits vis-à-vis caste Hindus, was a political masterstroke by Ambedkar. However, in his later years, he appeared to realize that the path to Dalit self-respect did not lie in a modern articulation of substantive equality through reservations alone. To this end, in a radical act, he embraced Buddhism in an attempt to create a moral basis for Dalit unity. But as D.R. Nagaraj in his insightful critique argued, this alternative basis, though radical and startlingly original, glossed over Dalit gods and goddesses, their established ways of life, and lived histories. True self-respect would only come when respect for Dalits arose because of such histories, not despite them and certainly not after rewriting them out of the dominant narrative. It is the unraveling of this hard-won yet illusory collective unity (or homogeneity if you will, in judicial parlance) that is at play in the Supreme Court today. This unraveling at once reinforces Ambedkar’s view that caste is everywhere, even within untouchable society. At the same time, it questions whether Dalit unity can remain a permanent political reality. It is also a testament to the limitation of the Gandhian view that simply mainstreaming Dalits would lead to the slow death of untouchability, while affirming his belief that real reform lies in the minds of people and not in the rabbit hole of the law where the logic of reservation only spawns demands of more reservation. It is also the continuation of pre-Independence caste politics at a changed time, with changed actors, yet in an all-too-familiar and depressing setting. Seventy years is perhaps too short a time for the shared vision of Gandhi and Ambedkar of a post-untouchability society to have evolved in India. But even today, would Abhagi, a Duley, have been able to fulfil her simple last wish of a cremation with dignity in our modern constitutional republic? It’s a question that unfortunately has no easy answers. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-148
