17-09-2020||Opinion||No limits: Naomi Osaka's US Open win||Sir — Naomi Osaka won her second US Open women’s singles trophy and her third Grand Slam in a thrilling match last week (“Feet on ground, star reclaims sky”, Sept 14). Osaka played against Victoria Azarenka in a near-empty Arthur Ashe Stadium. Initially down to 1-6, 0-2, Osaka bounced back ferociously to put up a brave fight against her opponent, finally clinching the title at 1-6, 6-3, 6-3 in an hour and 53 minutes. Azarenka, who defeated the seasoned champion, Serena Williams, in the semi-final, had started off strong but ultimately failed to claim the title. Remarkably, the 22-year-old Japanese is the only Asian player to have won three Grand Slam singles. Osaka’s win is particularly significant against the backdrop of the Black Lives Matter movement. Throughout the tournament, she donned face masks with the names of black people — including George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Trayvon Martin and Philando Castile — killed in racist attacks or in violent interactions with the police. For the final match, she unveiled the seventh and last mask, emblazoned with the name of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old boy killed by the police in Cleveland in 2014. She earlier withdrew from the Western & Southern Open in the wake of the brutal police attack on Jacob Blake in Kenosha, Wisconsin. One hopes that Osaka, with her commitment to social justice, continues to be an inspiration to the youth. Pramatha R. Bhattacharya,Calcutta Sir — The tennis star, Naomi Osaka, who represents Japan in the international circuit, must be congratulated for winning this year’s US Open women’s singles. She defeated the former top seeded Belarusian, Victoria Azarenka, in a thrilling final match. Osaka’s win does not come as a surprise. She played exceptionally well throughout the tournament and deserved to win the trophy. If Osaka continues to be dedicated to the game, there will be many such wins for her in the future. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — At a time when the United States of America is burning with hundreds of Americans speaking up against racial prejudice, it was good to see the 22-year-old mixed-race player, Naomi Osaka — she was born to a Haitian father and a Japanese mother — lift the women’s single trophy at the US Open. Osaka has been a vocal supporter of the Black Lives Matter movement and thus it is fitting for her to win at this historic moment. Seetharam Basani,Hanamkonda, Telangana Unwelcome push Sir — Whenever a single language has been imposed on a group of people with a diverse linguistic and cultural history, it has led to conflict and acrimony (“Many voices”, Sept 14). An example in modern history would be West Pakistan’s imposition of Urdu on the Bengali-speaking population of East Pakistan which finally led to the creation of Bangladesh. Language imposition is a particularly sensitive matter in a heterogeneous society like India, which boasts 22 official languages and over 19,500 languages or dialects spoken as mother tongues. The claims put forth by the government that the National Education Policy is geared towards the preservation of linguistic diversity need to be evaluated in light of its simultaneous push towards Hindi. It must also be remembered that the three-language formula was never properly implemented in the Hindi heartland while non-Hindi speaking states were compelled to adopt the language. The government should perhaps consider keeping the third language as optional and ensure that people learn English and a regional language properly. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore Rather reckless Sir — The initiative, Eat Out to Help Out, undertaken by the United Kingdom’s chancellor of the exchequer, Rishi Sunak — it encourages people to eat at restaurants — has been hailed by many as a saving grace for the hospitality industry which has been badly affected by the pandemic. However, reports suggest that there might be a correlation between the scheme and the sudden spike in infection rates in the UK. While the government is imposing restrictions on public gatherings again, much of the damage has already been done. Rather than opting for quick fixes, policymakers should make sure that normalcy is restored in a safe and gradual manner. Abhay Sinha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Broken pledge: Staggered PF interest payments||The Centre has announced staggered payment of interest on employees’ provident fund organization accounts. The announced interest rate of 8.5 per cent will not be paid upfront. An interest rate of 8.15 per cent will be paid for the financial year, 2019-20. The remaining interest, at the rate of 0.35 per cent, will be paid at the end of the year if the organization is able to redeem its equity investments. Hence, there is an uncertainty in terms of the ability of the EPFO to get enough money through the sale of equity in the market. The interest payments at the rate of 8.15 per cent will be paid out of the returns on debt fund investments. If only 8.15 per cent is finally paid, it will be the lowest rate since 1977-78 when 8 per cent was paid on EPF. It has been reported that if the entire interest payment is paid all at once, there will be a shortage of Rs 2,500 crore. The EPFO services 190 million accounts. From the government’s point of view, it reflects a financial crisis of sorts where uncertainty rules supreme. It has done well to make transparent its plan so as not to take provident fund contributors by surprise. From the point of view of the provident fund contributors, it sends a signal that the promises made by government agencies are not cast in stone, and can be subject to mid-course alterations, leading to a higher perception of risk associated with government commitments. The worst-affected employees will be those who are near retirement or are being eased out of the labour market through various voluntary schemes. The provident fund amount they receive will be lower than expected and going into the near future, the funds will earn lower interest rates than what they would have even a year ago. It will be a double whammy for this particular section of employees. This raises serious concerns for senior citizens, especially those without pensions, who depend on interest income as the main source of earnings after retirement. Lower interest rates offered by banks might drive the gullible citizen into the hands of chit-fund fraudsters who promise higher returns and lucrative deals. Senior citizens want an assured return and easy liquidity of funds in case of an emergency. Most schemes offer either of the two features that make life a little easier for the aged. This is not impossible to design and implement if the constituency of pension earners is left out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Come clean: Rajnath Singh on China||What is left unsaid, at times, says a lot more than what is actually uttered. In a statement to the Lok Sabha, the Union defence minister, Rajnath Singh, stated that China has amassed a formidable number of troops along the Line of Actual Control and — this admission is significant — in “inner areas”. Mr Singh’s sombre tone was in sharp contrast to the bragging tune adopted by some influential figures, including the prime minister. Mr Singh may have been comparatively transparent than Narendra Modi who has, so far, not issued a substantial statement on a matter concerning national security. But Mr Singh, just like Mr Modi, was also being evasive. He did not, for instance, elaborate on what these “inner areas” are; there is no word yet on the restoration of status quo ante along the LAC; neither did he explain the details of the fateful night that cost the lives of Indian soldiers or, for that, matter, why New Delhi proceeded to sign a loan agreement with a financial institution that has Beijing as its biggest stakeholder only four days after the death of its valiant soldiers. The Centre’s admission of accepting financial assistance from a Chinese-controlled bank would certainly take the sting out of its rhetoric of an economic retaliation against Beijing manifest in the banning of Chinese apps. The bunglings of Mr Modi’s government on China are now fairly evident. The government is speaking in many tongues, with the statements of the defence minister or of the army countering those made by the prime minister, only to be refuted, in turn, by the home ministry. The inability to speak in a transparent, unified voice on the part of a government that supposedly prioritizes unity is shocking and shameful. Sowing the seeds of confusion, even though it casts the government in poor light, may not be an entirely innocent exercise. The multiple signals would, the Centre may be hoping, deflect public attention and enquiry. Mr Modi’s government has been busy stonewalling questions raised by the Opposition during the current session in Parliament. The Opposition, even in its fragmented state, must now take the responsibility of mobilizing public opinion, forcing the Centre to come clean on the matter. Truth — history is a witness — has a way of prevailing over falsity. The accompanying political costs of disclosure, Mr Modi should remember, are not insubstantial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Chinks in the NEP armour||The newly minted National Education Policy envisions Indian higher education institutions as large, multidisciplinary universities that will henceforth focus on holistic learning and aspire to achieve global excellence. The NEP also recognizes faculty quality as the single most important factor driving such excellence. But this appears to be merely lip service, as the policy prescriptions, such as providing infrastructure support and lighter teaching loads, appear too banal to do justice to the NEP’s stated aim of attracting the best talents to academia. Time was when academics was the natural choice for gifted students. Today, as an aspiring society indulges the vaulting ambitions of a young India, academia as a career has fallen out of favour. Students who top board examinations usually prefer more attractive career choices, such as medicine, management or the civil services. Those with a more scholarly bent of mind pursue an academic career, but not necessarily in India. The NEP argues that better pay has improved the status of the academic profession in India. This complacence, however, masks the reality that academia as a career lags behind other career opportunities. Since academia cannot match the pay of the private sector, universities abroad make up for it by offering tenure to faculty members. Tenure provides job security, freedom to express one’s views as well as the option to keep working as long as one is physically fit and mentally alert. The NEP recommends a system of tenure in Indian HEIs, but provides a rather loose definition which speaks about the security of employment but does not mention the other two perks of tenure: academic freedom and voluntary retirement. The NEP also seeks to incentivize faculty excellence through rewards. While laudable, this does not lead to any meaningful reform in faculty compensation design. There is nothing more unequal than the equal treatment of unequal people. It follows that faculty pay, at least in the top HEIs, must be delinked from rigid government pay scales and, instead, be decided by individual HEIs based on market value and continuous performance. To effectively compete in the global market for faculty talent, our HEIs, like their Chinese counterparts, must be allowed to hire faculty of any nationality and offer them globally competitive terms of employment. Star professors lured away from the likes of Oxbridge, or even young Ivy League PhD holders, might go on to become role models for many. To promote self-governance and autonomy, the NEP recommends that HEIs shall be run by an independent board of governors, comprising individuals of proven competence. The proposal looks good in theory. But the devil lies in the detail. While university governance the world over is complex and varies widely, it typically follows a participatory model where the governing board, although the ultimate legal authority of the university, delegates many of its powers to the faculty council and actively seeks its recommendations. The hierarchical, corporate model suggested by the NEP can undermine the role of faculty governance in Indian HEIs and discourage talented faculty members from being associated with institutions where they may have a voice. This also speaks to broader cultural issues in Indian HEIs. While good foreign universities pride themselves on their collegiality, most Indian HEIs take a hierarchical culture for granted. While it is not for government policy to address this, the real concern is that the NEP does not even recognize these challenges and their role in deterring outstanding faculty candidates. The NEP also speaks of merit-based promotion of faculty to positions of institutional leadership and tasks the board with the job of selection. It is nevertheless silent on the specific composition of the board and the selection process of board members. If past precedents are anything to go by, there is ample reason to believe that political considerations might decide appointments to various board positions in both Central and state HEIs. Laying down rigorous criteria for board appointments might lessen such extraneous interventions. In turn, a professional board is more likely to rely on faculty merit while selecting university leaders. Speaking of merit, many would also argue that caste-based reservations are an obvious challenge. However, despite its many references to merit, the NEP skirts the issue of reservations in faculty hiring and promotion. The NEP worldview is also out of touch with reality. For instance, its plan to set up multidisciplinary universities in every district is likely to come a cropper as it will be very difficult to find top-notch faculty willing to work in remote districts. This might change if there are appropriate incentives, such as higher pay than a similar city-based job, a suitable job for the spouse, and quality schooling and healthcare facilities. When it comes to attracting world-class faculty, the NEP displays what the management scholar, Richard Rumelt, calls the hallmarks of a bad strategy: failure to acknowledge the real problem, mistaking goals for strategy, ‘blue sky’ objectives that simply proclaim the desired state of affairs, and fluff, where buzzwords are used to restate what is obvious. All said and done, it appears that while the NEP seeks to reclaim India’s past glory by restoring its status as the vishwa guru, it fails to put the ‘guru’ back at the heart of our academic discourse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
17-09-2020||Opinion||Rated highly||It is six months since the prime minister’s broadcast and the ‘Janata Curfew’ last March that signalled the end of normal life in India. Much has happened since that time when the number of people infected by the dreadful Covid-19 virus was only 130 — the health ministry’s estimate on March 18. On the morning of September 15, the official tally of the number of those who had tested positive at some point or other stood at nearly 48.50 lakh — active cases being 9.90 lakhs — and the death toll was 80,776. Of course, this is significantly less than one alarmist estimate in March — gleefully publicized by a section of the anti-Narendra Modi media — of a so-called specialist based in the United States of America that — in the worst-case scenario — some 70 to 80 crore of Indians would be infected. Last March, there was optimism that a determined, if painful, bout of personal hardship and temporary dislocation — such as a three-week lockdown — would suffice to beat off the challenge. The suspension of all normal life, including the suspension of travel, would be undeniably painful, but the unpalatable alternative was what had happened in Wuhan and northern Italy — the worst-affected areas at the time. There was even a belief that the ‘Wuhan virus’ thrived in a cold climate and that it would be worsted by the scorching summer sun of India. There was also some vague controversy over the effectiveness of lockdowns. There were those who were spirited advocates of the Swedish model of life as usual with perhaps some nominal social distancing. This line of thinking found unlikely supporters among some political parties and state governments. In West Bengal, for example, wags often referred to a Rajabazar model that indicated a differentiated application of counter-Covid strategies. There were others who suggested that masks served no real purpose — a view that appealed to libertarians who resented any form of State intrusion in their private lives and those guided by literal interpretations of theology. Six months later, the belief that Covid-19 can be defeated by a resolute show of human determination has eroded significantly. Throughout the world, including India, economies have suffered grievously. The belief that the future would witness an unending spiralling growth of the GDP has been punctured, as millions of people agonize over both their health and their livelihood. In particular, with State revenues shrinking along with the truncation of economic activity, the faith that concerted State intervention will provide a much-needed booster dose for economic growth and bring life back to the old, pre-Covid normal has also dimmed — although some economists still repose their faith in the unrestrained printing of currency notes. These are legitimate concerns and it is striking that a great deal of hope is pinned on the rapid discovery and equally speedy dissemination of a vaccine that can either insulate people against the coronavirus or at least act as an antidote. Throughout the world, countries are in competition to ensure that they are the first to formulate a wonder drug that will put an end to the pandemic and rescue human civilization. In political terms, the situation is tailor-made for Opposition politics. In a country where there is a tradition of looking up to the government of the day as the proverbial ma-baap, whatever a ruling dispensation does or does not is bound to be slightly or substantially below expectations. The limits of State power are often not acknowledged in the popular imagination and the deficits assume a disproportionate significance. In India, the Opposition parties have naturally tried to take advantage of the widespread dislocations that have resulted from the pandemic. The three-week national lockdown, for example, was mocked by the Congress and its leadership for being an overreaction. The Opposition argued that Modi had put his image as a determined leader above concern for people’s livelihood. The much-publicized exodus of migrant labour from the cities was billed in the international media — always inclined to view Modi with a generous measure of distaste — as a ‘humanitarian disaster’ whose impact would resonate all through rural India. The intelligentsia on their part also heaped scorn on symbolic measures such as lighting diyas, blowing conch shells and putting off lights for nine minutes despite their wide appeal. And finally, the professional economists had nothing but scorn for the Rs 20,000 crore financial package that was unveiled by the finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, to provide some relief to both individuals and the affected sectors of the economy. It was presented as an elaborate eyewash, if not a hoax. There was also jubilation in some circles over the steep decline in the GDP growth figures and this provoked an Opposition MP to make a tasteless personal remark on the appearance of the finance minister. That the Opposition would train its guns on the Modi government was only to be expected. Throughout the democratic world, the political leadership have been mercilessly attacked for their inability to live up to the expectations of the back-seat drivers. If Angela Merkel and Boris Johnson have been criticized for being excessively stringent in curbing personal freedoms, Donald Trump has been attacked for his nonchalance in the face of a pandemic. What is significant about India is how little impact these assaults have had on Modi. The intelligentsia in particular have been both astonished and disgusted that the concerns over pandemic management and the economy have been overwhelmed — among the media consuming classes at least — by a salacious obsession over the personal lives of Bollywood stars. They have expressed their disgust at a section of the popular media persisting with an issue that is deemed frivolous but yet enjoys sustained viewership ratings. A part of this apparent lack of obsessive concern with Covid-19 and the economy may be explained by the enormous popular trust in Modi. According to the bi-annual Mood of the Nation poll, the popular preference for Modi as the prime minister has risen from 53 per cent in January 2020 to 66 per cent in August 2020. In the same period, Rahul Gandhi’s ratings have dropped from 13 per cent to 8 per cent. The improved ratings at a time of intense national stress are obviously based on a belief that the country is in safe hands. Secondly, just as any country rallies round a leader in times of war, the faith in Modi could also be due to a perception that these are extraordinary times that warrant suspension of political partisanship. This would indicate that there is a direct correlation between the prime minister’s soaring graph and the extreme shrillness of his critics, particularly among intellectuals. Their fulminations against Modi seem more an expression of political frustration than an expression of public opinion. However, there is another aspect of the national mood that is worth considering. Whether it is public policy to deal with the pandemic or strategies to cope with the economic downturn, there is no visible agreement among either scientists or economists. Whereas science was once marked by verifiable certitudes, the Covid-19 challenge has, so far, resulted in conflicting views that — to the lay person at least — seem like experts whistling in the dark. As for the economists, the outbursts of former economic advisers and Reserve Bank of India governors seem governed by profound expressions of aesthetic repugnance towards a leadership that is inclined to trust managers and politicians more than those who can teach economic theory. Modi may be an unintended beneficiary of this exasperation with experts who often seem to view India as a mere case study.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
