18-09-2020||Opinion||Head in the sand: Unorganized sector database||The Centre has announced its intention to create a national database for the unorganized sector that will also include migrants. This decision must be welcomed. But it must also be ensured that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre does not renege on this pledge. The caution is not unwarranted. The labour minister’s announcement comes in the backdrop of the government’s shocking admission that it did not have any data on the death of migrant workers and the scale of their unemployment that coincided with the imposition of a hasty, ill-planned national lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This in spite of the fact that the Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979 makes the registration of migrant workers mandatory. In June, the Supreme Court, in a belated response, had also directed the Centre to identify, register and transport migrant workers who were willing to return home. The government’s defiance of legislative imperatives as well as its indifference to the wisdom of India’s highest court is being correctly interpreted as an ingenious attempt to wriggle out of its commitment to compensate the adversely affected constituency. The families of migrant workers from Bengal who died in an accident in Uttar Pradesh have, for instance, given up hope of receiving the relief on account of the Centre’s disclosure of the absence of data on such deaths. It is not as if collating such information is impossible. The Stranded Workers Action Network has registered nearly 1,000 cases of death among migrants whose causes range from starvation, financial distress, absence of medical care, accidents and so on. The Centre, which commands a formidable data-collection apparatus, surely could have done better. The absence of political will is only a partial explanation for such a lapse. This regime dreads accountability. Joining the dots of such data would reveal the Centre’s pitiful failure to address the massive scale of India’s economic crisis — it preceded the pandemic — that has pulverized the informal sector. The repeated demands of the Opposition led by the Congress for some kind of direct financial compensation to this vast, unaccounted for segment has fallen on deaf ears. Narendra Modi’s apathy towards those on the margins is ironic. It is the support of the aam aadmi that has put the prime minister on his influential seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
18-09-2020||Opinion||Without care: Absence of govt data on migrants||Sir — The vacuous response of the Union labour minister, Santosh Gangwar, to a written parliamentary question seeking details on the number of deaths of migrant workers and the compensation offered to them shows the government’s utter callousness and indifference to the plight of these workers (“Migrant deaths govt won’t see”, Sept 16). The minister replied that the government had no data on how many guest workers had died or were injured on the long trek back home during the lockdown. The minister also said that the government had no information on how many migrant labourers had lost their jobs on account of the Covid-19 crisis as no such survey had been conducted. One wonders how an elected government can shrug off its responsibilities towards its people with such ease and trivialize their suffering, especially when it was its own rash decision to implement the lockdown at a short notice that inflicted such hardships on them. The agonizing images of the exodus of thousands of India’s guest workers — possibly the largest migration in the nation’s history since Partition — cannot be forgotten. Rendered jobless by the sudden lockdown, many labourers died of starvation, exhaustion, dehydration and other ailments as they walked homewards. Several of them were crushed to death on the way. The fact that the government never documented these deaths reveals its lack of empathy. The State must take measures to mitigate the sufferings of the migrant labourers and compensate them for their losses adequately. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — The opening day of Parliament’s monsoon session made it evident why the Narendra Modi-led government was keen to avoid answering questions raised by members on the floor of the House. The government’s written response to a question about the number of migrant labourers dying on the way during the lockdown betrays its sheer callousness and insensitivity towards a great human tragedy. As the government has no data on the matter, no compensation was paid to the families of the deceased. The labour minister had a similar response to a question about the number of labourers who had lost their jobs on account of the pandemic. In spite of displaying such unfeeling attitude towards its own people, the Centre could get away with it because the response was laid on the table of the House and the minister did not have to face follow-up questions afterwards. Earlier, the attorney-general had tried to mislead the Supreme Court by saying that no migrant was walking on the road, when many news channels were featuring live programmes on how these labourers were collapsing on their way home, fighting exhaustion and hunger, besides withstanding police brutality. Both these instances point to a case of wilful ignorance. Is it because the government does not want to be held accountable for these deaths caused by its own criminal negligence or is it simply trying to avoid having to pay compensation? S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is unfortunate that the government does not have the details on the deaths of migrant workers who were forced to hit the roads to their faraway native places on account of the lockdown and the consequent loss of livelihood. The same government, however, earlier acknowledged that over one crore migrants had been shifted. This staggering count itself shows the pathetic condition of the workers in the informal sector, which employs nearly 90 per cent of the total workforce of India. These labourers work without being offered adequate social security. Now it is evident that even their deaths do not figure in official counts. The workforce of the informal sector deserves better treatment. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — According to researchers, nearly 1,000 migrants lost their lives on their way back home after the lockdown commenced. How can one forget the 16 migrant workers who were run over by a train as they had fallen asleep on the railway tracks while walking home? Like them, several others succumbed to fatigue on their way back to their hometowns. The difficulties suffered by the migrant workers are a shame on civilized society and a welfare nation. But it was well-anticipated that the Central government would turn a blind eye towards them. While pilgrims stranded elsewhere were taken care of, a number of migrant labourers were left neglected and untested. Is it any wonder then that many of them would turn out to be Covid-19 positive? Raghunath Pramanik,Howrah Fragile links Sir — Even the smallest disturbance in the natural order can wreak great havoc. A recent study has shown that a sharp dip in the population of Aleutian sea otters has led to the crumbling of the entire marine ecosystem in Alaska. With the decrease in the number of sea otters, there has been a steep rise in the population of sea urchins, the population of which was kept in check by otters. This is, in turn, is threatening coral reefs in the region as sea urchins in search of food are unwittingly destroying them. Coral reefs play a major role in maintaining marine biodiversity. Swift action is needed to restore the ecological balance. Arpit Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Opinion||Safe seat: Pending cases against legislators||Accusation in a criminal case is not guilt. And in the unceasing scramble for votes in Indian politics, false accusations against political rivals are far from unknown. At the same time, it is understandable that the Supreme Court should reportedly be “shocked” at the number of pending cases against sitting and former legislators in Parliament and the state assemblies. Even if these members of parliament and members of the legislative assembly are to be found innocent by the courts, the fact that cases have not begun against them or chargesheets framed, suggests a motivated apathy shared by political parties. The numbers indicate the scale of this unwillingness. According to a report submitted to the Supreme Court, 2,556 cases are hanging over sitting legislators in 22 states, which become 4,442 when former legislators are included. Yet the Centre had set up 12 special courts in December 2017 exclusively for hearing cases against legislators. Cases dating back almost 40 years have not yet been heard. West Bengal, which has a special court, has a pending case from 1981 and 131 yet unheard charges against legislators. In numbers, however, Uttar Pradesh takes the lead with 1,217 cases, of which 446 are against sitting legislators. What is most alarming in this culpable reluctance to pursue cases is that a large number of the charges against legislators are for serious crimes, punishable with death or life imprisonment, and there are also charges which, if proven, would demand a penalty of seven years or more of jail time. This is a telling example of the double-speak routinely practised by the government and its agencies — there is constant deploring of the criminalization of politics that does not stop the nomination of allegedly tainted candidates at election time. Conviction would lead to a ban on contesting or sitting in a legislature, hence no case is pursued, unless it is done by an overwhelmingly powerful rival party which can protect its own. The Supreme Court has now directed the creation of special courts for cases against MPs and MLAs in every district and a system has been put in place that would also activate, among other things, the witness protection scheme. If this works, it may become the first step in freeing the legislatures of suspicion and taint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Opinion||Plug the gaps: Aadhar and MGNREGA||India’s economy is going through an unprecedented crisis of unemployment. In these times, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme and other welfare programmes are beacons of hope for India’s large rural population. However, the delivery of welfare has traditionally suffered from leakages. Thus, in 2015-16, the Government of India started linking these programmes with the Aadhaar — ostensibly to reduce leakages by deleting duplicate, fake or ghost beneficiaries. According to the GoI, till December 2019, this verification and deletion led to savings of Rs 24,162.09 crore in MGNREGA alone. But this linkage with Aadhaar involves a trade-off — the effort to reduce leakages can result in the exclusion of genuine beneficiaries. What has been the overall impact of this linking process? We sought this answer through a recent study of MGNREGA in Jharkhand supported by the Digital Identity Research Initiative at the Indian School of Business. We surveyed 2,907 workers in eight villages, three blocks and three districts of Jharkhand from May 2019 to February 2020. In our sample, the job cards of over 40 per cent of the workers had been deleted. The study revealed some shocking findings. Out of the cards that were deleted, 57 per cent belonged to genuine workers who were alive, living in the village, without any other job card, and willing to do manual work under MGNREGA. In fact, 48 per cent said they were keen on working and wanted their job cards renewed (many of the remaining had already got new job cards made). Finally, nearly 85 per cent of the workers whose job cards were deleted were not even aware of it — they were never informed, let alone asked for consent, before their job cards were deleted. Out of the 1.22 crore workers registered under MGNREGA in Jharkhand, 35.15 lakh were deleted by July 2020. Since 57 per cent of these belonged to genuine workers, more than 20 lakh of the valid job cards were deleted. This is more than the combined population of three districts of Lohardaga, Khunti and Simdega in Jharkhand. The increase in exclusion error (excluding genuine workers) is clearly higher than the reduction in inclusion errors (including non-genuine workers). Further, the benefits from the deletion of non-eligible job cards are uncertain since having a job card does not mean money is being spent on it — one needs to show work to get paid. Conversely, the cost of deletion of eligible beneficiaries could be massive; workers who are denied the right to work were unable to access work when they most needed it. The question is why were so many job cards deleted? While deleting a worker’s job card, the official is supposed to choose a reason from various options such as ‘Fake Job Card’, ‘Family Shifted’, ‘Duplicate Applicant’ and so on. Yet, the most common reason mentioned is “Others” (in 62 per cent of the cases where job cards were incorrectly deleted). According to a government official, this mass and erroneous deletion of job cards happened owing to the pressure to achieve 100 per cent Aadhaar linkage within a stipulated time. Strikingly, during our survey, we found that people whose job cards were incorrectly deleted were mostly those from the marginalized and remote communities that depend most on MGNREGA. For instance, in Palamu, we found a remote hamlet of people belonging to particularly vulnerable tribal groups where job cards of nearly all residents were incorrectly deleted. If the bureaucracy can make such errors in a simple exercise of matching job cards to Aadhaar cards, imagine the errors that can be expected from a mammoth exercise like the NPR or the NRC. If we extrapolate these error percentages, exclusion errors of 22.43 per cent would imply 30.3 crore Indians with proper documents would be denied citizenship simply owing to bureaucratic errors. While we strive to reduce leakages, it is important that we also strive to reduce exclusions. Given the importance of MGNREGA today, these exclusions must be addressed immediately so that the most marginalized people are able to avail of their right to work and live with dignity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
18-09-2020||Opinion||Triple tragedy||A sense of theatre was always a part of Indian politics. To it, one can add the quality of storytelling, emphasizing the power of orality and a taste for epic morality. Good and evil had to battle it out to satisfy the moral imagination of the audience. Commentary and spectatorship were equally important, and an event was not an event till it was discussed threadbare. Reading the newspapers and watching what masquerades as TV, I sensed the missingness of such an involvement. Both passion and analysis seem to have flown out of the window. Indian politics, which once provided a perpetual sense of democracy at work, has lost its way. A friend of mine, a well-known semiotician, told me, “Politics in India has failed thrice. It is this three-in-one tragedy that one has to confront.” He labelled the first as the politics of inanity. It referred to the recent Congress meetings. The second involved the Covid chorus, which revealed the politics of banality. The third evolved as the crisis in Bollywood inevitably enveloped in hysteria. The three events together contributed to the death of politics as an imagination. The three linked together show that India stands between Kafka and Alice. We now do not need an Arendt, or a Marx or an Adorno but the surreal genius of Ionesco to understand this. My friend claimed the surreal as macabre haunts the emptiness of Indian politics. Consider the Congress Party as the first case study. One realizes it has gone beyond tragedy. The Congress has lost its iconicity, the grandeur of figures like M.K. Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Vallabhbhai Patel. There’s no message, no sense of ideals, the sheer captivating power of the rhetoric. The party has lost both the sense of myth and magic, emasculating its own history. To think that the legacy of the party rests on one man is ridiculous. It’s like Pinocchio succeeding the epic heroes. Rahul Gandhi murmurs inanities, which he treats as proverbial wisdom. Watching him, one feels pity because he reduces his mother and sister to the same level of mediocrity. The Congress, which once celebrated itself as a coalition of differences, now insists on loyalty to the family as its critical Covid test. The fact is not that a great mass party has been reduced to a family but that the best in the party behave like retainers. Rahul Gandhi does not know the difference between a great party collapsing out of ridicule and a parent-teachers’ meeting where he plays the junior principal. Mr Gandhi has added to Marxist insight of history that history repeats itself twice, first time as tragedy, second time as farce. Rahul Gandhi goes one better and produces an assembly line of farces that emasculates a great history. The whole plot is so inane that one has to look for comic relief and, for once, the Tharoors and the Jairam Rameshs proved to be poor stand-ups. One wants to weep even as one watches the slapstick nature of the act — a party known for its dissenting imaginations now performs with autistic idiocy. If the Congress is inane, the Covid crisis has turned the regime into sheer banality. As political utterance or policy outputs, one senses an epidemic of mediocrity confronting the sheer power of the crisis. Tossing words like lockdown and new normal adds little to the power of the play. There is no language to look at the poignancy of suffering and the drumbeat of body counts, which pretends to be testimonials to the regime, hardly create a sense of mourning. It is as if death and suffering do not matter. The drama lies in the exponential growth of models, and there is little about moral choice, sacrifice or martyrdom. Doctors who tried to follow their vocation were denied the decency of burial. For once the politics is autistic. Even in his August 15 speech, the prime minister sounded like a salesman rather than a statesman. History has reduced him to a bit-actor. The regime stands depleted and deflated but with the moral luck of a party without any real opposition. The regime behaves like a bunch of extras content that they have another season in front of them. The sheer banality of the acts sans ethics, sans poetics, creates a moral emptiness, which is unbearable. Sadly, the pictures of migrants being sprayed, or a child playing with a blanket oblivious to the dead mother on the platform, remain mere video clips. They add little to the possibilities of the moral imagination. At a time when politics at the party level and in the realm of governance empties out, you would expect myth to rescue it. But the collapse of Bollywood has combined with the collapse of politics. Bollywood’s power stemmed not from the theatrics of its legendary actors but from the myths of modern India it sought to sustain. Bollywood sustained politics through a resolution of the contradiction between the values of town and country, family and public life, violence and the proprieties of law. Yet, of late, Bollywood lacks the politics of myth. It has died out as poetry and it senses this itself. It has run out of aesthetic steam. In its attempt to fall back on biopics or historical drama, its magic has become futile. History as a costume ball does not quite acquire the stature of myth. Bollywood’s ability to contain hysteria and order, family duty and freedom, was challenged from within through the unravelling of the Sushant Rajput story. A presentable young man, decent but a recent success, still new enough not to savour success or its ironic icing immediately. The story goes that he committed suicide and a whole inquisition of enquiry followed it. It is not the forensics of the story that capture interest; it is the sheer melodrama of a runaway script, which changed directions every week, that took over. It made Bollywood look silly as Kangana Ranaut and Ankita Lokhande ran riot, demanding the lines that Deepika Padukone should have spoken in a formal movie. It was as if Bollywood was tired of its own myth and had turned it into a farce with Mahesh Bhatt playing a bit-actor repeating the same role he had with Parveen Babi but now with Rhea Chakraborty. It was a plot gone berserk, and Bollywood realized that its own plots wild in the beginning acquired order and resolution after the interval. But what one witnessed was a sheer hysteria with a so-called dialogue turning into the cannibalism of social media. As a plot, the Rajput episode went berserk. It was not the poignancy of the actor committing suicide, it was now the bigger picture — the plot of a myth cannibalizing itself. The everyday hysteria of the Rajput story even put the crisis of Covid into an occasional shade. It was the public unravelling of a symbolic myth that desperately needed to be decoded. Many friends who were adept at symbolism saw these events as a triptych — a three-in-one weave which had to be understood together. They claimed each brought out the emptiness of politics in an individualistic way. The Congress imbroglio captured the politics of inanity revealing a party which was autistic, even amnesiacal, before its own history. The Covid drama showed that while nature can be dramatic, a regime without inspiration can, at best, resort to a banality, confronting a moral crisis with a clerical repertoire. Thirdly, instead of watching politics collapse, we went one step further and watched the myth of political modernity — Bollywood itself — collapse in sheer hysteria. As one watched the emptiness of the triptych, one sensed that politics has lost its creativity as metaphor, as epic, and as language. If the first was a failure of history, the second of governance, the third represented the myth eating itself. More than an epidemic, what we confront is a civilizational crisis presented as three mediocre tableaus. The challenge now is this: can culture with its resilience recreate the poetics and the energy politics has lost? Sadly, the jury is still out in some adda seeking the clues of future resolution. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-147
