19-09-2020||Opinion||Unfunny words: Modi's reply to Milind Soman||Sir — The reply of the Indian prime minister, Narendra Modi, to the birthday wish tweeted to him by the actor and former supermodel, Milind Soman, would have been amusing had it not been ominous in its context. On the occasion of Modi’s 70th birthday, Soman took to Twitter to send birthday greetings and say that he wished the prime minister a “good and proactive opposition” in the hope that it would push him to do better for the country. In response, Modi said, “Thank you for your birthday wishes and wishful thinking...” Social media users and ordinary citizens have been laughing about Modi’s ‘witty’ response, but few are acknowledging the troubling implications behind such a smug reply. It is no secret that the Opposition to the Bharatiya Janata Party in Parliament is weak. However, it is obvious from Modi’s Twitter reply that he not only knows that the Opposition poses almost no threat to him or his government, but also that he can be complacent in his handling of the nation without the fear of being held accountable. His words might have sounded funny, but they come from a leader who does not care about the people of the country.Tiyasha Ray,Calcutta Sir — It is clear from Narendra Modi’s Twitter reply to Milind Soman’s birthday message that the former believes his government is all-powerful and can do whatever it wants given that it has little to no opposition in Parliament. This attitude has more than amply manifested itself in the way the BJP government under Modi has been ruling the country over the past six years. Not only have lynchings increased exponentially — the victims of such attacks are mostly people who belong to the Dalit community and religious minorities — but women have become more unsafe and the state of the economy has steadily deteriorated. The Centre’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic has been the most bitter indictment of its lack of commitment towards protecting citizens. Bearing testimony to this are the massive plight of migrant workers, the deplorable state of the economy and the fact that the number of infections in India crossed one million recently. The latter indicates how stretched the healthcare infrastructure in the country is and how doctors and healthcare professionals have not received the help they needed from the government to contain the crisis. It is heartening, however, that young people, especially those that have been rendered unemployed on account of the pandemic, are beginning to speak up vociferously against Modi and his government. One hopes that the youth can band together to bring this authoritarian government down. Vaibhav Rungta,Calcutta Sir — The youth of India are increasingly protesting against the Central government for the unemployment crisis and several other problems that it has failed to tackle responsibly. The uncertainty about the future, especially in a pandemic-hit economy, has led to frustration, depression and anxiety in the minds of young people. Wholly responsible for this are the Narendra Modi government and its ill-planned policies. Given the grave situation, it must be asked whether the Modi government ought to be allowed to complete its second term or whether it should step down for the utter mess it has created. Since 2014, India has steadily been going backwards. All sectors of public life are suffering. The anger of the youth might sound the death knell for this government. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Extra mile Sir — It was both heart-warming and saddening to read about the farmer in Himachal Pradesh who sold his cow so that he could pay for his daughter’s online classes. The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic have hit young girls and women especially badly, with their rights and needs taking even more of a back seat than they usually do. In the light of this, it is a rare treat to hear of a person of limited means going the extra mile to keep his daughter’s education going. However, the fact that he had to sell his livestock in order to keep his child in school is indicative of the fact that ordinary people have received little or no help from the government at this time. Mohor Sen,Durgapur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Opinion||Farms in ferment: Parliament passes farmer bills||A furious debate has broken out in the political salons of Delhi, corporate boardrooms and the farmlands of the country over the latest wave of reforms that the Narendra Modi government has unleashed with a stack of legislations that professes to free farmers from the tyranny of over 2,000 corruption-ridden wholesale markets where middlemen have robbed them blind for decades. The three pieces of legislation passed in the Lok Sabha have created a framework designed to usher in contract farming in a big way, catalyse the creation of large cold chain storage facilities and logistic networks, and shake off stockholding restrictions that were designed for an era of shortages. The broad contours of the reforms have a seductive appeal: they will remove the fetters on the farmers by giving them the opportunity to plug into a barrier-free common market for agriculture produce. They will ostensibly allow them to secure a fair price without having to worry about an unsold crop and wastage. But the big beef over the reforms is that they have been introduced without any consultative process with the states or the various stakeholders. This is one more instance where the Centre has cocked a snook at the whole concept of cooperative federalism. Agriculture is a state subject, and the states have exercised a measure of control over farm supplies. That is now being broken and replaced by a system where the levers of control will pass to large business houses, which can now buy farm produce in bulk directly from the farmers and not worry about any stockholding restrictions. This could have a huge impact on price discovery and it is hard to say just yet whether it will deliver the desired outcomes. The Centre has tried to sell the idea of reforms by suggesting that the new laws would ensure that farmers will be paid for their produce within three days of the sale — an assurance that the old mandi system could never provide. But questions have rightly been raised about the inadequacy of the dispute resolution mechanism in protecting farmers’ interests in an unequal battle with large corporates. The powers of dispute resolution have been delegated to magistrates and district collectors rather than specially designed agriculture tribunals. There remains a legitimate fear that the entire reform process is a thinly-disguised plan to favour a few crony capitalists while professing to create a brave new world for farmers. The objective is noble and may work in theory but it could well flounder in practice. There is a great danger that New India might be trading in an old, home-grown wheeler-dealer network for a new, swashbuckling bunch of buccaneers, leaving the farmer just as destitute as he is now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Opinion||Comic sunshine: India's love for Wodehouse||Why does PG Wodehouse have such a big following in India? This is the question I put to Ben Schott, a 46-year-old British journalist and author who got rave reviews for his first Wodehouse novel, Jeeves and the King of Clubs, and who has just published a second, Jeeves and the Leap of Faith, also written with the blessings of the Wodehouse estate. Schott, who has been spending lockdown in New York, tells me: “I was scheduled to take my very first trip to India earlier this year — to participate in the Kolkata Literary Meet. Tragically, I had to cancel my visit after the death of my father-in-law. I very much hope to make new India plans.” In the first novel, Schott “leads Jeeves and Wooster on an uproarious adventure of espionage through the secret corridors of Whitehall”. In the second, “[t]he Drones club’s in peril. Gussie’s in love. Spode’s on the war-path. Oh, and His Majesty’s Government needs a favour. I say — it’s a good thing Bertie’s back!” The books are perfect for lockdown: “Reginald Jeeves first stepped onto the page in 1915 — in the midst of the First World War. Since then he and his irrepressible master have offered the penicillin of comic sunshine to millions. I wonder if the world has ever needed Jeeves and Wooster more?” Schott explains he is not trying to copy Wodehouse but writing “in parallel with ‘Plum’”. “Nobody uses language like him. He’s got 1,525 quotes in the OED and 23 first usages.” “Indians have a real love of language,” he goes on. “There’s a real sense in which the ludic, playful, fun, slang nature of language plays into an Indian sensibility. A great turn of phrase is a very Indian thing. I personally think it’s about the words and the phrases as much as about the plots. Maybe that’s the link.” Standing out Winston Churchill’s statue in Parliament Square has been attacked for the third time this year. An 18-year-old, Benjamin Clark, will appear at Westminster Magistrates’ Court on October 9, charged with defacing the monument to the great wartime leader with the words, “is a racist”, during the recent Extinction Rebellion demonstrations in London. Churchill was targeted previously by Black Lives Matter, which has drawn up a hit list of more than 70 statues, mostly of people who made their money from the slave trade. Churchill clearly does not fall into that category — indeed most of the older generation think it’s outrageous that his statue needs protection in the country he helped to save from the Nazis. It seems the views of critics like Shashi Tharoor are being absorbed by the young of all races and colours almost by a process of osmosis. This makes it all the more necessary for the complexities of empire to be taught in schools. Precarious balance Janan Ganesh, the political columnist for the Financial Times based in the United States of America, has suggested there will be a price to pay if people insist on working from home when the pandemic is over in the UK. “The death of the office — and our home-working future” was debated during the recent FT Weekend Festival. Ganesh was sceptical about the assertion that “working from home is in the long-term interest of actual working people. At some point, it will dawn on working people that if your job can be done from home, it can be done from Hyderabad. And I can’t stress enough they will not count in UK immigration because there is no juridical problem when it comes to having a staff that is 80 per cent non-UK based — the implications for labour competition really are seismic.” Martin Wolf, the paper’s legendary chief economics commentator, said presence in the office was essential if new recruits were to absorb the corporate culture of a company. “And that cannot happen without physical interaction, without being with other people.” Lucy Kellaway, who quit her job as a FT columnist to become a schoolteacher, appreciated having two selves — one for home and another for the office. “I met my husband at work. It was also such a laugh. I mean, you can’t have a laugh like that when you’re on your own. That’s something that we’re really losing.” However, the anthropologist, James Suzman, who spent seven years working in an office, found “a lot of the work was pointless. In fact, a lot of work people did was trying to make themselves seem important. People have begun to find community again in other completely different new ways. The office ceases to be as much of a social binding force as it was in the past. And I’ve got a feeling that this Covid crisis and working from home has really accelerated the transition that was on the go already.” Stellar player The year, 2015, was a vintage year for Indian tennis at Wimbledon. Sania Mirza won the women’s doubles, Leander Paes the mixed doubles, and a 17-year-old from Delhi the boy’s doubles. His name? Sumit Nagal. It’s no disgrace Nagal, now 23, having won the first round in the US Open, got knocked out 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 this month by the Austrian, Dominic Thiem, who went on to win the championship.Footnote
Of the many obituary tributes paid to Diana Rigg — she played Contessa Teresa di Vincenzo Draco who married James Bond (George Lazenby) in On Her Majesty’s Secret Service — was one from Ajay Chowdhury, spokesman for the James Bond International Fan Club: “Rigg was psychologically complex with an exotic hinterland, haughtily beautiful, sexually assertive and hugely capable, athletically and aesthetically.” Many think she was best as the black leather clad Mrs Emma Peel in the 1960s British espionage TV series, The Avengers, opposite a bowler hatted John Steed (Patrick Macnee).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
19-09-2020||Opinion||Amoral panic||As our country faces unprecedented economic, health and national security crises, it is engrossed with the lurid demonization of a young film actress. The Rhea Chakraborty affair reveals a society gripped by a series of moral panics. She is the latest devil to be burned every night in newsrooms, accompanied by a surge in audience numbers, and she won’t be the last. Earlier this year, it was the Tablighi Jamaat. For weeks, we were inundated with a spate of ghastly revelations about the Jamaat: how its members deliberately spit on people to infect them, how they molest the nursing staff, how their design to spread the coronavirus is part of a larger jihadi agenda. Before that, the ‘urban Naxals’ posed a grave threat to the morals and the security of the nation: a band of academics and activists who were hard at work plotting to destabilize the nation and even assassinate the prime minister. Similarly, Rhea Chakraborty is just the face of an evil cabal in Bollywood engaged in shadowy, deviant relationships involving drugs, sex and power. Moral panic is a sociological category, which denotes a public scare about a supposed threat from deviants or ‘folk devils’, a category of people who, presumably, engage in evil practices and are blamed for menacing a society’s culture, way of life, and central values. The folk devils are feverishly painted with negative attributes, assigned a vastly exaggerated level of power, and are widely loathed by an enraptured society. Because this demonization is rooted in deeply-held anxieties and fears, they are an illuminating portal to the state of a society. The pioneering work in moral panics was done by the sociologist, Stanley Cohen, who used the concept to characterize the reactions of the media, the public and politicians to youth disturbances — the seaside fights between two youth groups, Mods and Rockers, in the Britain of the 1960s. Cohen showed that the media elevated these petty disturbances to a profound mortal threat by peppering their coverage with loaded phrases such as “riot”, “orgy of destruction”, “battle”, “attack”, “siege”, “beat up the town” and “screaming mob”. These phrases conjured up the image of a besieged town where innocent holidaymakers were being terrorized by a marauding mob, thereby constructing the Mod and the Rockers as the “folk devils” who needed to be controlled. These moral panics are created by “moral entrepreneurs” — “editors, bishops and politicians”, in Cohen’s words, who use this panic for their own sectional interests as well as to ideologically mould the norms and rules of society. While moral panics have always been with us, this spiral of moral panics that has engrossed the country is a new phenomenon driven by three major developments: ascendance of the middle classes, a revolutionized media ecosystem, and the dominance of a populist-majoritarian government. The Indian middle classes have always been one of the pillars of the political establishment, but they have never been as dominant in the political sphere as under the Narendra Modi government. The eminent political scientist, Suhas Palshikar, traced the utter disregard for the Covid-19-prompted lockdown on the concerns of the poor to our “majoritarian and middle-class driven social universe” where the “Politics of and for the poor has become inadmissible.” However, the middle class is still haunted by cultural anxieties, of being looked down upon by the left-liberal cultural and literary elites. These status anxieties morphed into virulent anti-intellectualism and propelled the moral panic around the JNU controversy and gave us the term, ‘urban Naxal’. The crackdown on JNU students as well as on leftist academics and activists arrested in the ‘Bhima Koregaon’ case vindicated the supremacy of middle-class values of patriotism, social order and social harmony. The middle classes could finally thumb their noses at the snobbish academic elites and openly proclaim their stated values of freedom and egalitarianism as little more than a cover for venal and treacherous designs. The American sociologist, Joseph Gusfield, regarded the moral panic-induced Prohibition era of the United States of America as stemming from the desire of the middle classes for enhanced status. The middle classes considered the diversities of lifestyles of industrial America as social and cultural threats to their own “social respect and honor”. The Prohibition-era ban on alcohol, thus, essentially boiled down to the “sober, abstaining citizen [seeking from] public acts through which he may reaffirm the dominance and prestige of his style of life.” The political system obliged because, according to Gusfield, the “politics of status goals” had become the defining dynamic of American politics where various groups competed in the public arena for the validation of their social status. Having established its political dominance, the Indian middle class now seeks to establish its moral and cultural dominance. The nepotism debate in Bollywood that preceded the Rhea Chakraborty affair was less about merit and more about the cultural distance the middle class feels with sections of Bollywood, which expresses itself in distrust and hostility. After all, the middle class is as nepotistic and encrusted in networks of privilege as any Bollywood family. Hence, the only fields where it sees nepotism is where it is largely excluded: Bollywood and politics. Secondly, moral panics have also been closely tied to the rise of mass media, which are instrumental in the construction and the presentation of the threat. The age of 24/7 news channels in India has led to the emergence of a new creature — the television anchor as the ‘moral entrepreneur’, guarding the moral barricades of society through righteous crusades. This is enabled by the steady dismantling of media standards where ratings are now unabashedly the singular goal of television news. Furthermore, the audience has been transformed from passive recipients of news to co-creators, as social media trends often dictate what constitutes news. Social media trends provide a real-time barometer of what people want to see on television stations which, in turn, reinforce those trends with their relentless coverage. This media ecosystem is perfectly suited for moral panics. According to a news report on the Rhea Chakraborty coverage, the “total number of viewers tuning in [to English news channels] has more than tripled in a matter of weeks.” It appears that people view news as an instrument to vicariously battle imaginary threats that make them feel morally righteous, rather than to comprehend the real threats confronting their lives and livelihoods. Delusions, even threatening ones, are often more comforting than reality, particularly when you can switch them off and on at will. Lastly, this succession of moral panics is inevitable under a populist-majoritarian government whose whole politics revolves around an idealized, majoritarian conception of good ‘people’ versus the bad ‘Other’. The patriotic, family-loving citizen must always be shown to be under threat from a variety of ‘folk devils’ — a young freewheeling woman in a live-in relationship, a bearded Muslim preacher, a leftist academic. Majoritarianism as politics only works in the presence of enduring social and cultural threats. Only in such a context can Prime Minister Modi, in this instance, present himself as the social and cultural protector of the nation. Every moral panic runs its course with the full co-operation of the State apparatus — strategic leaks from law enforcement agencies constantly back the media narrative. In turn, the State gets to expand its role, presenting the use of tough laws — NSA, UAPA and so on — as necessary to protect society. Moral panics seem all-consuming at their height, but die a rather quick death. However, they leave indelible scars in their wake in terms of moulding the psyche of the society as well as the more tangible norms and rules that govern us. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
