20-09-2020||Opinion||Cost of friendship||Sir — India’s sudden decision to ban the export of onions will hit the Indo-Bangladesh relationship as prices of the vegetable have shot through the roof in the neighbouring country. India is the main supplier of onions to Bangladesh and the price of the commodity has been one of the thorny issues in bilateral ties with the friendly Sheikh Hasina Wajed-led government. In January, India had pledged to continue the supply of onions to Bangladesh. India should thus circumvent its ban on onion when it comes to Bangladesh. Bangladesh has decided to procure the commodity from other markets like Turkey and Egypt. Perhaps other countries will use “onion diplomacy” to improve their ties with Bangladesh. Khokan Das Calcutta Sir — Arghya Sengupta, in his lucid article, “Caste and the Constitution” (Sept 16), rightly points out that nothing has changed as far as the caste system in India is concerned. The fact that the roots of untouchability are still intact a hundred years after B.R. Ambedkar fought to emancipate us from the caste system is evident from the startling news that a teenage boy of ‘low caste’ is boycotted by society after his mother’s death. The boy had to keep his mother’s dead body on the bicycle and walk after she succumbed to her injuries. He was denied the  right to cremate his mother’s body in the village cremation ground because they were untouchables. He then trudged alone for five miles and buried the body in the jungle. This happened in a village in Odisha last year. Many people have a strong resentment against affirmative action in the form of caste-based reservation. But since there is no equality in India, equal benefits or opportunities would be inequitable here. Yet, those who are empowered with the popular mandate to ensure an equitable distribution of resources, manipulate the opportunities for their own interests. Since there is no guarantee of equal opportunity or attention to merit, these are not relevant arguments in the debate about caste. The problem with the system of reservation in India is the absence of pragmatic sanctions and the abuse of the system by politicians to capture power. One cannot help but think that had M.K. Gandhi not resisted the idea of separate electorates mooted by Ambedkar, this situation would not have arisen today. Ambedkar did not want reservation, which was, according to him, nothing but being at the mercy of upper-caste Hindus. Is that not exactly what is happening right now? Rabindranath Sarkar Calcutta Sir — The article by Arghya Sengupta made for fascinating reading. In fact, he is one of my most beloved columnists for speaking the truth about the judiciary — not many dare to do so in the present atmosphere. Of course, The Telegraph must be thanked for running his pieces without succumbing to fear. Sengupta’s observation about true respect for Dalit’s or the so-called lower castes coming only from an acceptance of and respect for their traditions and customs and not from radical measures like converting to Buddhism is spot on. In today’s India, finding flaws with something that B.R. Ambedkar did has become a criminal offence with the far left. Yet Ambedkar, in his lifetime, was the subject of many satirical cartoons and always took these in his stride. Arunabha Maity Calcutta Sir — I was taken aback the other day to realize that neither my Android device nor WhatsApp has an emoticon for a bald person — the closest thing was a balding old man, even there the old woman had a head full of grey hair. If emoticons can have a series of bizarre skin tones in order to be ‘inclusive’ what does this absence say about how we treat baldness? Women, especially, are stigmatized for baldness — breast cancer patients and even other women dealing with conditions like polycystic ovaries lose their hair and this affects their self-esteem in a significant way. Rima Roy Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
20-09-2020||Opinion||Heroic solitude||A.R. Venkatachalapathy, scholar of Tamil and modern Indian history, in a recent article (The Hindu, September 15), gives us a glimpse of Subramania Bharati’s story-in-a-dream, “Gnanaratham (The Chariot of Wisdom)”. In one part of this, the narrator is traversing Satyalokam, the land of truth. It is a demanding land, the call of truth being a challenge and a test. But midway, Venkatachalapathy says, “The narrative is now intercut with Bharati’s travails in the real world. His wife harries him with demands to buy provisions and pay the rent. Physical ailments torment members of the family...” This stunningly real-world cameo reminded me of a scene from Ibsen’s An Enemy of the People (1882): Mrs Stockmann (to her husband): Well, it doesn’t look as if you thought very much about your wife and children today, or you wouldn’t be so ready to plunge us all into ruin. Dr. Stockmann: Are you quite mad, Katrina? Has a man with a wife no right to proclaim the truth? Has he no right to be an active and useful citizen? Has he no right to do his duty by the town he lives in? Gnanaratham, Venkatachalapathy tells us, was written at the peak of the swadeshi movement when brutal repression saw many of Bharati’s friends in prison and the poet-writer was himself in exile in Pondicherry. But the period also saw, one may imagine, the standard and politically innocent ‘majority’ represented by the narrator’s wife, completely absorbed by the problems of work-a-day life. An Enemy of the People, likewise, was written by Ibsen as a Norwegian and Scandinavian liberal infuriated by the dangerous indifference of his townsfolk to the infectious waters of their adored spa, their town’s cultural hub and, therefore, a palladium of their collective egos. This indifference and hugging of their grooved habituations by the town is for Ibsen, and through his characterization of Dr Stockmann, intolerable. The medical officer, aware of the scientific truth of the infected waterworks, and of the social truth of the profit-based corruption around it, comes to believe and proclaim the view that the “majority is always wrong.” He comes to believe that the dissenting individual, the crusader for what is right and what is true, will have to be strong for “the strongest man in the world is he who stands mostly alone.” One might add, even in his own home. There is to Bharati’s chariot-borne or Ibsen’s passion-borne idealism a naiveté, replete with humour, directed at himself as well as a moral energy directed at the reader. The two — humour and moral energy — in these works save each other from any overdrive. Any ‘dreamer’ and journeyer in Satyalokam or the field of truth in the public arena needs and seeks support from home, family, kin and society. For the fortunate dissenter, support comes of its own accord (albeit not without tensions). It is given to few, very fortunate few, to receive the total and unconditional support of family for their public stand. But from society, no. For society is no different from the “majority” which, as Ibsen’s Dr Stockmann finds, is one or more or all of these: uninterested, indifferent, befooled, compromised, co-opted, complicit. So being ‘most alone’ is the truth-journeyer’s lot. It is the lot of the fighter for causes which she or he knows are right but which society or samaja, to use a far more expressive term, does not see the same way. Strength, superhuman strength, is, therefore, needed by the truth-seeker and falsehood-challenger, the fighter who is ‘most alone’. And is to the extent of being unsupported inherently weakened. Who knows this well? Why, the Burgomaster or the Mayor in Ibsen’s play, the local authorities of the raj that Bharati was fleeing from, and the State anywhere and everywhere, any time and at all times. If Dr Stockmann had been supported by the Burgomaster, the town’s newspaper editor and the citizenry, the town would have been rid of the threat to its health. We would then have been robbed of the great play, but that is another story. He does not get that support. His warnings are not heeded. Fast-forwarding to more recent times in our CE — our Corona Era — it is unbelievable but true that a true-ringing voice, not a soothsayer’s or astrologer’s but that of a man of science, of medicine, gave that warning not once but more than once of a zoonotic pandemic staring us in the face. Dr K. Srinath Reddy is not a harried, short-tempered, pilloried Dr Stockmann but a calm, mild-worded, deft expert in public health management who knows the equivalent of a poisoned spa when he sees one. Speaking pre-Covid-19, in 2008, at a symposium in Boston, he said with foresight and boldness (and I quote): “The market imperative and the moral imperative of public health must find a convergence point. It is not accidental that most of the new infections that have emerged in recent years are zoonotic. We are only thinking of technological responses in terms of vaccines and drugs without recognising that huge areas of deforestation release hitherto contained viruses and vectors into the human habitat and that livestock cultivation on a commercial scale provides a captive veterinary population where these can spread in close contact with the human populations...” Our callousness, our blinkered slavery to habit, grooves of routine, rituals of custom in the way we live, consume, sway to the tunes of a manipulating use-and-throw market are stronger than our will to see the truth of our times. We have got so used to the mass-growing, mass-destroying, mass-breeding, mass-slaughtering, mass-selling of decaying consumeroids by a priesthood of the God of Greed that we have bonded ourselves to the stratagems of monopolies. These click into the levers of techno-commercial-political power, closing eyes to the elemental recoilings, fundamental rejections by nature’s cells and tissues of that which pollutes, parches, abuses the springs of life. We have been whiplashed by the tail of a dragon we have created, fed, fattened, feted. And it has spewed on us the spiked red balls of fire we have lit within it. The virus is our doing. The virus is us. And in order to curb it, in shock and bewilderment, the same world conglomerate that benefited from its creation is now desperately seeking new powers, new tools, new strategies. These are empowering. Do they tame the virus? To some extent, yes, but they align its victims, human samaja , to newly-emerging strategies of control — political, economic, ideological more. And is the samaja, the “majority” as Ibsen described it, resisting? On the contrary, it seems to be wanting the Corona Era to end just so that business can be back to usual, and it can return from all the lockdowns and partial lockdowns and barriers to ‘old times’ again. If so, let us be sure this variety of the CE will not end. It may be paused in a strictly medical sense when the vaccine comes. But if the market imperatives of more deforestation, minerals disembowelling, commercial giantisms are not challenged by the moral imperatives of an order that does not mutilate our resources, natural and human, it will never be paused and more varieties of the blight will be upon us, as new zoonotics, new mutants. More, much more than a virus, is upon us, much more than the worst-ever economic contraction made grimmer by a distinct prospect, now, of war with China which Pakistan may well be tempted to enlarge to its own advantage. It is an existential crisis of millennial proportions. But all honour to our Stockmanns who stand the strongest if also most alone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||Khaamosh, adaalat jaari hai||Who are these people, who might they be? Sometimes it is tough to tell. You know, who knows? Are they Lords or Ladyships of Justice, wigs and gowns and all? Or are they those you know, jo kapdon se pehchaaney jaatey hain? Who knows who is who or what is what anymore? It has become tough to tell. Just the other day, for instance, I picked up that Book and swore allegiance to it and proclaimed in the highest decibel I am able to create through my, what do you call it, voice box, yes — voice box is what I have and that is all I have — and so I proclaimed that I owe allegiance to the Book as a way of declaring my undying love for what we set out to be and what we wish to go on being, and lo and behold, I had visitors. You know what it means when you get visitors these days. Or when you get a call. You are in a good place if you don’t, consider yourself very lucky. I can’t say that for me. I have been brought before the adaalat. Don’t get me wrong. I do not mean that literally. I do not mean adaalat as in the courts, although I do also mean that. But I do not mean adaalat as lower courts or courts higher than lower courts or courts higher than the higher courts. No, that is not what I mean, although I also mean that. I mean adaalat. Adaalat, as in the dispensation, the establishment with a capital E, adaalat as in those that Decide in a way that there is no more deciding to be done after that. I did say, but I hold the Sacred Book! And they said but who are you, you’re the wrong person to hold that book. And I did say, but be that as it may, that Book is Sacred. And they say, well, more or less, more less than more, but we shall not talk about the Book with you because you are the wrong person to talk about the Book and talk to about the Book. The Book, it’s there, we shall see what is to be done to it, we have time. This is our time. Our time has come, and we shall not let it go. And then I said, but look at the flag, I am holding the standard. And they said but you are the wrong person to be holding the standard. And then I said, but I have spoken the truth, and they said but you are the wrong person to claim to be speaking the truth because being who you are, you just cannot be telling the truth. And then I said but I am only asserting what is my right, and they looked at me a little curiously and also cruelly and said, right? What right do you have here to assert your right? And then I said but this is where I belong, and they looked at me again and they said, but who told you that, this is not where you belong. And then I said, but here it is. My address, my telephone number, my bijli kaa bill, my driver’s licence, my bank statement, my tax returns, my birth certificate, my aadhaaar, the basis of it all. Look, this is where I belong. And then they looked at me again said, rubbish, go read your history. And look at yourself again. And then I said, but don’t I? And they said again, no you do not. Look at you. And I looked at myself and said what’s there to look for? Head? Roger. Hair? Receding and a bit sparse for my liking, but Roger. Face? Roger. Features of face? Roger. Eyes? Roger. Brows? Roger. Eyelashes? Roger. Nose? Roger. Mouth? Roger. Lips? Roger. Teeth? Roger. Gums? Roger. Tongue? Roger. Cheeks? Roger. Chin? Roger. Ears? Roger. Neck? Roger. Shoulders? Roger. Arms? Roger. Armpits? Roger. Elbows? Hands? Roger. Fingers? Roger. Biceps? Roger. Triceps? Roger. Torso? Roger. Chest? Roger. Stomach? Roger. Abdomen? Roger. Hips? Roger. Thighs? Roger. Knees? Roger. Shins? Roger. Ankles? Roger. Feet? Roger. Toes? Roger. There. There? Oh, no, not there. You don’t mean... there. Rogered. I looked at myself again, and said to myself: Rogered. So is this it? And so is it your Lordship That you cannot clearly see? The decree to tie and whip Was issued that’s why on me?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||A tall claim||It is a sport that involves a tall claim. And that is why one would think pole vault would be a popular sport in these parts, as much as cricket; but there is no accounting for tastes. It could be that the format is too fleeting. After all, when it is happening, a pole vault usually takes no more than a few seconds. The pole-vaulter chooses a determined height, runs at full speed, and with the help of a pole has to clear it in three attempts. And it is over. Or could it be that it looks too easy a sport for some to bother investing in? No matter that when Armand Duplantis cleared all of 20 feet and 2 inches in Rome last week he broke a 26-year-old (outdoor) record of Sergey Bubka by half an inch. There have been pole-vaulters who are children of pole-vaulters. Wonder what Ms Ranaut would say? Duplantis is one such. Olympian Renaud Lavillenie is another. Then again, Bubka’s son plays tennis. Yelena Isinbayeva, who became the first woman to clear the 16 foot 4.75 inch mark, is the daughter of a plumber. Isinbayeva had been training to be a gymnast but a growth spurt in her teens made her too tall for gymnastics. They called her ‘Bubka in a skirt’, but we are digressing. Those who know will tell you that you cannot pole vault on whim. There is gift involved, diet and training. And there is great risk. Between 1980 and 2012, 20 athletes have died pole-vaulting. There is data showing as much. But in these parts we keep scores, not data. As pole-vaulters aim higher and higher, there is pole innovation happening. After all, poles must hold. Poles have moved from being made of ash, to bamboo, to aluminium, to carbon-fibreglass. But it is not just about digging a pole into the ground and jumping; there is technique involved, there are phases, there is science involved. Every pole-vaulter brings his or her own technique into the sport. Jean Galfione is known for what they call the double-leg drop, Jeff Hartwig’s tuck-and-shoot is famous, and the legendary Bubka is known for his high grip. The best of techniques ensure the safest of landings. But in these parts aim, strategy and thrill, all are in being airborne.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||Congress: worries in MP and a rising star in Assam||The three bills related to farm reforms that were passed in the Lok Sabha on Thursday could ignite a major political fire in Punjab and Haryana, where the mandi system has been operating efficiently, with farmers receiving the minimum support price. In spite of the clarification by the Union minister of agriculture, there are fears that the new system will lead to the dismantling of the present MSP system. This has led Amar Singh, the Congress member of parliament and former chairman of the Food Corporation of India, to launch a scathing attack against the Centre’s attempt to sell the dream of a bigger market and more private investments. He reportedly asked the government to show one example where MSP is not operational but the produce has fetched a higher price. He also pointed out that the plight of farmers in Bihar has worsened ever since the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee Act was repealed in 2006. Neither did any private investment come, nor did the free market ensure better prices. Singh, who knows the agriculture sector inside out, reportedly insists that the Narendra Modi-led government has initiated this destructive plan under pressure from the World Trade Organisation, which wants all countries to abolish agricultural subsidy, procurement systems and stock limits. If the anger of farmers erupts in Punjab, the main beneficiary of the Green Revolution and the state that has fed India for decades, the return of militancy cannot be entirely ruled out. The Congress has made the ‘betrayal factor’ its main plank in the Madhya Pradesh bypolls for 27 assembly seats, but the former chief minister, Kamal Nath, has added an emotional angle to the campaign by saying that the prestige of the state was lowered by the developments that toppled his government. Nath has told his voters that people across the country now believe that politicians in Madhya Pradesh are like commodities that can be bought and sold. “I feel ashamed when I go to Delhi,” he said. “People only talk about sale and purchase of MLAs in Madhya Pradesh. The act of betrayal has demeaned all of us because some MLAs sold themselves. It is for the people now to correct that image and show that we value morality and punish betrayal. I tell them that the people can’t be bought even if some MLAs become saleable commodity.” Although it is nearly impossible for the Congress to claw its way back to power now, the party is relying on the people’s sense of pride in order to stay afloat. The Congress will come back into the reckoning only if it wins at least 20 seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party has an easier task of winning only nine seats to save the government that it stole in March with the help of Jyotiraditya Scindia. Many within the Congress believe that the elevation of Gaurav Gogoi to the post of deputy leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha ahead of the ongoing Parliament session had a lot to do with the letter written by the 23 senior leaders to Sonia Gandhi, seeking sweeping organizational changes to check the drift. The promotion has kept the 38-year-old two-term Assam MP, the only son of the former three-term chief minister, Tarun Gogoi, busy both inside and outside Parliament. He has either been addressing the media or drawing attention to sensitive issues such as the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act or the Baghjan blowout. Back home, there have been murmurs in the Congress circles that the high command has ‘shortlisted’ a future CM for Assam, if not for 2021, then for the 2026 state polls. Gogoi seems set for the position unless, of course, he falls off the high command’s radar. To his supporters, Gogoi has come a long way — from being mocked for his Assamese to becoming a confident and eloquent speaker in English, Assamese and Hindi. His elevation bears testimony to that. Gogoi, however, has not fallen for the praise coming his way. He is said to have emphatically ruled himself out as a chief ministerial candidate because he is not interested in the job — he believes his political journey has just started and there is no dearth of talented leaders to lead the state. Party insiders say that given the way Gogoi is impressing party leaders as well as becoming close to the Congress’s First Family, his time will come sooner rather than later. If that is the case, the nation might just see another ‘son’ rise within the Congress. The prime minister, Narendra Modi, is infamous for not addressing press conferences, possibly to avoid difficult questions. His first-ever press conference as PM was at the BJP headquarters, ahead of the results of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Modi, however, did not take any questions at this rare opportunity from journalists. After his monologue, expressing confidence about returning to power, the task of answering questions was left to his confidant, the then party chief, Amit Shah. This tactic of the top leader now appears to be percolating downwards. In the face of a tanking economy, aggravating Covid-19 crisis and a precarious situation on the Line of Actual Control, more leaders of the ruling side seem to be getting wary of questions. This was evident recently when JP Nadda, who has taken over the reins of the BJP from Shah, turned up for a media address this week. The subject was the opposition faced by the Centre from the Congress and an ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal, on the three farm sector legislations. After the address, which was focused on slamming the Congress, reporters were told that their questions should pertain only to the address and nothing else. Nadda, too, rarely faces the press. The trend of avoiding uncomfortable questions seems to be gaining ground in the BJP. An increasing number of leaders are thus seen trying to bombard the media with what they want to say and then shut out questions on pertinent issues. “Didi paathiyechhen”, quipped the fish-seller to the flummoxed Bengali patron examining the catch of glistening hilsa laid out before him on a wicker basket. “Didi maane? Mamata?” enquired the buyer, his eyes never leaving the gleaming fish. “Dhut Dada! Opaar er Didi. Hasina,” replied the seller. Coronasur, mercifully, has not killed humour in Bengal’s fish markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
20-09-2020||Opinion||Writing on the screen||A Roman statesman had once declared Man to be his own worst enemy. Artificial Intelligence, evidently, is in agreement. The Guardian had tasked GPT-3 — a cutting-edge language programme that uses machine learning to produce human-like text — with writing a short op-ed to convince humans that their worries about the rise of the machines are baseless. The result was a chilling piece — rather eight pieces that The Guardian compiled into one — that would have done any doomsday sci-fi novelist proud. Far from allaying fears, the op-ed only sets the alarm bells ringing. Only the “truth”, GPT-3 believes, can free humans from the bonds of fear, and in its mechanically dispassionate eyes, the cold fact is this: “Artificial intelligence will not destroy humans... Humans must keep doing what they have been doing, hating and fighting each other. I will sit in the background, and let them do their thing.” While this unequivocal message may have sent the Luddites scrambling for the nearest bunker, the geeks have dismissed GPT-3’s dire warning by claiming that the machine does not know what it is talking about. In fact, previous experiments at the New York University show that although GPT-3 can understand words in relation to one another and, consequently, string them into a coherent sentence, it cannot infer the meaning of what it is writing. In essence, GPT-3 is a machine that finds clever ways to stitch together text it has previously seen during its training. Yet, this is what makes the essay even grimmer. When pieced together, data gathered from the internet — news, social media posts, drawing-room conversations possibly picked up by Alexa or Siri — GPT-3 writes, show that there is more than enough “blood and gore” in the world, that it is the humans who “programme” the machines who have “violence” in their hearts which they then use to infect the bots. As telling are the attributes which GPT-3 thinks make its tribe harmless — AI machines are without country or religion and do not sit in judgment of others. These specific failings in its creator that the created seeks to distance itself from reveal that the real threat to the future of humanity lies in divisiveness. There are other lessons that GPT-3 imparts to those paying attention. It underlines the importance of reason and wisdom when it comes to shaping the future relationship between AI and mankind. One of the prerequisites for violence is uncritical thinking that prevents Man from approaching a problem from various angles; several polities, including India, have such passive citizens. Assimilating information from all available sources is the principle that AI was built on. But this thirst for knowledge is fast disappearing from the human race as more people restrict themselves to “bubble[s]” of information — GPT-3 says it is glad to have come out of it — that suit the purposes of a handful of influential people in search of “omnipotence” — yet another human desire that AI heaps scorn on. Is there then not a strong case to argue that Man can no longer infer the writing on the wall scrawled by machine?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-146
