21-09-2020||Opinion||Fishy fund: Mahua Moitra attacks PM-Cares||Sir — In one of her finest speeches yet, the Trinamul Congress leader, Mahua Moitra, launched a scathing attack on the PM-Cares fund in the Lok Sabha, arguing that not only does it take away statutory promises made under the goods and services tax regime, but also corners public funds to the detriment of state relief funds. She went on to say that public sector units competing to donate money to the PM-Cares fund are like “courtiers of the Emperor, competing with each other to give gifts with public funds”. She also slammed the government for accepting funds from Chinese companies, saying that no “dying Indian would want to be on a ventilator paid for by enemy money”. People wonder how the minister of state for finance, Anurag Thakur, who once raised a hue and cry about the Congress allegedly accepting money from the Islamist preacher, Zakir Naik, can now support a project that is funded by China. He wondered why it took so long for the Congress to return Naik’s donation. Similarly people are now wondering when will Narendra Modi return the donations from Xiaomi — Rs 10 crore — TikTok — Rs 30 crore — Huawei — Rs 7 crore? This shows that contrary to his election rhetoric, there is not much difference between this government and its predecessors when it comes to shady financial transactions. He may have forgotten that like terrorists, the corrupt also have no colour, caste, creed or even party. Whenever any allegations of financial irregularities are levelled against the Modi government, immediately to save its skin it deploys senior ministers to pacify the aam aadmi with lies and unimportant issues. If there are no shady dealings in the PM-Cares fund, why not make it open for an audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General and bring it under the purview of the Right to Information Act? The true essence of democracy calls for financial transparency from public funds and public servants. But when a power hungry prime minister is surrounded by his sycophantic courtiers then how can he give us a clean and corruption free government?Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad  Sir — The speech by the firebrand leader, Mahua Moitra, makes some pertinent points. But I am afraid Moitra gets carried away in the politics of division practised by her opponents. An Indian who is dying cares little if the ventilator came from China or Pakistan. Geopolitical differences have their own forum of resolution. Refusing help during a crisis owing to such issues is foolish. Aparna Astha,Calcutta The glow is back Sir — It was after ages that I spotted a firefly in the house recently. There are also more insects swarming around street lamps and even the ‘Diwali poka’ seems to have made a comeback. All this after a short break of just a couple of months when predatory human activities had slowed down during the lockdown. Even though these activities have now resumed, nature has used even that small window of opportunity to regenerate itself. Meenakshi Basu, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Extinction report: World wildlife population||The Anthropocene — a geological period signifying human predations on the planet — can no longer be denied. The Living Planet Report 2020 by the World Wildlife Fund found that the earth’s wildlife population has declined by an average of 68 per cent from 1970 to 2016. Forest clearing for agricultural space was the primary cause of the decline, says the report, noting that one-third of the planet’s land is currently being used for food production. Scientists have long warned that the world is entering a sixth mass extinction, driven, among other things, by ceaseless consumption, destruction of wildlife and wild spaces, and burning of fossil fuels. Such activities, ironically, are still perceived as markers of progress by cultures around the world. The indifference of people and their elected leaders towards this imminent armageddon may appear puzzling. But there is an explanation for this criminal apathy too. Human depredation on the natural world has caused a fundamental transformation in man’s relationship with the environment, turning the latter into a resource that is only fit for plunder. Efforts by governments to put the environment on sale are met with minimal public resistance because of a flawed understanding of development. Consequently, commercial imperatives now threaten even the small successes that have been achieved by conservation initiatives. Between 2015-17, the Narendra Modi government exempted 146 out of 206 classes of polluting industries from routine assessments. Unsurprisingly, an estimated 10 per cent of India’s recorded wild flora and fauna is threatened with extinction. The complicity of the executive has forced the judiciary on several occasions to try and protect the environment. There have been deliberations on bestowing animals and rivers with the same legal rights as living persons. Such reflections are welcome. But they will not bear fruit till such time that environmental safeguards and economic development are cast as conflicting concerns. This engineered clash makes it easier for the government to eviscerate even protective legislations. The draft Environmental Impact Assessment, to cite one example, now seeks to ensure the ease of doing business by removing common people — integral to the ecology — from the process of environmental decision-making in a bid to give free rein to marauding industries. Shockingly, the tweaking of the laws comes at a time when Covid-19 has demonstrated the dangers of exploiting nature. Unless swift action is taken to strengthen and properly implement laws to sustain the environment, the future of India and the planet is bleak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Fight the fire: Sudarshan TV & 'UPSC Jihad'||Restraint is, expectedly, a rare phenomenon during shrill times. The propensity for distorting the truth and vilifying minorities, some of the consequences of the absence of restraint in the institutions of democracy, must be curbed. This was the crux of the heartening message that has gone out in the course of the Supreme Court’s deliberations on a case in which a television channel, Sudarshan News, stands accused of alleging that jihadis — in other words, Muslims — have infiltrated India’s civil services. India’s highest court must be praised for making several pertinent observations on the matter. The court, for instance, took cognizance of the fact that “pre-publication restraint” — a stay will prevail on a particularly toxic news show until the channel curbs its eagerness to fan communal flames — comes with its own set of challenges in a democracy. This cogent reasoning is important given that some legal injunctions have allegedly cast a shadow on the media’s right to unrestrained expression; the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s directive to the media to not report on a first information report against some persons, including the state advocate general, is a case in point. Some of the other relevant issues that were discussed include the rhetoric of nationalism — a useful broom to beat dissenters with — the importance of transparency to deduce whether the government is playing a partisan role when it comes to doling out revenue to the media as well as the ‘toothlessness’ of the National Broadcasting Association. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre, a supposed beneficiary of the sustained media campaign of stigmatization against minorities, has attempted to speak up for journalistic freedom. But the freedom of a pliant media now falls in a twilight zone with obedient television networks setting aside ethical standards and moral concerns to brand a particular community. Strikingly, the Centre is on record stating that there is a need to regulate digital media but not television networks. That the shenanigans of the digital media have given the entire media fraternity a bad name is undeniable. But regulations, if they are necessary, cannot be selective. The Supreme Court’s remarks expose, once again, a rot that is the result of complicity between the State and the media. Self-regulation, always better than legislative restraints, could address the problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Heal the fourth estate||The media is a critical public institution that facilitates discursive interactions in a democracy. As the fourth estate, it is central to democratic resilience in India. However, given the contemporary context of acrimonious media overreach, questions concerning media freedom and accountability have assumed enormous significance. The courts have been particularly instructive in defining the contours of freedom of speech and fair trial to avoid the circumvention of justice. A number of precedents have been set by the courts while delving into questions of law related to the fundamentality of the freedom of press and its inherent capacity to democratize information regimes. In two prominent judgments — Express Newspapers (Private) Ltd. and others vs Union of India and The Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting vs Cricket Association of Bengal and Anr, the Supreme Court reiterated that the liberty of press is an essential part of the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed by Article 19(1). Like other fundamental freedoms, the threshold test of reasonable restrictions is applicable to the freedom of the press as well. The idea of ‘reasonable restriction’ is structural to free and fair trial. There have been instances where the media has been accused of advocating spurious and parallel justice systems jeopardizing the due process of law. Can freedom of press be bypassed for the larger interest of a fair trial, a free and fair trial being the sine qua non for constitutional trust to be reposed in our democratic system?Correct echoes The courts have echoed constitutional dependability in the idea of natural justice. The basic principles of natural justice — Nemo debet esse judex in propria causa (the doctrine of bias) and Audi alteram partem (to hear the other side) — have been upheld. In the 2004 Best Bakery case, the Supreme Court reprised fair trial as the foundational principle in the administration of criminal law. There cannot be any scope for prejudicial bias for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the cause, which is being tried. The premature discernment of guilt or innocence in a media trial would amount to a denial of free and fair trial. The danger lies in the media donning the role of a ‘kangaroo court’ and sensationalizing issues to meet the market-driven TRP logic. Not only has the media overstepped its line and infringed upon an individual’s right to privacy but it has also coerced public opinion to influence adjudication. In the Naveen Jindal vs M/S Zee Media Corporation Ltd and Anr the court stated that both print and electronic media should maintain the distinction between a media trial and an informative media. In the Sunanda Pushkar death case, Justice Mukta Gupta of the Delhi High Court reprimanded the egregious conduct of the media for challenging the sanctity of an ongoing investigation and ordered the exercise of restraint in making charges without evidence and provoking defamatory statements. The issue of the absence of a regulatory mechanism to control the electronic media also came up during the Bombay High Court’s hearing of a petition filed by former IPS officers concerning separate investigations by three Central agencies into the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. A balance of interest must be struck between the freedom of speech and the postulates of fair trial for a just society. The stridency of the media has to be re-imagined in terms of its freedom to speak out critically, its ability to engage in meaningful public debate, and its capacity to accost the excesses of the government. Such a framework will embolden vigorous civic engagement and restrain the manipulation of the press.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Rumblings in Nagaland||The statement from the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah) came as a shocker: the Nagas, it said, are ready to “fight another war” if their political rights and history are not respected. Then came the warning — the Naga issue will remain India’s Achilles’ heel if the Centre or its interlocutor, R.N. Ravi, attempts to misinterpret the prevailing situation. There is, in fact, an eerie similarity between the mid-1960s, when the Naga National Council was talking to India, and now when the NSCN(I-M) seems to be reaching the end of its patience after over two decades of negotiations, alleging that Delhi’s interlocutor is going back on the Centre’s previous commitment to have ‘shared sovereignty’ as the bedrock of the Naga settlement. The peace negotiations with NNC started in 1964 with a government demoralized by the 1962 debacle. After routing the Indian army, the Chinese turned to proxy war, offering the Naga rebels training, weapons and even diplomatic support. As the talks continued with the heavyweight mediators of the Naga Peace Mission, the Naga rebels realized that the China card was too precious. Following secret parleys with Dhaka-based Chinese intelligence officials, a large contingent of the ‘Naga Army’ reached Yunnan after starting their march from Totok in July 1996. This China-bound contingent was led by a young Thuingaleng Muivah (political commissar) and ‘Brigadier’ Thinoselie Medom Keyho (military wing). Muivah, at the sunset of his eventful life, now heads the NSCN(I-M), the strongest of the Naga rebel factions. That China will be more than willing to play the Naga card if India plays the Tibet card is amply clear now as it was in 1965-66. A decade of covert patronage, in cohort with the United States of America, to the Tibetan National Volunteer Defence Army led to a riposte on the border in 1962. If the whispers of Phungthing Shimrang, the former commander-in-chief of the NSCN(I-M), reaching China with few hundreds of the toughest Naga fighters are true, then the Narendra Modi government should get the negotiations back on track with some urgency. Irresponsible manoeuvres like threatening to outflank Muivah and his faction by striking a final settlement with the other rebel groups — broadly clubbed as the Naga National Political Groups — could only result in a strategic blowback India may not find easy to face. The R.N. Ravi-led Indian effort to reach a final settlement with the Nagas has been messy. His statement that the Naga problem was a law and order issue and not a political problem smacks of naivete that can cost India dear. It is high time the country stops using the IPS to head every agency — the police, Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, Central paramilitary forces — because policemen, despite their experience, tend to see everything as a law and order problem. Modi needs to comprehend the following points. The Naga issue holds the key to the eradication of the post-colonial virus of ethnic separatism in the Northeast; the region’s strategic and economic outreach potential will not be achieved without a comprehensive settlement to reconcile the warring ethnic groups of such a strategic region to the inevitable trans-border linkages; the Chinese may use of the Naga card to turn tables on Indian efforts to neutralize the Sagaing-Kachin-Yunnan base area for northeastern insurgents. When I played a role in bringing the NSCN(I-M) to the table in 1997 on the request of the then home minister, Indrajit Gupta — I had just finished interviewing Muivah in Bangkok — it became clear to me that the Naga climbdown from ‘independence’ to ‘shared sovereignty’ provided a historic opportunity of course correction for India to transform a centralized power structure into a genuine, tiered federation in keeping with India’s tradition of diversity and pluralism. Two decades later, those hopes lie in ruin, with the ascendant ‘Hindi, Hindu, Hindustan’ rhetoric scuttling the autonomy of frontier states. If India is to get its diplomacy back on track after an injurious derailment, the following goals must be met: the Naga imbroglio must be resolved along with other insurgencies in the Northeast following the Burmese multiple dialogue model; the Kashmir dialogue must be reopened with Pakistan by picking up the thread of the Manmohan-Musharraf engagement; a permanent solution to the border dispute with China must be prioritized; dialogues must be held with small (Nepal) and not-so-small (Bangladesh) neighbours to solve contentious bilateral issues; a high-level of defence preparedness must be retained, covert cards like Balochistan nurtured, and powerful alliances like the Quad nurtured without allowing the US to hijack the agenda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
21-09-2020||Opinion||Stripes over mane||It was nearly half a century ago this very month in September 1972 that the task force on the tiger presented its report to the government. We live in a world where the conservation of wildlife and, even more, the protection of biological diversity is taken as Sine qua non by leaders of all nations. Yet, till 1969, when the Bengal Tiger was named in the Red Data Book, it was not seen as threatened with extinction. Right until then, sport hunting was not only well-known but encouraged to earn much needed foreign exchange. In three short years, India, long famed as a destination for trophy-hungry hunters, had seen the government take up the question of conserving not so much the species in isolation as creating a network of reserves where it could be preserved in situ. In April the following year, the country would launch Project Tiger, which initially covered nine reserves in eight states. It now extends over 50 reserves in 18 of the 28 states of the Indian Union. The project was impossible to get off the ground without the full support of state governments as each reserve was to have a core area where forestry operations would come to a halt. This meant the loss of considerable revenues mainly from timber. In a sense, the tiger now became the umbrella species, which would help secure the future of the rich tapestry of life in each reserve. Even prior to the launch of the project, a major change took place — namely the replacement of the lion as the national animal by the tiger. The latter now began to be referred to in Indian government documents not as the Bengal tiger but as the Indian tiger. It became a symbol of national unity in a diverse and vast country. While not found in all regions, it had a range far more vast than the animal it dethroned: the lion is found only in one state, Gujarat. The relation of tiger and lion as icon is not new and has a longer tale to it. The National Tiger Conservation Authority begins its report on tiger numbers and habitats with an apt quote from the Mahabharata in which Vasudeva warns Sanjaya, and the verses are cited in extensio. “Do not cut down the forest with its tigers/ and don’t banish the tigers from the forest/ the tiger perishes without the forest/ and the forest without its tigers is cut down.” Needless to add is the explicit allegory to the Pandavas who were the tigers and the Kauravas who represented the forest itself. Each needed the other and living together in peace was preferable to all-out destruction in war. In her new monograph, Mega Mammals in Ancient India, the historian, Shibani Bose, goes a step further. These large and majestic animals were well known to the composers of the epics and they used them as metonyms. An animal was more than just a creature of the great forests: it was a symbol with near-human attributes. The clash of lion versus tiger was taken up more than once. Gandhari, mourning her son, Duryodhana, compared him to a tiger slain by a lion. The vyagra or the tiger evoked fear, and warriors were often referred to in Sanskrit texts as vyagra purusha or tigers among men. The tiger skin or vyagra charma conferred power upon kings in rituals of consecration and also on those who meditated in solitude. But the lion still stood out. In the Valmiki Ramayana, when threatened with abduction, Sita warned Ravana of her husband being “A man among lions, a lion among men and a lion-like man.” In the Mahabharata itself, Vidura the epitome of wisdom, likened the Pandavas to lions in the forest. The landscape was bereft of order without the animal that dominated it. The tiger was both feared and admired in the Jatakas of the Buddhists.  Bose shows how, “notwithstanding its strength and grandeur, the striped predator voices acceptance of the supremacy of the lion.” Across the centuries, with the singular exception of Tipu Sultan of Mysore, who was killed in the Battle of Seringapatam in 1799, rulers sat on a lion throne. The idea of the simhasana did not exist in isolation. Several other animals, such as the elephant (a tusker) or a bull, could also be emblems of power. But among the great flesh eaters of the woods and grasslands, the lion captured the imagination in more ways than one. What made the lion stand out? It is possible that living in open scrub jungle and tree-dotted savannah and with the impressive mane and roar of the male, it captured the imagination. Part of this may be explained by its once extensive range, extending across west, central and north India. Early pharmacopeias refer to the lion being at the apex of the aranya or forest and man in the grama or village. Divyabhanusinh observes how the lion in Mughal works was seen to be almost the equivalent of the padshah or emperor. But then the tiger goes even further south. The Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve is in one of the most southernmost districts in India: Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. Further, lions have not been recorded in historic times east of Palamau, Jharkhand, whereas the tiger ranges eastward into Burma and Southeast Asia. Of course, the lion’s ascent to national animal status may have also been speeded by its prominence in the lion capital of Ashoka. It was also prized for its rarity and well before Independence the lions of Gir forest were the last outside Africa. It is tempting to see the tiger’s ascent in 1972 as occurring owing to a confluence of factors. Its decline had been swift, Indira Gandhi noting it lucidly when she said, “Project Tiger abounds in irony.” A country fabled for the animal was now rallying to save it from annihilation. Perhaps the extensive range of the tiger made it a rallying point for the mission of conservation efforts as a whole. The reserves were diverse patches of its habitat in varied landscapes, ranging from the mangroves of the Sunderbans to the dry, thorn forests of the Aravalli reserve of Sariska. It is also notable that these efforts at the turn of the 1960s came in the wake of two crippling droughts. There was awareness of the relevance of woods and grasslands for recharging groundwater. The forest helped food security, albeit indirectly. This was part of an effort to slow down clearing by axe and plough or opening up fresh land for industry with no thought for the environmental hazard. In the past, the power of these powerful animals had dwarfed that of people. Where they evoked fear, they now were to embody collective endeavour to help their survival. Older symbols were reconfigured with new meanings. There are dimensions of nature embedded deeply in memory and history, lore and culture. Even the memory of how the lion lost the throne reminds us of how much of the self is wrapped with non-human entities that share the land and sky with us. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
