22-09-2020||Opinion||Learn gratitude: Education during the Covid-19 pandemic||Sir — As the academic session begins, students are already being asked to aim for high-paying jobs. Even considering job opportunities in such a grim situation is a luxury few can afford. According to a study by Unicef and Save the Children, 1.2 billion children lack access to education, housing, food and sanitation, a 15 per cent hike since the Covid-19 outbreak. In the light of these dismal figures, parents must teach their children gratitude rather than push them towards mercenary goals. Bani Saha,Calcutta Call to action Sir — The criminal nexus that is Indian politics has become a blight on Indian democracy (“Safe seat”, Sept 18). The blind pursuit of power has led political parties to continue to field candidates with criminal histories for elections. Nearly half of all the newly-elected Lok Sabha members have criminal charges against them. The Supreme Court’s earlier refusal to debar politicians facing criminal charges from contesting elections — the apex court argued that it is up to Parliament to keep criminals away from politics — came as a reprieve for many. The recommendation by the Supreme Court to set up special courts in every district for trying cases against sitting and former members of parliament and members of legislative assemblies is welcome. However, there is ample evidence to suggest that political parties themselves are reluctant to rid politics of crime. There are already 12 courts designated to fast-tracking such cases but numbers suggest that not much headway has been made. The special courts must be regularly monitored to ensure progress. Perhaps it would help if the Election Commission is granted greater power to disqualify candidates and deregister political parties in case they conceal vital information about candidates with criminal offences. Urgent reforms of the electoral and justice delivery systems are the need of the hour. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The number of cases pending against legislators according to the report submitted to the Supreme Court is shocking. Apparently, there are 2,556 cases pending against sitting MPs and MLAs in 22 states with the number rising to a further 4,442 when former policymakers are included in the count. This fails to portray a respectable picture of the individuals representing the Indian people in Parliament. The situation must be addressed immediately by those at the helm. S. Bhattacherjee,Kharagpur Sir — The recommendation by the Supreme Court to form special courts in every district to expedite pending trials of criminal cases against legislators is encouraging. It has also directed the high courts to review within two months all such cases where trial has been stayed. It is of utmost importance that politics is purged of criminal influence as much as possible. All attempts by the judiciary as well as the Election Commission to purge politics of criminals has failed so far. But unless it is freed from the clutches of money and muscle power, there can be no change in Indian politics. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — While the report submitted to the Supreme Court puts a number on the pending criminal charges against sitting MPs and MLAs as well as former legislators, the phenomenon itself is not surprising. It is, however, appaling that cases dating back almost four decades — two in West Bengal and Punjab are from 1981 and 1983 respectively — are still pending in court. It is high time that politicians are held accountable for their actions. Anamika Sarkar, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
22-09-2020||Opinion||At odds: To ciminalize suicide, or not to?||The corpus of legislation in India is extensive. It is, therefore, not entirely unexpected that the laws governing the same issue may turn out to be contradictory in nature. It thus falls upon the judiciary to examine existing laws and interpret them lucidly so that Parliament can then iron out discrepancies among legislations. That, hearteningly, is what seems to have happened with the Supreme Court drawing attention to one such anomaly. The apex court pointed out the inherent dichotomy between Section 309 of the Indian Penal Code, which treats attempted suicide as a crime, and the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017, which effectively decriminalizes suicide by reading down Section 309, and sought a response from the Union government on the contradiction. There are a number of facets to such an observation that warrant close attention, not least of which is the fact that there is an urgent need to weed out laws that are no longer consistent with the spirit of the times. Section 309 of the IPC is, to cite one example, a regressive colonial-era law that is at odds with the growing perception of mental illness — it often leads to suicide — as a condition that must be treated, not discriminated against. The Mental Healthcare Act, on the other hand, is a progressive legislation, pushing for an interpretation of suicide that is consistent with modern research. Indeed, this scientific, humane spirit informs Section 115 of the Act, which recognizes mental illness as a key contributor to individuals’ decision to end their own lives. This argument is of immense importance given the stigma that surrounds mental ailments — a large part of the reason why families are reluctant to record the cause of death of a loved one as suicide. A study last year had found that around 28 per cent of people did not consider suicide to be linked to mental illness, thus preventing timely interventions from taking place. Is it any wonder that India accounts for the largest number of global suicides and a third of the world’s suicides committed by women each year? Given the lack of awareness, it is of utmost importance to not only provide medical facilities to those in need of help, but also actively address deep-rooted prejudices that sully the public discourse on suicide and contribute to the shame and silence around it. There is scope for legal reform too, given the direction of international legislation. Canada decriminalized suicide way back in 1972; Ireland did so in 1993. The legal and public discourse must consider that decriminalization of suicide could be a crucial, introductory step to begin a fruitful conversation on suicide prevention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
22-09-2020||Opinion||New vista: Govt suspends MPLADS||Prescience is supposed to be a good thing. But its results can be unexpected. India’s Bharatiya Janata Party-led government seems to have foreseen that the Covid-19 pandemic will continue till 2022. Little else can explain its decision to suspend funds for the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme for 2020-21 and 2021-22 for stated reasons of the pandemic. There is no doubt that austerity measures are needed. Hence members of parliament in both Houses had no problems with the 30 per cent salary cut being imposed on them. Besides providing the saved amount for measures to fight Covid-19, this would also be a signal for a population suffering from job losses and reduced incomes that their elected representatives wish to share and help. So while this decision was accepted, Opposition MPs objected vociferously to the suspension of MPLADS. It means that the needs of the people, many of them exacerbated by the conditions of the pandemic, cannot be met by their local MPs. People’s well-being is a priority during these difficult times; why stop MPs from helping their constituencies? The answer lies in the BJP-led government’s sustained thrust towards centralization. The Centre will decide which segment of the people is to benefit from funds, and the Union government must be seen to stretch out the helping hand. That is, if the saved MPLADS money is to be used for this purpose at all. It is not just that MPLADS is being suspended for two years — temporarily, the government has said. According to a letter by the Planning Board vice-chairman, the government had also delayed releasing Rs 150 crore incurred in the previous Lok Sabha; the Centre has made clear that there is no budget head under which earlier instalments can be released. Since local development often requires small contractors, it is not clear who is to pay them in times of scarcity for work already done. Opposition MPs had many suggestions, one being that instead of Rs 5 crore, legislators be given half the amount for development this year. The government remained unmoved. And the repeated question why the Central Vista and bullet train projects should continue in times of austerity and suffering was not worth answering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
22-09-2020||Opinion||Trust and democracy||Does democracy need the trust of the people? Many people think that the loss of people’s trust in establishment parties in the United States of America and Europe has led to the rise of populist leaders like Donald Trump in the US, Marine Le Pen in France or Norbert Hofer in Austria. The loss of public trust in government has been particularly visible since the financial crisis of 2008-09, and has led to a growth of literature on political trust and distrust in the last two decades. In his seminal book, A Systems Analysis of Political Life, the political theorist, David Easton, argued that public trust in political authorities and institutions provides diffused support that the authorities can always fall back on in times of crisis. What does trust mean? Trust in government represents the confidence of citizens in the actions of the “government to do what is right and perceived fair.” There must thus be some congruence between what the people think is right and fair and what the government does. It is an important foundation on which legitimacy, stability and policy effectiveness of the political system depend. Erosion of trust is usually a slow, gradual process. In a democracy, the citizens take the electoral route to express a temporary withdrawal of trust from a government. But if electoral victory is a necessary indicator of public trust in a government, it is not a sufficient indicator. For electoral victories may be wafer-thin or may even be founded on minority votes in a ‘first past the post’ system. Or critical institutions may be so curbed by a government that electoral malpractices can be swept under the carpet. So we find electoral authoritarianism arising out of what was democracy. When that happens, trust is replaced by distrust. Thinkers like Madison, Hume and Bentham thought that some amount of distrust towards the government could act as a safeguard for democracy. For distrust will demand transparency. This view is labelled, ‘liberal distrust’. In this sense, declining trust or growth of distrust does not necessarily cause a crisis of democracy; rather it works as a warning to the ruling dispensation about the oncoming dangers. Whether a party in power or its leader would heed such warning is a matter of conjecture. In fact, it goes against the global experience. The more the leaders in the party in power become arrogant, the more they suspect public distrust. Our own experience in India testifies to it. Distrust towards the government can be the result of public experience of governmental incompetence. It can be the result of a well-founded public perception that the government’s actions are not in public interest. For instance, there are signs that the Trump administration’s approach to the Covid-19 problem is regarded by large sections of the American people to have betrayed public interest. Similarly, the manner in which the migrant labourers’ issue has been handled by public authorities in India during the lockdown was considered to be incompetent. Repeated experience of such instances will lead citizens to conclude that the government cannot be trusted as a competent protector of public interest. But the most important source of distrust is the citizens’ perception that the government’s conduct violates their sense of fairness. A democratic government transiting to the authoritarian mode is certain to violate the citizens’ sense of right and fairness. This can take many forms. It will try to discredit all Opposition and claim monopoly on representing the people. Contemporary authoritarian voices uniformly describe established political parties as ‘dysfunctional’, the press as purveyors of ‘fake news’, intellectuals as ‘arrogant liberals’. Even if the executive branch exhibits signs of authoritarianism, the system may not lose trust provided the other branches of government — the legislature and the judiciary — continue to act fairly. Similarly, if investigative and enforcement agencies, the intelligence branch, election machinery, audit authorities and so on remain uncontaminated by the executive, the system may correct itself and the executive put under leash. But if the executive has already made them subservient, the case may become hopeless. In younger democracies like India, these agencies easily succumb to executive pressure. In the citizen-State relationship, the State has all the power, the citizen has none. The judiciary, the last resort for powerless citizens to appeal to, is also the last gatekeeper of citizens’ trust in government. At the dawn of the modern State in medieval Europe, the kings and the lords realized the importance of the administration of justice: in fact, they found that efficient administration of justice could enhance the authority and the power of the kings. “By 1215 the barons of England thought that a permanent, central court of justice was essential for the good government of England.” Packing courts with camp followers has been a dream of most right-wing presidents. Such a strategy of converting an independent judiciary into  ‘executive courts’ would be a sure way of destroying the foundation of citizens’ trust in government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
22-09-2020||Opinion||Bare impunity ||There is a pithy Gujarati word that keeps coming to mind while observing recent political events. That word is 'nagai'. Nagai (pronounced naa-gai) has, as its root, the Sanskrit word for naked which is 'nagna', which often becomes 'nanga' or 'naga' in other languages. The Gujarati nagai, however, does not refer to physical nakedness but to the divestment of all moral or ethical covering, a naked brazenness, a shameless public display of criminal impunity. One good example of this is the US Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. When a judge of the Supreme Court of the United States of America died in 2016, the then president, Barack Obama, used his prerogative to nominate Merrick Garland as replacement. A nomination for the US Supreme Court needs to be examined and passed by the US Senate and, unless the nominee is highly controversial, this is usually a formality. Now, the Republicans under McConnell have a majority in the Senate and McConnell with the help of his Republican colleagues refused to hear Garland’s nomination for one whole year, effectively nullifying it and allowing the newly-elected Donald Trump to put his choice on the bench in 2017. McConnell’s argument, absurd and unprecedented, was that Obama was in his last year as president, a lame duck, and the new judge should only be appointed by a freshly-elected president. Taken to its logical conclusion, this argument essentially maintained that a president, although elected to govern for a full four years, had no right to make any executive decisions in the last year of his term. McConnell’s was a partisan, political street thug’s manoeuvre, damaging to his country’s Constitution and democratic structure while setting a terrible precedent, but it was technically within the bounds of the law; Obama had no legal recourse; there was nothing he could do to force the Senate to examine his candidate and vote on him. Cut to last week. Ruth Bader Ginsburg had hung on as a Supreme Court Justice despite terrible health (US Supreme Court justices are appointed for life unless they themselves choose to retire) to prevent Trump from appointing yet another reactionary, right-wing judge in her place. She was striving to stay on till the next (hopefully Democrat) president was sworn in, but it was not to be. In 2016, McConnell had argued vociferously that a president despite having one full year to go on his term should not get to appoint a new Supreme Court judge. In 2020, with only two months to go till the presidential election, McConnell has declared he is eager to fast-track any Trump nomination through the Senate in order to capture the precious seat on the Supreme Court bench. Here, the Senate majority leader is showing his nagai spectacularly, yet unsurprisingly. Earlier this year, when the US Congress voted to impeach Trump and sent the matter up to the Senate, McConnell and his pals buried the impeachment without even the pretence of fairness: they cancelled the case without allowing any witness to testify before the Senate. Normal procedure would have meant the witnesses would have testified, laying out the substantial case against Trump, after which the Senate, with its Republican majority, could still have acquitted their man. But this would have been politically costly; the public would have heard the witness testimonies and the senators voting to absolve Trump of allegations of serious crimes would have been exposed, further disrobed of their ethical pretensions. Better then to deploy a containing nagai and hope the public would forget about the whole thing in a few weeks’ time. Witnessing all this, one is reminded of a famous analogy deployed by Narendra Modi when he was chief minister of Gujarat in early 2002. When 59 people died in a train fire allegedly set off by hooligans from a minority community, the seemingly pre-planned retaliation by the majority community took an awful toll on innocent people from the minority community all over Mr Modi’s state. Asked about the mass violence, arson, deaths and rapes inflicted on the minority community, our current prime minister had then famously quoted Isaac Newton: ‘Every action has an opposite reaction.’ He implied clearly that since members of the minority community had started the fire, it was no surprise that the community got badly burnt. In the case of Mitch McConnell, this rule of kriya-pratikriya means that if the Democrats win the presidency and take control of the Senate (neither of which is an outlandish projection) to add to their majority in the Congress, they will feel licensed to do things that would otherwise have been legal but morally out of bounds. One of these is to quickly vote to expand the Supreme Court bench from the current 9 to, say, 15, and fill the new seats with young and robustly healthy liberal judges who would tilt the balance of the bench from 6-3 in favour of conservative Republicans to 6-9 in favour of progressive lefty judges whom one could perhaps call Baderites in memory of the recently departed great woman. On top of this, it might be possible to get into impeachment proceedings against Brett Kavanaugh who had serious allegations of sexual misconduct swatted aside at his confirmation hearings when he became Trump’s second appointment to the Supreme Court. As for the Emperor of Nakedness himself, a successful impeachment and ejection from the White House might have been seen as punishment enough, but now a new administration and justice department may find it has the public support to investigate and prosecute Trump, not least to set an example that using foul means to attain power and using that power in a foul way can be rewarded with a long jail term. Closer home, perhaps we should attach another famous axiom to the Newtonian one unfurled by Mr Modi in 2002. Many (including this writer) have quoted the line from Michel Foucault before and many will paraphrase it again: ‘every exercise of power comes with a cost.’ It’s a line and an idea that should be drummed into every politician in government; into every Speaker who rides roughshod over a proper vote; into every bent policeman who obeys illegal orders and goes after the opponents of his political masters rather than criminals who, standing next to the cops, declare their intention of causing mayhem before actually doing so; into the operatives of every investigative agency who chose to behave like the private militias of the people in power rather than guardians of law and order and the Constitution; into every uniformed man who makes a malicious arrest and then uses bad laws to punish the arrested by keeping them in jail rather than producing them in a fair court; and into every judge from the lowest courts to the highest benches in the country. To repeat: Every exercise of power has a cost, every nagai and misuse will have a cost, not just to others but to you, every corrupt or mala fide action will incite reactions that will come and bite you back in nasty ways that you cannot foresee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-145
