23-09-2020||Opinion||Unfair tactics: Passing farm bills in Parliament||Sir — The Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre has rushed three farm bills through the Rajya Sabha amid a great ruckus. The manner in which the bills, which are of existential importance for millions of farmers, were passed brings dishonour upon democracy. Much of the blame for the unprecedented scenes on the floor of the House must be borne by the deputy chairperson of the Rajya Sabha and the Centre. In keeping with the democratic spirit, the Centre should have agreed to refer the bills to a select panel for greater scrutiny and consultation. The deputy chairperson clearly erred in allowing the fate of the bills to be decided by ‘voice vote’ when the Opposition favoured a ‘division’, or actual voting, denying people the opportunity to know for certain who were for and who were against the bills. The purportedly grand reforms will most likely reintroduce the old zamindari system in a new, insidious form. Linked directly to the market forces, farmers will eventually be reduced to being farm slaves. Dignity of labour will become a casualty of contract farming, which is nothing but a euphemism for the corporatization of agriculture. Farmers and corporate behemoths cannot be on an equal footing when it comes to negotiating contracts on, say, the trade of farm produce. Further, there is a chance that the technology about which the prime minister has boasted might rupture the cherished bond between the farmer and the land. The passage of the farm bills sounds the death knell for the mandis run by the Agriculture Produce Market Committee. There is also the fear that this might be the end of the minimum support price regime. Few are gullible enough to believe that these farm laws will double the income of farmers as assured by the prime minister. It is also not clear how these laws will come to bear on the public distribution system and food security. It is also wrong to claim that the new agricultural marketing reforms will give farmers ‘marketing freedom’ when these will actually make them vulnerable to exploitation by big agribusinesses. Most of the rural population makes a meagre living from agriculture; many of them voted for the Bharatiya Janata Party. The farmers of India have contributed to the growth of the gross domestic product by 3.4 per cent — the only bright spot on the GDP record. Surely they deserve better. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The way in which three important farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha was unprecedented in Indian democracy. The demand of the Opposition to send the bills for further discussion to a select committee was bypassed by the ruling of voice vote. The deputy chairman’s rejection of the Opposition plea for a switch-button was an undemocratic move. The Opposition was suppressed by marshals as the bills were passed. The Central government is slowly but steadily tightening the noose around the idea of democracy. It has been trying to bypass Parliament with regard to legislations on important matters, including those on the National Education Policy and the draft Environmental Impact Assessment notification. It is farcical that in the case of the farm bills, the Centre is steamrolling its decision by sheer muscle power while Parliament is in session. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — It is difficult to believe that the system of voice voting is still legally a part of parliamentary proceedings. How can important decisions about the future of the nation be based on who can scream the loudest? As such, it was not surprising to see parliamentarians resort to unruly behaviour — one even tried to tear apart the rulebook — allegedly all in national interest. Any matter of significance should be resolved on the basis of reason and not rowdy behaviour. If parliamentarians continue to set such a precedent, then future generations will not have much to look up to. This is a mockery of statesmanship. Anjana Ghosh,Delhi Have faith Sir — It was astonishing to learn that since the demonetization of the currency notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 in 2016, devotees have been ‘donating’ their obsolete notes to the Tirupati temple. Evidently, the government, led by a ruling party that seems to champion the cause of Hindutva, did not foresee that the ‘black money’ it claimed to have weeded out of the economy could land up in temples. The temple trust has now reportedly requested the finance minister to help monetize the old notes. If the notes are indeed validated, then the money should be used to alleviate the miseries of the needy. Sarbari Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Data pinch: Rising lack of jobs in India||The lack of job opportunities and a persistently high level of unemployment are beginning to emerge as focal points of criticism of the Narendra Modi government. On the prime minister’s birthday, a number of netizens wrote critical messages about the problem of unemployment. These messages went viral. So much so that the prime minister’s birthday was observed by his critics as ‘National Unemployment Day’. Data bear out the grimness of the situation. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, the latest figure on unemployment stands at 7.05 per cent as a thirty-day moving-average. Between May and August this year, it is estimated that about 6.6 million white collar jobs were lost, including those of professionals like teachers, accountants, consultants, engineers and physicians. The loss of blue-collar jobs has been anywhere between 5 to 10 million if the informal sector estimates are taken into account. There has also been a sharp drop in the labour force participation rate since the pandemic began. This indicates that a larger number of people in the working-age population have given up searching for jobs. These people could be the migrants who returned home and are now dependent on their extended families in rural areas. The government has been quite reticent about the extent of unemployment revealed through statistics. Indeed, not so long ago, it had refused to make public data collected by its own agencies. Reliable data have become a scarce commodity since suspicions about government sources continue to remain if the debates on the numbers pertaining to income, unemployment and industrial production are any indication. There are three important implications that emerge from this stance of the government. The first is that it has lost much of its credibility regarding data, including data about Covid-19. This has long-term consequences for India’s international image. The second implication is that policies based on inaccurate data are bound to be ineffective. Officials involved in policy-making may not even know the degree of distortion, or they might believe the official version to be the truth. In both situations, policy outcomes are bound to be affected adversely. The third implication pertains to the relative reluctance of the government to deliberate on major national problems. An example of this is the jettisoning of the question hour in Parliament. The health of a democracy and the availability of reliable data are strongly correlated. Covid-19 should not be allowed to weaken the strength of an open polity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Electoral might: Steamrolling of farm bills||Narendra Modi, a maestro of spin, described the passage of the contentious bills on agricultural ‘reform’ as a ‘watershed moment’. Perhaps the prime minister truly believes that pushing through legislations without wider deliberations with the Opposition can be rightfully claimed as a momentous accomplishment in a parliamentary democracy. Eight Rajya Sabha MPs, who had led the furious protest against the hasty passage of the bills, have been suspended for the rest of the session for their unruly conduct. Unparliamentary behaviour must be assessed fairly and then acted upon. But this is not to suggest that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government stands out as a beacon of parliamentary propriety. The steamrolling of the three farm bills is a case in point. The government chose to not cede any ground for such legitimate demands as a detailed discussion on the concerns raised by the bills, referring the legislations to a select committee that would have facilitated a wider consultative process and — most brazenly — the demand for a division of votes, a fundamental right of elected representatives. Significantly, the aam aadmi were denied the opportunity to view these transgressions as live telecast of the proceedings was disrupted. This kind of shocking unilateralism, the trademark of Mr Modi’s muscular regime, may have aggrieved the Opposition further. It is telling that a government, elected twice over in a democracy, is yet to comprehend that Parliament remains the highest consultative forum. The hubris of electoral triumphs may have fogged the BJP’s ethical glasses. Mr Modi has defended the bills stoutly. What remains to be seen is whether the prime minister’s defiance would be enough to douse the political fires that have been lit. The Opposition, bolstered by the simmering unrest by farmers in Haryana and Punjab, seems to have found a way to stand united — at least for now. The National Democratic Alliance has already lost the Shiromani Akali Dal, one of its staunchest allies, and there are murmurs that some other fence-sitters — the Biju Janata Dal, Telangana Rashtra Samithi and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam — are nervous about the agitation from a politically significant constituency. It will take more than the usual dose of aggressive rhetoric and inducements — the Centre has already raised the minimum support price of wheat — to calm the tempers within and outside the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Day devours night||Pitri Paksha, an austere period in the Hindu calendar during which the devout pay homage to their ancestors, ended last week. Recounting the universal nature of the rituals of honouring the dead — the Egyptians, Greeks and Romans were reverential towards the departed, as are Hindus, Christians, Parsis, Muslims, Jews and, not to forget, indigenous people — R.V. Smith, that inveterate chronicler of Delhi who died in April, characteristically paid special attention to the minutiae of these customs. Kheer, wheat flour, rice and vegetables, Smith noted, are essentials to keep the dead in good spirits. Bengal, arguably, does one better. Ashhin, the sixth month in the Bengali calendar — it straddles September and October — brings with it the tradition of lighting small lamps whose mellow light, it is believed, helps our forefathers find their way back to their homes. Bengali literature is aware that the journey between the realms of the dead and the living comes with its peculiar turbulences. In “Akashpidim”, a little gem in the literary treasure trove that is the genre of bhooter golpo, a dear departed, doddering soul, clad in a spotless thaan, realizes, to her horror, that after a long astral journey she has landed on the wrong terrace. The dimness of the lights, it could be argued, may have affected the readings on her spectral radar. Visitations by spirits to this material world are still being disrupted if whispers from secretive séance societies are to be believed. Ironically, it is the excess of luminescence, rather than muted light, that is causing these disruptions. There is even a deceptively charming name for this phenomenon: Sky Glow. Thomas Edison, who invented the electric bulb, would have been appalled by its modern, Frankensteinian avatar. Sky Glow, light pollution in unambiguous words, is the result of countless sources of incandescence — street lights, outdoor billboards, buildings, offices, factories, cars and what have you — transforming night into day. Its spectacular but frightening scale has been documented by the World Atlas of Night Sky Brightness, a computer simulated projection, which found that more than 80 per cent of the global population, including a stunning 99 per cent of Europeans and Americans, are leading drastically illuminated lives. Light pollution, much like other kinds of contamination, is also a great leveller among economies. A 2019 study published in the journal, Urban Climate, found that in the period between 1993 and 2013, New Delhi, Telangana, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh experienced an exponential rise in light pollution while West Bengal, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu had made the transition from low to high candescent categories. The switch to LED lights, rapid urbanization, construction activity, municipal illumination projects of parks and other public spaces and, pertinently, callous behaviour — weddings and social functions add to light pollution — have expedited the death of the night in India; so much so that a global study in 2017 found that the loss of natural night light in India was three times faster than the global average. India Shining has, once again, proved to be injurious to species, for both spectral and flesh-and-blood variety. Science says that artificial light, including the Blue Light emitted by our beloved mobile phones, causes serious disruptions in the circadian rhythm in humans apart from suppressing the production of melatonin, a hormone, which, in turn, causes sleep deprivation, enhanced stress, cardiological problems and, recent findings even suggest, cancer. The impact on the animal world and the environment is as severe. Sea turtles and migratory birds that cover great distances with the light of the moon as their compass get distracted — just like our ancestors — by Sky Glow, losing their way to an untimely death. Even the water world is no longer immune: pioneering research by the University of Plymouth revealed that light from coastal habitations and oil rigs afloat on oceans is penetrating the deep waters to reach the sea bed, vastly altering the food patterns and reproductive cycles of marine species. Typically, the regulatory response to light pollution has been sporadic and feeble. The International Dark-Sky Association, based in the United States of America, has succeeded in creating the vast, heavenly Central Idaho Dark Sky Reserve, stretching for nearly 4,000 square kilometres, one of the 14 ‘sky patches’ meant to preserve the light of night. In Europe, France has broken new ground with The Decree, adopting one of the most progressive legislations to control light emission. Since the only thing that interests India’s present rulers as far as the French are concerned is a military aircraft, it is unlikely that this regime would be keen on indigenizing The Decree. But the absence of stringent legal deterrents is just one challenging aspect of this unfolding menace. The Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana has made an ambitious claim of universal electrification, but the devil, as is always the case with Mr Modi, lies in the detail. Officially, a village is declared ‘electrified’ if only 10 per cent of households and some specific public dwellings — the panchayat office, for example — have access to electricity; government data, a BBC report claimed earlier, conceded that only six states had achieved ‘universal electrification’, but was this achievement made possible by such a shockingly narrow interpretation of universal access? The implications are obvious. It would be unreasonable to expect disadvantaged Indians to contemplate the gradual excess of illumination given their long history of surviving under a flickering bulb or, worse, in the dark. A report by a subsidiary of The Rockefeller Foundation in collaboration with the Initiative for Sustainable Energy Policy at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies showed that the average electricity demand of rural households in a sample of 10,000 houses in Odisha, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar was merely 39 kWh. A pragmatic and justifiably utilitarian sensibility extinguishes the aesthetic anxieties concerning light pollution. The inability to spot the wondrous night sky and its bejewelled constellations — Walt Whitman, crippled by a paralytic stroke, had attributed his slow recovery to being ‘among the trees and under the stars’ — in the near future is unlikely to exercise a large number of citizens in rural and mofussil India who have, over the years, paid a high price in terms of health, education, livelihood and productivity on account of erratic or absent electric light. It is true that air pollution extracts a greater pound of human flesh. By some estimates, 1.2 million Indians perish each year after inhaling the poison that is India’s air. What has gone unnoticed, by public discourse and policy, is that light pollution is stealthily eroding an ancient, elemental relationship between humanity and the celestial sphere. After an earthquake led to the collapse of the grid in Los Angeles late one night in 1994, anxious residents, terrified by the absence of blinding lights, called the police and complained about an eerie silver cloud in the night sky. That spectre, an unfamiliar — sinister — sight, was the Milky Way. Polluting light, evidently, is not causing only our pitripurush to lose their way. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
23-09-2020||Opinion||Afghanistan: Theatre of strategic importance||For years, India formally refused to recognize the Taliban or give them any legitimacy. That slowly started to change two years ago. Earlier this month, the foreign minister, S. Jaishankar, gave his blessings to intra-Afghan talks involving the elected government in Kabul and the Taliban on the condition that any dispensation that emerges from a peace dialogue must embrace a few red lines. “It should promote the values of human rights and democracy that can foster development,” he said. “The interests of the minorities, women and vulnerable must be ensured.” “The soil of Afghanistan,” he added, “should never be used for any anti-India activities.” That sounds good and indeed is India’s boilerplate position on Afghanistan. Sadly, it’s increasingly out of sync with reality — and is more a reflection of New Delhi’s struggle to juggle complicated neighbourhood tensions. At a moment when its troops are locked in a months-long stand-off with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh, the real frontier where the future of the region will be decided is opening up in Afghanistan. And India risks being pushed to the side and left alone in the scramble for the future of that nation. The United States of America is rushing full steam ahead in pressing the Afghan government to accept the Taliban’s demands for negotiations to proceed. After baulking at the idea for months, the government of President Ashraf Ghani earlier this month released the most murderous of Taliban prisoners under American pressure. The Taliban have so far made no commitment that they will defend the interests of ‘minorities’ and ‘women’ — two segments of society that faced the worst assault during the militant group’s earlier reign over Afghanistan in the 1990s. Yet it’s clear that the US believes that the Taliban are the only force capable of taking charge of Afghanistan once it leaves at the end of what has been its longest ever war — its concessions to the group show that. And that final withdrawal could come as soon as next month. If the US president, Donald Trump, is unable to declare a successful Covid-19 vaccine and if his efforts to galvanize his base by pushing through a conservative judge in place of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg stutter, he might look to Afghanistan for an ‘October surprise’. In American politics, that’s a phrase for news that’s created on the eve of the country’s presidential election to swing undecided voters. Yet a hasty US withdrawal is where India’s challenges will start. When the Taliban were in power in the 1990s, they were supported by Pakistan and the US tended to turn a blind eye. But most other regional nations such as Russia, China and Iran were — like India — deeply uncomfortable with the ultra-conservative group. And the US routinely criticized the ethnic massacres perpetrated by the Taliban against the Hazaras, the strict restrictions on women they imposed, and the medieval punishment practices deployed by the group — including stoning people to death in public. In 2020, the landscape is very different. The US has already recognized the Taliban as a legitimate stakeholder in the future of Afghanistan through their peace deal signed earlier this year. Russia, China and Iran have all built bridges with the Taliban, each trying to secure its strategic and economic interests in a future Afghanistan in exchange for aid and legitimacy. India, too, has made initial attempts at networking with the Taliban but its efforts are nascent compared with Russia’s or China’s. Russia has worked with the group to take on their common enemy — the Islamic State. China has promised to build six-lane highways and other infrastructure in Taliban-controlled areas in exchange for peace. According to US intelligence reports, Iran has paid bounties to Taliban fighters to target American soldiers in Afghanistan. New Delhi still has an opportunity. Unlike in the 1990s, the Taliban is, this time, likely to want to use their myriad regional and global relationships to reduce the dependence on Pakistan, the Taliban’s traditional benefactor. While Islamabad will almost certainly emerge as the most powerful foreign player in any Taliban-led dispensation, the latter have made clear that they want to balance those ties with relationships with others — including India. In May, the Taliban even indicated that they might allow India to treat Kashmir as its “internal” matter, a break from the group’s past position. Yet senior officials confirm that New Delhi is yet to make deep breakthroughs in cultivating senior Taliban leaders as a buffer against Pakistani influence. That needs to change if India is to have a meaningful voice in Afghanistan. Yes, it’s important to focus on the border tensions with China. But it would be a mistake to take one’s eyes off Afghanistan. That’s where the future of South Asia might well be decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
