24-09-2020||Opinion||Fearless figure: Remembering Ruth Bader Ginsburg||Sir — In honour of the deceased Supreme Court judge of the United States of America, Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the Fearless Girl statue in New York was adorned with a lace collar that the jurist was famous for wearing. She had added the collar to the austere black robes to reclaim a traditionally male uniform and “unapologetically feminize it”. Only the second woman to be appointed to the apex court, Ginsburg was a legal and feminist icon who staunchly upheld liberal traditions. Her demise two months before the presidential elections will have a far-reaching impact on American democracy. Game on Sanav Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — It was wonderful to read the article, “Cricketainment swings into action” (Sept 20), by the cricketing legend, Sunil Gavaskar, on the Indian Premier League, just the day after this year’s tournament started in the United Arab Emirates. The IPL has become an indispensable part of the lives of cricket fans. They wait with bated breath throughout the year for the season to commence. While every year a considerable number would throng the stadiums with their family and friends, soaking in the excitement of a cricket match, this year, as Covid-19 ravages the world, fans are left with no option but to watch the IPL matches in the relative safety of their homes. The pandemic has taken away much of the electrifying thrill of the game. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Sir — As the IPL begins, one major difference from earlier editions that is bound to bother cricket lovers is that the only way to enjoy the matches this year would be from the security of one’s home. Nevertheless, it can be safely assumed that people would be just as exhilarated to watch the action as they turn their living rooms into miniature stadiums. The action-packed first game on Saturday saw the three-time champions, the Chennai Super Kings, kick off the season against the Mumbai Indians, who had secured their fourth IPL title in 2019. The following matches since then have set the cricket pitches in the UAE ablaze. The return of the IPL comes as a relief to fans who were all but sure that the tournament would be cancelled this year. However, the organizers managed to chalk up a plan that would ensure the players’ safety while keeping the spirit of the game intact. The slow resumption of sports across the world, be it football, tennis, or cricket, is a small sliver of hope in the midst of an unprecedented health and economic crisis. The values that form the pillars of sportsmanship — courage, unity, patience and perseverance — can provide critical lessons to all in the face of hardship and bring hope that it is possible to overcome hurdles even in the worst of situations. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The IPL 2020 began with an incredible match that displayed the brilliant captaincy of the Chennai Super Kings skipper, M.S. Dhoni. As the opener for the Mumbai Indians, Quinton de Kock, began the match on a strong footing, Dhoni, to everyone’s surprise, brought in the 22-year-old Sam Curran, who not only claimed the wicket but also slammed 18 runs off just six balls at a crucial juncture of the game. Similarly, the fielding placements of Ravindra Jadeja and Lungi Ngidi showed Dhoni’s maturity and insight as a captain. Although the legendary skipper has announced his retirement from international cricket, he can still give young players a run for their money. M.N. Gupta,Bokaro Sir — Amidst all the woes and worries of the coronavirus pandemic, cricket’s biggest franchise league began with an incredible match. Rightly termed as a tyohar in India, the IPL has gained popularity with each passing year. Perhaps the tournament will bring a sense of reprieve to the viewers struggling to cope with the pandemic. Although the first match was quite predictable, with the Chennai Super Kings breezing through the game, the upcoming matches are bound to be exciting as all teams are well-rounded. As league cricket returns to stadiums, fans are looking forward to enjoying the numerous matches that have been scheduled till November. Hopefully the players as well as the staff members involved will adhere to safety measures set by the administration as they bring unbridled joy to millions of cricket fans around the world. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
24-09-2020||Opinion||Fallen warriors: India's healthcare workers||For how long can an illusion affecting the lives of millions be kept up before it collapses? The Indian Medical Association seems to have found an answer to the question when it called out the Centre’s “hypocrisy” for extolling Covid-19 frontline healthcare workers as “warriors” while, at the same time, not bothering to keep track of those among them who have lost their lives to the virus. That it fell to the IMA to point out that 382 doctors have died from Covid-19 is telling, as is the fact that the Union health ministry insisted, at the time of a national-level health crisis, that health is a state subject. That the Centre has suddenly remembered to invoke the principle of federalism suggests that it will pounce on every opportunity to pass the buck to conceal its own dereliction of duty. This is not surprising. The Bharatiya Janata Party-led Central government’s willingness to maintain data depends on the nature of the information. So the Centre has expressed its inability to collate data on, say, the deaths of migrant workers during the lockdown or on farmer suicides. Yet, in Uttar Pradesh, where the BJP is in power, data collection — surveillance? — has been facilitated by tracking the call records of Covid-19 patients, ostensibly for effective contact tracing. The Centre’s plaintive cries about the absence of data on the deaths of frontline health workers have several implications. The most troubling is its use of lofty rhetoric in place of meaningful interventions. The prime minister goaded the nation to honour Covid warriors by raising a frightful din with pots and pans; more recently, and on a serious note, a bill has been passed by Parliament to protect frontline workers and doctors from physical assault. But several other crippling dimensions of the crisis remain unaddressed. For instance, how serious is the shortage of protective equipment? Doctors in Bihar — the BJP is eyeing the state in the forthcoming polls — are on record saying that one of the chief reasons for deaths in the fraternity is the supply of substandard protective equipment. There have been other irregularities as well. Several hundred fake ventilators were allegedly installed in hospitals across Gujarat — the prime minister’s home state — without any regulatory assessment of the faulty equipment, seriously undermining concerns of public health. Meanwhile, personnel in the lower rungs of India’s Covid Warrior Force continue to labour with minimal resources. Theatrics can do little to mask the stench of death in the trenches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
24-09-2020||Opinion||All in class: Accessible online education||With the pandemic running into months, countries all over the world are in a bind over education. It is not possible to stop all teaching indefinitely. Yet in-person classes pose a danger to the health of students, teachers and everyone engaged in making classes possible, including those who operate transport. Online classes appear to be the only solution for both schoolchildren and university students, but the solution is far from perfect. Equal access to the internet and to suitable gadgets, such as laptops, tablets or even smartphones, is a pipe-dream still, whether in the United States of America or in India. The United Nations Children’s Fund warned about a month ago that one-third of the world’s schoolchildren, around 463 million, lack this access, and that online classes for children are possible only in 24 per cent of Indian households. Against this background, the Delhi High Court’s direction to schools last week to end “digital apartheid” is of especial importance. For the court has suggested the ways to do this as well. Schools should ensure that all pupils, particularly from economically weaker sections and disadvantaged groups, have suitable gadgets and a high speed internet package with which they will have the same opportunity as everyone else to continue their lessons online. Private, unaided schools, which are supposed to enrol EWS and DG students in 25 per cent of their seats under the Right to Education Act, can approach the state for reasonable reimbursement for the package. In other words, it is the duty of schools — government or unaided — and of the State, to ensure that all children learn equally. This is demanded by the RTE and Article 14 of the Constitution, as the court pointed out. It is also demanded by fairness and humanity. The Delhi High Court’s ruling provides a model for all states. One important aspect of the ruling is the approach based on individual students’ needs. The Unicef report pointed out that there is not only a rural-urban inequality in the matter of access to online education, but a gender divide too. Indian households with smartphones or computers may not always have one for each school-going child. Hence an initiative from schools to provide each of their students with access would be more than welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
24-09-2020||Opinion||The art of burying the truth||It is doubtful whether Jawaharlal Nehru ever read Joseph Heller’s Catch-22, that wickedly funny and ultimately sobering novel set in wartime Italy, published a year before India and China went to war in 1962. In it, Doc Daneeka, who explains The Catch, had a corner office with a waiting room decorated with the finest cheap furniture and a single goldfish, which died before the war exploded and Doc Daneeka got drafted. But his showpiece — rubber models of reproductive organs of both sexes — he kept in separate cabinets in order to avoid a scandal, demonstrating effectively that you could never be too careful. This is the same prophylactic impulse that informs the secrecy surrounding the official documents pertaining to the 1962 boundary war with China that began 58 years ago. As they each dealt with the Chinese, how many defence ministers or foreign ministers or prime ministers do you think have read the Henderson Brooks report — it allegedly details egregious failures — a copy of which is kept under lock and key in the Directorate of Military Operations? In this background, consider the remarks made by the foreign secretary, S. Jaishankar, prefacing the release of his book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World. Acknowledging that the situation in the border areas was the most serious crisis since 1962, he told his interviewer, “If you look back over the last decade, there have been a number of border situations — Depsang, Chumar and Doklam. In a sense, each one was different. This one surely is. But what is also common is that all border situations were resolved through diplomacy.” Almost as an afterthought he conceded that diplomatic and military channels “work in tandem”. The afterthought is subliminal, almost as if the mandarin axiomatically suspects the bravado the military man exudes does not conform to the reality the soldier is rooted in. Let us examine the proposition Jaishankar makes. If diplomacy had succeeded in the last 58 years, then the China-India boundary problem would have been resolved. Second, if diplomacy had succeeded as it has been claimed, then how is it that China has violated all five agreements, the basis of management of boundary areas, without firing a single bullet? If you string together the incursions undertaken by the Chinese, including the ones that the foreign minister mentions in the last 10 years — the ones at Depsang, Chumar, Doklam — how can repeated incursions, whatever the variations among them, be termed as a success of diplomacy? Even in the current stand-off, extensive as it is and destabilizing as well, so far we have only seen a failure of diplomacy. De-escalation is a function of diplomacy and disengagement essentially a military outcome of de-escalation. What we are witnessing in Galwan and other areas is the continued failure of de-escalation. Going by the logic that has been presented, the more often the Chinese ingress, the more often the situation is resolved, the more successful diplomacy becomes? This is a classic aspect of Catch-22. The central catch in Catch-22 is the predicament of Yossarian, a bombardier convinced the war is going to kill him and he has to plead insanity to cry off bombing missions that increase the chances of his being killed in the war. The catch is, as everyone knows, anybody who wants to get out of combat duty isn’t really crazy, therefore fit for combat. Just as Yossarian is condemned to repeat his increasingly suicidal bombing missions, applied to the India-China boundary experience, it would mean that the Chinese have a right to do anything we can’t stop them from doing after they have done it because diplomacy will solve it. It also means that they will not stop from doing something they have already done before — for example, their changed stance on Tawang and areas in Arunachal Pradesh they refer to as “South Tibet”. After 22 (note that number) rounds of talks between the Special Representatives, what we get is more incursions in Galwan, Pangong Tso. What really stares us in the face is the cumulative failure of diplomacy and leadership that is sometimes audaciously paraded as success because of the opacity and secrecy that surround our intermittent military situations. Suppressing information leads to poor strategic culture and encourages weak tactical outcomes and endless repetitions of the failures arising from the lack of appreciation of what really happened. It is a pity that even for the Sumdorong Chu stand-off in the mid-eighties, we don’t know, some 35 years later, what happened over the eight years it lasted. The negotiations records are with the ministry of external affairs, the military records are in the Directorate of Military Operations, to prevent a scandal. And never the twain shall meet. What, as citizens, we will be treated to will be hand-me-down gossip, unconfirmed hearsay, fractional truths, skewed assessments from unnamed sources and bloated self-assessments from the occasional bureaucratic reminiscences, and left to draw our own pitiful conclusions. If more vitriol needs to be poured on, say, Nehru, one way to do it is to release the Henderson Brooks report. Why not do it for the politics of it? At least it will serve a strategic purpose. The longer we delay, the stronger the Chinese get, not the other way around. By letting their military do the diplomacy, at least they don’t put the cart before the horse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
24-09-2020||Opinion||Living the lie||On August 31 last, the Republican National Convention and Kenosha were the themes of Last Week Tonight with John Oliver. Oliver, as everyone knows, is not fond of his president. He said the RNC was an “event to celebrate the stewardship of Donald Trump, a tough sell at the best of times, but something that felt particularly out of step this week, considering we have a pandemic on the rampage, an economic catastrophe unfolding, and wildfires and hurricanes battering the country”. More, “it [was] a little jarring that the Republicans’ opening argument seemed to essentially be this. Ladies and gentlemen, leaders and fighters for freedom and liberty and the American dream, the best is yet to come!” This is familiar to chasers of the dream of Bharat, surely? Oliver had video excerpts of Republicans throwing their arms out triumphantly to substantiate his unkind comments. For Indians, since the achchhe din promised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2014 has not, in September 2020, seen Rs 15 lakh deposited in every citizen’s bank account with the return of black money from abroad, the best remains yet to come. That is, if the achchhe din hope is not just a jumla, a way of speaking — a joke? — that the Union home minister, Amit Shah, called the Rs 15 lakh promise later. Oliver recreated a scene that we have grown addicted to in our country: “The main theme of the convention seemed to be telling lies in front of flags…four days of full-throated denial of objective reality…” If “the misleading portrait painted of Trump’s opponents” can be taken as fair game, what followed can make us sit up excitedly: “Convention speakers also claimed that Trump never called white supremacists ‘very fine people’, which he did.” That was Charlottesville, 2017, with waffling thereafter. And that he passed the veteran’s choice act, “which he didn’t” — Barack Obama did. Also “that he is trying to protect patients with pre-existing conditions, which he very much is not”. This is a proactive lie, ignoring that Republicans have gone to court against the protection of patients with pre-existing conditions in medical insurance, somewhat reminiscent of the unnecessary government rhetoric around the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that is surely not discriminatory. The fantasy about Trump’s sympathy for these patients ignited Oliver’s imagination: “And I am honestly surprised that a speaker didn’t…claim that Trump invented parakeets, or that he stopped the murder of hornets by sucking them straight out of the air.” No, Trump’s “loyal friend” Narendra Modi did not invent parakeets either, but he does enjoy inventing medical and technological achievements of ancient India with a prime ministerial authority that sends his inventions straight into history books and scientific conventions. “[I]n the midst of a blizzard of lies,” Oliver continued, “some still managed to stand out.” The White House economic advisor, Larry Kudlow, referred to the coronavirus “with an off choice of verb tense”. Kudlow is shown saying, “Then came once in 100-year pandemic. It was awful, health and economic impacts were tragic. Hardship and heartbreak were everywhere. But presidential leadership came swiftly and effectively, with an extraordinary rescue for health and safety to successfully fight the Covid virus.” This is marvellous, this game with “verb tense”. Because on August 31, 2020, the United States of America reported 31,313 new coronavirus cases and 560 virus-related deaths, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. The national total stood at 6,028,617 Covid-19 cases and 183,579 fatalities. On September 22, the total was 7,046,216 and deaths were 204,506. This is a terrible tragedy, in the US as in the whole world, a strange time to boast about successful presidential leadership and rescue. Indians, however, are not assailed by a “blizzard of lies”; blizzards pass. They breathe lies, they wade in them, they sleep and wake in them; lies constitute the air around them. The coronavirus tragedy in India, for example, was compounded by the suffering and deaths of thousands of migrant workers caught unawares in a lockdown at four hours’ notice. Besides, experts said that the lockdown was wrongly timed for proper control of the virus. Presumably to counter such negativity, the full spread of the virus in early May was sought to be falsified by pressure on researchers to delete the data from hotspots and containment zones in their survey that showed high incidence of the infection — or not publish the paper. Never mind the misdirection in a dangerous situation, the lockdown could be shown to have been successful. The direction reportedly came from the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, which is tasked, among other things, with establishing medical ethics. The question of ethics becomes obsolete when information from government agencies turns out to be misleading, evasive, or confusing, whether economic data, or that about migrant workers’ job losses and deaths, or farmers’ suicides. Do Indians know yet what demonetization achieved? Falsehood has many forms. For instance, the Union minister of state for home said in Parliament that as of September 11, 2020, 223 persons were in detention in Jammu and Kashmir and no one was under house arrest there. Politicians from the Peoples Democratic Party not only called this a ‘blatant’ lie, but posted videos to show that they were forbidden to step out of their homes. So did Saifuddin Soz, the Congress leader, about whom the Jammu and Kashmir administration had said in Supreme Court that there was no restriction on his movements. Then there is the obdurate defiance of contract, as for example in the Centre’s refusal to pay states their full share of goods and services tax revenues. That is perceived as part of the programme of depriving states of their legitimate powers and agency, demonstrated again by the repeated passing of policies and bills with inadequate or no consultation with stakeholders, as in the National Education Policy, or the bland refusal to debate or vote on the farmers’ bills. Maybe these laws and policies are as good as the Modi government claims, and do not have sinister, self-serving designs — for surely inventing parakeets is a good thing? But the blinding aura of falsehood that the BJP and its adherents have created, fuelled by a sense of power and protected by the steady refusal to answer questions, would depend on their ability to keep on inventing pretty birds. Lies have an almost lyrical flow, sliding sinuously into institutions and processes, poisoning all they touch in their unceasing attempts to make the illegitimate look legitimate. There are occasional disruptions, as in the Allahabad High Court’s direction to the Uttar Pradesh government to release the doctor, Kafeel Khan, whose detention under the National Security Act for an allegedly incendiary anti-CAA speech — in which he reportedly spoke of unity and harmony — the court considered illegal. But jails continue to fill up with young people who protested against the CAA and are accused of having incited the violence in northeastern Delhi last February, while writers, teachers and activists, some arrested two years ago for allegedly having ‘aggravated’ the violence at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018 by their speeches encouraging caste hatred, remain in prison without trial or bail. How could two statements attributed to two arrested students, naming teachers and Opposition politicians as instigators of the Delhi riots, be exactly the same, bearing also the students’ refusal to sign them? Not important. Neither incendiary speeches by right-wing leaders nor the originators of the violence during the peaceful Dalit celebrations at Bhima Koregaon are considered culpable. Power, the ruling regime seems to believe, makes legitimacy irrelevant. Lies, clearly, are addictive. Can anything be more intoxicating than “telling lies in front of flags”? Perhaps we should now decide whether we shall continue to get drunk on lies or begin shaking off their magic attraction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-144
