25-09-2020||Opinion||Private affair: Legal intimation of marriage||Times have changed since the enactment of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which aimed to transcend the barriers of caste and religion in order to give Indians substantive rights when it came to choosing a life partner. But care was taken to ensure the necessary checks and balances. For instance, Section 6 of the Act requires a public notification at the office of the district marriage officer concerning the personal details of the couple intending to marry, including their religion, residential addresses, phone number and so on at least 30 days before the marriage can be solemnized. In a nation where underage marriage and human trafficking are not uncommon, Section 6, demanding the disclosure of details, was probably intended to be a deterrent so that the authorities could take timely action against such transgressions. The clause of public intimation of personal details has now been challenged in the Supreme Court by a petition that argues that Section 6 violates the fundamental right to privacy. Such an apprehension is not unwarranted even though the problem lies not in the spirit but the misuse of the clause. Earlier this year in Kerala, notices of inter-faith marriages under the Special Marriage Act were reported to have been circulated on social media by right-wing groups as instances of ‘love jihad’ and led to communal tensions in some places. There is thus the possibility of bureaucratic corruption leading to such sensitive data falling in unscrupulous hands. The consequences, the tradition of honour killings shows, can be lethal for the couple. The way forward around the dilemma is not simple, either for the law or its custodians. The momentum in favour of individual privacy must be respected without weakening the protective framework that is meant to prevent abuse. For instance, instead of issuing a public notice, can the marriage registrar be authorized to examine the veracity of the application and alert the authorities only when mala fide intent is suspected? Here too, there must be serious deliberations on the method of assessment of such applications so that a routine examination does not get transformed into an act of surveillance. Perhaps the ruling of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which said that the State and its institutions must not be seen as “laying snares and landmines” in the path of consenting adults from different faiths, must be taken as a model to emulate. The tension, however, lies elsewhere. Marriage still requires a societal seal of approval of what is essentially a deeply personal bond. Such approval is predicated upon the possibility of interference.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||On point: Gloating on Modi's popularity||Sir — It is intriguing that in the article, “Rated highly” (Sept 17), Swapan Dasgupta has considered the increase in the support base of the prime minister, Narendra Modi — this was reportedly 66 per cent in August 2020 according to a particular survey — as the only parameter to judge his competence. Even if one sets aside the doubts regarding the modus operandi of the survey, does an increase in popularity always mean that the leader is right? History is proof that many decisions supported by the masses have been wrong. The persecutions of Socrates and Galileo Galilei were supported by the majority at the time; even the abolition of the practice of Sati was denounced by many. It is not clear if Dasgupta believes that the Bengal government was sceptical about the importance of the lockdown or the use of face masks. Before the Centre declared the lockdown, the state had already closed schools and colleges. In mid-March, members of the Trinamul Congress even attended Rajya Sabha with masks on their faces — this was then severely objected to by the chairman of the assembly. Dasgupta seems to be criticizing the Opposition parties, the intelligentsia and the international media for highlighting the plight of the migrant labourers during their exodus. But can the declaration of a nationwide lockdown with only four hours’ notice be considered justified, when lakhs of people were far from their homes? Can the -23.9 per cent contraction of the gross domestic product be attributed to the pandemic alone when the Indian economy has been sinking on account of errant steps taken by the Centre, such as demonetization and the implementation of the goods and services tax? Even the economic package of Rs 20 lakh crore did not provide any direct help to those suffering from the impact of Covid-19. The only benefit for the people would have been the offer of liberal bank loans, but even this would cause banks to suffer, for they would be burdened with more non-performing assets. Many former governors of the Reserve Bank of India and renowned economists have failed to understand how the Centre is trying to revive the economy. Surely that cannot be solely because they are opposed to the government. The Centre has given little cause for the people to be jubilant. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — The article by Swapan Dasgupta was amusing. He seems to gloat over the fact that the widespread criticism of the prevalent crises in India by the Opposition parties and the common people has made little impact on the popularity of Narendra Modi — a poll was cited to show that in spite of the critical state of affairs in the country on several fronts, Modi’s popularity has increased since January. Dasgupta pins all his hopes on this and makes an attempt to assure citizens that there is nothing to worry about, no matter how gloomy the situation may look. Faith in a popular leader, it seems, is the only means of finding a way out of this labyrinth of misery. But the question is that if it is ‘faith’ that will get us through these difficult times, then what is the need for the prime minister? One could simply resort to praying to gods. In the same breath, Dasgupta ridicules experts’ views on economics and the pandemic, and asserts that Modi’s strength lies in his dependence on managers and politicians. The indication is clear — it reiterates the prime minister’s earlier claim that hard work is more important than Harvard. However, Dasgupta conveniently overlooks the recent findings of the Indian Council of Medical Research, the ruling dispensation’s trusted institution. According to the ICMR, for every detected case of Covid-19 in India, there are 80 to 130 cases that remain undetected. By that logic, if officially the current number of Covid-19-affected Indians is taken to be six million, in reality around 480 to 780 million people are actually infected. How, then, does Dasgupta claim that the predictions of the expert who said that 70 to 80 crore Indians could get infected in the worst-case scenario are off the mark? The answer possibly is that the faith in the leader is above every truth. Premangsu Dasgupta,Calcutta Sir — Stuck between a rock and a hard place — a sliding economy and an aggravating pandemic — Swapan Dasgupta contends that the prime minister’s popularity is directly proportional to the crises faced by India, and pegs his arguments on a survey carried out by a private media channel. At around the same time, however, a survey by the RBI showed that consumer confidence was at a dismal 53.8 per cent, the lowest in a long time. Which study, then, should we trust? Perhaps this paradox could be better explained by those teaching economic theory than “managers and politicians” preferred by the regime. Amit Mukherjee,Calcutta Sir — What Swapan Dasgupta did not point out in his article — even as he mentioned a “Rajabazar model” with respect to counter-Covid strategies — was the high chance that the ‘Namaste Trump’ event contributed to the spread of Covid-19 in India. Feroz Ahmed Khan,Calcutta  In deep waters Sir — This monsoon — like every other year — several states in India have begun suffering from floods; Maharashtra being the latest example. Disaster management groups are doing their best to alleviate the sufferings of the people. However, the plight of animals must not be forgotten. This year, too, scores of animals were reported to have lost their lives during the floods in Assam. Care must be taken that the same fate does not befall animals in other states. Besides having special rescue teams allocated for them, citizens should also take it upon themselves to provide shelter to as many stray animals as possible. Snigdha Choudhury,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||Less is good: Dip in farmer suicides||A silver lining recently is the decline in suicides of farmers. The report on accidental deaths and suicides of 2019 published by the National Crime Records Bureau indicates this: from 11,379 deaths in the farm sector recorded for 2016 they have dropped to 10,281 in 2019. The problem with the 2019 NCRB report is that it no longer enlists causes, such as crop failure or debt, for the suicides. The reason for this, according to the Union minister of state for home, is that several states and Union territories — reportedly 19 — gave no figures for farmer suicides. Hence listing causes became ‘untenable’. This argument is not quite clear since a total number of suicides in the agricultural sector is being given. Why did these cultivators and farm labourers kill themselves? The negligence of the states and UTs who failed to report farmers’ deaths cannot be excused, and they should explain it. At the same time, glossing over causes of suicides by blaming the states cannot be overlooked either. Both omissions reflect a casualness towards the dignity and value of a large number of human lives. Meanwhile, how safe is the inference that suicides in the farming sector have declined if the data is declaredly partial? True, a study of trends would support this belief; analysis would also indicate that the decline in suicide rate of farm hands is much steeper than that of cultivators —those who own or lease their land for farming. In spite of the numbers of deaths still, it must be remembered that farmers’ suicides have been earlier termed a national catastrophe, with the count reportedly reaching a quarter of a million in 2011. In that context, the 2019 report, even if partial, does indicate a positive change. Some questions have been raised about mix-ups, for example, whether farm hands have been brought under the head of daily wagers. But if it is to be established that there has truly been an improvement in the conditions of the agricultural sector in the last few years, this NCRB report is obviously inadequate. A serious examination of farmers’ suicides in every state together with the reasons behind them needs to be conducted to see what is going right after all this time. It is important to hope.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||Dual burden: Women and domestic space||Challenging the sexual division of labour has been one of the magnanimous victories of the struggles launched by the women’s movement in the last century. Striking at one of the pillars of patriarchy, it was an early step towards revolutionizing the lives of women. Unfortunately, in most of the third world today, women joining the ‘productive’ workforce has not translated into equality in division of labour in the domestic sphere. Rather, there is now dual pressure on women to manage not only their professional lives but also shoulder a disproportionate share of household and familial responsibilities. Ironically, this has opened up a new challenge for women: to be counted as the ‘good’ daughter, wife or/and mother, she has to prove her commitment to domestic responsibilities and her professional life. The pandemic, however, has marked an important moment in the reconfiguration of women’s relationship with the domestic space. It is important to cast a glance back at this contested domain to understand the gender implications of a pandemic. While the differential experiences of women in the domestic sphere are significantly mediated by the intersectional vulnerabilities of their location in terms of class, caste, religion and sexuality, I shall focus largely on the plight of middle-class Indian working women who are being compelled to manage the demands of work life while being confined to the domestic physical space. What does it mean for these women to be confined to the domestic physical space without being limited by the demands of domesticity? Does it in some ways signal an undoing of the advances made by women through a century of struggle against patriarchy by a historic overturning of the traditional sexual division of labour?Different space For most women in the third world, the domestic space — ‘home’ — is, contrary to the idealized imagination of it, far from a safe haven. It is a space which is experienced as unequal, demanding, violent and, therefore, precarious for them. In fact, as pointed out by radical feminists decades ago, domestic and intimate spaces are those where patriarchy manifests itself most powerfully in order to control women’s lives. What then are the implications of their confinement to the domestic physical space while catering to the demands of the professional world? It has meant an intensification of the various challenges shaped by an archaic imagination of a patriarchal domestic space and its predominant practices. It has meant lesser control over limiting domestic reproductive labour. Women are now overburdened with greater domestic responsibilities of managing household chores and care functions. It has meant lesser control over their sexuality and biological reproduction, the idea of sexual consent and ownership of one’s own body being still remote in many intimate relations even today. It has meant that they are now exposed to various forms of domestic abuse and violence, mental and physical. It has also meant that the promises held by a workspace as a potentially liberating space has been snatched away. Notwithstanding the challenges that women face in male-dominated workspaces, these are also spaces for them to explore their own self, develop a sense of self-worth, nurture camaraderie with colleagues, often of the same gender, and unwind after work hours on their own terms, away from the restrictive and the regulatory space that is home. It has also adversely impacted their productivity in the labour market. The pandemic has brought newer challenges for women entrapped within patriarchy and exposed, once again, the regressive nature of the domestic space. Clearly, there are newer battles to be fought. Are we ready for it?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
25-09-2020||Opinion||Hollow test||In his eminently entertaining first autobiography, My Early Life: A Roving Commission, published in 1930, Winston Spencer Churchill (1874-1965) spent a fair amount of time discussing the examinations he sat for as a young man, from the time he took the entrance test to get into Harrow, to his serendipitous success in the preliminary examination to get into the army, to his successful (third) attempt to enter what was then the Royal Military College at Sandhurst. Anyone who has gone through the ordeal of tests and examinations, and lived to tell the tale, will find Churchill’s account both instructive and providing food for thought. Churchill begins his second chapter, “Harrow”, by narrating how, when he had “scarcely passed [his] twelfth birthday”, he “entered the inhospitable regions of examinations, through which for the next seven years [he] was destined to journey”. “These examinations,” Churchill confesses, “were a great trial to me” for “I should have liked to be asked to say what I knew” but the examiners “always tried to ask what I did not know. When I would have willingly displayed my knowledge, they sought to expose my ignorance.” Moving on to the prelims to get into the army, Churchill writes of how examinees were expected to “draw from memory a map of some country or other”; and how, “the night before [the examination] by way of final preparation [he] put the names of all the maps in the atlas into a hat and drew out New Zealand... Sure enough the first question in the paper was: ‘Draw a map of New Zealand’”. Young Winston’s luck held when, after two unsuccessful attempts to enter Sandhurst, he was packed off to a “crammer” (the English upper-class equivalent of our coaching centres) where he was rigorously tutored in Mathematics, and, sure enough again, on the day of the Mathematics test, there was a question about “these Cosines and Tangents in a highly square-rooted condition which must have been decisive upon the whole of my after life. It was a problem. But luckily I had seen its ugly face only a few days before and recognized it at first sight.” This occurs in the third chapter of the book, titled, simply, “Examinations”, and Churchill goes to some pains to show his readers just how arbitrary the whole system of examinations is, as also how much of an individual’s future may depend on these fickle things. I first encountered My Early Life a few months before my Class X boards when my father — who had lived through the Second World War, and was, as a consequence, a great admirer of Churchill (even though he had to admit that the man’s attitude towards Indians left much to be desired) — decided it would soothe my frazzled nerves if I read about young Winston’s encounters with examinations. I suspect the effect was not quite what he had hoped for. Instead of cheering me up about, and preparing me for, the forthcoming ordeal, my nerves got even more frazzled, especially when I contemplated the vast oceans of my ignorance as compared to the little puddles of learning I had somehow managed to acquire, and I became convinced that there was no way in which I would get a passing grade. In the event, like the British Bulldog, my luck held, and I managed to get a creditable result, the first of many I would acquire — more by accident than by conscious design — over the next many years. But my deep suspicion about examinations, especially the formal ones conducted by educational institutions, never left me. Which is deeply ironic when one considers the fact that, for the last almost-thirty years, I have been preparing those instruments of torture called question papers, and passing judgment on the performance of young minds which are, almost invariably, scarred (to a greater or lesser degree) by the experience of taking examinations. Consider the circumstances in which most examinations are conducted, at least in our country. You are made to sit in a closed room, guarded by unsmiling invigilators, unable to ask your neighbour for a simple fact, prevented from looking up a quick reference, needing to take permission if you want to go to the toilet — in brief, the closest most of us will get to a PoW camp. I cannot think of any other situation in life which even comes close to the stifling, oppressive atmosphere of a typical examination hall. And for what? What do such examinations actually test? Certainly not the examinee’s intelligence, or knowledge, or wisdom, or creativity, or understanding, in any meaningful sense of these terms. At best, perhaps the ability to memorize and regurgitate “facts”, and to do so in a reasonably organized manner. What doing well in an examination tells us is one thing, and one thing only — the candidate’s ability to do well in exams. Nothing more and probably quite a bit less. As Churchill had noted, luck plays an inordinately important role in examinations. I have had many classmates over the years who were far more knowledgeable, and much better prepared, than me, yet who failed to do as well in a particular examination simply because they were unlucky in the choice of topics they had prepared while I wasn’t; so they cursed their luck, and I claimed it was all due to hard work and consistent labour (which was far from the truth). When still an undergraduate student, one of my teachers told me that I would do well in the finals, not because I was knowledgeable or intelligent, but because I possessed “low cunning”. Upset though I was then with what I felt was an unnecessarily cruel remark, I have since come to recognize the wisdom of that statement. Examinations are basically tools of ideological control, where — in order to score well — the person taking the examination has to figure out not just what to write but how to write it — to become, as it were, his or her master’s voice. If one can do it successfully, one does well; if one tries to be different, to express one’s own views, to interpret matters creatively, from a perspective other than that “prescribed” by those who are conducting the test, one fails — often, quite miserably — and has to live with the stigma of unsuccess, maybe even for the rest of one’s life. One of the guiding principles of power is the need to remind the one being controlled of just who is doing the controlling. Even as the ongoing pandemic has opened up avenues for a more democratic, more egalitarian, more cooperative process of learning and evaluation, it has also provided the opportunity to those wielding power to forcefully remind the underdogs just who is boss. As students across the country grapple with poor internet connections, lack of access to books and other resources, the inability to consult others face-to-face, and much else that is necessary to confront the terminal examinations now underway, as a result of the diktats of the highest functionaries of the land, they must be cursing their luck and those like me who are enforcing this ordeal on them. After such knowledge, what forgiveness can we expect? The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
