26-09-2020||Opinion||In danger: Air pollution affecting wild bees||Sir — A study has shown that air pollution in cities does not only affect the respiratory and cardiovascular health of human beings — it is also causing significant behavioural, physiological and genetic changes in wild bees. This is alarming news, for bees are already rapidly declining in number, thereby throwing an already fragile ecological balance even more out of gear. Unfortunately, it is unlikely that these findings will have enough impact on the administrational will to bring in changes. This is a pity, because concerns for the protection of biodiversity in city spaces must also inform a large part of the strategy to combat air pollution. Natasha Ganguly,Calcutta Still stuck Sir — It was deeply disheartening to read about the new research which has shown that women in the United Kingdom still have a hard time getting top corporate roles, even though their presence in boardrooms has increased. It seems that the age-old belief that women cannot be leaders persists to an uncomfortable degree even in purportedly advanced economies in the Western world. The study has shown that while women are getting an increasing number of non-executive director roles, they are not being considered for actual positions of executive leadership. This is an exercise in self-sabotage for corporate bodies and big businesses, for women have consistently proved to be great leaders over the years. Research published last year on the Harvard Business Review blog showed that women scored at a statistically significantly higher level than men on the vast majority of leadership parameters they were measured on. Given that making women the chief executive officers of companies are likely to benefit the latter in a significant way, one wonders why such an obvious step towards greater growth is consistently rejected by company boards. Sayantan Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — The dogged refusal to allow women to take on more leadership roles is prevalent even in India. This is not restricted to businesses — recently, even the Centre had expressed great consternation at the idea of male army officers having to take orders from their women superiors. For as long as such regressive mindsets persist, businesses and institutions will keep missing out on the expertise women bring to the table. Junaid Akram,DelhiWay forward Sir — The Indian Railways, in order to boost infrastructure, is planning to explore the public-private partnership route. The ultimate aim is to increase the availability of train services for the public. However, it will be interesting to observe how the government will adopt this model. It is estimated that the Indian Railways would need a capital investment of around Rs 50 lakh crore up to the year 2030 for this project. To support such an endeavour, the Union government should frame policies that are geared towards developing and providing regulatory support to banks to encourage them to fund rail projects. Khushbu Ved,Calcutta Time for change Sir — The United Nations seems to have become an outdated organization in its present form. What it needs is a significant overhaul if it has to meet the challenges of the new world order. With only five member countries with veto powers in the security council — there is no representation from the African, South American and Australian regions — the UN certainly cannot fulfil its stated goal of maintaining peace and friendly relations among countries. Decision-making powers in the UN must be democratized, and the privilege of the veto for a handful of nations must be taken away. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
26-09-2020||Opinion||Perfectly unacceptable: Taking on body-shaming||The Venus of Urbino, Titian’s erotic and enduring creation in the 16th century, has, at times, been held up as the acme of sensuality as well as an artistic expression of the idealized, universal feminine form. But then beauty, as the adage goes, lies in the eyes of the beholder. And, unfortunately for Titian and his languorous lady, who, incidentally, was made to leave very little to the imagination, the beholder’s gaze has shifted over time. Thus, the modern aesthetic of the body — always the woman’s body — would probably be outraged by the Reclining Lady’s fullness, Size-Zero being the yardstick of oomph in this millennial hour. But now, in a radical — but heartening — experiment, a television show enrolled with Denmark’s national broadcaster may have shown the world a possible way of challenging the deceit that has, for time immemorial, been integral to the tradition of endorsing or, for that matter, viciously rejecting particular kinds of bodies. In an episode of Ultra Strips Down — there can be no arguments at least about the title of the show — schoolchildren were encouraged to reflect on received ideas of body-types and beauty as they examined a group of adults — their teachers, men and women — who stood in their birthday suits before their curious eyes. Educationists believe that such an exchange facilitates an effective dialogue to raise awareness about the toxic, global culture of body-shaming. That public awareness is necessary is borne out by the consequences of this kind of discrimination. Its victims, research says, can suffer from crippling depression, the erosion of personal confidence, disorderly diet and unrestrained consumption of merchandise that sell the mirage of the perfect body. What makes body-shaming reprehensible and, more important, difficult to contain is the slipperiness of the standards applied. History suggests that ample girth was, in the West, once a symbol of prosperity, signalling abundance of health and wealth. Yet, in its colonies, the West corrupted its own ideal, projecting heavily-set Indians, to cite one example, as the embodiment of indolence and savagery. Stereotypes about bodies in the United States of America seldom preclude prejudices pertaining to race and class. Understanding definitions of beauty, then, necessitates the comprehension of power relationships among social groups. The diversity of these power relationships in different cultures could pose a significant challenge to the Danish model of emancipation. In the subcontinent, where autonomy over the body, especially for women and children, remains negligible, the discourse of body-shaming is likely to be permeated and, consequently, neutered by the uncritical acceptance of disparities — gender, social, economic and, increasingly, religious. What makes this assimilation possible is the complicity of the mass media with the market. Yet, another front in the battle against body-shamers is ripe enough to be opened. Challenging the human pursuit of perfection could be one way of exposing the trap of allurement. Imperfection — Titian would have been horrified — can have a humane dimension.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
26-09-2020||Opinion||True fighter : Remembering Ruth Bader Ginsburg||As if the year 2020 had not thrown enough curveballs already, just last week Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court of the United States of America passed away at the age of 87 after years of battling cancer. Ginsburg was the second woman ever to serve in the Supreme Court and pioneered the movement for gender equality and women’s rights. Condolences poured in from far and wide, especially given that she passed away just before the upcoming presidential elections. Many have viewed her life and work as the last threads holding American democracy together. In New York, the 50th Street subway station has been unofficially renamed ‘Ruth St’ in her honour by the artist, Adrian Wilson. People took to the streets in front of the Supreme Court in Washington DC. The vigil served as both a mourning and a political rally, put together by the Women’s March, Planned Parenthood Action Fund, and MoveOn Political Action. The crowd held candles as they listened to speakers celebrate Ginsburg’s achievements for women’s rights. NPR reported that Ginsburg expressed her last wish to her granddaughter: “My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new president is installed.” President Donald Trump is set to announce his nomination for the next judge, backed by several Republicans in a dramatic act of hypocrisy. In 2016, Republicans refused to accept Barack Obama’s nomination for the next Supreme Court Justice after a vacancy, asserting that the next president should make that appointment. Stay afloat The restaurant industry has been one of the hardest hit by the pandemic. After months of being shut down, eateries have begun to open up for indoor dining but are operating at less than 50 per cent capacity and require masks and social distancing. Some of them are being forced to think outside the box and use creative means to make it work. In the Upper West Side in New York City, the restaurant, Café du Soleil, is using individual plastic domes, almost like a camping tent, which it calls ‘space bubbles’, for people to sit inside. These are seven feet tall, seating between two to six guests, and protect them from inclement weather. Hashiri, a Michelin-starred sushi restaurant in San Francisco, has done the same but with a heavy price tag. Its plastic quarantine domes can be booked for $200 per diner. Each igloo-like structure costs the restaurants anywhere between $90 per dome up to $1,400. In addition, restaurants are taking advantage of public spaces such as streets, sidewalks and parking lots to create a socially distanced dining environment while meeting public health guidelines. But now with the temperatures dipping, outdoor dining will soon become challenging. A survey by NYC Hospitality Alliance indicated that 80 per cent of restaurant, bar and club respondents did not pay full rent in June, and 36 per cent paid no rent at all. The National Restaurant Association estimated permanent restaurant closures to be at 20-25 per cent. Help at hand The Covid-19 pandemic does not seem to be retreating any time soon in the US. States with strict mask-wearing guidelines are juxtaposed with — mostly red — states where the people do not believe in masks or to an extent even in the virus. In the midst of it all, several technologies and mobile apps have been released to aid contact tracing, keep track of symptoms and also cure boredom and isolation. Los Angeles is partnering with the developers of the app, SafePass, for contact tracing. The opt-in feature uses Bluetooth to anonymously track other app users with whom one may have come in close contact. If you have unknowingly spent an extended amount of time in contact with someone who later tests positive for Covid-19, you will receive a notification to get tested and even get a free at-home test sent to you. Business is also booming for therapy and mental health apps. The burden of a public health crisis, isolation and unemployment is heightening anxiety and stress levels for a lot of people. The app, Talkspace, which connects people to a licensed therapist, has seen a 65 per cent increase in its volume of users since February. Strong presence September 15 kicked off the 52nd year of celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month. Currently there are around 52 million Hispanic people in the US, making it the second largest ethnic group. While Covid-19 has cancelled most big-scale events and outdoor parades, communities are trying to make sure their heritage is celebrated. In Arkansas the Plaza de las Americas-Festival de las Manos Unidas will take place virtually. In DC, the restaurant, Immigrant Food, is offering a special date night package, where 10 per cent of the proceeds during Hispanic Heritage Month will be donated to Ayuda, an immigrant services non-profit. The Smithsonian Museum of Art is opening an exhibition called Our America: The Latino Presence in American Art featuring 92 pieces by over 70 artists. In New York, the Puerto Rican singer, Bad Bunny, whose real name is Benito Antonio Martínez Ocasio, performed atop a moving bus to honour essential workers. The show, which started in the Yankee Stadium and ended at the Harlem Hospital, also honoured the third anniversary of Hurricane Maria which ravaged Puerto Rico in 2017. Footnote The Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, was celebrated this year from September 18 to 20. Spiritual leaders and observers took to virtual platforms to celebrate. Typically, the commemoration involves prayer services and a bustling gathering with Jewish foods. The New York organization, JewBelong, hosted ‘Sins, Stars and Shofars!’ — a one-hour virtual event with stories, songs and readings focused on uplifting people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
26-09-2020||Opinion||Standing tall||The late A.P.J. Abdul Kalam liked to tell stories with morals. A story he was particularly fond of related to the launch of a satellite by the Indian Space Research Organisation in July 1979. Kalam was in charge of the project at ISRO and when some members expressed reservations about its readiness, he overruled them and ordered it to go ahead. The launch failed; instead of going into space, the satellite plunged into the Bay of Bengal. As team leader, Kalam was humiliated by the failure and terrified by the prospect of announcing it before the press. He was saved from embarrassment by the chairman of ISRO, Satish Dhawan, who went himself before the television cameras to say that despite this failure he reposed complete faith in the abilities of his team and was confident that their next attempt would succeed. The following August, Kalam and his team tried once more to launch a satellite into space. This time they succeeded. Dhawan congratulated the team, while asking Kalam to address the press conference. In telling the story in later years, during and after his term as president of India, Kalam would feelingly recall: “When the failure occurred, the leader owned it up. When the success came, he gave the credit to his team.” This month, India’s scientific community is celebrating the birth centenary of Abdul Kalam’s hero. Satish Dhawan was born on September 25, 1920 in Srinagar. The son of a judge, Dhawan was raised and educated in Lahore, where he took degrees successively in physics and mathematics, in literature, and in mechanical engineering. The combination was unusual, if not unique, in the Indian context, bridging the three worlds of science, the humanities, and technology, respectively. The Lahore of the 1930s and 1940s was a place, which encouraged such experimentation. The city was then a great centre of culture and scholarship, a confluence of the best of the Hindu, the Islamic, the Sikh, and the European intellectual traditions. In 1945, after taking the third of these degrees, Dhawan came to Bangalore and worked for a year at the newly-founded Hindustan Aeronautics Limited. He then went off to the United States of America for further studies, obtaining an M.S. from the University of Minnesota followed by an M.S. and a PhD in aeronautical engineering from the California Institute of Technology. He was away when Independence and Partition occurred, the latter event forcing his family to leave Pakistan and migrate to India instead. Soon after returning to his now divided homeland, Satish Dhawan joined the Aeronautics Department at the Indian Institute of Science. One of his early students, Roddam Narasimha, recalls that “Dhawan brought to the Institute an element of youth, freshness, modernity, earnestness, and Californian informality that captivated the students and many colleagues.” Dhawan enjoyed his research, building the first supersonic wind tunnels in the country. He enjoyed his adopted city too, where he fell in love with and married the cytogeneticist, Nalini Nirodi (the couple went on to have three children). In 1962, he was appointed director of the Indian Institute of Science, a place that at the time was (in the words of one chronicler) “slowly slipping into a comfortable state of academic somnolence”. Dhawan woke the place from its slumber, making it the premier research institute in the country. In his tenure as IISc director, he helped incubate new research programmes in computer science, molecular biophysics, solid state chemistry, ecology, and atmospheric science, recruiting brilliant scholars from all over India (and the world) to staff and run them. In 1971-72, Dhawan was granted a sabbatical by the IISc. He went off to his alma mater, Caltech, hoping to dirty his hands with research. While he was away, the head of India’s space programme, Vikram Sarabhai, died at the tragically early age of fifty-two. This was a body blow to Indian science, and especially to our space efforts, then at a nascent stage. On the advice of her principal secretary, P.N. Haksar, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi sent a long cable to California asking Satish Dhawan to succeed Sarabhai as chairman of ISRO. He agreed, but not before stipulating two conditions: that he continue as director of IISc, and that the headquarters of the space programme shift from Ahmedabad to Bangalore. Mrs Gandhi accepted both conditions, as well as a third; that Dhawan be allowed to complete his year of research at Caltech before returning to his new responsibilities in India. In his book, ISRO: A Personal History, R. Aravamudan vividly recalls Dhawan’s taking over as chairman and the changes he brought in the organization. “Sarabhai’s management style”, writes Aravamudan, “was that of a patriarch dealing with a small well-knit family. It was a kind of monolithic structure and Sarabhai operated on a one-on-one basis. These were no formal systems in place, with parallel technical teams operating. Sometimes they would work on the same systems without any organization.” This loose, informal, style just about worked when ISRO was small and still developing; but as it grew larger and its goals became more ambitious the organization required a more structured form of management. Thus Dhawan’s “first task was to bring some order into the widely dispersed teams by integrating them and defining their individual roles and collective responsibilities. This he did by forming programme-based centres with undisputed leadership. He also arranged for a national-level review of the long-term tasks of ISRO in association with internal and external experts.” As an ISRO scientist, who experienced this transformation first hand, Aravamudan writes: “Our new chairman was a dignified man with great intellectual honesty. He encouraged honest criticism and was quick to recognize merit. Sarabhai’s style was fine when the structure was loose and still evolving. But now we needed to freeze things and get on to execution mode. Dhawan exactly fitted the role, with his systematic approach and no-nonsense style.” At ISRO, Dhawan was keen to emphasize the organization’s social role, focusing on what satellites could do with regard to weather forecasting, natural resource mapping and communications. He worked assiduously to keep the organization at a distance from powerful politicians; hence the decision to shift its headquarters even further away from Delhi, and his own unwillingness to accept personal hand-outs, such as Rajya Sabha seats. IISc is arguably our finest centre of scientific research; ISRO almost certainly our most admired public sector organization. In the making of both these organizations, and their reputations, the same individual played a critical part. These two institutions required somewhat different forms of leadership. That Dhawan could successfully guide both and at the same time is a mark of how great a leader he was. As P. Balaram wrote in an obituary published in Current Science in 2002: “The space program has a wonderfully romantic history, with Satish Dhawan as the guiding force; in times of failure he shouldered responsibility, in the heady days of success he stood quietly by the sidelines. Dhawan’s ability to build an organization [ISRO] whose success relied on teamwork, discipline and collective dedication was truly remarkable, particularly when one recognizes that he was simultaneously building an institution [IISc], where individuality and idiosyncrasy were cherished qualities.” This writer was privileged to know Satish Dhawan in his last years. He was a fine scientist, a great builder of institutions, and a warm and compassionate human being. His long-time IISc colleague, Amulya Reddy, wrote of him that “unlike most of his contemporaries, he was above caste, language, religious and provincial considerations.” Dhawan, he added, “was devoid of jealousy and envy”. Meanwhile, his ISRO colleague, Yash Pal, said of Dhawan that in his treatment of individuals, “there was no favouritism and no animosities”. The Indian scientist with whom he worked closely for the longest period, Roddam Narashima, concluded his own obituary of Dhawan by saying: “He was, most of all, the undeclared but widely accepted moral and social conscience of the scientific community.” To these tributes by colleagues, let me add some words of his daughter, Jyotsna Dhawan, herself a distinguished Indian biologist. Of her father’s deep social consciousness she writes: “In building the launch center at Sriharikota, the displacement of the Yanadi tribe troubled him, set as it was against the massive displacements going on all over India in the name of development, and he worked hard to see that some reparations were made. Medha Patkar’s selfless struggle to keep the fate of displaced people in our collective consciousness aroused his greatest admiration.” Satish Dhawan was one of the greatest of modern Indians, being to the field of science what J.R.D. Tata was to entrepreneurship, Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay to the crafts sector, and Verghese Kurien to the co-operative movement. There are many lessons in Dhawan’s life for the emerging leaders of today — be they in science, politics, business, administration, or civil society. They include an absolute integrity in personal life and professional conduct; a remarkable ability to recognize and nurture talent and to allocate responsibilities wisely and well; the generosity of spirit that encourages subordinates to claim credit for success; and, not least, the moral courage that leads the leader to take the blame for failure. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-143
