27-09-2020||Opinion||The essentials of US-China relationship||The key nations in this text are America, China and, to an extent, India. The events involving the US and China go back to the Pacific theatre during World War II. America got actively involved in the war, along with UK and the Soviet Union, after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The war in the Pacific theatre against the Japanese was fought and won by the American and the British forces. At the time, Gen Chiang Kai-shek was the leader of China and a very close American ally. The Chinese were already fighting a long-drawn and grim battle against the occupying Japanese and were also already facing the menacing and long shadow of the advancing Communists under the leadership of Mao Zedong. All the resources at the disposal of Gen Chiang Kai-shek were tied down in the defence of the mainland. There are no records of the Chinese joining the allied forces in the Pacific theatre. General and Madam Chiang Kai-shek were close friends of President Roosevelt and also well-known and popular in America. During World War II, President Roosevelt was rumoured to have raised China’s status to that of an ally, which was subsequently reaffirmed by Harry Truman. However, there are no records regarding the views of Russian leader Josef Stalin and Britain’s Winston Churchill regarding this American decision. After the end of the war, China as an ally was automatically entitled to a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. In 1949, Communist cadres on the Long March defeated Chiang Kai-shek’s forces and drove him into exile. Mao Zedong became the supreme leader of the world’s most populous nation. In 1947, the British departed from India. Pakistan was born as a new nation and most of the sub-continent’s princely states merged with India. The border between India and Tibet had also been demarcated by the British, who recognised Tibet as an independent nation. Not long thereafter the PLA forcefully occupied Tibet, the Dalai Lama and many Tibetans fled into India and were given refuge. The two most powerful leaders of Communist China, Chairman Mao and Prime Minister Zhao Enlai, were driven by their policy to keep pushing China’s borders and progressively occupy land belonging to neighbouring nations. The Chinese believed these borders had been forced on them by imperial powers and that foreigners had taken advantage of the country when it was weak. In their view they were righting a historical wrong. In 1962, China plotted and waged war against India. A few years later, China attacked the border of their biggest benefactor and supporter, the then Soviet Union. China’s aggression in its neighbourhood may have been to divert the attention of the Chinese population, which was facing a severe drought and also famine. In 1966, Mao launched his Cultural Revolution. Mao Zedong was succeeded by Hua Guofeng but eventually Deng Xiaoping became the leader calling the shots. America had been keeping a close watch on China ever since the Communists came to power. In 1971, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger convinced President Nixon that China was not only an enormous and potential economic treasure trove, but in due course, would be inclined to embrace democracy! A clandestine trip to China by Kissinger in 1971was facilitated by Pakistan, a member of SEATO (the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization) and one of America’s major client states. A second and more compelling argument advanced by Kissinger was that bringing China into the equation would provide a balance in international relations with the two Communist giants providing a counterweight to each other. The rest is history. Over time, the Chinese market grew dramatically, attracted huge foreign investments and kept enlarging trade with America and Europe. Even the Tiananmen Square uprising and bloodshed did not interfere with the growth of China’s trade and commerce with the West. Though it looked unlikely that China would ever embrace democracy or respect human rights, that did not interfere with the OECDs commercial relations with China. Many American Presidents are said to have had reservations about China. But they had other worries. President Ronald Reagan was committed to first dealing with the growing nuclear threat from the Soviet Union. During his term, Reagan and the Soviets signed the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty. He had also famously cautioned: “Trust But Verify”. Nevertheless, though all the presidents were increasingly aware of the threat which China posed as a powerful nuclear and economic power, they had more immediate threats to deal with. The US and indeed the rest of the world were for a time preoccupied with the end of the Soviet Union and also Yugoslavia. Then they had to contain the spread of Islamic terrorism and the failure of the Arab Spring. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo recently quoted former President Richard Nixon who feared his move to open China to the world might create a monster. “President Nixon once said he feared he had created a ‘Frankenstein’ by opening the world to the CCP,” said Pompeo, adding sharply: “And here we are.” The appointment of Xi Jinping as the lifetime President of China and Donald Trump becoming the US President have brought to the surface China’s unambiguous global ambitions and intentions and the huge threat that it poses. President Trump has openly mounted serious trade and technology confrontations with the Middle Kingdom. China’s unprovoked aggression along its border with India may possibly be a part of a larger diversionary strategy triggered by domestic problems. Henry Kissinger still remains alert and active in America. He has argued in his book, On China, that it is “essential to global stability and peace” that both countries maintain a cooperative relationship. Did he have a premonition when he wrote that about the current chain of unsettled events?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Novel immortality||A school friend died of the novel coronavirus yesterday. Most of us have learnt to keep track of the personal toll that this epidemic has taken. Of the people I’ve known and been friends with, three have died; he was the third and the youngest. The two who died earlier were five and ten years older, but he had been a classmate in junior school and was almost exactly my age. We had lost touch when he changed schools fifty years ago and yet his death was more unsettling than the deaths of the other two whom I had known better and more recently. He and I belonged to the same ‘batch’; perhaps it’s human nature to think of your childhood cohort as forever young. The intimations of mortality that age brings are banal because they are routinely experienced by everyone who lives long enough, but the shared threat that Covid-19 holds out for the old creates both a heightened awareness of your vintage and an ambivalent solidarity. When you mourn the dead, you note that you are among the living as you would in a normal year, but the relief at it not being you is more sharply felt. The sense that you’ve been spared is real, not the piety it might otherwise have been. Death on a large scale, however it happens, induces both relief and guilt in those who survive but there is something peculiarly impersonal and random about being mown down by a pandemic. The human choices that lead to the mass cull of a world war or cause millions to starve to death during a famine help us comprehend these catastrophes as human tragedies. It is why they are remembered and revisited in books and films and arguments. But posterity doesn’t remember pandemics or their dead. The tens of millions of people who died of influenza in 1918 might never have existed for all the space they got in public memory. More people died of the flu in that single year than in the whole of the Great War and yet not once did my friend or I or our classmates learn about it in school less than fifty years later. Historians are vulgarians; death, without people to blame for it, either individually or collectively, doesn’t make for a good story. It’s hard to pin pandemics on human perpetrators; the charge doesn’t stick. No one who counts in the Western world likes China and Xi Jinping is increasingly seen as Mao in a neck-tie, and yet Trump’s bid to brand Covid-19 as the ‘Wuhan Virus’ has found no takers. There’s something about being culled by a pandemic that is beyond the scope of historical narratives that deal in cause-and-effect. It is so hard to storify that death on a scale that dwarfs most genocides, shrinks into a factoid shorn of historical resonance, like a meteor sliding into the sea without a ripple. The problem with modern pandemics is that no one thinks of them as acts of god either. They are caused by evolving viruses that aren’t even alive. The people who die aren’t victims or martyrs or heroes: they’re just collateral damage caused by an undead speck looking for hosts. But Covid-19’s dead won’t disappear from the public imagination in the way that 1918’s flu casualties did. They will, thanks to the digital world, have their own memorials. I remember walking around the military cemeteries on Egypt’s Libyan border, built to remember the Allied casualties of the desert war. Those receding, perfectly parallel rows of stone tablets were a token of the massive effort made by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission to honour the dead. There will be no brick-and-mortar memorials for the victims of the novel coronavirus. Their lives will be commemorated online, on posthumous Facebook pages, stilled Twitter timelines, in the Google searches that dredge up their names and black-and-white class photos arranged in uniformed rows. Class 5E, 1967, with all of us arrayed around Mrs Furdoonji: that’s where I’ll find my friend; someone, somewhere is bound to have uploaded that picture. One of the tragedies of the pre-digital world was that as we left our youth behind, we mislaid, irrevocably, most of the people that we once knew. Unless we were freakishly diligent letter-writers, we shed memories, names, friends and faces as we grew older, and not always because we wanted to. It was a kind of autobiographical impoverishment that we accepted as inevitable. But thanks to the internet and information-hoovering sites like Facebook that have designs on us, we now seed ourselves online. We are linked by listservs and Twitter feeds and WhatsApp groups; we are Friends with perfect strangers, we are Followers with Followers. What this means is that in a haphazard way, we remain connected to people we haven’t spoken to in decades or even thought about. This was impossible even twenty years ago. I read of my friend’s death in a post by a friend of his who I didn’t know. It didn’t say why he had died. I visited his Facebook page and scrolled through his photographs, looking for the boy I could still conjure up in my mind. He was there; there was a wistful pleasure in mentally pruning this middle-aged stranger’s face back into the visage of my friend. I called a classmate we had in common who I hadn’t spoken to in forty-five years. I didn’t have his phone number but we are connected on Facebook, so I clicked on a phone icon and he answered the call as if we had met in class the day before. He knew why I was calling before I could say; he had read the same post and he had the same question. Ten minutes later, he messaged to say that another classmate had confirmed that Covid had killed him. So, inside a couple of hours he had been spoken of and remembered by half a dozen people who had been a part of his childhood. He wasn’t a famous poet like Yeats, so he didn’t, in Auden’s fine phrase, become his admirers. He did, however, become his Friends. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Importance of being fit||In 2014, months after the general election results, the new Prime Minister of India proposed to the United Nations General Assembly that June 21 be earmarked globally as International Day of Yoga. India’s fitness conversation had begun. On the appointed day in 2015 there was yoga aplenty. Around 35,000 people attended the 35-minute yoga session on Rajpath. There were visuals of yoga being performed on the Siachen glacier and the high seas. This was also the year of the Dadri lynching. 2016. Rohith Vemula suicide. JNU sedition row. Lynchings in the name of gau raksha. Demonetisation. On the occasion of the second International Yoga Day a grand event was organised in Chandigarh. There was special emphasis on participation of the handicapped. Reportedly, on this occasion, the government spent Rs 16.40 crore and Rs 18.10 crore in 2015 and 2016, respectively. 2017. The highest cow-related deaths were registered this year. According to Indiaspend, 28 died and 63 such incidents were recorded. Uttar Pradesh reported no deaths but had the highest number of cases. That year, the PM along with UP CM Yogi Adityanath led 51,000 assembled at Lucknow’s Ramabhai Ambedkar Sabha Sthal in asanas. Congress workers did the shavaasana to protest farmer killings in Mandsaur in Madhya Pradesh. The PM said, “Yoga not only enlightens the body but also the soul.” 2018 was the year of the agrarian crisis. In May, sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore launched the Hum Fit Toh India Fit campaign. Rathore lobbed a fitness challenge to cricketer Virat Kohli, who in turn challenged the PM who replied with a fitness video. On November 30, thousands of farmers marched towards the Parliament. That day the PM was addressing participants at the Yoga for Peace event in Buenos Aires, Argentina. 2019. Year of Pulwama and Balakot, general elections and abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A, and finally, the Citizenship Amendment Act. Assam burned. On the occasion of Yoga Day, the PM said, “Yoga is above religion, caste, colour, gender and region, it is above everything.” Two months later, he launched the Fit India Movement. This is the year of The Virus, and while we have had to make do with an indoor Yoga Day, the fitness conversation cannot be paused. Farm bills, labour bills, angsty health workers, Rajya Sabha in disarray, a roiling Bollywood --- but the fitness talk continues to flow. Last week, on the second anniversary of the Fit India Movement, the PM took time out to speak to “fitness influencers” and citizens.  Fit India protocols were unveiled. And the PM said, “Fitness ki dose, aadha ghanta roz.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Dude, who’s the food pseud?||I don’t cook. Sometimes a truant wish to do as much gets away, floats up to the surface, but no sooner than the first tomato has dimpled under the blade, the wish evaporates. I do not know recipes. I do not ask for recipes. I do not take kindly to conversations involving recipes. I am happy to run to the grocer’s and the bajaar ad nauseam, but I am eternally grateful to have someone else plan my next meal. You will appreciate that I will never ask you if the rogan josh you planned to cook last night turned out fine or if the tilapia you had home-delivered was worth the price. I struggle to find emojis when locked-down friends routinely send me photographs of tawa naan, whole wheat bread, oats uttapam and suji ajwain puris. And unlike H, I never say, “Oh, you didn’t sweat the onion enough” or “I think you put that in the kadhai before the oil was hot enough.” But please note — all these things do not add up to disinterest in food. In the last few months, as Swiggy is my witness, I have sampled the spicy mahlak chicken served with sesame oil and mushroom, adrak halwa, aam phirni, khoya mewa kofta, a crispy duck and whatnot. But those are food philanderings and have nothing to do with the set menu in my head. There, like most philanderers, I maintain strict double standards with very definite notions of purity. Really small potato cubes with luchi. Semolina halwa always plain and always brown, never white, never garnished with anything. No skin on my chicken. No liver, no marrow, no globules — chana, chhola, matar — on my plate, ever. I cannot lie, I sneer at anyone who has a different set of rules from mine — but that is only in my head. If at all I want to call out anyone, out and loud, for breaking food protocol, it is when that ilish talk happens. No, I don’t enter any debate with those who toe the hilsa-is-so-overrated line. There are some things that don’t translate — Uttam Kumar’s sex appeal, Tagore’s compositions and ilish. I don’t feel very kindly towards those who brandish the I-am-a-Bengali-but-I-think-Rohu-trumps-Ilish number, but I have taught myself to back off. The Padma ilish vs Ganga ilish debate doesn’t move me either. But my nerves jangle every time someone yokes ilish and begun, the Bengali word for aubergine. There is a saying in these parts that goes, “Jar gun nei shei begun.” Gun means virtue and be- means to be bereft of. Basically, that which is bereft of any virtue is the aubergine. To my mind, there are three perfectly divine ways of cooking the very virtuous ilish and none involve the aubergine. Way 1. Fried and served with the oil on the side and crisp deem or roe. I like how the rice turns golden when I drizzle the oil onto it and the aroma of the fish mixed with the crushed kancha lonka (green chilli) on my plate. Way 2. As a follow-up dish, the ilish curry cooked with turmeric, kalo jeere (nigella seeds) and kancha lonka works just fine. It is light, allows the goodness of the fish to sing arias. Way 3. Bhapa or steamed ilish  smothered in shorshe or ground mustard. I prefer it when the mustard does not overpower the fish and is not too cheery a yellow. And yet anytime ilish talk happens, you can be sure there will be a heretic in the room who will bring up the ilish curry cooked with aubergine. Don’t be fooled if the discussion begins with just a listing of innocent pairings — ilish with khichuri, ilish with whiskey. Don’t let your guard down if they discuss abominations such as ilish tok cooked with tamarind paste or aamra (hog plum). When they bring up “ilish shukto with fenugreek” — I am catatonic. And then someone inevitably drops the B word. “Hmm. I understand your problem. The textures contradict,” said someone to me in a very patronising tone. It irritated me right and proper. It is not about texture. It is about character. It is about differences. In a film starring Uttam Kumar, would you need a second hero? Even if you did, would you cast Ranveer Singh? But what do the ilish-begun brigade know of such nuances. Someone will say, “Throw in potatoes with the aubergine.” They won’t even specify what cut. (Shudder, shudder.) Another will post a photograph and there’ll be potol or pointed gourd in it. Someone else will quote unverified in-laws and suggest adding pumpkin and cucumber. And before you know it, Uttam Kumar is in the middle of the floating vegetable mart of Patuli. What do I tell them? Nothing. I am a purist, not a TV square. But in my mind I am wailing, “Nahiiiiiiin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||A BJP MP's 'urgent' pitch while Cong searches for a chief spokesperson||On the last day of Lok Sabha, the former Union minister, Rajiv Pratap Rudy, raised eyebrows after he spoke in the House. Rudy rose to speak during the time allotted for ‘matters of urgent importance’, but there was nothing urgent in what he said. The parliamentarian from Bihar started by showering praise on the Speaker, Om Birla, then on the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and finally on Bihar’s chief minister, Nitish Kumar. Rudy said he was sure that by the time the next session of the House would be held, “[their] government” would have been back in the state. According to Rudy, this would be the result of the Rs 1.70 lakh crore package allotted by the prime minister, out of which every penny, he claimed, had been spent on development, and the Bihar CM’s ‘untiring’ efforts to change the face of the state. This was clearly an election speech, and had even the members of the Bharatiya Janata Party guessing the motive behind this. Rudy had been a high-flying minister in the National Democratic Alliance government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee as well as in the first term of the Modi government. He was, however, unceremoniously removed from the ministry in 2017. Since then, this politician-cum-commercial pilot, has been trying various methods to soar again. After his removal, he had said he lost because he failed to communicate his work. Now, Rudy seems to be trying alternative communication skills. By the way, he was the skill development minister in the first Modi government. The Congress is looking for a new media department head after Randeep Surjewala became general secretary in-charge of Karnataka. While there is no dearth of aspirants — even those who cannot do a decent job as spokesperson want to become the chairman — an interesting discourse is going on about the probable candidates. While the choice should have been limited to three obvious candidates who have been in the media department for long — Anand Sharma, Abhishek Singhvi and Manish Tewari — all of whom are competent and experienced, the leadership may be looking beyond them for extraneous reasons. While Sharma and Tewari might have earned themselves some negative points by signing the infamous letter to Sonia Gandhi on the drift in the party, Singhvi is too busy a lawyer to spare time for this taxing 24x7 assignment. Some younger spokespersons, considered bright, lack the stature and experience to take up this responsibility. Another major issue is fluency in both Hindi and English, a factor that eliminates many able communicators. One name that reportedly cropped up was that of Sachin Pilot, who doubtless has the ability to handle this job, but giving the role of party chief spokesperson to a leader who was perceived to have rebelled so recently could be a problem. Another name that is said to be doing the rounds is that of Jairam Ramesh — who has experience, knowledge, skills and also enjoys the trust of the top leadership. There are, however, powerful forces inimical to him within the high command structure. The easiest option may be to continue with Surjewala but he is said to be reluctant after doing this difficult job for years. “Wait for a surprise,” quipped an insider while admitting that the choice was extremely difficult because some other competent persons do not have those critical attributes like familiarity with national media, friendly behaviour and round-the-clock accessibility. The deputy CM of Delhi, Manish Sisodia — ailing with dengue and Covid-19 — has been shifted from the state-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital to Saket’s Max Super Speciality Hospital, which is part of a private chain of commercial hospitals. In June, Delhi’s health minister, Satyendar Jain, was also shifted there from a government hospital, when he was infected by the virus. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party wears its improvements in healthcare and education on its sleeves, and often makes a public spectacle of prosecuting private hospitals for fleecing patients. Last month, when the Union home minister, Amit Shah, was admitted to Gurgaon’s Medanta, some AAP activists flooded social media with memes on how much better Delhi’s government hospitals are than those in other states, alleging that Shah had no faith in his government’s hospitals. With two of their ministers eventually going for premium private healthcare, the AAP’s social media activists are now silent. Delhi’s government hospitals have seen remarkable improvement compared to those in neighbouring states since the AAP came to power in 2015. But despite vacant beds in these hospitals, Covid-19 patients have continued to flock to private hospitals, especially when their condition became critical. The prime minister’s statement of ‘no intrusion’ by the Chinese with respect to the ongoing Galwan stand-off was subsequently changed by the Prime Minister’s Office to “attempted transgression”. But Tapir Gao, the BJP parliamentarian from the frontier state of Arunachal Pradesh, has stuck to his Chinese intrusion-occupation line both within and outside Parliament for some time now. In the recently held Parliament session, Gao once again raised the Chinese intrusion-occupation in Arunachal, claiming the People’s Liberation Army had entered 50-60 kilometres within Indian territory and kidnapped five youths from Upper Subansiri district on September 3. The PLA had claimed the youths had strayed into Chinese territory. Gao also informed the sadan, the Centre and the media there is “no LAC on the Arunachal-Tibet-China border” but only the McMahon Line, decided as the border in 1914 between British India and Tibet. China came into the picture only in 1950 when it occupied Tibet, Gao said. China, however, does not accept the McMahon Line and considers Arunachal Pradesh to be part of South Tibet. Gao also requested the Speaker to constitute a team to find how many square kilometres of Indian territory China’s PLA has captured since the 1962 Indo-China War, hoping that the Centre will act in time to prevent a Galwan in Arunachal Pradesh. November 10, television channels are hoping, would improve their TRPs. That is because the final of the Indian Premier League and the Bihar election results are scheduled on this very day. The IPL final may grab its usual share of eyeballs but can the same be said about the Bihar polls? The Opposition is in tatters in the state and the word is Nitish Kumar is likely to be back on the kursi. The outcome of the political contest, unlike the cricketing one, is unlikely to raise eyebrows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Northern lights||There is something cheery about the little family of Moomins, trolls with rounded snouts, and their friends in Moominland. Whether on a picnic or in an adventure, they are curious, happy, and friendly beings; even Moominpappa with his hat and umbrella is not unbending. They never let their young readers — of the earlier comics — and viewers — of later animation — feel the cold of Finland, the home of Tove Jansson, the brilliant writer and artist who was their creator. And no wonder, because Finland is a happy country, ranked the happiest in the United Nations World Happiness Report 2020. Like all reports, it records the findings of the previous period, that is, 2018-19: the Covid-19 pandemic could have altered the happy mood. But pre-Covid, the Nordic countries have been at the top of the World Happiness Report ever since it began to be published in 2012. Like Finland, for which this is the third year at the top, Denmark, too, had that position for three years, although not consecutively. It is still in the top five. Perhaps it is always ‘happily ever after’ in Hans Christian Andersen’s land. Counting the bits that make up happiness may seem a slightly dodgy affair. Trust and generosity in society are two parameters, for example. But they are related to specific values of governance and social policies — an honest government, assurance that health and old age will be taken care of, shared institutions and so on. Finland, for example, does not have the highest gross domestic product, yet it has the happiest people. The wise old saying that the fount of happiness lies within — not in wealth — may be working here. But such a spiritual ideal cannot be captured in a report relying on measurable responses. There may not be a direct relationship between wealth and happiness: fairytales are a little more complicated than that. Wealth, the findings suggest, can matter when its unequal distribution becomes reason for status anxiety, for instance. But the weather, however cold, and the angled light of the northern sun, do not matter when social bonds are strong and there is trust in the government. So does the runaway success of Nordic noir genre of the thriller, with its criticism of social evils and governmental corruption, spring from its lack of connection to lived experience? And does SAD, the seasonal affective disorder that usually occurs when sunlight begins to dim in a particular season, spare the Nordic peoples? Cavils apart, the report is still an important indicator of certain aspects of social and economic life not usually observed in other surveys. Unsurprisingly, India is ranked 144th among 156 countries surveyed. It is painful that Indians do not show up positively in the world happiness parameters. Perhaps they would be happier if they decided to change this condition; the freedom to make choices, one of the parameters, can be fought for.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Oh, but did you know this about him?||About me, rather. When they say about him, they are actually speaking for me and on my behalf, but they don’t want to embarrass me totally, you see, so they use the third person. That’s all right. That is only right. I am saying, rather asking, did you know this about me, and they are kind enough to put it another way so I don’t directly come in the way. They are devoted people, they don’t want me to be seen as a publicist of myself, that is why they do it. They are well paid and looked after, do not worry, that much I do for services rendered to me, I have commerce in my blood, as I once famously or infamously said, you know, so I pay. Dhandho chhe, it’s business, and there is honour to keep in business. The honour of business is, you know, money. Money, money, money. Maal Baalendra. Oh sorry, I got that wrong, when everyone’s shouting your name aloud as if it were some magic mantra, the echoes can sometimes confuse you. It’s Baal Maalendra. There, got it right this time. You’d notice Maal is common to the wrong one and the right one, so it does not really matter which is the wrong one and which is the right one, maal hona chahiye, bas! Those fellows had none, and so it was that I kept ripping them apart, I would take them by their jaws and split them all the way down into two. You know the story, don’t you? About the crocodiles? Useless fellows, snapping about and scaring folks, which is quite all right by me. But they brought no maal. That’s never okay with me. I routinely took them by their jaws. Until this one that said, stop! stop! spare me and I will deliver. This croc. So I spared this one. This croc. I still have him around. He was true to promise. He delivered. He is a full-grown beast now, this croc, and he does a great job snapping and scaring. I am so thankful I spared him. But then I had to go. Brave battalions were lined up, waiting for me to serve them the succour of tea along platforms. I can’t remember their names, there were far too many. The soldiers and the platforms. I had pictures somewhere but they are lying with my many degrees, god knows where they are, there’s just no time, you see, for indulging in personal memorabilia when you have to do the job that I do. I don’t know night from day, or one set of clothes from another. Please bear with me, this beard is beginning to get in the way of my words. How does it look, by the way? I mean folks were beginning to see through me, does this work as distraction enough? Never mind. And then I had to go away again. From everything. Family and such things, you know family and sundry, in-laws and our laws. I had to go away. I became a rishi in the Himalayas searching for who I am and why I had come here. Then I went here there and everywhere in search of who I am and why I am here. You will see some surviving pictures. Eiffel Tower. White House. Pussy Cat In London. Puppy giving jhappi. You know. That sort of thing, all part of my discovery of myself. Somewhere along the way I became a mechanical engineer. And then I pretended to people I had left formal education in school whereas I had acquired a big degree in all sorts of all things, science things and politics things. But as I said I don’t know where that degree is. I gave up everything, you see. One day I saw clouds and I said, Chalo, yeh mauka achchha hai, cloud hai, radar se bach sakte hain, nikal padte hain. And here I am. Ha, Haaah! Boom! Open your eyes and take a look. Here I am, fallen upon you like a cluster bomb that does not stop to explode. BooooomPataakaaBoom!! Kaisa lag raha hai?  They say this and then say that About me tales are slim and fat But never one that turns out flat So see you soon in another hat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
27-09-2020||Opinion||Foul ball||Sir — The ‘cricket legend’, Sunil Gavaskar, is facing flak for making sexist comments against the actress Anushka Sharma, who is married to the cricketer, Virat Kohli. Gavaskar has defended himself by saying that he merely mentioned Sharma and did not say anything about her. But the fact that he decided to name a cricketer’s wife while commenting on his performance is indicative of an everyday misogyny that few of us even notice. Could not Gavaskar have said that lack of practise owing to the lockdown had affected Kohli’s skills and left it at that? Why was it necessary to drag Sharma into the issue? Gavaskar should introspect on this. Kaveri Raj Ernakulam Sir — The report, “Pandemic lesson of self-reliance for marginalised women” (Sept 26), was heartening. It took a pandemic to drive home the fact that women can be equal financial contributors in a family. At a time when male members of the family lost their jobs or had their earnings reduced, women took up vocational courses so that they could help run the household. The trusts which are running vocational courses on tailoring, handicraft, cooking and so on must be lauded for their effort to make women from marginalized communities more self-reliant. Working will not only generate an income but also help women become more confident and contribute to their self-worth. Abhijit Chakraborty Howrah Sir — While it is encouraging that women from the marginalized community are getting a chance to break age-old barriers and step out to earn a living, there are some harsh questions that need to be asked in this context. First, are the women who are now stepping out of the house — or even working from home — being helped out in their traditional duties? The plight of millions of working women not just in India but also abroad is that they have to balance work and home at the cost of their own health and mental well-being. Are the men who lost their jobs lending a helping hand with household chores? This is unlikely. More important, do women have a say over how the money they are earning will be spent? Women having a say in household spending is shown to have a significant effect on an important factor like child malnutrition and stunting. Another issue that must be considered is whether the glass ceiling has been lifted only momentarily. During World War II, women and others from the minority communities suddenly found that the wall that kept them away from opportunities was lifted and they were allowed to work. But after the War, the wall came crashing down again. This is just one instance of how women’s labour — both inside and outside the house — is taken for granted. It is expected that they will do whatever it takes, be it slaving away in the kitchen or going out to earn the daily bread, to keep the house running. One hopes that history does not repeat itself with the women mentioned in the report. Aruna Patra Bhubaneswar Sir — The fifth edition of the United Nations' Global Biodiversity Outlook and the World Wildlife Fund’s Living Planet Report 2020 highlight the serious damage done to planet earth. The UN report has pointed out that the world has failed to achieve the targets set in the historic meet at Aichi, Japan in 2010. The Aichi targets included a number of specific measures, like safeguarding ecosystems, addressing the underlying causes of biodiversity loss and so on. No country can claim credit for satisfactory performance on any of these criteria. Instead, every day, more and more species of flora and fauna are disappearing from the earth. The UN had already warned that one million species might disappear within the next few decades. The planet has already seen five big extinctions, the sixth may be happening right now; this time, though, the extinction is driven by human greed. Population explosion, destruction of forests, intensive agriculture, unrestrained industrial activity, expansion of modern facilities and amenities for luxury and overconsumption are the main contributors to the loss of biodiversity; awareness about the seriousness of the situation is yet to sink in for humans. Shovanlal Chakraborty Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
