28-09-2020||Opinion||Untamed spirit||Yet another media trial, yet another television channel accusing Muslim citizens of jihad this year, and we are back to contemplating the perennial excesses of Indian news television amid fresh calls for institutional control. The list of institutions, which have tried to make the worst offenders of television news behave, is already long. Even before judges of the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court expressed surprise and indignation this month, other high courts, the apex court itself, the Central government, state governments, individual chief ministers, state legislatures, Parliament, the Law Commission, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, and self-regulatory bodies have all attempted at some point to tame errant newscasters. Broadcast regulation in India has become everybody’s concern and yet they fail miserably to stop the excesses. We have also failed to pass an effective law. India has no statutory broadcast regulation today because the industry and the government could not agree, all these years, on what such a legislation should look like. The mention of regulation makes the media bristle and not entirely without reason. Any draft the government has come up with over the years has had draconian fall-back provisions. Draft broadcast regulation was introduced in 1997, 2001 and in 2007. The Broadcast Bill of 1997 and the Communications Convergence Bill of 2001 lapsed with the dissolution of the respective Lok Sabhas. The Broadcasting Services Regulation Bill of 2007 did not get very far either. In 2011, the second UPA government decided to set up a National Broadcasting Content Complaints Council instead that was meant to, at least, make private sector broadcasting more accountable. But that did not materialize. So it is perhaps entirely in the fitness of things that last week, a long-time practitioner of what we consider objectionable TV journalism was given a Zoom platform to explain why television news is the way it is. An anchor whose channel back in 2007 was one of the first to attract a 30-day ban from the ministry of information and broadcasting but who bounced back and has flourished since. He offered the following wisdom. “The line between entertainment and news has disappeared, there are new consumers of news to cater to. They want a news channel to be a one-stop shop for both information and entertainment, and they want it for free. So we have a ratings-based business model, and TRPs have nothing to do with discipline or responsibility. The more irresponsible you are, the higher your ratings will be. “Responsible conduct is irrelevant to the viewer. Just as people do not reject politicians who break rules, they do not reject news which breaks rules. “Viewer prefers gossip to news about farmers. My programme on Sushant Singh Rajput got 35 lakh views on Facebook, and the one on farmers got 7 lakh views. But how is the polity any different? Where is the CBI jaanch when a farmer commits suicide? Is anyone going to the Supreme Court for justice for the farmer? “Channel owners have been compelled to make their editors into film producers. They are expected to follow box office formulas, and show what their box office collections are like. Today if I have not screamed, or driven somebody out of my studio, I will fall behind in my box office performance.” The first takeaway from this box-office logic is that self-regulation will not make a dent in the practices of tabloid news TV. Why would they want to self-regulate when they have to compete to sell viewers to advertisers? Serious fines that hurt their revenues are more likely to dim their enthusiasm for re-enacting an actress’s death in a bathtub, or reconstructing an actor’s suicide or conducting a media trial of his girlfriend and her family. The Bombay High Court expressed surprise this month that the government had no control over the electronic media and wanted to know why television news should not be regulated by the State. But it is. The Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act of 1995 has a programme code and an advertising code, which government personnel, including district magistrates, are empowered to implement. And the ministry of information and broadcasting is a de-facto regulator, imposing arbitrary TV bans on channels whenever an internal committee thinks it fit and  giving permission to telecast by controlling uplinking and downlinking of television through licences. But the government’s use of the Cable TV Act is arbitrary and, in the current instance, unapologetically partisan. Earlier this month, it let Sudarshan News broadcast the controversial show called ‘UPSC Jihad’. It asked the channel to ensure that the show does not violate any programme code prescribed in the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994, knowing full well that it does. Newslaundry counted at least five violations of the programming code. It said the show caricatured Muslims as power-hungry brutes with terror links abroad who would hijack the country’s resources if they made it to the bureaucracy. The outraged judges of the Supreme Court then made scathing observations while restraining Sudarshan News from broadcasting the remaining episodes of its controversial series. When you don’t have effective regulation, the highest court of the land resorts to undesirable pre-censorship. Regulation governs television, radio and telecom licensing in other countries, sets technical standards, promulgates ethics codes, and receives and adjudicates complaints with fines, which can range from moderate to severe. In 1995, when a Supreme Court bench decreed that India should have an independent regulator to govern the airwaves, it should have become the impetus to recognize that given the media boom happening a wide-ranging regulatory institution needed to be put in place with different branches governing a range of needs. Today we have a government ministry licensing and regulating television, a separate regulator for telecom and broadband, a soft-touch regulator for the print media, and self-regulation for advertising and news TV, alongside the ministry. We don’t have the one institutional mechanism that might rein in outrageous violations by broadcasters — an independent, statutory complaints council empowered to levy substantial fines. Few will remember that the first Broadcasting Council mooted was in the Prasar Bharati Act passed by Parliament in 1990. This was meant to take complaints from the public regarding any broadcast by Prasar Bharati. By the time the Act came to be notified in 1997, the proposed Council had been dropped. But given the burgeoning media and viewers addicted to over-the-top programming, what the good judges should be asking for is not more regulators but an effective complaints redressal mechanism. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||New avenues: Taiwan looking at partners||Even as China continues with its aggressive behaviour around its periphery, it has been particularly tough on Taiwan for allowing senior government officials from the United States of America to visit Taipei in recent weeks. Taiwan was forced to scramble its fighter jets for interception as Chinese aircrafts repeatedly buzzed the island the same day that the US under secretary for economic affairs, Keith Krach, began his engagements in Taipei. Krach is the most senior state department official to visit Taiwan in four decades, and Beijing decided to show its displeasure by seriously escalating tensions with Taiwan, even announcing military exercises near the Taiwan Strait. China’s air force also released a video showing nuclear-capable H-6 bombers carrying out a simulated attack on what appears to be Andersen Air Force Base on the US Pacific island of Guam. The Global Times, the unofficial mouth piece of the Chinese government, argued in its trademark style that “Taiwan leader Tsai Ing-wen, who pledged deeper ties with the US at a dinner for a visiting senior State Department official, is clearly playing with fire. If any act of her provocation violates the Anti-Secession Law of China, a war will be set off and Tsai will be wiped out”. However, it did not seem to have much of an effect on Taiwan, with President Tsai Ing-wen pledging deeper ties with the US with the “hope that Taiwan and the United States continue to work together to promote peace, stability, prosperity and development in the Indo-Pacific...” Taipei also warned Beijing that its armed forces have the right to self-defence and counter attack amid “harassment and threats” and that it followed the guideline of “no escalation of conflict and no triggering incidents.” China has never been shy of claiming democratically-governed Taiwan as its own territory, to be taken by force if needed, but in recent years its hold has become more tenuous. The plight of Hong Kongers seems to have reinforced in Taiwan the need to remain autonomous, and the Donald Trump-led US administration has scaled up its support for Taiwan. Before Krach’s visit, the US health secretary, Alex Azar, had visited amid reports of major new arms sales to Taiwan, including long-range missiles that would allow Taiwanese jets to hit distant Chinese targets in the event of a conflict. It was just last year that Washington announced the sale of 66 F-16 fighter jets worth $8 billion to Taiwan. The Taiwanese armed forces are keen to acquire weapon systems that would allow them asymmetric advantages vis-à-vis Beijing by enhancing deterrence. The Trump administration’s strong position on the issue of Taiwan dovetails well with its broader policy on China, which has become increasingly hardline. Trump is also campaigning in the US elections as a president who has been tough on China by tightening the screws on trade, technology and geopolitics. But the issue of Taiwan has bipartisan support in the US Congress as well. It is unlikely that a potential Joe Biden-led administration will scale back US commitments to Taipei. Taiwan’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, especially when juxtaposed with China’s initial mismanagement and lack of transparency, has resulted in worldwide appreciation. Taiwan’s global cache has risen at precisely the point when China’s global stock is falling rapidly. India, too, has started looking afresh at its engagement with China as Beijing-New Delhi ties have nosedived and new avenues of cooperation with Taiwan are opening up. Tsai has been keen to cultivate new partners and her New Southbound Policy has sought to enhance links with countries across south and southeast Asia. India is a natural partner in more ways than one. It has often purported to speak on behalf of the weakest members of the international community; it should now make Taiwan a priority. Not just because of China, but also because Taiwan is a nation worth investing in politically, economically and culturally.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||Unproductive: monsoon session sans debate||The productivity of India’s Parliament is, evidently, a matter of subjective interpretation. At the end of the monsoon session — it was truncated on account of the raging pandemic — the Speaker, Om Birla, congratulated members of the government as well as the Opposition for ensuring that the sittings did not go to waste. By productivity, Mr Birla may have alluded to the feverish pace of the passage of bills by the government. It has been reported, for instance, that last Wednesday, the Rajya Sabha, in an unprecedented show of speed, passed eight bills in a matter of four hours, taking the tally of legislations passed to 15 over two days. But the passage was a bit too smooth, a point that was raised by the chairman of the upper House, M. Venkaiah Naidu, in his valedictory address. It is possible that Mr Naidu views parliamentary productivity differently, underscoring the need for thorough examination of legislations by the Opposition and the government since clauses in bills affect the lives of the people that parliamentarians claim to represent. The uncontested passage of bills had been possible because of the Opposition’s decision to boycott Parliament as a gesture of protest against the Centre’s steamrolling of three contentious farm bills earlier. To be fair to the Opposition, the manner of the passage of the farm bills was anything but consultative. But conceding the space of deliberation in Parliament — the most august House in India’s democracy — to an authoritarian regime cannot be considered to be an act of political wisdom either. The Opposition, as is mandated in parliamentary democracy, should have been present in the House, going through bills with a fine-tooth comb, as it were, to ensure that the welfare of citizens would not be affected in any manner. The labour reform bills, which have had their share of deep concern, are a case in point. The real concern is not only about the absence of political clout and finesse of a fragment Opposition. Parliament, conceptually speaking, is the highest body of discussion, debate, dissent and scrutiny of issues of national importance. It appears that the scope of critical reflection in Parliament, much like the rest of New India, is being narrowed. A muscular regime viscerally opposed to questioning — Question Hour was dropped in the monsoon session — has now been complemented by an Opposition that lacks the energy to hold an elected government accountable. The prevailing state of affairs is far from productive for the cause of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||Jurists' ire: amended FCRA poses extraordinary obstacles||While passing the amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act last week, the government said that the objective was transparency; the law was not against any non-governmental organization. Perhaps the assurance was necessary because there was not much discussion with stakeholders or even much time between tabling the bill and passing the legislation. This is a point made by the International Commission of Jurists in its statement against the FCRA 2020. The ICJ had requested the Indian president to withhold assent to allow the bill to become law as it violates international provisions: it fails to comply with the country’s international legal obligations and Constitutional provisions to protect the rights to freedom of association, expression, and of assembly. The ICJ has objected to the “arbitrary and extraordinary obstacles” being placed before rights defenders and civil society organizations. Among the problems are issues such as the reduced access to overseas funds for public servants and small NGOs, increased government oversight that NGOs fear might be arbitrary, multiplication of bureaucratic processes, the order to shift foreign accounts to a Delhi branch of the State Bank of India only, and the lowering of administrative expenses from overseas sources to 20 per cent from 50 per cent. That is an example of what the ICJ is talking about: why should the government interfere in a donor’s decision to give 50 per cent of administrative expenses to the recipient NGO? Accountability, the government’s concern, is important, and there are certainly cases of misuse of foreign funds. But such cases can be identified, since NGO regulations were always stringent. They have to provide four reports each year, to their donors, to the relevant ministry, file income tax returns and comply with registration laws, and inform the home ministry of details such as change of member or of bank account. No government has been fond of NGOs, but their history with the Narendra Modi government has been especially troubled. Foreign funding for NGOs dropped 40 per cent from 2014 to 2017-18, and 13,000 NGOs lost their licences. Even if fears of a political motive in disempowering the civil society sector are dismissed, it cannot be denied that education, health, nutrition, gender sensitivity, skills development, rights awareness and so on would be deeply harmed by the amended FCRA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
28-09-2020||Opinion||Anxious situation||Sir — It was shocking to read about the harassment meted out to the actress, Deepika Padukone, when she appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau. Reporters surrounded and chased her car. This can be extremely anxiety-inducing, especially for someone with a known history of mental illness. It must be considered that because Padukone is a celebrity, this issue has at least garnered some attention. Consider the plight of thousands of citizens with mental illness who have to face similar harassment in everyday interactions — be it facing raised voices or being stuck in crowded places. Rima Roy
Calcutta Sir — The farmers’ produce trade and commerce (promotion and facilitation) bill, 2020, the farmers (empowerment and protection) agreement of price assurance and farm services bill, 2020 and the essential commodities (amendment) bill, 2020 were passed amid protests by the Opposition parties, without any form of democratic discussion in Parliament. Even the government’s allies have raised apprehensions about the fallouts of these legislations, lending their voice to the farmers’ demands; the Shiromani Akali Dal has already snapped ties with the National Democratic Alliance. The government has claimed that these reforms are revolutionary and will free the farmers from the clutches of the exploitative Agricultural Produce Market Committee. While most farmers would agree that the APMC and the functioning of the farmers’ mandis is inefficient, opaque, politicized and often controlled by cartels, almost all of them will also agree that the new bills only make matters worse. The bills give free rein to private capital to purchase agricultural produce at cheaper prices and without any regulation or oversight by the government. This will eventually lead to the shifting of trade from regulated APMC mandis to private markets without any commitment towards investment in infrastructure and regulation from the government. Essentially, what the government has done is shirked all responsibility and left the agricultural sector at the mercy of private players. With government investment in agriculture declining in real terms and rising input costs and declining subsidy, farmers fear that the withering away of the last remaining instrument of State support in the form of the minimum support price will spell doom in years when production suffers. Aviral Sahay
Calcutta Sir — At a time when the pandemic exposed that India’s claims of being a food-secure nation are far from true — a number of people died of hunger because the government could not provide them with food — the farm bills raise more queries about the future of food security in India. Now that private players will be able to purchase and stockpile produce, one wonders how the state governments will be able to procure quality substances for the public distribution system. Corporatizing food procurement will have a serious impact on the price of food. If, for instance, state governments have to procure food from private players instead of farmers, not only are the latter cheated of fair prices that the government is bound to pay but the State will also be paying more money to corporates. In the long run, this will have a huge repercussion on the price of food and how much an average household spends on it. This is just scratching the surface. The minute food becomes more expensive and families — especially the poor — cannot afford to buy sufficient quantities of it, women and girl children will be the first ones to be deprived of adequate portions. This, in turn, will have an effect on maternal mortality, infant mortality and malnutrition. The impact of these sinister, unilaterally imposed bills will be more far-reaching than meets the eye at first. Yashodhara Sen
Calcutta Sir — In the context of the farm bills, it is interesting to note that data collected by the National Crime Records Bureau suggest that there has been an unprecedented rise in farmers’ mobilization during the first two years of the Narendra Modi government. Between 2014 and 2016, the number of farmers’ protests rose from 628 to 4,837 — a whopping 700 per cent increase. Who can forget the kisan long marches that left an indelible imprint on our minds? As farmers across the country take to the streets in protest against the recent passage of three controversial farm bills, it must be asked why this sector — farmers make up a chunk of the vote bank of any party — has been overlooked and treated poorly by consecutive governments. Farmers have been ignored by previous dispensations as well — although no other government has blatantly shrugged off its responsibility towards those who put food on our plates as the current regime. One reason for this could be the fragmentation of the farming community and the insidious entry of politics into agriculture. Farmers are used as pawns in a political game because they lack cohesion among themselves. Hira Lal De
Calcutta Sir — Given that the benefits of big-bang structural reforms such as demonetization and the goods and services tax are not within sight, it is difficult to judge the impact of the new farm bills on the lives of farmers. What is most important is the timing of these reforms. It is ironic that they come amidst a collapsed economy, devastated by the Covid-19 pandemic. At a time when the economy faces massive demand compression, people cannot accept the logic of such hasty moves. Structural reforms must come at an opportune time when the economic agents are prepared for it. They must not be thrust like the new farm laws and proposed labour legislations. Venu G.S.
Kollam, Kerala||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-142
