29-09-2020||Opinion||Novel ways: Sniffer dogs to detect Covid||Sir — The Helsinki airport has begun a pilot scheme with sniffer dogs who can apparently detect the presence of the coronavirus, thus providing another way of testing. So far the dogs have been able to identify the virus with nearly 100 per cent accuracy, much before a patient develops symptoms. Would this process be found to be medically viable? Could it lead to greater chances of recovery?Anamika Sharma,New Delhi Crucial lesson Sir — An episode of the controversial Danish television show, Ultra Strips Down, which showed adults disrobe in front of a room full of school-aged children has rightly caused outrage (“Perfectly unacceptable”, Sept 26). The show aims to promote body positivity and debunk the myth of the ‘perfect’ body by allowing kids to see a range of shapes and sizes and encouraging them to ask questions of the nude adults. However, educating one’s child about bodies should be age appropriate. While the show can be educative about different body types, it could also make kids, especially adolescents, feel uncomfortable. Moreover, the sight of adult genitalia could be distressing for those who have experienced sexual abuse. Although the show has proven to be very popular with Danish audiences — in 2019 it won an award for best children’s programme of the year at the Danish TV festival — it has also been accused of choosing a “vulgar way” to educate children about body positivity. No matter the criticism levelled against the show, it draws attention to a matter of importance. Bullying and body shaming in any form must be equally condemned for its harmful impact on the mind of the individual. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — One of the most important lessons that parents should impart to their children is self acceptance, including a positive outlook regarding their own bodies. Yet, as more and more children access social media, they begin to develop their own, warped notion of a ‘perfect body’ that is often heavily edited and airbrushed. Research suggests that children as young as three — this is alarming — struggle with body image issues. It is high time we had an open conversation about body positivity with children.Rohini Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Reform code: The NDA's labour laws||As part of its economic reforms programme, the Union government passed three codes on labour laws recently. These, along with the Code on Wages enacted in 2019, complete the labour market reforms agenda of the National Democratic Alliance government. The reforms aim to achieve two main objectives. The first is to rationalize the existing bits and pieces of legislations pertaining to labour markets into four simplified codes covering wages, workers’ rights, industrial relations, occupational safety and social security. The second objective is to energize economic activities by making it easier for employers to hire and fire workers without creating additional uncertainty for the latter. Indian industry has long been constrained by archaic labour laws that had the aim of protecting workers from arbitrary exploitation in a labour-surplus economy. Although the aim was certainly laudable, it made it extremely difficult for employers to be flexible in disengaging workers. Indeed, labour began to be treated as a fixed cost by employers and they began to find ways and means, through suitable choice of technology, to minimize employment. The paradoxical outcome was high unemployment with labour-saving technologies being preferred by even small and micro enterprises. In the informal sector, which employs the largest segment of the nation’s labour force, workers had hardly any rights worth mentioning. In the organized sector, on realizing that it was difficult for the employers to retrench them, militant workers often went on strike and disrupted production on flimsy grounds. The new codes aim to correct many of these anomalies. For instance, the right to strike remains but the notice period has been increased. Similarly, employers will find it easier to offer employment to workers on a contractual basis provided they are treated on a par with regular workers in terms of working hours, pay and benefits like gratuity. Finally, economies with easy flexibility enable employers to hire and fire. But they also have a wide social security network, which provides safety to individual workers when they are not employed. This task of protection is taken up by the State and not left as the private liability of an employer. The new codes aim to provide additional and wider cover for India’s embryonic social security apparatus. These changes are certainly going to benefit employers. The rules that protect workers must be followed strictly. Only then would Indian industry become mature and more efficient.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Taking aim: Bihar Assembly Elections 2020||Bihar will be the first state to hold assembly elections during the Covid-19 pandemic. Elaborate arrangements are being made for protection, and three days of voting instead of the expected five constitute one broad safety measure. Mismanagement of the infection had been one of the charges against the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government, already weighted by the 15-year incumbency of the chief minister — with a break — and his Janata Dal (United). But recent changes appear to have improved infection control, although the Opposition doubts that. The impact of the new agricultural reforms will be tested too, especially since Mr Kumar feels that repealing the state Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act in 2006 and dissolving all marketing committees have had positive results. Unemployment is now common to all states — Bihar’s rose to 46 per cent in April — although returning migrant workers are being given some attention. The Bharatiya Janata Party is also courting rural voters; they had been unimpressed in 2015 when the BJP lost Bihar. The prime minister has announced development projects worth around Rs 16,000 crore for the state while the BJP hopes that mobilizing households that have benefited from Central schemes will help. The Opposition seems to feel that unity may defeat the ruling coalition. The Rashtriya Janata Dal-Congress alliance with the Left parties is not an inconsiderable force. It cannot match the JD(U)-BJP’s resources though, especially now that digital campaigning and technological tools are indispensable. But seat-sharing has not been settled yet, and the Congress has remained non-committal so far about the RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav as the chief ministerial face. It is not just a question of how many seats, but also who gets which. Maybe seat-sharing is stickier for the ruling alliance. With the exit of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Shiv Sena, the JD(U) is now the BJP’s biggest ally. Equal shares — the BJP state committee’s wish — may be difficult. The Lok Janshakti Party has not agreed about seats, while seven RJD members, who had won against the NDA coalition in 2015, have joined the JD(U). The Hindustani Awam Morcha of Jitan Ram Manjhi has crossed over to the BJP, and the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party may do the same. Too many goodies. But solutions must be reached: Bihar would be a prize for both the ruling coalition and the Opposition alliance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||The Covid kids: Pandemic and birthrates||Contrary to the speculation that the pandemic will result in a ‘baby boom’, historical evidence of short-term fertility consequences of natural disasters and epidemics are mostly a ‘baby bust’. In seminal studies on the impact of the 1889 influenza outbreak on the population of France, the statistician and demographer, Jacques Bertillon, observed a nine-month lagged depression in births owing to influenza deaths. The Spanish flu (1918-19) resulted in a 13 per cent drop in birth rates from 1918 to 1919 in the United States of America. In countries such as Sweden, Norway, Taiwan, Japan and India, birth rates fell just after the Spanish flu, only to rebound in the subsequent 1-5 years. The recession of 2008 also led to a 9 per cent decline in birth rates in the US from 2007 to 2012. In the Journal of Public Economics, Lisa J. Dettling and Melissa S. Kearney have shown that with all else equal, a 1 per cent increase in the unemployment rate is associated with a 1.4 per cent decrease in birth rates. There are opposite effects in the context of disasters. The tsunami in 2004 resulted in a sharp rise in fertility among women in communities that experienced deaths. The Cuban missile crisis of 1962 and the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995 had similar impacts. Interestingly, even 9/11 resulted in an increase in births, particularly in New York state. In the US, even mild storm advisories have been shown to cause an increase in birth rates while serious storms tend to reduce birth rates — economic damages play an important role in this case. Silver lining To study the impact of Covid-19 on birth rates, we must understand its dissimilarities with the earlier pandemics. Unlike the Spanish flu, Covid-19 affects older people more than other age groups. It doesn’t have a large impact on the mortality of people of childbearing age. However, people are choosing to delay, defer or not have a child at this time. A group of Italian scientists have shown that fertility plans among the young population (18-34) have been negatively revised in Italy, Germany, France, Spain and the United Kingdom during the Covid-19 crisis. The Brookings Institution, a Washington DC-based think tank, forecast that there could be 5,00,000 fewer babies born in the US as a result of the pandemic. An article in Science, while discussing the Covid-19 pandemic and human fertility, observed that “given the irreversible nature of childbearing and the substantial costs associated with child-rearing, unemployment and lost income will necessarily reduce fertility.” A study by the London School of Economics also indicates that a baby bust is far more likely. Reduction in birth rate might have some interesting consequences. For example, on account of the Spanish flu, the reduced population led to greater agricultural land for each family in India. The Great Depression lasted for 10 years. The decade of the 1930s is called a “demographic trough”: economic hardship resulted in a severe baby bust. There were 29.5 births per 1,000 Americans in 1915. The figures were 27.7 and 25.1 in 1920 and 1925, respectively. However, the birth rate reduced to 18.7 per 1,000 in 1935. Interestingly, the Canadian economist, H. Scott Gordon, termed someone “who is born in [a] sheltered [low birth rate] trough”, preceded and followed by longer periods of high birth rates, “truly demographically lucky”. He explained that such a generation would enjoy greater social benefits as well as leverage in the job market. Assuming Covid-19-related recession would not last for more than a few years, the fewer children born in early 2020s might turn out to be ‘demographically lucky’ too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Trinbago-India: A deep bond forged by cricket||“Ms Carolyn Gupte is requesting a meeting with you.” My secretary waited for my response after throwing a googly. “Who is she?” My standard query to know some necessary information before meeting somebody. “She is the daughter of an Indian cricketer who lived in Trinidad.” “What is her father’s name?” “Mr Subhash Gupte, that’s what she said.” The name seemed familiar, although I could not place him immediately. ‘He is the one who got married in Trinidad, the spinner, right?’ I was trying to link the name with my brain cells. Subhash Gupte’s was one of the very first Indo-Trini love stories that I heard after reaching Port of Spain last year. That was the Caribbean Premier League season, and I was invited to the Queen’s Park Oval to witness a match where a Trinidadian cricket journalist told me the story of Subhash and Carol Gupte. It was the very first tour of the Indian cricket team under the legendary Vijay Hazare that had visited the West Indies in 1953, and Subhash Gupte was the star spinner in the group, with 27 wickets in five Tests. Like millions of Indians, I love cricket; but over the years, work pressure and working in some non-cricket-playing nations have rusted my knowledge of cricket history. Carolyn was the daughter of Subhash Gupte and Carol Goberdhan of Trinidad. Carol was from San Fernando, now a prominent business district of Trinidad. When we met, Carolyn presented me with the book, Love Without Boundaries, published in 2018, which she wrote to tell the love story of her parents to her daughter. According to the book, the pick-up line that Subhash Gupte chose to draw the attention of Carol at a reception in Queen’s Oval club was, “Yours is the kind of face that I would like to see every morning at my breakfast table.” One of the very first programmes that I could steer after my arrival in Trinidad and Tobago was to send three under-16 cricketers, one boy and two girls, to our national cricket academy in Bangalore to train for a month at the expense of the Government of India. For the young cricketers, it was a life-changing experience. After their return from India, all three of them have been selected for the under-19 national teams. Any cricketing event that I attend, I hear light-hearted comments like the West Indian team needs somebody like Mahendra Singh Dhoni or Virat Kohli or Rohit Sharma. “High Commissioner, can you loan them to us for a few months?” Remarks like this will invariably be followed by loud laughter. India’s 1983 World Cup win, Kapil Dev, Sunil Gavaskar, Sourav Ganguly and Rahul Dravid are frequently mentioned in the cricket circle. The Tendulkar-Lara comparison is bound to creep in if I am talking cricket with any Trinidadian cricket enthusiast. Ambassadors of the cricket-playing countries enjoy a special status in cricket clubs in Trinidad and Tobago. Cricket is in Trinbago’s air. One cannot miss signages, billboards, posters and statues of the living legend, Brian Lara, on streets, stadia and squares. The Brian Lara stadium proudly flashes his cricketing milestones. During this year’s CPL, the Trinidad and Tobago Film Festival opened with a feature-length documentary, 501 Not Out, charting his career at its 15th edition on September 9. The CPL ended on September 10 and the Trinbago Knight Riders won it for the fourth time. Both the finalists of this year’s CPL, the TKR and St. Lucia Zouks, have India connections. TKR is owned by the Kolkata Knight Riders consortium while St. Lucia Zouks is owned by the Kings XI Punjab. Usually, the CPL matches spread across six Caribbean islands, such as Trinidad and Tobago, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Guyana, Barbados, Jamaica and Saint Lucia. However, this year, it has been restricted to Trinidad and Tobago due to the coronavirus pandemic and has been played in a bubble in only two stadia: the Queen’s Park Oval and the Brian Lara stadium. International cricketers, such as Colin Munro of New Zealand, Chris Lynn of Australia, Imran Tahir of South Africa, Mohammad Nabi of Afghanistan, Sandeep Lamichhane of Nepal and Pravin Tambe of India, have played for various teams in the CPL. Many Caribbean players, including Kieron Pollard, Dwayne Bravo and Darren Bravo of Trinidad and Tobago, are valuable assets in the Indian Premier League. Since the 1950s, cricketers of Indian descent from Trinidad and Tobago have made an immense contribution to West Indian cricket. Some of them are Sonny Ramadhin — one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1951 — Inshan Ali, Dinanath Ramnarine, Daren Ganga, Sherwin Ganga, Ravi Rampaul, Denesh Ramdin, Sunil Narine, Samuel Badree and Robin Singh. A few of them have also founded cricket academies to train youngsters to be professional cricketers and represent the West Indian cricket team. Cricket is one of the strongest bonds between India and Trinidad and Tobago and has strengthened people-to-people contacts. Many young cricketers dream of visiting India and playing in the IPL. For many players of Indian descent, a trip to India is not only an opportunity to be part of the biggest sporting event in India but also to discover and experience the strength and richness of their ancestral roots. The author is High Commissioner of India to Trinidad & Tobago||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
29-09-2020||Opinion||Violent trap||A gang rape took place earlier this month on the Lahore-Sialkot Motorway. A woman was driving to Gujranwala from Lahore around 1 am when her car’s fuel ran out. She called the Motorway helpline but was told that the Motorway Police had not taken over it so far. For almost two hours, the woman waited for help, but it didn’t come. And while she was waiting for help, two ‘robbers’ came, broke her car’s windows, took out her children and started beating them up. When she ran after the children, they raped her in front of her children. The police arrived at the scene after the two vultures had fled. As if it were not terrifying enough that a woman with her children was stranded on the Motorway for two hours without any help reaching her, after which she was raped in front of her children, to add insult to injury, the Capital City Police Officer Lahore, Umer Shaikh, resorted to victim-blaming. When the CCPO was asked about the incident on a private television channel, he said that the woman should not have left to travel after midnight, and if she had, she should have taken a busier road (G.T. Road) instead of the Motorway, and that she should have checked her car’s fuel tank. This statement sparked outrage across the country. The hashtag, #RemoveCCPOLahore, trended on Twitter. Rallies were taken out in some cities asking for the CCPO’s removal. The latter was least bothered. Ministers in the government came to his defence and said he gave a ‘bad statement’ but that does not qualify for him to be removed. The CCPO apologized for his statement a few days later in a non-apology. And that too because of media and social media pressure. One of the two alleged rapists was caught while the other one is still at large. Convictions in rape and sexual assault cases are less than three percent according to a report by the Karachi-based War Against Rape. Reporting rapes and sexual assault is also low because of the attitude of our investigative officers, the culture at police stations and later in the courts. The statement of the CCPO Lahore is not out of the ordinary because that is the sort of mindset that women fight every day in this part of the region. When Pervez Musharraf was president, he said in an interview that “if you want to go abroad and get a visa for Canada or citizenship and be a millionaire, get yourself raped”. This is the mindset that is prevalent across society. From ‘she was not dressed right’ to ‘she was alone’ to ‘why was she out at night’ to many other such accusations, a rape survivor has to face much more. Rape is a crime that scars a survivor’s entire life. In 2005, when I did a report on rape survivors, a survey said that 82 per cent of them revealed that the experience had permanently changed them. The real numbers may be even higher. We cannot even comprehend what they face. Families in this part of the world usually tend to hide the incident. A police official told me how, in a small town, they initially heard of a gang rape but when the family filed a report, it was of a robbery. They later found out that three women of the same family were raped in front of their male family members, but the family did not want to make this crime public due to the social stigma attached to it. This is the unfortunate truth: survivors and their families are not willing to come forward because they do not want to relive the trauma and they also do not want to be ostracized from society as a result of reporting a violent crime. It just shows how helpless a rape survivor is when the law and society are not on her side. A poll conducted by Amnesty International back in 2005 revealed that more than a third of Britons blame flirting on the part of women for them being raped. A quarter of the population thinks that a woman wearing revealing clothing is completely or partially responsible when she is sexually assaulted. About one in 12 believe that a promiscuous woman is wholly responsible for being raped. This was in a western country, a sexually liberal country, 15 years ago. Imagine then the kind of views in a patriarchal society like ours where domestic abuse victims are usually told to go home and settle this ‘family matter’ instead of bringing their assaulters to the police. Our media have behaved responsibly in the recent gang rape incident. In the past, we have seen the survivor’s name, picture or her address flashed across newspapers and some television screens. This time, it was ensured that nobody finds out about her identity because the survivor had requested complete privacy. Hopefully, this practice will continue in the future for other survivors as well. Our society’s apathy and victim-blaming culture also needs to end. Crimes against women — be it domestic violence, sexual harassment, sexual assaults, rapes, ‘honour’ killings — are treated as if they are a norm. It is not just sad but reflective of how we see women. In the words of Shirley Chisholm, the first woman African-American Congress member, “The emotional, sexual, and psychological stereotyping of females begins when the doctor says, ‘It’s a girl’.” This is the stark reality of women in our parts of the world. In South Asia, crimes against women are quite high but the treatment meted out to women is appalling. From casual sexism to downright harassment to not letting women exercise their right to choose, we live in a world where many women are now coming forth asking for their rights in the face of extreme patriarchy. When a police chief of a large city tells women not to step out of their houses after a certain hour, it gives a message that women are on their own if a crime is committed against them at odd hours. What if the survivor’s fuel tank was full but her car had another technical fault, what about rapes that take place inside houses in broad daylight, what about the so-called honour killings that take place at the hands of family members because the women chose to marry of their own will? Who will the CCPO blame then? It is a shame that we have people with these mindsets policing our cities. Let’s hope that some day soon this culture of rape apologists ends and women are treated as equal citizens. The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-141
