30-09-2020||Opinion||Team trouble: Rift in Bengal BJP||Teamwork is crucial for electoral success. But the recent organizational changes within Team Bharatiya Janata Party, so to speak, shows that the BJP may have its task cut out, at least in Bengal. The elevation of Mukul Roy, once perched high on the pecking order of the Trinamul Congress — the BJP’s principal rival in poll-bound Bengal — to national vice-president has ruffled the feathers of the old guard. Mr Roy’s promotion, along with that of Anupam Hazra, another turncoat from the TMC, came about even as Rahul Sinha, a two-time state president of the party, found himself out in the cold. News of the reshuffle was greeted by unrest in the party rank and file in at least two places. This simmering anger within the Bengal BJP demolishes some carefully nurtured myths. Even though it is a regimented, disciplined and dominant political force, the BJP, just like any other party, is not free from schisms. The rivalry between old members and new entrants to the parivar in Bengal has been exacerbated by the central leadership’s inclination to reward former TMC leaders with influential posts. This, in turn, is revealing. The BJP has always projected itself as a party with a difference. But its embrace of allegedly tainted leaders — there are serious allegations of financial irregularities against Mr Roy — threatens to dent this claim. One probable consequence of this churn would be the ceding of the moral high ground on the part of the party. This only goes to show that the BJP remains eager to barter morality for political imperatives. Mr Roy’s new-found prominence indicates another — deeper — problem. In spite of tall claims, the BJP remains vulnerable in terms of its organizational apparatus in many parts of Bengal. That explains its willingness to court Mr Roy whose expertise reportedly lies in organizational matters. Internal strife as well as patchy organization could pose significant hurdles even as the BJP prepares to wrest Bengal from Mamata Banerjee next year. But Mission Bengal, as is evident from the dissonance within the state unit as well as divergences in priorities between state and central leadership, may not run smoothly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Learn the lesson: Indian examination system||Sir — The article, “Hollow test” (Sept 25), by Samantak Das was a pleasure to read. This could soothe the nerves of tense examinees across the country in the future. Learning by rote is no way to actually learn lessons, because there is a high chance that the student would forget them soon after the tests are over. Yet, while it is true that an overhaul in the entire system of education is required — conducting regular tests, based on critical thinking, could be one way — students cannot afford to take examinations lightly at the moment. Unfortunate as it is, marks scored in board exams, especially, decide the future of the student to a great extent. Shailaja Sen,Calcutta Sir — In his article, Samantak Das has revealed a bitter truth about the examination system in India and elsewhere. He has rightly analysed that examinations are but tools of ideological control. Ideally, examinations should judge students on their intelligence, creativity, ability to comprehend and use acquired knowledge. However, most examination systems do not help achieve any such goals. It is true that thinking differently and answering questions according to their understanding and analytical capacity would fetch students lower marks. In comparison, students who learn by rote and write prepared answers score better marks. This problem has been raised earlier by educationists, but no fruitful measures have been adopted to eradicate them. Another important issue raised by Das is the coercive decision of the current political dispensation to hold examinations, knowing full well that for students across the country the learning process has been severely disrupted on account of Covid-19 — the lack of proper internet connectivity and their inability to access books and other learning materials pose a grave problem. Political regimes should be more concerned about improving and facilitating the teaching and learning processes. Examinations can wait. Yousuf Iqbal,Calcutta Goosebumps Sir — Baby bumps are, evidently, cool. Social media platforms and traditional media cannot have enough of would-be moms — mostly celebrities — posing with their imminent bundle of joy. But why are the media or, for that matter, the public imagination, not enthused by the male paunch — the bhnuuri — a protrusion that can, on some occasions, be formidably generous? A paunch, after all, is the symbol of the labour and love of women, given that even in this day and age, most Indian men would not be able to cook a morsel to save their lives. Are the editors listening? Buddhadeb Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Booked: An imminent battle over GST dues||The Narendra Modi government and the states will be squaring off for a tense battle when the Goods and Services Tax Council meets on October 5 to debate the alleged perfidy of the Centre in quietly siphoning off a sum of Rs 472.72 billion from the compensation cess fund during the two years since the tax reform was introduced, and then waving an empty box in the faces of state governments to back its claim that it did not have the means to make up even a part of the projected shortfall of Rs 2.35 trillion this year. In late August, the Centre had said that the gap in GST collections this year would be around Rs 3 trillion. A part of that — a sum of Rs 650 billion — could be set off against the compensation cess collections this year. The Centre went on to claim that the entire shortfall could not be blamed on the infirmities in the GST implementation. It arbitrarily determined that a sum of Rs 1.38 trillion could be ascribed to the slowdown in the economy induced by the coronavirus pandemic — a force majeure-like situation that was not covered by the GST legislation and was, therefore, ineligible for the compensation protection mechanism. It said that the states could borrow the remaining Rs 970 billion from a specially created cheap loan window that the Reserve Bank of India would create to help them tide over the crisis. Alternatively, they could raise market loans to cover the entire shortfall. Cash-strapped states have been peeved with the Centre for reneging on its promise to compensate them for loss of revenue during a five-year transition phase that runs till 2022. The real shock is the impunity with which the Centre diverted GST compensation funds to the Consolidated Fund of India instead of depositing it in a non-lapsable fund that forms part of the Public Account, a corpus of all the money that does not belong to the Centre but which it holds in trust on behalf of other authorities and entities. The Comptroller and Auditor General’s report said the way the money was transferred to the Consolidated Fund amounted to a gross violation of the GST Compensation Cess Act, 2017. The report said the short crediting of the cess led to an overstatement of the Centre’s revenue receipts and understatement of the fiscal deficit. The Centre claims that it has already paid back the short credited sum to the states in 2019-20. Officials state that in 2019-20, the Centre released Rs 1.65 trillion as GST compensation against a cess collection of Rs 954.44 billion which would not have been possible without crediting the unutilized cess of Rs 472.72 billion. The accounting sleight of hand over the GST compensation cess stokes deep distrust of the Centre’s management of funds. Such chicanery can break the spirit of cooperative federalism and permanently damage Centre-state relations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||The path to resurrection: Credible plebeian politics||August 5, on two consecutive years, brought a deep sense of disappointment to large sections of politically conscious people in India. In 2019, this was the day when the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre, in a unilateral decision, struck down Article 370 from the Constitution. That the Narendra Modi government could get it done despite not having an absolute majority in the Rajya Sabha was one of the main points of dejection. In a stunning turn of event, members of the Bahujan Samaj Party, Aam Aadmi Party, YSR Congress, Biju Janata Dal, Telugu Desam Party, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and Asom Gana Parishad extended support to the Centre’s move. Earlier, these parties had pledged to uphold secularism and regional autonomy. Now, they are willing to endorse the idea of Hindutva hegemony. A year later, in 2020, the BJP moved ahead with its plan to consolidate its Hindutva politics with bhoomi pujan celebrations in Ayodhya. It was striking to see many leaders of the Congress attempting to assimilate themselves into the Hindutva brand of politics. Some of them organized Hanuman chalisa recitals; Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hailed the construction of the Ram temple where the Babri mosque had stood. Even in its controversial judgment on the Ayodhya issue, the Supreme Court had called the destruction of the mosque a criminal act. A few days later, when some Muslim activists, who had been associated with the Shaheen Bagh  protest, joined the BJP, the AAP launched a ridiculous political attack, claiming that the Shaheen Bagh episode had been planned and executed by the BJP. What is the significance of these three examples? Most of the non-BJP parties (with the singular exception of the Left) have lost their ideological plane on which they stood. The economic content of their ideology had been diluted long back. Since the dawn of neo-liberalism, the raison d’être of their opposition to the BJP had been limited to their claim of being the protector of constitutional values. But the three examples show that they have discarded that pretence and are now in the race of proving themselves to be even more ‘Hindu’ than the BJP. A distinct politics cannot be imagined without a distinct ideology, viable strategy and effective tactics. If a political formation’s commitment to its ideology becomes hazy, it loses the ability of presenting a narrative that could enthuse its supporters and attract the masses. Post 2019, non-BJP parties seem to be suffering from this affliction and this road will lead them towards their irrelevance. However, such a narrative cannot be developed without having a clear understanding of contemporary politics the world over. A cursory look at trends in the democratic world will show that this is an age of insurgency — be it of the right-wing or left-wing kind. Narendra Modi, Donald Trump, Boris Johnson epitomize right-wing insurgencies; Bernie Sanders, Jeremy Corbyn or Pablo Iglesias (Spain) represent a kind of left-wing insurgency.  The days of centrist politics are over, at least for now. In India, the right-wing space is occupied by the Modi-led BJP. The only space where possibilities remain is the left flank. If non-BJP parties want to make a new beginning, they must remember what the iconic leader of the British Labour Party, Nye Bevan, had said of the Left in the 1950s: “We have never suffered from too much audacity; we have suffered from too little.” In this age of insurgency, ideological audacity may be a pre-condition for success. Re-asserting the principles of secularism and social justice in unambiguous terms would be an integral part of this effort. But it may not be enough. Without presenting a new economic agenda that is different from Modi’s welfarism, no leader or party can hope for definitive electoral success. It seems that the Congress and other non-BJP parties are least interested in presenting a narrative that can generate hope among the masses disillusioned with their earlier neo-liberal agenda. A beginning in the direction of a credible plebeian politics could only be made with the declaration of a policy programme that must include the following: a commitment to bring back planned development; giving public sector a central place in the economy; imposing a new progressive tax regime that comprises wealth and inheritance taxes; bringing health and education under public control and planning and, of course, a programme of green industrial and energy revolution. The recent upheavals in the Congress show that when a party loses its ideological steam, it also loses organizational coherence. The other non-BJP parties are not immune to this situation. Endeavouring for a new ideological resurrection has thus become an existential question for them. They have to choose between remaining a relevant political force with constitutional obligations and becoming willing partners in the Hindutva project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Life is out there: Sense of being Indian||Kamala Harris, an American politician and lawyer who is partly Indian in origin, is the Democratic Party’s vice-presidential nominee for the 2020 presidential elections in the United States of America. In the wake of her nomination, there was also focus — briefly — on Nikki Haley, a Republican politician and former US ambassador to the United Nations who has Indian roots. Harris and her social media team made it a point to remind us of her continued affection for South Indian food. Donald Trump, rival to her and Joe Biden in the election, needs no such promotion. He has warm ties with the current Indian leadership and has supporters here with temples bearing his idol. Around the time Harris was giving speeches in English, India was grappling with another side of the homogenous nation-building conservatism that has become Indian governance. Two days before Harris’s nomination, a member of parliament from Tamil Nadu, the state Harris’s mother hails from, complained of language discrimination at the Chennai airport. She wanted to be spoken to in Tamil or in English. The security official wished for Hindi. On August 22, reports appeared of a bureaucrat of the Central government suggesting at a video conference that those who don’t understand Hindi better leave the discussion. Given how fashionable ‘majority’ is these days, there is friction over what language we should speak in — whether it should be the mother tongue, Hindi or English. The fact is that both Hindi and India’s vernacular languages have been weaponized for political mileage even though English links better worldwide and takes you far. The best proof of this is Harris and others like her, with roots traceable to India and education and life in the US.Heavy burden Amidst Harris’s nomination in the world’s most powerful democracy and her remembering South Indian food and link to the subcontinent, there is, however, still no replacing India’s conservative environment with a paradigm that is more practical, inclusive, relaxed and youthful. That last attribute — youthful (often mistaken for digital) — would even seem misplaced in India currently for although we are the country with the highest share of youth in its population, a strong dose of family ensures that old views — even ancient ones — get insisted upon. The world has changed massively since the old order. But our quest is to restore a glory reminiscent of the empires gone by and the durbars they cultivated. Find status, the ingredients of happiness follow — that’s the long-standing rule. Don’t believe me? Look around. In every youngster’s heavy backpack, there is no abandoning the memory of Indian context: personal, familial, communal, national. You represent generations. You fail; they fail. If life were an aircraft, this would seem too much payload for take-off. Yet it is this never ending feudalism and the inability to question it that fuel Indians to fly to distant lands for self-improvement, first as compliance with general expectations and, then, for good. Many flourish because the foreign ambience liberates them. Attitudes are different there. Indians may go there with their focus on degrees and career. But the lustre of those places and the universities and careers therein provide a larger identity for all those who make it there. They become coveted back at home. It keeps the oldies proud and happy. Our political leadership would agree. Notwithstanding its origin in the same conservatism that stifles life here, it craves adulation in a Super Bowl or a rock concert setting. The US was where that dream came true. Like Harris remembering South Indian food, they remember White House hugs, packed stadiums and visits to social media companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
30-09-2020||Opinion||Crushed spirits||The Keynesian notion of animal spirits conjures up the image of a dog sinking into a stupor of sorts when its master returns home unusually late. The ring of a doorbell is all that is needed to infuse mirth into the animal, which it expresses by rushing towards the front door. Animals, though, are known to behave sorrowfully for a totally different reason as well. This involves illnesses, especially of the terminal variety. A sick animal sniffs out a lonely corner for itself, where it lies in silence, awaiting the arrival of the inevitable. No doorbell injects energy into a dog that knows that it is dying. Vets alone can sometimes help in such situations, not doorbells. When Keynes spoke about animal spirits, he had the first kind of spirits in mind. Economic causes can often induce mental agony and lead to lethargy-ridden economic behaviour. Economic policies are meant to address such issues. However, as with the case of the physically suffering dog, or lion or what have you, timeworn fiscal and other policies may have little impact on economies that are literally sick on account of a medical reason, such as the raging pandemic-ridden world today. Even prior to the appearance of the dreaded virus, the world was whimpering due to the absence of animal spirits of the Keynesian variety. The disease has precipitated a double whammy for most economies of the world. A dog that misses its master is sad, but is ready to run as soon as the loved one appears. But, till cured of its illness, a dog that is suffering from a physical ailment will not accompany its master to run in the public park. And a slice of ham will never constitute a panacea for the problem. Similarly, human agents that constitute an economy do not respond to economic incentives alone when they are either afflicted by a disease with unknown remedies or are wary of an invisible virus-ridden sword of Damocles hanging over their heads. The entire world is suffering and India, therefore, cannot be an exception. The latest press release of the ministry of statistics and programme implementation conjures up a scary spectacle. Measured in terms of Quarter 1 (April-June) GDP figures, the economy has sustained a massive crash. At constant 2011-12 prices, our Q1 GDP in 2014-15 was a little above 25 trillion rupees. Since then, it had climbed up to cross the 35 trillion mark in 2019-20, only to tumble down to around 27 trillion in 2020-21, which is pretty close to where we began in 2014-15. The state of affairs resembles the exact opposite of the so-called sharp V-shaped turnaround that some are looking forward to. Needless to say, the figures will change over time and this for two different reasons. First, the published figures, when revised with the help of cleaner data, may well display a somewhat milder crash (or a harsher one for all we know) compared to what the current figures say. Secondly, towards the end of November, data for the second quarter too will be published along with revised estimates of the first. If Lady Luck favours, the two quarters combined may present a less disquieting story. As reported by The Telegraph (September 7, 2020), this is probably the view held by C. Rangarajan, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, in a paper jointly authored with the EY India chief policy advisor, D.K. Srivastava. Given their wide experience, the optimism of the authors cannot be summarily dismissed. Nonetheless, it is worth our while to examine the arguments carefully. The conclusion is summed up in the observation that “sectors like agriculture and essential goods and services were fully operational in the first quarter despite (the) coronavirus-induced lockdown... ” According to the MOSPI data, the agricultural sector did posit a positive 3.4 per cent growth relative to where it stood a year ago. As far as all other sectors are concerned, the published growth rates are negative. It is not obvious which sectors constitute “essential goods and services” in the quoted exercise, unless they refer to the ones that display smaller negative growth rates than those registered by others, such as manufacturing (-39.3 per cent) and construction (-50.3 per cent). Moreover, on the basis of the performance of the agriculture and essential services sectors in the first quarter of 2020-21, the paper reaches the conclusion that the year, 2020-21, as a whole (Q1 through Q4), is likely to come up with a marginal but positive growth rate vis-à-vis 2019-20. The strange conclusion has been reached in the face of a (-23.9 per cent) contraction of the entire economy in the first quarter. Further, while the first quarter reports the satisfying performance of rabi crops, the kharif output will be known only towards the end of the calendar year. Given the favourable course of the monsoon, it is tempting of course to conclude that agriculture will be buoyant for the entire year. Whether other sectors in the economy will pick up too is yet to be seen. If they do, then the first quarter damage may well be repaired over the remaining three quarters and, as Rangarajan et al have predicted, the entire year, 2020-21, will show a small positive growth over the year 2019-20. Negative growth reared up its head only after the appearance of the pandemic. The new feature that the pandemic added to the Keynesian demand deficiency problem was a supply-side failure. Weak demand was accompanied by novel attacks on animal spirits by a highly contagious disease. It affected demand, because quite apart from other economic difficulties, the consumer began to maintain a distance from the supplier. Demand wise then, animal spirits were severely suppressed. On the production side too, a similar phenomenon occurred, since producers found it too risky to carry on production activities. Workers lost jobs, producers lost profits. The Keynesian animal spirits problem joined hands with the second type of animal spirits issue brought up above. Their combined impact depressed animal spirits below where it ruled prior to the influx of the disease in early 2020. Economists began to offer their usual recommendations — government expenditure, generous monetary policy, low interest rates and so on — to address economic slowdowns. They worked to some extent, although weakly, since there exists no solely economic solution to a purely medical problem. This shows up partly in the paradoxical boom in the stock market generated probably by easy money policy when real output and employment collapsed. So long as the virus stays, animal spirits will continue to be subdued way below the level at which they stood prior to the onset of the disease. The crying need of the hour, therefore, is not to confuse a medical problem with an economic one. It is more than evident that the present doom will not disappear till a medical treatment is found, a vaccine or medicine, that the world population has firm faith in. That faith alone will make the world bounce back to life, like vet-cured dogs responding to economic doorbells. If not, even the marginal Rangarajan-Srivastava growth calculation will count as an absurd drama. The author is former Professor of Economics, Indian Statistical Institute, Delhi and Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-140
