01-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Pargat Singh signs resolution seeking justice for victims of 1984 riots||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31Higher Education, Languages, Education and Sports Minister Pargat Singh today participated in the historical Mela Gadri Babeyan Da which started here today. He signed a huge flex board listing various resolutions, one of which seeks ‘1984 Dilli Sikh katleaam de doshian nu saza davao!’ (punish those responsible for the 1984 Sikh genocide).Notably, Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi-led government has recently come under question by senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar as well as opposition parties BJP and SAD over the recent appointment of 1984 Sikh riots accused Jagdish Tytler as a permanent invitee to the Delhi Congress’ New Executive Committee.A huge flex at the fair lists the resolutions to be passed at the mela tomorrow. The resolution signed by hundreds seeks justice for the 1984 Sikh genocide victims and those at the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The key points of the resolutions include demand to withdraw three agriculture ‘black laws’, punishing those guilty of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, restoring former look of the recently renovated Jallianwala Bagh and the demand for compensation to farmers who are victims of natural disasters.A 30-year-old tradition of raising people’s voices, Mela Ghadri Babeyan Da is known for its unequivocal stance on raising people’s issues and for its fierce criticism of the governments. Along with a celebration of the Ghadarites and freedom fighters who laid lives during the Freedom Struggle, the mela also raises questions on contemporary political injustices. This year’s mela is dedicated to the kisan andolan and the Babbar Akalis.Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall being a hub of socialist and pro-people thought, politicians (leave alone those holding a cabinet berth) have traditionally kept a distance from the mela. Interestingly, in keeping with tradition, the committee doesn’t invite government officials or ministers etc. to the fair. Hence Pargat’s visit came as a surprise to the committee members themselves.The minister visited the book stalls and bought books on life and philosophy of Shaheed Bhagat Singh as well as former CM and gentleman politican Partap Singh Kairon’s life, among other books. Pargat Singh also interacted with youth, children and listened to their views regarding the history of Ghadri Babean Mela. During his visit Pargat also took a round of the book stall set up by the Language Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-signs-resolution-seeking-justice-for-victims-of-1984-riots-332745
01-11-2021||---||Surjit Hockey: Indian Railways clinch title||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31Indian Railways Delhi clinched the 38th Indian Oil Servo Surjit Hockey Tournament by defeating Punjab & Sind Bank Delhi 3-1 in the final at Katoch AstroTurf Hockey Stadium in Jalandhar Cantt today.The winners bagged Rs5 lakh and a trophy while the the runners up got Rs2 lakh.Education and Sports Minister Pargat Singh gave away the prizes to the players. Pardeep Singh of Indian Railways was declared ‘Player of the Tournament’ and awarded Rs51,000 cash in memory of Mohinder Singh Tut.Gakhal brothers gave Rs11 lakh to Indian men and women hockey players. Indian hockey players Rupinder Singh, Harmanpreet Singh, Hardik Singh, Mandeep Singh, Gurjant Singh and Shamsher Singh were also present on the occasion.To promote sports, renowned philanthropists Amolakh Singh Gakhal and his brother, had announced to gave away cash prizes to the winning teams. The duo offered Rs30,000 as a financial assistance to a student.In the first quarter of the match, Indian Railway’s Ajmer Singh scored the first goal through a penalty corner. In the very next minute, Punjab & Sind Bank’s Maninderjeet Singh equalised the score 1-1. In the 30th minute of the play, Pardeep Singh of the Indian Railways scored another goal through a penalty corner. In the last minute, Indian Railway’s Varinder Singh scored the third goal.CM Charanjit Singh Channi showcased his goalkeeping skills against Olympian Pargat Singh during half time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surjit-hockey-indian-railways-clinch-title-332746
01-11-2021||---||Channi in Jalandhar, unemployed teachers raise protest pitch||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, October 31In a series of protest by the unemployed teachers unions, a large section of them today held a protest amid Chief Minister Charanjit Channi’s visit to the city.Continuing their strike, unemployed teachers, Munish Kumar Fazlika and Jaswant Ghubaya remained seated atop a water tank, near the bus stand. On October 28, an attempt was also made by the unemployed teachers to lay siege to the residence of the Education Minister, where there was a scuffle with the police. Teachers’ union to intensify stirWhen the teachers today tried to reach out to the administration and the CM’s convoy, a heavy police force deployed, inside the bus stand, prevented teachers from approaching the officials.Union leaders Aman Sekha and Sandeep Gill said their struggle had been going on for the past four-and-a-half years to fill up a total of 18,000 posts of master cadre, including 9,000 posts in social studies, Hindi and Punjabi. The department is also running away from providing employment to unemployed teachers who meet all the qualifications.As soon as the unemployed people blocked the Company Bagh Chowk in protest, the police blocked their way.The union leaders said the CM had promised to accede to the demands of the unemployed as soon as possible. The agitators said the morcha would continue till their demands were met. Unemployed people blocked the Company Bagh Chowk for about four hours. On the third day of their strike, Nand Lal, Kush Kumar, Rajinder Kaur, Simerjit Kaur, Veena Rani went on hunger strike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/channi-in-jalandhar-unemployed-teachers-raise-protest-pitch-332747
01-11-2021||---||AIDS awareness gets wheels in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, October 31An AIDS awareness van will spread awareness and also conduct free tests in the Kapurthala district for the coming one month. The van, inaugurated at the Civil Hospital, Kapurthala, by Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Kaur, is an initiative to spread AIDS awareness and bust myths regarding the disease among the common populace. The Punjab State AIDS Control Society, under instructions from the state government, has been holding AIDS awareness drives in the state.The said van, launched in the district on October 29, will stay in the district until December 6. The van will visit different areas and will ascertain the causes of AIDS, its symptoms and discuss its prevention among the local populace also simultaneously spreading AIDS awareness.During the launch of the campaign, Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Kaur also said with the help of the AIDS awareness van, free HIV tests of people will also be conducted and local councilors will also spread awareness among people about the prevention from AIDS and the myths about it. Nukkad nataks will also be held on the field during this awareness drive.Discussing the reasons of the spread of AIDS, the Civil Surgeon said AIDS was caused by unprotected sex with an HIV infected person, transfusion of HIV infected blood, sharing of HIV infected syringes and from an HIV positive mother to her child. She also said there were many false notions and myths in the society regarding the spread of AIDS.Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr Anu Sharma said free treatment of AIDS was available at government health centres. She also said testing of AIDS was free at the ART centre at Civil Hospital, Kapurthala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aids-awareness-gets-wheels-in-kapurthala-332748
01-11-2021||Avoid vehicles in crowded markets||Open House:  What steps should be taken to solve the problem of traffic congestion on Jalandhar city roads?||Festive season has begun and roads are flooded with vehicles. Wrong parking of vehicles is a major cause of traffic congestion. Awareness campaigns should be organised to educate the people regarding traffic problems. Moreover, wrong-side driving is also a huge issue for city residents as the driver is putting his and others life in danger too. Common man should avoid taking vehicles to Rainik Bazaar, Sheikhan Bazaar and Gurh Mandi since these markets are very congested and person who will go to the market on his foot can easily roam here and there. People are stubborn and don’t pay heed to any good suggestion. In such a situation, the government should handle the situation with an iron hand and hefty fines should be imposed on those who violate the traffic rules.Saahil HansGive boost to public transport systemIf we are sincere towards traffic rules and park our vehicles at public parking the traffic problem will be solved to a great extent. Pedestrians face difficulty in walking on road as motorists park their vehicles as per their sweet will. Footpaths have been built by the Municipal Corporation for the pedestrians but are encroached by the shopkeepers and vendors. Due to lack of proper parking of vehicles traffic jams can be witnessed in the internal city, especially on Old GT Road. Moreover, the rise in vehicles owners and coming up of new colonies adjoining Model Town, the width of roads has narrowed. Similarly, the new PAP flyover mechanism has not yielded effective results as long queue of traffic can be witnessed at PAP Chowk and Rama Mandi Chowk. In my opinion, the administration should try to boost its own transport system in the internal city with more operations of battery-operated rickshaws and proper planning of vehicle parking at markets.Rajat Kumar MohindruAdvance planning need of the hourOne of the foremost duties of the administration is to take required safeguards to avoid public inconvenience. Due to the lack of proper infrastructure, a major problem that causes lot of trouble is poor hygiene and crowding on roads. During the festive occasions, the situation worsens in urban areas on account of erratic driving, haphazard parking of vehicles and encroachments. Owing to tardy and insufficient arrangements, severe congestion takes place on roads. To avoid the hardships, advance planning and few precautionary steps can be helpful in regulating smooth flow of traffic near the busy shopping centres. It will not only provide relief to the residents living in the adjoining localities but will substantially reduce irritation and wastage of time due to long traffic snarls also. Now, the festival of Diwali is approaching and all markets are abuzz with heavy rush. Every year, temporary encroachments before the shops for display of merchandise by the vendors present unruly sights and the roads leading to markets get fully choked. The administration must proactively make strenuous efforts to take necessary safeguards.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathEarmark no-vehicle zones in cityThe administration is solely responsible for prevalence of traffic chaos almost everywhere during any season of festivals. All traffic rules in general but parking rules in particular should be strictly enforced during the festival season. Markets which witness heavy footfall during the festival season should be identified to make them ‘one way traffic’ only. There is a severe crunch of parking places and advance measures should be urgently taken to enhance and augment the parking facilities, especially during festivals. The administration should earmark ‘no vehicle zones’ to facilitate smooth shopping by the pedestrians. The ill-conceived tendency of encroaching common spaces in the markets is common among the shopkeepers and same gets emboldened by the corrupt and inefficient officials who take no preventive action in hope of illegal gratification from them. There should be zero-tolerance against encroachment and illegal use of public places.Jagdish ChanderDeploy more cops on crossingsFestival season is coming and shopkeepers have extended their shops on the government land, they have covered full open space meant for parking. It’s a normal practice every year. People love to break the laws and park their vehicles anywhere without bothering about the inconvenience caused to the general public. They park the scooters in the middle of the road and go for shopping. Illegal cuts have been made on the highways which increase chances of mishappening. Wrong side driving is a very familiar evil. It has become a habit to overtake from the wrong side. It’s a common reason of many accidents. All these are happening because of the careless attitude of the government. They never take timely action, no heavy penalty, no punishment, no action is taken. The government should deploy traffic police on crossings and install barriers to stop wrong side driving. Violators should be punished strictly. In the end, illegal cuts must be closed with immediate effect and save precious lives.Shashi KiranOfficials should work honestlyThough it’s festive season and shopping of different items such as crackers, clothes, sweets and gifts is the norm of the time. But it is also the problem of traffic hazards in the city. There is no attempt by the vehicle owners to park their vehicles in a proper and systematic way. Everyone wants to park the vehicles as per his or her own convenience regardless of the difficulty and trouble for the others. The police personnel also don’t care much about the violations of the traffic rules by the public. Many times such violators are let off without any challan. Many people drive their vehicles even when they are drunk. Many precious lives are lost in such careless driving. Similar, situation had occurred in the US in 1930s and maximum death rates were because of road accidents. The government implemented strict road driving laws and any violators were handed severe penalties. If the violations of the rules were repeated, his or her driving licence was cancelled permanently.JS WadhwaPromote cycling, punish violatorsIndia suffers the ignominy of being one of the worst congested countries in the world. Everywhere in the country, roads in cities and towns are choked with vehicular traffic. The congestion is primarily due to population explosion, economic prosperity, substantial increase in the demand and production of motorised vehicles, hand-pulled rickshaws, three-wheelers, bikes, unplanned urbanisation and disproportionate capacity of roads, encroachments, digging of roads, electricity poles and laying cable wires, wrong parking on roads etc. All big business houses should adopt Transport Demand Management (TDM) strategies for the purpose. The city authorities should create safe cycle lanes to promote cycle culture. In the wake of current festive season, the district civil and police administrations should discourage encroachments, demarcate car-free zones, enforce one-way traffic to check traffic jams and ensure hassle-free movement of commuters and pedestrians on crowded roads.DS KangSpread awareness about road signsBeing the world’s most populous nation after China, India fares poorly on the global traffic congestion index. Snarled-up traffic is a common sight in all states across the country, including Punjab. The traffic police should spread awareness about road signs and markings and ensure strict enforcement of road rules and regulations. Launching car-free days, mending driving behaviour, fixing speed limits, restricting minors and those without licences to ply vehicles are some helpful measures.Tajpreet S Kang QUESTIONAs dengue continues to spread its tentacles, it has started over-burdening the health infrastructure in the district. As a result, patients from not only other districts of Punjab, but from others states, too, have started arriving. How should the administration handle the current situation? Will it be wrong to say that we are heading towards another health emergency?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 4)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-steps-should-be-taken-to-solve-the-problem-of-traffic-congestion-on-jalandhar-city-roads-332749
01-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with stolen goods||Class X student goes missingHoshiarpur: The Bullowal police have registered an abduction case after Class X student went missing. Manpreet Kaur, a resident of Shamchurasi, told the police that her son studied in Class X at a school located in their village. She expressed apprehensions that someone has kidnapped her son. After registering the case, the police have started the search to find the missing boy. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-stolen-goods-332750
