02-11-2021||---||Farm issues resonate in speeches, songs & books at Mela Gadri Babeyan Da||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 1On the second day of the 30th Mela Gadri Babeyan Da, being held at Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall here, showed a strong reflection of the ongoing agitation of the farmers on borders of the national capital.The theme reflected strongly at the stage through speeches, resolutions moved by the organising team of the Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall (DBYH) Committee, songs, plays and even the much-liked book stall.One of the main attractions of the day was a parody by a team of the Moga-based Indian People’s Theatre Association. The lines of their presentation — Nanak di bani kehndi zabar zulam nu sehna nhi, kanoon jadd tak radd nhi hunde aapan tik ke behna nhi and Haan mein kirti iss dharti da jaya, apni mitti khatar ajj mein laran sadak te aaya – saw a thumping response with people singing these lines after them, video recording it and giving a loud applaud.Even the speakers at the event largely discussed the relentless fight of the farming community on Delhi borders. The keynote speaker at the mela and noted journalist P Sainath advocated the need for setting up a farmers’ commission which would remain in complete control of the farmers. He said the three farm laws being imposed by the Centre would not just harm the farmers but the entire country. He expressed apprehensions that the prevailing economic inequality, which affected the farmers most, could have serious repercussions as big corporate were drawing all the benefits. The promise of PM Narendra Modi to double the income of farmers by 2022 would fall completely flat, he warned.The theme of farm struggle also remained pronounced at the book stalls. There were books having exclusive poetry on farmers. A book ‘Kisanan de dukhre te hor kavitavan’ penned by poet Sital and another ‘Siar de geet’ by Pargat Singh Randhawa had deep thoughts on the adversities of the farm community. These carried touching verses like ‘Asin kahande saan duniya de ann-data, hun mangte ban ke reh gye haan’ and were picked by many.The theme once again resonated at the stage as members of the committee released a souvenir titled ‘Kirti Party’ penned by Chain Singh Chain and edited by Charanji Lal Kangniwal. A play ‘Sees tali’ directed by Chandigarh School of Drama and written by Gursharan on Babbar Akali Lehar was also staged. The jathas led by Inquilabi Kavishri Jatha Rasoolpur and Dharminder Masani cited various instances about the Babbar Movement.The much-awaited flag ceremony of the mela was performed this morning by senior trustee of Yadgaar Hall Committee Bhagat Singh Jhungian. Members of the trust, including president Ajmer Singh, general secretary Gurmeet Singh, Surinder Kumari Kochhar, cultural wing convener Amolak Singh, assistant secretary Dr Parminder, vice-president Sital Singh Sangha, treasurer Ranjit Singh Aulakh and members of the committee participated in the ceremony.In his address, Jhungian said the efforts of the freedom fighters who fought for the prosperity and social and economic equality must not go in vain.On the occasion, treasurer of DBYH committee Ranjit Singh Aulakh moved various resolutions, which were seconded by the gathering by way of raising hands. These resolutions included restoring Jallianwala Bagh to its original character, taking all due actions against those responsible of Lakhimpur killings of farmers, taking back all amendments in the farm laws, punishing all those responsible for the 1984 riots, adequately compensating farmers for loss of crops due to natural calamities, release of intellectuals lodged in jails, putting an end to attack on regional languages and mother tongue and rolling back the decision to extend the jurisdiction of the BSF to 50 km in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farm-issues-resonate-in-speeches-songs-books-at-mela-gadri-babeyan-da-333247
02-11-2021||While the last year festivities were shadowed by Covid||Markets all decked up in Jalandhar this Diwali||With the festival of lights round the corner, the city markets are abuzz with activities. Residents have been flocking to the shops to stock up on diyas, candles, home décor items and also gold!Be it the stalls selling kitchenware, gift items, designer wear, wall hangings, automobiles, or even earthenware, almost everyone is seeing a jump in the sales.Lamps, fountain corners, designer thalis, crockery items, electronic and electrical gadgets have all become hot selling items.A day before Dhanteras, the shopkeepers said they were all geared up for a day of potential sale. Many shopkeepers said the buyers had already selected items and got them packed but will take the items from the shop home tomorrow, it being an auspicious day. The diya sellers too are hoping for a good price of their designer mud craft this time.The Phagwara Gate Market Association is also looking up to better sales this time. Amit Sehgal, president of the association, says, “The most sought-after item so far has been the light strings for decoration at home. Electrical items such as designer clocks, chandeliers, lamps, geysers, air fryers, grills, etc are also registering good sales.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/markets-all-decked-up-in-jalandhar-this-diwali-333258
02-11-2021||---||2 helplines launched for info on illegal mining in Kapurthala||Kapurthala, November 1As per the orders of the state government, the district administration is ready to ensure the availability of sand to common man at affordable prices. Kapurthala Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal and SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh today presided over a meeting of Additional Deputy Commissioner, SPs, SDMs, DSPs and officials of the Mining Department.They said sand would be available for people as per the prices fixed by the government, which is Rs 60 a ton. Joint teams of the civil and police administration have been constituted to ensure the sale of sand at affordable prices, they added. Apart from this, the panchayats would also get sand for government development works at government fixed rates.The DC also said that while excavating sand, digging would be allowed only till 3 feet as per the instructions of the National Green Tribunal to avoid any adverse affect on the natural flow of rivers/ponds etc.Kapurthala SSP said strict action was being taken against illegal sand mining and for this, two helplines (95929-14519 at Kapurthala and 99150-10200 at Phagwara) have also been set up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-helplines-launched-for-info-on-illegal-mining-in-kapurthala-333260
02-11-2021||Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal and Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur today carried out surprise inspections of mining sites falling in the district under Mission Clean. Accompanied by battery of officials from various departments||Surprise check of mining sites in Nawanshahr||Giving warning of exemplary action for overcharging above the government’s fixed rate that is Rs 9 per cubic feet at the mining site, they said over-charging would not be tolerated at any cost. They ordered to strictly adherence to the guidelines of the Punjab government.Both the officers said the joint teams of civil and police administration have been formed to keep check on this entire operations. Further, they directed the mining officials to install boards displaying rate at all mining sites so that no one can dare to charge exorbitantly. They told that anyone can procure sand at the mining site of their own. Meanwhile, they also interacted with the tractor-trolley owners who came to the quarries. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/surprise-check-of-mining-sites-in-nawanshahr-333279
02-11-2021||---||Price hike of commercial LPG leaves eateries with bitter taste||Jalandhar, November 1The sudden spike of Rs266 in the price of commercial LPG cylinders has not gone down well with the hoteliers and restaurant owners. In another hit to the wallet of common man, the dine-in or takeaways wouldn’t remain the same. As the cylinder gets costlier, the restaurant owners have decided to inflate the food bills. However, if the prices of commercial cylinders remain the same, the restaurant owners would gradually charge more for the food they offer. An LPG commercial cylinder in the district now costs more than Rs2,000, burning a deep hole in the pockets of consumers. In August, the cylinder was available at Rs1,708.Sanjeev Kumar, owner of Chicken Plaza eating point, said, “We have been continuously suffering from inflation. First it was hike in petrol and diesel prices and now the costlier commercial cylinders. “After the rise in wholesale rate of food items, we had already reduced our staff. We don’t want to lose our customers; hence we would prefer not to increase the prices of the food we sell. However, the higher fuel prices would force us to sell food prices at higher rates.”Similarly, another restaurant owner, said, “Owing to costlier fuel, we have already stopped our home delivery services, and now if we increase the prices of the exotic cuisines we offer, we would lose our customers. The state government should immediately take action to bring down the fuel prices.”The restaurant owners are also likely to hold a protest against expensive commercial cylinders.Steep Rise An LPG commercial cylinder in the district now costs Rs2,000, burning a deep hole in the pockets of consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/price-hike-of-commercial-lpg-leaves-eateries-with-bitter-taste-333280
02-11-2021||---||Vajra Corps  go green with plantation drive||Jalandhar, November 1A massive tree plantation drive has been under way under the aegis of Vajra Corps across Punjab. As a part of the drive started by the Corps headquartered in Jalandhar, over 1.12 lakh trees have been planted by formations and units of Vajra Corps in cantonments and military stations as well as border areas in Jalandhar, Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Ferozepur, Ludhiana and Beas. Concerted efforts by troops has resulted in successful implementation of various initiatives such as arboriculture schemes, creation of bio-diversity environment parks with tree plantation integral to every commemoration event and planting of native trees. Lush green and clean cantonments with tree lined public areas are a testament to their effort.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/vajra-corps-go-green-with-plantation-drive-333283
02-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||One booked for Rs 3.7-lakh fraud||Three arrested for gamblingHoshiarpur: Sadar police on Sunday evening arrested three persons who were gambling near a tomb in Ajjowal and recovered the money put on their bets and cards. The police had received secret information that some people were gambling sitting near a tomb in Ajjowal village. The police raided and caught three persons — Ram Lulbhya, Surinder Pal and Vijay Kumar. A sum of Rs 950 and a pack of playing cards have been recovered from them. A case has been registered against them under the Gambling Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-booked-for-rs-3-7-lakh-fraud-333285
