03-11-2021||---||Man murders married lover, electrocutes self in Jalandhar's Basti Bawa Khel||Jalandhar, November 2In a horrifying incident, a man on Monday night electrocuted himself before thrashing a woman to death in Basti Bawa Khel area here on Monday. The 22-year-old woman, identified as Sonam, a native of UP, was allegedly murdered by the accused, identified as Radhe (26), at her residence in Guru Ram Das Nagar of Basti Bawa Khel area.The woman had received fatal injuries on the forehead, which led the police to conclude that the woman was bumped against a wall. While Basti Bawa Khel police reached the spot to investigate the matter, another incident of suicide surfaced in the area. At first both cases seemed different, but as investigation into the case progressed, startling facts started coming to the fore. “In the initial stage of investigation, it came out that the youth of Shiv Nagar had killed a married woman in Basti Bawa Khel area before committing suicide. According to information, Radhe, a resident of Shiv Nagar, used to come to the house of Sonam, wife of Varindra, who was found unconscious at her house late in the evening. “When her family took her to the hospital, the doctor declared her brought dead. As soon as the information was received, the Nirlep Singh, SHO, Basti Bawa Khel police station, reached the spot. Nirlep Singh said during the investigation, it was allegedly established that the woman had an extra-marital affair with Radhe,” stated ADCP Ashwani Kumar.The accused had killed the woman in front of her 5-year-old daughter.Meanwhile, after killing Sonam, Radhe committed suicide by electrocuting himself. While the police were searching for Radhe, information was received at police station number one that a youth had committed suicide at his house in Shiv Nagar colony. As soon as information was received, the area SHO, Rashminder Singh Siddha, reached the spot and reported that the accused had tied electric wires on his fingers and then switched on the plug. He died of a severe electric shock. The police are investigating both the incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-murders-married-lover-electrocutes-self-in-jalandhars-basti-bawa-khel-333649
03-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||CPRI scientists come up with safer anti-sprouting potato suppressant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 2Even as a worldwide search is on to identify residue-free, non-toxic chemicals for suppressing sprouting of harvested potato tubers, scientists of the Central Potato Research Institute of the Indian Council for Agricultural Research have come up with a safe, plant-based combination of essential oils and naturally occurring compounds for the purpose.The scientists at the CPRI claim that the oil spray that they have developed can be a much safer alternative to CIPC (isopropyl N-3-chlorophenyl carbamate), which is currently used as a sprout inhibitor for potatoes. The study assumes importance in this potato belt as the continuous and long-term usage of CIPC has raised a number of health safety issues and concerns.The scientists hope that their new find could have a great demand in European countries as there has already been an announcement of a proposed ban on CIPC in the EU amid growing awareness about its negative effects on health. The study has been conducted by Dr Ashiv Mehta, ex-principal scientist, Dr Arvind Jaiswal, scientist and Yogesh Gupta, Assistant Chief Technical Officer, all three from ICAR-CPRI, Jalandhar, Dr Brajesh Singh, Principal Scientist, and Dr Swarup Kumar Chakrabarti, former director, both from ICAR-CPRI, Shimla.Dr Jaiwal said, “A team of ICAR-CPRI scientists in Jalandhar and Shimla had been working in this direction for the past 10 years. We had identified some plant-derived essential oils and aromatic compounds with fungicidal/bactericidal properties as natural sprout suppressants for potatoes in laboratory studies as well as a few compounds that can be developed as possible replacements for CIPC. Based on our findings and expertise, we developed a unique composition capable of inhibiting sprouting for up to 200 days of storage. The efficiency of the created composition is astounding and mind-boggling. When compared to CIPC, our formulation costs only twice as much.”To claim priority in the idea, ICAR-CPRI has already applied for a patent titled ‘Composition exhibiting sprout inhibitory effect in potatoes. Yogesh Gupta added, “Oils derived from various herbs, spices, and essential oils have been used. These are plant derivatives that are volatile, such as spearmint oil, peppermint oil, and clove oil. The USFDA classifies all of them as “Generally Recognised as Safe” (GRAS). A total of nine essential oils and organic compounds of natural origin were chosen, and small-scale laboratory trials for six months of storage were carried out. The procedure for safe potato storage was standardised, and alternative ways of application in various doses were studied. All treatments were evaluated for their ability to inhibit sprouts in a single application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cpri-scientists-come-up-with-safer-anti-sprouting-potato-suppressant-333650
03-11-2021||Our Correspondent||NEET result: Dasuya student gets AIR 49 with 707/720 marks||Dasuya, November 2Anshul Rana, a student of Cambridge International School, has brought laurels to his school as well as the state by securing AIR 49 in NEET-UG 2021, the results of which were declared on Monday.  Around 16 lakh students had appeared in the exam this year and Anshul scored 707 out of 720 marks and secured AIR 49 and 35th rank in the All India general category. Anshul considers hard work as the key to success and gives the credit of his achievement to his parents and relentless effort of teachers.Expressing their joy, Anshul’s parents thanked the school principal and the teachers who always encouraged and prepared the students for the exam.School principal Anit Arora congratulated and extended his best wishes to Anshul Rana and his parents on this achievement. He said, “For achieving success a person must do hard work because labour and dedication never go in vain and hard work is the first step towards success.”On the occasion, Vasal educational group president KK Vasal, chairman of school Sanjeev Vasal, director Ena Vasal and CEO Raghav Vasal congratulated Anshul Rana on his success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/neet-result-dasuya-student-gets-air-49-with-707-720-marks-333651
03-11-2021||---||Six new Covid cases in Doaba||Jalandhar, November 2The health authorities of the Doaba region on Tuesday reported six new cases of Covid-19 which included three cases in Jalandhar, two in Nawanshahr and one in Hoshiarpur.  No new case was reported today in Kapurthala.With this, the active cases in Jalandhar now stands at 31. There are 13 active cases in Hoshiarpur and three each in Kapurthala and Nawanshahr. Jalandhar had reported 0.12 per cent positivity rate today against 0.23 per cent positivity in Nawanshahr, 0.05 per cent positivity in Hoshiarpur and nil in Kapurthala. Today, five patients also completed their quarantine in Jalandhar. The number of confirmed cases of infection since March 2020 so far in the region includes 63,400 cases in Jalandhar, 30,827 in Hoshiarpur, 17,853 in Nawanshahr and 11,471 in Nawanshahr.  Jalandhar has so far reported a fatality of 1496 patients, against 986 in Hoshiarpur, 556 in Kapurthala and 388 in Nawanshahr.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/six-new-covid-cases-in-doaba-333653
03-11-2021||---||AAP blames Punjab Govt for surging unemployment||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 2Senior leaders of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), including Rajwinder Kaur, Ramnik Randhawa, Surinder Singh Sodhi and Prem Kumar,  raised the issue of rising unemployment in the state.  The AAP leaders  demanded that all unemployed youth of the state should be given jobs as Congress came to power with the promise of ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’. They sought the allowance of Rs 2,500 per month for the unemployed  youth as promised by the government in its election manifesto.Randhawa said due to the ‘anti-youth’ policies of the Congress and SAD-BJP governments, the unemployment rate (7.5 per cent) in the state has surpassed the (4.8 per cent) national unemployment rate.  He further stated that the most unfortunate aspect is that like the Akali-BJP government, the Congress government neither gives employment nor trusts its youth.  “Over 650 officers and employees were recruited in the Integrated Digniteries Protection Unit for VIP security by the previous Badal government in the year 2013. All these officers and employees belong to states outside Punjab and have worked in various security agencies.  They also do not know Punjabi language well, but their recruitment has spoiled all seniority list of Punjab Police and has killed hundreds of eligible candidates of the state”, added Randhawa.The AAP leaders said many posts removed during election time are being occupied by candidates from outside states.  Another example of this is that 50 to 71 per cent of the names of external candidates appear in the final list prepared during the recent recruitment of PSTCL, says Sodhi.They demanded that the state government should ensure to assign more numbers of Punjab domicile to all its categories of candidates to prevent candidates from outside states.  Similarly, like other states, the state government should ensure at least 80 per cent quota for Punjabi youth in private jobs.  Senior AAP leaders have demanded an immediate ban on the private company, Tata Consultancy Services Company (TCS), while advocating that government recruitment be done through PPSC and PSSS boards.Prem Kumar claimed that the physical trial of police recruitment should also be conducted by the nodal officer of Punjab Police instead of private company.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-blames-punjab-govt-for-surging-unemployment-333654
03-11-2021||---||Mela Gadri Babeyan Da: Natakan di raat keeps visitors glued||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 2Thousands of youth and elderly people from across Punjab who had converged at ‘Mela Gadri Babeyan Da’ stayed glued to the stage of Desh Bhagat Yadgaar Hall here as plays were enacted the night through. Even as the winter season has just set in and it was a little nippy, the fervour of the two-day mela remained intact till everyone dispersed past 5 am today.The actors and directors tried to bring out the burning issues affecting Punjab and delved deeper into them through their plays. The plays started with a jago taken out by girls and boys directed by the Phulwari Kala Kendra, Lohian. Prof Ajmer Singh Aulakh’s play based on the struggles of the farm labourers and the vicious circle that they get into was depicted by a team of the Lok Kala Manch from Mansa.A play titled ‘Khooni baisakhi’ was based on Kewal Dhaliwal’s creation portrayed by the Rang Manch team of Amritsar. The artistes depicted how Jallianwala Bagh which is of immense value as a historical and heritage site has been reduced to a mere tourist place. Through the play, they raised their voice on restoration of its original glory.A play ‘Edan tan pher edan sahi’ directed by Anita Shabdeesh focused on the politicization of public distribution of food supplies and the aftermaths of corporatization. A play titled ‘Ghasya hoya Aadmi’ depicted through Awami Rang Manch focused on the plight of the landless tillers.Penned by playwright Gursharan, a play titled ‘Sees tali’ on Babbar Akali Movement directed by Chandigarh School of Drama won the maximum applause. Convener of the Cultural Wing of Desh Bhagat Yadgar Hall Committee Amolak Sngh conducted the stage of the ‘natakan di raat’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mela-gadri-babeyan-da-natakan-di-raat-keeps-visitors-glued-333655
03-11-2021||---||Diwali melas: Jalandhar students at their creative best||Jalandhar, November 2Various schools and colleges of the region organised Diwali melas ahead of the festival on Tuesday. The students showed their skills in making handicraft items and put them on display for sale. Contests were held for rangoli making, diya decoration and toran making. The authorities gave a message to the students to not to burst crackers and celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised ‘Diwali extravaganza’, an exhibition-cum-sale at Virsa Vihar here on Tuesday. The event was organised by the Post Graduate Department of Fashion Designing, Cosmetology Department, Fine Arts Department, Journalism and Mass Communication Department, Department of Textile Design and Apparel Technology, Department of Retail Management and Department of Hospitality and Tourism working under the aegis of DDU Kaushal Kendra. Besides sweets and various delicacies prepared by the students in this exhibition-cum-sale, lamps, jewellery, gift items, suits, sarees, jute bags, towel sets, kurtis, table runners, gel candles, herbal soaps and various home decor items were put on display for sale. The exhibition was visited by the city residents and students from different colleges and schools of the city. Principal Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the whole organising committee for successfully organising the exhibition. Jagdish Raj Raja, Mayor, Chandra Mohan, President, Arya Shiksha Mandal, and Alok Sondhi, General Secretary, KMV Managing Committee, were among those present on the occasion.CT Group of InstitutionsThe most-loved festival, Diwali, was marked with great fun and fervour at CT Group of Institutions. From lights, rangoli, delicious sweets and gifts, the Diwali carnival was all about spreading cheer. A two-day Diwali celebration was organised in both campuses of CT Group in which people from nearby areas joined along with group’s students and staff members. The guests for the occasion remained Chairman Charanjit S Channi, Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi, Managing Director Manbir Singh, Tanika Singh, Vice Chairman Harpreet Singh and Campus Directors Dr Rahul Malhotra and Dr Yogesh Chabra along with students and faculty. The carnival included different stalls put by departments of campuses like management, engineering, law, fine arts etc that included fun games, food and student projects display. The key message was to mark this fest as “Green Diwali” and “Say No to Plastic”. Davinder Singh, Deputy Dean, Student Affairs, said, “We wanted to convey a message to celebrate Diwali with your loved ones as nothing is predicted, so after Covid-19, this was an event full of warmth, hard work and love.” The management of CT Group wished everyone a safe and green Diwali.MLU DAV College, PhagwaraDiwali was celebrated at MLU DAV College, Phagwara, with great pomp and show under the guidance of Dr Kiranjeet Randhawa Principal of the college. The college was decorated with beautiful lights. The function began with a floral welcome of chief guest Kulwin Seehra, Executive Director GNA Axles Ltd, Mehtiana, Vikas Uppal Chairman of the college. A tagline for Diwali celebration was “Green and serene Diwali”. A bunch of green balloons was flown by guests and the college principal to mark the festival. It had Diwali wishes on it and a message to celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali to make earth a better place for the posterity. Students drew various patterns of rangoli. Diyas of various sizes and shapes were painted and decorated by participants. After that students danced on their favourite tracks. Refreshments were served to the staff and students. Everyone was in a festive mood and enjoyed to the fullest. The principal advised students to celebrate a pollution-free Diwali. “We all must go for a green Diwali by using traditional lighting of earthen lamps, drawing eco-friendly rangoli, avoid the use of plastic packing, donate sweets and clothes to needy people, put aside your phones, log off from social media and spend time with your family and friends”, Dr. Randhawa said. A pledge was taken by the students and staff members for saving water and not to waste food.Police DAV Public SchoolDiwali celebration was held at Police DAV Public School during the morning assembly. The tiny tots of pre-primary wing presented group dance. The Manasvi House presented a short skit which gave the message to care and share and bring smiles on the face of everyone. The school had especially invited children from National Child Labour School, Bashirpur, to witness Diwali celebrations in school. They also presented a dance. Principal Dr Rashmi Vij gave them various gifts. In her address, she exhorted the students to celebrate Diwali by giving gifts to the poor and needy rather than burning crackers. Various competitions were held for the students like diya and candle decoration, thali decoration, toran making, latkan making, electronic lamp making, rangoli and mehndi applying etc.The Nobel SchoolDeepawali, the festival of lights, was celebrated in the Nobel School. For Grade I-V, “Best out of waste” activity was conducted and for Grade VI to XII rangoli competition was organised. All the students took initiative to decorate their classes in the most beautiful manner. Goddess Lakshmi Pujan was performed by the school management with the students and staff members. After that, gifts were distributed to teaching and non- teaching staff by Chairman Prof CL Kochher and MD Kumar Shiv Kochher. The Chairman wished all the students and staff members a very happy Diwali and wished that our school should achieve greater heights in the coming years. The winners for the competition conducted for today were Grade XII first position, Grade IX second position. In the middle section Grade VII first position, Grade VIII second position. The winners for “The Best Out of Waste” competition and class decoration were bagged by Grade II- B first position and Grade III second position. Principal Amita Sharma wished everyone a happy and safe Diwali. She also encouraged the students and staff members to celebrate a Green Diwali.MGN Public School, KapurthalaMGN Public School, Kapurthala, celebrated Diwali Mela in the school ground with enthusiasm. Stunning designs of rangoli and other creative works allured and fascinated the spectators. The idea was to celebrate pollution-free Diwali and say no to crackers. Students also showcased the spirit of Diwali through their innovative talents. Various stalls were prepared by students of Classes I –VIII in which they put up decorated candles and diyas, colourful wall-hangings, paper decoration items and paper lanterns. The students enjoyed Diwali shopping in the school by buying and selling each other items. Principal Rashmi Sharma appreciated the students’ efforts and urged the students not to play with fireworks on this festival.State Public School,  Jalandhar CanttState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, celebrated Diwali with great enthusiasm. The school organised in different activities for all the classes along with inter-house events. ‘Say No to Crackers’ was the theme of all the activities. For Nursery to Class III, candle decoration activity was held where students presented well-decorated candles while for classes IV and V, it was diya decoration activity where students decorated diyas in the best possible way. Poster making competition, card making competition, candle decor competition and rangoli making competition were held as inter-house competitions. Vanshika and Adhyayan of Sahibzada Zorawar Singh House bagged the first position in candle decor competition while Harman Kaur of Sahibzada Fateh Singh House bagged the first position in card making competition. In rangoli making competition, Vaishnavi and Mandeep of Sahibzada Ajit Singh House in senior category won the first position whereas Heena, Tamanna and Mehak of Sahibzada Jujhar Singh House got the first position in junior category. In poster making competition, Sahil from Sahibzada Jujhar Singh House got the first position in senior category while Jasmine from Sahibzada Fateh Singh House bagged the first position in junior category. President Dr Narotam Singh and vice -president Dr Gagandeep Kaur along with Principal Savina Bahl, appreciated their efforts and congratulated them. They also wished all happy and safe Diwali.Guru Amar Dass Public SchoolCelebration of Diwali was held in the senior and junior wings of Guru Amar Dass Public School. President Ajit Singh Sethi and all committee members of the school celebrated the “Festival of Lights”. Students took part in this competition with great enthusiasm. On this occasion, an inter-house candle and diya making, gift wrapping and rangoli making competition was conducted. Bibi Dani House stood first and second position was bagged by Bibi Bhani House and Baba Mohri House stood third. President Ajit Singh Sethi and all committee members and Dr Sonika Singh, Vice Principal, Renuka Angrish, In charge, online classes, blessed and encouraged the students to celebrate pollution-free Diwali and congratulated the winners.PCM SD College for WomenThe PG Department of Fashion Designing organised a three-day Diwali-cum-exhibition sale as ‘Diwali Fiesta 2021’ under the tutelage of Principal Dr Pooja Prashar. Students of Fashion Designing participated in all exuberance and festive gaiety. Students of BSc Semester I, III and V and that of MSc exhibited a wide range of handmade wall hangings and vividly sparkling hand-painted diyas. Students of BVoc and PG Diploma showcased handmade ‘torans’ and candles. The objective of the exhibition was to promote indigenuos ‘Swadeshi’ products of the Indian heritage. Members of the managing committee and Principal gave kudos to the diligent students and the head of Department of Fashion Designing for making the event a success.Apeejay College of Fine ArtsThe Department of Design in collaboration with Entrepreneur Development Cell of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised “Diwali Mela-2021” recently. Dr. Sucharita Sharma, Director Apeejay Education Society and Pro Vice Chancellor of Apeejay Stya Society, inaugurated the carnival as chief guest. She was warmly welcomed on the occasion by Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra. The event was a show window of a variety of designer products and accessories. Students participated with much joy and enthusiasm. Design Department displayed products related to textile, Interior Design and Architecture in this carnival. To showcase their creativity students displayed variety of products like furniture, architectural decorations, handicraft products, paintings, sculptures, architectural designs etc. The highlights of the carnival were showpieces, carpets, mats, shawl and scarf and bakery products which were prepared by students themselves. In her address Dr Sucharita Sharma said that sale of products in exhibition like this boosts the morale of students on one hand and inspire them to become successful entrepreneur of tomorrow on the other hand. She also appreciated the efforts of the college staff. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra while thanking the chief guest Dr Sucharita Sharma also thanked the members of Design Department, EDC (Entrepreneur Cell), Applied Arts, and Fine Arts Department and wished them to organise such activities in future too.DAV College, HoshiarpurThe Cultural Affairs Committee of DAV College of Education, Hoshiarpur, organised Diwali Mela,on its premises. Rangoli designing and craft competitions were organised on the occasion. There were fifty three participants in rangoli designing competition and thirty four in craft items. Rubin, Prof Shalley Sharma and Prof Priya were the judges of the competitions. In rangoli designing Ishita got the first prize, Chinu and Baljinder Kaur got the second prize, Khushnaseeb Rahanu and Ramanpreet Kaur got the third prize and Simrandeep Attri got the appreciation prize. In the craft items Manisha got the first prize, Sofia and Priya got the second prize, Dipti and Minakshi got the third prize and Kamaljit Kaur got the appreciation prize. In the overall inter-house competition Vivekanand House secured the first position, Dayanand House secured the second position, Gandhi House secured the third position and Tagore House got the appreciation prize. President Dr Anoop Kumar, secretary DL Anand and Director Dr SS Sharma congratulated the Principal Dr Vidhi Bhalla for the success of the event. DC celebrates Diwali with special kids||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/diwali-melas-jalandhar-students-at-their-creative-best-333657
03-11-2021||Jalandhar||Nagar kirtan from Gwalior's Gurdwara Data Bandi Chhor reaches Jalandhar||The nagar kirtan procession dedicated to the 400th anniversary of ‘Bandi Chhor Divas’ that started from Gurdwara Data Bandi Chhor in Gwalior reached Kartarpur on Tuesday. The kirtan will stay here at Sri Guru Arjan Dev Senior Secondary School tonight and proceed to Akal Takhat as its last destination on Wednesday.Baba Sewa Singh, head of the kar sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, said the nagar kirtan stayed overnight at Gurdwara Reru Sahib near Sahnewal and marched forward today morning. The centenary religious procession led by Panj Pyaras got a warm reception at Ludhiana, Phillaur, Goraya, Phagwara and Jalandhar. Leaders of local gurdwara committees and Sikhs presented a warm welcome to the kirtan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nagar-kirtan-from-gwaliors-gurdwara-data-bandi-chhor-reaches-jalandhar-333658
03-11-2021||Talwara||Guest teachers stage protest||One held for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have arrested a person by taking in possession a tractor-trolley filled with sand by doing illegal mining. According to an FIR lodged by ASI Satnam Singh, the police patrol party was going towards Kothi Kangar village on Sunday. During this, a tractor-trolley was seen coming near the ground of Fatehpur village. When the driver (Joga Singh), a resident of Fatehpur, was stopped and asked about the papers, he could not present any papers regarding sand mining. A case has been registered against him under the Mining Act. OCSnatching bid foiled, 1 heldHoshiarpur: A snatcher, running away after stealing Rs 25,000 in cash, was nabbed by alert residents and handed over to the police. Roshan Singh, a resident of Milap Nagar, told the police that he was carrying Rs 25,000 when the accused tried to snatch his pension money from him near Prabhat Chowk. He told that Manpreet Singh, who lives in his neighborhood, chased the accused and nabbed him. The accused has been identified as Surinder Kumar, a resident of Garhdiwala. The police have arrested the accused and booked him under relevant sections of the IPC. OCOne booked for Rs15-lakh fraudHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have booked an accused for allegedly duping Rs15 lakh on the pretext of selling a house. Kailash Chander, a resident of Kainthan, said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of his locality, allegedly cheated him of Rs15 lakh promising him to sell a house. After registering the case, the police have started further investigation. OCSmuggler held with heroinHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have arrested a smuggler and recovered 22 grams of heroin from him. The accused has been identified as Harman Das alias Lovely, a resident of Khairad. He has been booked under the NDPS Act. OCdhanteras, diwali celebratedJalandhar: The Association of Veteran Defence Personnel on Tuesday celebrated Diwali and Dhanteras at Jalandhar heights. Maj Gen Arun Khanna (retd) said: “The brotherhood that exists in Army continues after retirement too. It was great to see that defence veterans of Jalandhar Heights celebrating Dhanteras and Diwali functions together. The bonhomie and care for each other was quite visible amongst the veterans and their families.” TNS7 booked for assaulting girlHoshiarpur: The Sadar police have registered against seven persons, including four women, for assaulting a girl and misbehaving with her. The girl told the police that she was standing near the gate of the house when Lovepreet, Paramjit Singh alias Pala, Manpreet, Jathedarni Surjit Kaur, her daughters-in-law Saroj, Preet and Sarabjit Kaur beat her up and tore her clothes. After registering the case, the police have started further investigation. OC‘Restore 25% seats for minorities’Kapurthala: Jaspal Singh Bal, chairman, Minority Welfare Organisation, held a meeting of the State Committee on Sunday. It was presided over by state coordinator Kulbir Singh Asu. Satnam Singh Gill said it was decided to make all efforts to restore 25 per cent seats in all private schools. A fact-finding team was formed and Gurpreet Singh Khalsa was given the task to collect details from the affected parents across the state. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guest-teachers-stage-protest-333660
