04-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two held with intoxicants||Two theft cases reportedHoshiarpur: The police have registered two separate cases of theft. In the first case, the complainant, Gurpreet Singh said he was carrying 31 suits in his vehicle. When he stopped the vehicle near Ajnoha for going to toilet, the suspects, Sahil and Sukhjinder Singh, both residents of Ajnoha village, stole his suits, he said. After booking both the accused, the police have started further action. In another case, Bhupinder Kaur, a resident of Dhakkoval, told the police of Model Town that unidentified thieves took away cash and valuables worth Rs14,000 from her salon at Bassi Daulat Khan Adda. The police have registered a case. ocGreentech Award for rcfKapurthala: The Rail Coach Factory has been selected for the Annual Greentech Environment Award 2021 as the winner for outstanding achievements in “Environment Protection” category in engineering sector by Greentech Foundation, New Delhi. Awards nomination evaluation meeting was held virtually in which the jury members have recommended Rail Coach Factory Kapurthala as the winner for outstanding achievements in “Environment Protection” category. The 21st Greentech Environment Award 2021 shall be presented at Mahabalipuram on the evening of November 26. TNSNGO celebrates Green DiwaliJalandhar: NGO EduYouth Foundation (Regd.) organised “Celebrate Green Diwali” event in the city today. Members of the NGO displayed various kinds of green crackers along with ornamental plants, yummy cupcakes, eco-friendly diyas, healthy refreshments, decorative gifts etc. The foundation has been working in various fields like distribution of study material to the needy, free langar sewa for Covid patients, plantation drive in Jalandhar and surrounding areas, etc. since last year. Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, president of NGO, said we are getting cooperation from all sections of society. TNSFree ambulance service for poorJalandhar: Chairman PUNSUP Tajinder Singh Bittu has donated two ambulances for the needy patients in the city. Flagging off the ambulances recently, Bittu said the ambulances have been handed over to city hospitals and these would provide free of service to the poor patients. No charges would be levied on any patient, he said, adding that he had donated these ambulances in the memory of his father. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-with-intoxicants-334145
04-11-2021||---||This Diwali, ‘go green’ message echoes at edu institutions||Jalandhar, November 3The message of celebrating a green Diwali was reinforced by the authorities for the students of various schools and colleges, just a day ahead of the festival. The teachers and principals sent across a message to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali and enjoy the festival by savouring sweets, chocolates, spending time with families, doing puja and lighting up diyas.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School celebrated clean and green Diwali with religious zeal. The day commenced with a special morning assembly wherein students delivered speeches on the significance of festival and the relevance of eco-friendly celebrations. With their enthralling bhajans, they ignited the musical spirit among all. The school wore a festive look with decorated pots, diyas and lanterns adorning the reception and corridors of the school.The school was beautifully embellished using colourful rangoli designs. Students were briefed on ill-effects of burning crackers and were urged to celebrate the festival with candles, sweets and non-polluting green crackers. Rachna Monga (Principal) offered her warm wishes to both staff and students and reiterated that students should celebrate Diwali in its purest form by lighting earthen lamps and sharing with less fortunate. She apprised the students to act responsibly and be sensitive towards the essence of their environment and conveyed the message of a pollution-free, clean and safe Diwali.HMV CollegeCarrying forward its tradition of celebrating Green Diwali, Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya launched “Beej Patakha” start up under the guidance of Principal Prof Ajay Sareen. The start-up was inaugurated by Justice NK Sud (retd), vice-president DAVCMC, New Delhi. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen told that Beej Patakha Box was a new addition to the innovative practices of HMV. Beej patakhas were prepared like traditional fire crackers like sutli bomb, anaars, rockets, chakris etc. These were made of waste cotton and live seeds of radish, mustard, coriander, spinach and peas and were packaged in recycled papers. Instead of polluting the environment, the Beej Kapas can be sown and new plants will emerge. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated Dr Anjana, Dean Innovations & Research, Dr Rakhi Mehta and her entire team for the unique and innovative venture. On this occasion decorative diyas painted with bright colours were exchanged by the students of HMV with a message of local light for this Diwali. Adding yet another dimension to the festival of lights, HMV also celebrated Diwali as Voter Awareness Diwali. Diyas painted with a message of “No Voter To Be Left Behind” were lighted. Voter Awareness Diyas were presented to Sukhdev Singh, Election Tehsildar, Jalandhar.State Public School, ShahkotMaking rangoli is an art of colours where the creativity and imagination of the students expatiate itself. With this thinking, the school organised a rangoli making competition, under the guidance of Dr Narotam Singh and Dr Gagandeep Kaur, president and vice-president of Group of State Public Schools, respectively, in which the students participated with great ardour. The students tried to prove their talent in the best possible way. They made different rangolis by using different colours, mirrors, pulses, diyas etc. Each design prepared by the children was a treat to the eyes. The students were divided into three groups. In group of the students from III to V Helen Keller House won first position, 2nd position was bagged by Amrita Pritam House and Kalpana Chawla bagged 3rd position. Students from Classes VI-VIII Helen Keller House, Mother Teresa House and Amrita Pritam House took place on 1st , 2nd and 3rdpositions respectively. In the group of senior students Mother Teresa House bagged 1st position, Kalpana Chawla got 2nd position and Helen Keller won 3rd position. Overall 1st position was won by Kalpana Chawla , 2nd position was bagged by Kalpana Chawla and 3rd position won by Helen Keller House. This fun filled activity witnessed enthusiastic participation of the students.Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical CampusLyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus organised Diwali fest-2021 to celebrate the Diwali with its students on theme Green Deepawali. Various events were organised, including departmental stalls, rangoli, card making, thali/pot decoration and mehndi on theme Green Deepawali. Students participated with great enthusiasm in these events. Students showed their innate talent and expression of creativity through participating in various events. Sukhbir Singh Chatha (Director, Academic Affair) and Dr SK Sood (Director, LKCTC) congratulated the whole team for conducting this event and said that the people should stop buying too many crackers. They should celebrate Diwali by lighting more diyas and candles as intention is to spread light. By taking this step we can spread brightness and happiness all over the India. The event was coordinated by Dr Pawanpreet Kaur and Dr Nancy (School of Engineering) and Dr Tarunjit Singh and Mandeep Sandhu (School of IT, Management and Hotel Management).Innocent Hearts GroupFrom pre-school to college in Innocent Hearts, the festival of Diwali was celebrated virtually with great enthusiasm, in which the five schools of Innocent Hearts and the students of Innocent Hearts College of Education participated with great fervour. On this occasion, children eagerly participated in various activities and competitions like candle-decoration, diya decoration, puja thali decoration, rangoli making, toran making, slogan-writing, poster making etc.Children of pre-primary, primary, KG-1, KG-2 of Innokids made beautiful rangoli with different types of flowers. Candle decoration activity was conducted by the children of class II, in which children displayed their art by decorating candles in a very attractive manner. Diya decoration activity was conducted by the children of Class III, in which children exposed their hidden talents by making beautiful designs on earthen diyas. By making earthen diyas, they gave the message of celebrating pollution-free Green Diwali. On the other hand, ‘Anti Cracker Deepawali Week’ was celebrated at Innocent Hearts College of Education with the message of celebrating eco-friendly Diwali.MHR DAV Institute of NursingDiwali was celebrated at MHR DAV Institute of Nursing at college campus. Diwali celebration was organised by the students of MSc Nursing, BSc Nursing, Post Basic Nursing and GNM batches. The celebration was started by welcoming the guest of occasion Dr Veena Williams, Principal and Dr Harbans Kaur, Vice Principal of MHR DAV institute of Nursing. Students and teachers were full of joy and curiosity for celebrating this Diwali function. Everyone looks gorgeous and enthusiastic in traditional dresses like Punjabi suits. Student showed their spiritual feelings on holy festival which could be seen through their wonderful performances like bhangra, giddha, classical dance. Different stalls were organised by the college in campus for the students like eatable things, decorative materials.Lyallpur Khalsa College for WomenA clean and green Diwali was celebrated at Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women as an initiative undertaken by the library. On this occasion students and the library staff decorated the library green with leaves and twigs taken from the garden, thus inculcating a beautiful pious decoration. The whole library was adorned in beautiful vibrant rangoli designs, made and drawn by the students and the library staff. As gratitude and a hope to bestow peace and harmony upon all, a pooja (religious prayer) was also organised in the library. This was followed by Jyoti Prajwalan (holy lamp lighting) by Principal Dr Navjot Kaur. Then a small get-together was organised as a celebration in which everyone felt jubilant while exchanging verbal wishes amongst them. Principal Dr Navjot Kaur appreciated the efforts of Kanchan, librarian and her staff for their beautiful initiative.Emm Aar International SchoolDiwali celebrations at the Emm Aar International School, Adampur, illuminated everyone’s heart with joy and fervour. The celebrations began under the supervision of Principal Navdeep Vashishta. Children from Nursery to Class II actively participated, sang poems and songs related to Diwali. The students were dressed in colorful dresses giving the significance of the festival and the relevance of eco-friendly celebrations. Children of Classes II made colorful rangoli designs, decorated candles, and lighted the diyas paying tribute to Lord Rama spreading the message of victory of good over evil. The entire block was resplendent with lovely Diwali decorations. Director Dr Simmi Tandon, applauded the efforts of the children and urged them to celebrate a clean, green, and safe Diwali.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeSocial Sensitisation Cell of Lyallpur Khalsa College organised an exhibition in collaboration with an NGO, Apaar, which assists intellectually disabled adults in assimilation with society. The NGO provides quality skills training and the trainees make products all year around in their workshop like painted diyas, lanterns, earrings and decorative items. Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra appreciated the initiative taken by Dr Navneet Bhullar, who is doctor in USA and started Apaar in 2014. This organisation enables these disabled adults to lead dignified and financially independent lives. Principal Dr Samra distributed fruits among them and presented saplings to Dr Navneet Bhullar. Diwali is an opportunity for them to sell various items. Lyallpur Khalsa College has given the opportunity to Apaar for displaying their products like diyas, door hangings, wooden birdhouses, tea light holders, wind chimes etc. Staff members and students encouraged them enthusiastically and purchased their stall items in huge numbers. Social Sensitisation cell members Prof. Amita Shahid (Convenor), Dr Patwant Atwal, Dr. Ubique Bedi, Dr. Manmeet Sodhi, Prof. Manish Goel and other staff members and students actively participated through the event.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated the festival of Diwali with fervour and enthusiasm. Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi extended her Diwali wishes to all the staff members and the students of the college. Addressing the staff members and the students on the occasion, she averred that the people should try to celebrate eco-friendly Diwali in order to conserve the environment. She wished that this beautiful festival of Diwali may bring happiness, joy and prosperity in everyone’s life. She further maintained that every person of society should celebrate this festival with communal harmony, love and brotherhood. On this occasion, a cultural programme was also organised in which students showcased their dancing and singing talent. Students named Yukta and Diksha mesmerised everyone with their singing skills. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, Dean, Department of Student Welfare, for organising the celebrations.Eklavya SchoolEklavya School celebrated Diwali festival. Students showed their creativity for decorating the school. They enjoyed very much by doing this work. Students made charts of ‘Happy Diwali, Shubh Diwali, Shubh Labh’. They also made rangoli of different designs. They decorated their classes and reception area with different decorative materials and balloons. The items prepared by students included different types of candles, diyas and pooja thalis which were very colourful and decorated with ribbons, sparkles, beads, shells, stars, mirrors, glitters etc. Candles displayed were of varying shapes and sizes — ranging from small diya shaped to floral, floating, minar shaped, dome shaped and some were even decorated with bows and frills made of wax. Primary wing displayed their items in a very innovative way - decorating it with colourful dupattas, pictures of gods and goddesses and making various designs of rangoli ranging from geometrical to floral patterns. There was a stall put up by the pre-primary section of the school, which had candles and diyas. Dikanshant of Class 1 played dhol very nicely. Student of Class IV performed a group dance on traditional song.DIPS (Urban Estate)DIPS Urban Estate authorities organised a potluck activity in which the tiny tots with their pre-primary advisor Monica Mehta and teachers together had a sumptuous lunch wherein a message to live together with the family and friends was propagated. Students brought healthy snacks from home like sandwiches, juice, salad, beans, chat, poha, idli etc and ate with their friends and teachers. During the activity, preprimary teachers organised games like blindfold passing the parcel and antankshari for the amusement of children. Mothers also participated during the activity and played different games. MD Tarwinder Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra remarked that care should be taken during Covid times, nevertheless distance should not be made from friends and family.Ivy World SchoolIvy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Education Society celebrated clean and green Diwali with festive gusto. The day started with a special morning assembly wherein students delivered speeches on the significance of the festival and the relevance of eco-friendly celebrations. Decorated in vibrant hues, the school had an ambiance of joy and happiness. Students were briefed on ill-effects of burning crackers and were urged to celebrate the festival with candles, sweets and non-polluting green crackers.Various other activities such as ‘Diya Decoration’ for Grade I to III and ‘Diwali corner decoration’ for Grade IV to VIII were organised. All the participants were very energetic and they performed enthusiastically. Principal Sanjeev Chauhan applauded the efforts of the children and also expressed her deep concern about the environment and advised the students to celebrate Green Diwali. K K Vasal, president, Vasal Educational Society, and R K Vasal, vice-president praised the efforts of the school in keeping the cultural spirit alive through such celebrations. They all wished happiness, peace, and prosperity to all.Cambridge InternationalCambridge International School (Co-Ed) celebrated Diwali in school premises. The festival fervour has already gripped the nation and to keep this spirit of festivity alive, the school celebrated the festival but with a difference. To inculcate the value of optimism and goodness, the children of Grade I and II were motivated to make colourful diyas and candles. To sparkle the life with joy and happiness the students of Grade III and IV prepared beautiful cards on this divine festival. The students of Grade V, VI, VII and VIII prepared beautiful torans and decorated the school with rangoli. Children took a pledge to celebrate green Diwali and to create awareness among the people of the society and neighbourhood. They made beautiful pledge cards with the message ‘Say no to crackers’ and ‘Use earthen diyas’. The celebration started with a traditional ceremony by worshiping Lord Ganesh and Goddess Mahalaxmi in the assembly followed by a speech in which the students were enlightened over the reason behind the celebration of Diwali every year. Poems were recited spreading the triumph of good over the evil, light over darkness. The students presented a beautiful play showcasing Rama’s triumphant return to his home. Awareness was created among the children to celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali this year. Stress was laid upon not to burst crackers as it creates noise as well as environmental pollution which leads to many health related issues and environmental problems.MGN College of EducationDiwali was celebrated in the premises of MGN College of Education by organising Diya Decoration competition. Students of the college very creatively and aesthetically decorated the diyas. The Diwali vibes could be seen through colourful rangolis with which different areas of the college were also decorated. In this competition, Rachita Garg stood first, Rozy got second position and Kajal stood third. On this occasion, acting Principal Neelu Jhanji appreciated the efforts of students and motivated students to celebrate environment friendly Diwali. Geetanjali Mittu coordinated the event. Along with students, all the staff members witnessed the event.Seth Hukam Chand SD Public Senior Secondary SchoolSeth Hukam Chand SD Public Sr Sec School, Kapurthala Road, organised various activities to mark Diwali celebrations. Various activities such as diya making, wall hanging, toran making by using origami, paper plate rangoli etc were organised in the classes. Students participated in these activities with great enthusiasm and zeal. Principal Priyanka Sharma offered warm wishes to the children and reiterated that children should celebrate pollution-free Diwali by lighting the lamps and sharing with less fortunate.Pyramid CollegePyramid College celebrated Diwali with great devotion on the college premises. College campus decoration with lights and flowers added charm and religious fervour to the atmosphere. All the students took the initiative to decorate their classes in the most beautiful manner. To mark Diwali celebrations, the students from all the departments organised various activities. Students of the Management Department put up various stalls like ring game stall, water ball stall, tambola, and other fun activities. Hotel Management students organised stall “Vaikunth Dham”, which was further segregated into “Amrit mahal”, “Naivedyam” and “Khel Khiladi”. Besides, eatable stall included corn sandwiches and mocktails like twisted jhol, chatka marry, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-diwali-go-green-message-echoes-at-edu-institutions-334144
04-11-2021||Jalandhar||Accident snuffs out two lives||In a tragic road accident on Tuesday night, two migrants died after their motorcycle collided with an unknown four-wheeler. The accident took place near Malko village in Lambra, when the deceased were heading towards their home in New Kailash Nagar, on Gujjapir Road. The deceased have been identified as Subhash Kumar (32) and Dinesh Chaurasia (26), both natives of Bihar.ASI Pappu Gill said the police received the information about the accident around 12.30 am, after the youths were rushed to the Civil Hospital.While Subhash, who was riding the two-wheeler succumbed to his injuries on his way to the hospital, Dinesh, who was riding pillion, died on the spot. Doctors at the hospital declared him brought dead. In the absence of helmets, both the deceased sustained grievous injuries on their head face and ribs.SHO, Lambra police station, said the bodies have been handed over to their families after post-mortem. A case under Sections 304-A, 427 and 279 of IPC has been registered against an unknown person. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/accident-snuffs-out-two-lives-334142
04-11-2021||Jalandhar||11 new Covid cases in Doaba||The Doaba region on Wednesday witnessed 11 new Covid cases with Jalandhar reporting seven, Hoshiarpur two and Nawanshahr and Kapurthala reporting one each new case of the disease. Four patients completed their quarantine in Jalandhar and one in Hoshiarpur today. With this, the number of active cases in Jalandhar was 32, the highest today in entire Punjab. Hoshiarpur had 14 active cases and Kapurthala and Nawanshahr four each. The positivity rate in Jalandhar stood at 0.3 per cent in Hoshiarpur at 0.1 per cent and in both Kapurthala and Nawanshahr at 0.12 per cent. Jalandhar also has three micro-containment zones including Bhai Bhano Ji Nagar near Wadala Chowk, Block D of Jalandhar Heights and Aman Nagar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/11-new-covid-cases-in-doaba-334140
04-11-2021||---||Top jobs on offer for sportspersons||Jalandhar, November 3In a huge Diwali bonanza, the Punjab Government has invited applications from the medal winners of the Olympics, Asian, Commonwealth Games and the World Cup held every four years with a view to provide government jobs to them.Sports Minister Pargat Singh, himself an ex-Olympic hockey skipper, said, the decision had been taken by the Punjab Government as a part of its strategy to honour the players, who won medals at the international level, thus earning plaudits for the country and the state.Pargat Singh said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had assured the bronze medal winning Olympic Hockey squad at Tokyo, at a recent Cabinet meeting that they would be offered PCS or PPS-level job. He also mentioned that a notification in this regard has been issued by the Sports Department.The Sports Minister further stated that the players winning medals at the Olympics, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and the World Cup in hockey, athletics, basketball and football could apply for the job after the four-year span of winning medal.Apply after 4 years of winning medalThe players winning medals at the Olympics, Asian Games, Commonwealth Games and the World Cup in hockey, athletics, basketball and football can apply for the job after the four-year span of winning the medal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/top-jobs-on-offer-for-sportspersons-334139
04-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Sale deeds of Jallowkhana illegal: Court||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, November 3Taking decision in a seven-year-old litigation between royal family scions, Tikka Shatrujit Singh and his father Brig Sukhjit Singh, the court of Monika Lamba, Senior Judge (Civil Division), has pronounced that the Jallowkhana property inherited by the latter is not his personal state and that he has no right to execute any sale deed for the same.The decision was delivered by the court on October 27 but was uploaded on the ecourts portal yesterday. The court has observed that Brig Sukhjit Singh was duty bound to obey the Shahi Farman issued by his grandfather Maharaja Jagatjit Singh as per which the sole motive to hold the property is to keep the lamp of Ahluwalia family alight in the building.The court ordered that all sale deeds, agreements and power of attorneys, which had been executed by Brig Sukhjit Singh in favour of 73 persons are illegal, null and void and registered in violation of law of land (the royal Farman), and thus are all liable to be set aside.The court has ordered that defendants (Brig Sukhjit Singh and 73 occupants) have an obligation to restore the Jallowkhana complex to its original position by removing the constructions and encroachments they had raised. The plaintiff (Tikka Shatrujit) had specifically sought the restoration of the gurdwara in the deodi (main entrance) and installation of insignia of Kapurthala princely state on the top of the deodi.In the petition filed by the plaintiff through his lawyer KS Ahluwalia, he had said that he was the sole surviving son of Brig Sukhjit Singh (Maharaja) and is the Tikka (heir apparent) to the throne of the erstwhile Kapurthala princely state belonging to Ahluwalia dynasty founded by Nawab Jassa Singh Ahluwalia in the 18th century.He had pleaded that Jallowkhana is an old fort built in 18th century and is a protected monument, which comprises two historic havelis namely Haveli Baba Jassa Singh and Nihal Palace, besides various other structures and open spaces. He had said that through the farman passed on February 13, 1925, during his great grandfather Maharaja Jagatjit Singh’s regime as sovereign ruler of Kapurthala, giving it a special status and ordained that the ownership and possession of Jallowkhana will always be inherited by heir apparent to the gaddi and will be separate from other properties.Even the Supreme Court had earlier interpreted the farman and said Jallowkhana property is a separate and distinct property at an entirely different pedestal and that it was never a private property nor it was the state property. The court, too, had ordered to protect the structure keeping in view of the traditions of the Ahluwalia family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sale-deeds-of-jallowkhana-illegal-court-334138
04-11-2021||Jalandhar||Blankets given to special kids, senior citizens||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday celebrated the festival of lights with special children of the Red Cross Deaf and Dumb School and Prayaas School at Maqsudan.The DC, who spent around an hour at the school with children, distributed sweets to them and enquired about their progress from the school management. He joined the students in various activities to mark the auspicious occasion of Diwali. Thori also congratulated the teachers and students on this solemn occasion.The DC said keeping in view the immense significance of this festival he had decided to visit this school to share the joy of this festival with these students. Meanwhile, the DC also celebrated the festival with inmates of Red Cross Senior Citizens’ Home, who were also present on the occasion.He also distributed blankets, sweaters and sweets among students and senior citizens, besides reiterating the administration’s commitment to providing best possible help to these institutions for the betterment of weaker sections.He expressed hope that the festival would bring a lot of joy and happiness in the lives of these students. Thori also assured fulsome support and cooperation to the Red Cross Society for the smooth functioning of this school, which was serving the mankind in right earnest, adding that no stone would be left unturned for empowering these specially-abled students by imparting quality education to them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/blankets-given-to-special-kids-senior-citizens-334136
04-11-2021||---||Duty comes first: No Diwali with family for these selfless workers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 3Giving preference to the call of duty over an emotional bonding with families, all 76 staff members of the Fire Department will be celebrating Diwali away from their loved ones tomorrow night.The firemen say that they had never celebrated Diwali at home for the past many years and they rather felt proud in remaining in the line of duty for these more sensitive days. “Our families do miss us on these days but over the years they have started understanding that they cannot afford to get leave and it is a part of our duty to remain present on duty on Diwali days. We too have started finding happiness in ensuring entire city feels secure with our presence around them”, said the firemen.Assistant Divisional Fire Officer Jaswant Singh quipped, “It has been 25 years since I am in service that I have never celebrated Diwali at home with family. In these years, I have celebrated Diwali twice but with my course mates during training sessions including one in 2014 in New Delhi and the other in Nagpur in 2018. We know that it is the most important day of our duty and we cannot afford to remain off except for any extreme exigency”.Sharing his plan for the Diwali night, Jaswant Singh said, “We will be stationing our vehicles all across the city tomorrow evening so that time to reach the destination is saved and there are no traffic issues. Our three small vehicles will be placed near Geeta Mandir, Tikkian wala chowk in Rainak Bazaar and Shri Ram Chowk outside the MC office. Our two vehicles have already been stationed at Attari Bazaar and Rama Mandi, from where the various sections of Cantonment and villages around the Hoshiarpur road will be covered. Besides, we will have our fire extinguishing vehicles placed at 66-feet road, Babrik Chowk (for Basti area) and Surgical Complex.“For the past nearly a week, we deployed a bigger vehicle at Burlton Park where crackers are being sold. Tomorrow, we will have a vehicle stationed at BMC Chowk, entrance of Focal Point and City Railway Station (to also cater to Guru Gobind Singh Avenue, Pathankot and Lamma Pind Chowk)”. The firemen can also be seen deployed at Mai Hiran Gate and Wadala Chowk in the city for the past few days.The firemen said they will be coordinating with one another using WhatsApp group and all messages, feedback and realtime situation and emergency call details would be uploaded on it for the movement of designated vehicles to the affected location in the mini possible time. Cops to remain on toes on Diwali night in cityA day before the Diwali celebrations, the city Police Commissionerate is on its toes to avert any untoward situation. As the city roads are crowded with vehicles, traffic police have also tighten the noose on the offenders. Heavy penalties would be issued to those violating traffic rules.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Law and Order, Jagmohan Singh said hundreds of cops, including senior officials like ADCPs, ACPs and SHOs, would be on roads to keep an eye on offenders."Amid tight security, cops will also be present at the Burlton Park Cracker Market to ensure that firecracker dealers leave the spot at the stipulated time. People bursting crackers above the fixed two-hour slot will also be booked. Crackers can be burnt between 8 and 10pm only," added the DCP.Similarly, DCP (Traffic) Naresh Dogra said, "The residents are advised to not park their vehicles in the no-parking zones as for the past two days, the vehicles parked in an haphazard manner are troubling commuters. "Hence heavy penalties would be issued to traffic offenders. Traffic police personnel will be present on roads to assist commuters tomorrow," said Dogra.Meanwhile, complying with the orders of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), demand for green crackers soared this year. "Residents flocked to the Burlton Park cracker market demanding green crackers. We have both the categories of crackers. However, keeping in mind the impact of crackers on air quality, we also appeal to buyers to purchase eco-friendly crackers," stated firecracker dealers.Vaneet Kumar, a resident of Seth Hukum Chand colony, who had come to the market, said, "We had burnt green crackers last year and this Diwali, we have decided to go for only green crackers."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/duty-comes-first-no-diwali-with-family-for-these-selfless-workers-334135
