06-11-2021||---||Jalandhar district’s AQI worsens after Diwali celebrations||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5With the quality of air already getting worse day by day in the district, bursting firecrackers on Diwali night added to air pollution. The air quality index (AQI) further slipped from unhealthy state to very unhealthy state post Diwali night. Crackers sold illegallyAs per the information extracted from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), the district stood at worst AQI position in the 0-500 AQI mark. Since the wee hours of Friday, the AQI fluctuated between 345 and 350, a very poor category.With construction activities underway in almost every part of the city over the past few weeks, the air quality has dipped from the moderate to poor category. Besides, the AQI was 215 on Thursday, followed by 159 on Wednesday, 164 on Tuesday and 162 on Monday. Likewise, the air quality will remain in the unhealthy category for the next couple of days.Paddy straw burning along with vehicular pollution made it one of the most polluted Diwalis reported in recent years. Simultaneously, the air quality in the district also took a turn for the worse with haze enveloping the district on Thursday and Friday.Coupled with stubble burning cases, the AQI also deteriorated last Diwali. Compared to quality index levels of 282 in 2019 Diwali, the air quality index last year reached 328.Tejinder Singh, zonal head of PPCB, said undoubtedly, the pollution levels increased during Diwali, but this year the figures were surprising.“The ‘very unhealthy’ mark (349) can cause respiratory illnesses after prolonged exposure. Hence it is also advisable to the residents suffering from breathing or respiratory problems to not come out on roads,” added Tejinder, who also suggested sprinkling of water on roads to restore the healthy air quality levels in the district.Cops, on duty on the night of Diwali, confirmed the violation of the time limit with residents bursting crackers all day and late into night much past the permissible 8-10pm window fixed for bursting crackers. Even as cops at Burlton Park cracker market had announced to close the market at 8pm, crackers were sold past the fixed time slot. A huge rush was witnessed at Burlton Park around Diwali this year. People in large numbers converged on the park to burst firecrackers. On Friday night too, crackers were also burst in residential areas.Meanwhile, on Thursday, as many as 106 stubble burning cases were reported. This was the highest single-daily spike in the number of such cases. Around 965 cases of straw burning have, so far, been reported from September 15 to November 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-districts-aqi-worsens-after-diwali-celebrations-334590
06-11-2021||---||Fire destroys goods at carton-making unit||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5A major fire broke out in a factory near Sain Das School here on Thursday night. It took over an hour for Fire Brigade personnel to control the fire. Though no loss of life was reported in the incident, the factory owner claimed that goods worth lakhs of rupees were destroyed in the fire.Firefighting mechanism of the districtVarinder Kumar, a Fire Brigade officer, said they had received the information at 9.45pm that a carton-manufacturing factory had caught fire that spread rapidly.Though the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the Fire Brigade teams hinted at a short circuit as a reason behind the fire in the factory.Similarly, panic gripped a residential area of Qila Mohalla after a fire erupted in a house. As per the reports, the house caught fire due to the spark from a firecracker. Residents of the area said all valuable goods were damaged in the house.Monu Puri, a youth of the area, managed to douse the flames with the help of fire extinguishers and a physically disabled man, trapped in the house, was also rescued.According to information, there was a sudden chaos in the area early in the morning after some nearby residents spotted smoke and flames coming out from the house. A Fire Brigade team was rushed to the spot to control the fire.Ahead of the festival of lights, the Fire Brigade had kept four mini fire tenders ready to enter narrow streets and localities. Besides, for the past nearly a week, the department had deployed a bigger vehicle each at Burlton Park (where crackers were being sold), BMC Chowk, the entrance to the Focal Point and the city railway station (to also cater to Guru Gobind Singh Avenue) and Pathankot-Lamma Pind Chowk.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-destroys-goods-at-carton-making-unit-334591
06-11-2021||---||Pendu Mazdoor Union lights diyas in cremation ground||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5On Diwali night, members of the Pendu Mazdoor Union lit candles on chowks, panchayat land demanding 5-marla residential plots as promised to them by the state CM.Union members from Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Moga and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar’s 52 villages and two nagar panchayats lit diyas in protest as they were demanding five-marla plots as promised by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Residents of Shor village in Kartarpur also lit diyas at the village shamshan ghat (cremation ground).On the occasion, the members, including peasants, labourers, landless Dalits, held a protest against the Channi government in the state. The prime issues on which they held the protest against the state government included demand for residential plots, requisite land rights, exemption of government, non-government and cooperative loans, home bill exemption, restoration of connections, which have been cut, stopping social injustice and restoration of blue cards.They also declared that a joint delegation of village and field labourers will head to the Vidhan Sabha on November 8 to demand their rights.On the occasion, union state president Tarsem Peter, general secretary Avtar Singh Rasoolpur and state press secretary Kashmir Singh Ghugshore said if Prime Minister Narendra Modi was ‘jumlebazz’, the state CM was a ‘dramebaaz’. They said rather than solving people’s problems, Channi was paying attention towards tokenism.They said giving 5-marla plots to needy families was a move which was being prevented by village panchayats, politicians, panchayat officers and panchayat department. They said across the state, poor people’s rights were being encroached upon with village panchayats not playing active roles like holding meetings. They said they would protest such moves.They said hefty power bills were being received by people and connections, already cut, were also not being restored. They said debt waiver and residential plots schemes also faced similar hold ups. They said in many villages cases were not being lodged against perpetrators under the SC/ST Act.Citing fresh examples, they said Masania village in Batala was a recent such instance. They said even if cases were lodged, those responsible were not arrested. They cited similar examples at Lohian Khas in Jalandhar. They said in Kartarpur, a case under the SC ST Act lodged in 2020 was cancelled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pendu-mazdoor-union-lights-diyas-in-cremation-ground-334592
06-11-2021||---||Without jobs, it was a ‘Black Diwali’ for protesting teachers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5While everyone celebrated Diwali at their homes, indulging in the festive fervour, hundreds of unemployed teachers of the B.ED TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union observed a Black Diwali, spending the day on the street in protest against the government for not releasing posts for their appointments into various teaching posts.Holding a huge protest outside the residence of Education and Sports Minister Pargat Singh, the teachers — who had planned to spend the night outside Pargat’s residence — finally moved to the protest site near a water tank near the Jalandhar bus stand late in the night after getting assurance from the minister who met them.With the coming elections and the fear that their demands will again be in a limbo once the code of conduct is implemented, teachers have been protesting atop tanks, outside the Education Minister’s residences (of the present and previous education ministers) for the past several months. Their protest intensified in Jalandhar from October 28 onwards when two of them climbed atop a tank and the rest held a fierce agitation outside the Cabinet minister’s house.Notably, two teachers of the union, Manish Fazilka and Jaswant Ghubaya have been atop a tank near the Jalandhar bus stand from October 28. Munish had been protesting from August 21 on a tank at Sangrur and then shifted to Jalandhar. On Diwali, protesting outside Education Minister Pargat Singh’s residence since evening, several union members were called inside for a talk at 9 pm, after which the minister himself came out to meet the teachers.Meeting the unemployed youth staging dharna near his Jalandhar residence, Pargat Singh said, “You too are like my sons and daughters. With you sitting on a dharna on the occasion of the festival, how can I celebrate Diwali.”Distributing sweets to the youth, Pargat Singh assured them that their demands will be resolved in a couple of days. He also said things had come to such a pass at present due to the wrong policies of the past.After meeting the minister, teachers went back to the water tank where they spent the night. Even today, teachers continued holding protest under the water tank - where they sit on rotational basis.Amandeep Sekha, senior vice president of the union said, “The minister has assured us that our problems will be resolved in a couple of days. The minister said detailed lists of posts will be summoned from the department and on the basis of these posts and retirements to take place until March 2022, further posts will be announced for appointment of teachers.”Sekha said the unemployed teachers had been assured of meeting CM Charanjit Singh Channi on October 25, October 28 as well as November 1 but none of the meetings could take place which had caused much angst.The B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union has been holding protests since 2018 against the lack of appointments. There are 34,000 B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Teachers in the state. Of these, there are over 20,000 of the Hindi, Punjabi and Social Studies subjects. The prime demand of the union is the notification/ advertisements for 9,000 posts in the Education Department so that requisite appointments could be made.Teacher says while over 4 lakh admissions have taken place during the pandemic in government schools, as many teachers have not been appointed even as vacant posts abound in the Education Department.President of the Union Sukhwinder Dhilwan said, “Many of our teachers have already become overage while awaiting the posts. Many more will be overage in December 2021. Governments keep assuring us but our demands aren’t met. There are thousands of PhD and M Phil candidates among the unemployed teachers. Once the code of conduct comes into place, teachers will again be left in a lurch. We hope that the Education Minister would redress our long-pending grievances quickly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/without-jobs-it-was-a-black-diwali-for-protesting-teachers-334593
06-11-2021||---||Jalandhar: Man shot dead over property dispute in broad daylight||Jalandhar, November 5A 35-year-old man was shot dead in broad daylight at Mehatpur village here on Friday morning. The incident was reported around 8.45am when some local residents spotted the victim’s body lying at an isolated place in the village. The victim was identified as Gurminder Singh (35), a resident of Shadihan locality.SHO, Mehatpur, Sub-Inspector Sahil Chaudhary said Gurminder was murdered over a property dispute by the accused of the same village. The accused has been identified as Pritpal Singh, a resident of Seahlda locality, by the investigation teams.As per the evidence and statements of the family members, the teams have established that the victim was killed over a property dispute as he had an enmity with the accused. A case has been registered against him at Mehatpur police station. Pritpal has reportedly been absconding since the murder incident.The SHO further added that four rounds of bullets were pumped into the victim’s body — two were fired at the chest and one each in the abdomen and the right hand. The police have also recovered four bullet shells of 0.12 bore. Gurminder is survived by wife, mother and two children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-man-shot-dead-over-property-dispute-in-broad-daylight-334594
06-11-2021||---||Residents celebrate festival of lights with gaiety||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5The festival of Diwali was celebrated with fervour and tradition in the city. People clad in new attire, thronged temples and distributed sweets and savouries among friends and relatives.Eco Diwali Awareness rally at Kanya Maha VidyalayaKanya Maha Vidyalaya (Autonomous) celebrated Eco-friendly “Green Diwali” by organising an awareness rally. The rally was jointly organised by PG Department of English and Department of Student Welfare in order to spread awareness in society about celebrating “Eco-friendly Diwali’’. More than 200 students participated in the rally with placards showing slogans like “Green Diwali, clean Diwali” and “Pollution-free Diwali”. Students chanted slogans regarding green and pollution-free Diwali in order to spread awareness. Principal Prof (Dr) Atima Sharma Dwivedi addressed the students and gave tips to them for celebrating green Diwali and to avoid bursting of crackers, to make use of diyas over electricity and sharing gifts with the needy ones etc. She appreciated the efforts of the students and said youth is expected to lead society and they must continue with such productive initiatives in future also.Lyallpur Khalsa CollegeStudents of the Department of Post Graduate Political Science, Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, celebrated Diwali with great pomp and circumstance through the art of making rangoli and lamps, wherein college Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra graced the occasion as the chief guest. Dr Samra told the students in detail about the history of this day and said that such festivals inspire us to live together and keep us connected with society. He congratulated the department and the students and said that just as a lamp dispels darkness with its light, so too the students should enlighten their way of life with the light of knowledge and lead the society with new thinking. This is the tradition of Lyallpur Khalsa College. The head of the department Prof. Manpreet Kaur welcomed Principal Dr Samra.Thalassemia Ward, Civil Hospital, JalandharDiwali and Bandi Chhor Diwas was celebrated at the Thalassemia Ward of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. President Dr. Navneet Kaur along with members and associates of the Sahara Sewa Samti, Jalandhar, disbursed Diwali gifts to the Thalassemia patients. Dr. Navneet Kaur, and members of Thalassemics children Welfare Society, Jalandhar, gave Rs 200 to each Thalassemic for enjoying the festival. The Agaaz society also distributed Diwali gifts to the patients and staff members of the ward. Er. TS Bhatia, General Secretary, Thalassemic Children Welfare Society Jalandhar was present on the occasion. While majority of the Thalssemic children hail from economically poor sections of the society, they collectively celebrated Diwali at the ward with their parents in an evening of celebration and cheer.Apahaj AshramDiwali festival was celebrated at the Apahaj Ashram, Jalandhar, which was presided over by Vijay Sampla, chairman SC/ST Commission, Governemnt of India. Dr Girish Bali IRS, (Additional Commissioner, Income Tax) and Dr SK Kalia IPS, (IG police). Sampla congratulated Chairman of the Ashram Trust Tarsem Kapur and appreciated the steps taken by the management for the environment among the inmates of the ashram. Dignitaries said such important functions must be celebrated along with such people to boost their morale who are handicapped, old, living alone and are neglected by their own relatives. Dr Girish Bali IRS, Additional Commissioner Income Tax appreciated the services of management team of the ashram and the donors for their contribution towards the living of the residents. Sunita Kapur (Co- Chairperson) Lala Ram Kishore Kapur Viklang Sahita Trust explained the importance and reason of Diwali celebration in India and the role of Lord Rama while in exile. Jagdish Raj Raja (Mayor) appreciated the services being provided by the management and assured to construct the roads on entrance in the ashram. Tarsem Kapur told that three wheel chairs are distributed to the needy persons and thanked all the participants for attending the function by sparing their valuable time. Dr. Vijay Mahajan MD, Tagore Hospital, Manoranjan Kalia (former cabinet minister), Sushil Rinku (MLA) Kuldeep Bhagat, Bunty Neelkanth (Counsellor) Babbi Chadha (Counsellor); Mohinder Singh Gullu Director Punjab Agro, RK Bhandari (president), Brij Mittal (Finance Secretary), Subhash Aggarwal (Senior Vice President), Manohar Lal Sharma (Vice President), Baldev Katyal (Secretary), Sanjay Sabharwal (Joint Secretary), Umesh Dhingra (Advocate) Prince Grover, Dr. Parwinder Bajaj, Dr. Jagdeep Singh, among others were also present on the occasion.Unique HomeCelebrating the Festival of Lights in a unique manner, the Sports and Education Minister Punjab Pargat Singh on Diwali Day visited ‘Unique Home’ and shared the festivities of Diwali with orphan and abandoned girl child. The minister, accompanied by his wife Barinder Preet Kaur, visited the Unique Home run by Bhai Ghaniya Ji Charitable Trust for Orphan and Abandoned Girl Child. He interacted with Bibi Parkash Kaur who has been running this home since decades and lauded the service being rendered by them for the upbringing of abandoned girl child. The former Olympian said that Bibi Parkash Kaur has emerged as a beacon to inspire others for selfless service of society. The minister said that the festival of lights is being celebrated across the country but sharing the joy of this festival at Unique Home has casted a soothing effect on his psyche. The minister also distributed sweets, fruits, gift packs and other things to the girls. Pargat Singh hailed the service being rendered by Bibi Parkash Kaur in line with the ideology of Guru Nanak Dev.Chaudhary celebrates Diwali with villagersPhillaur Assembly segment incharge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary celebrated Diwali with villagers in Lasara on Thursday. He extended his greetings to people on the auspicious occasion of Diwali and Bandi Chhor Divas. He inaugurated the newly-installed floodlights at the stadium. Later, he visited Dera 108 Sant Baba Mela Ram Maharaj, Sachkhand Nagar, to pay obeisance and seek blessings from Gaddi Nashin 108 Sant Paramjit Das Maharaj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/residents-celebrate-festival-of-lights-with-gaiety-334595
06-11-2021||---||Pargat Singh hands over Rs 64 lakh cheques to panchayats for development works||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5Cabinet minister Pargat Singh on Friday handed over the cheques worth Rs 64 lakh to seven panchayats for development works.The villages include Khun Khun (Rs10 lakh), Miranpur (Rs8 lakh), Fatehpur (Rs9 lakh), Hamiri Khera (Rs9 lakh), Barsalan (Rs10 lakh), Udhopur(Rs10 lakh) and Shahpur (Rs8 lakh).The Sports and Education Minister said the grant would further ensure the holistic development of rural areas at par with the cities. He said the panchayats have been asked to immediately start the development works in their respective villages.Pargat said the state government was committed towards overall development of the villages. He said a slew of measures have been taken by the government in this regard.He said that the state government has laid stress on improving road network, availability of clean drinking water, strengthening of infrastructure in schools, healthcare facilities in villages and construction of model playgrounds in rural areas.The Cabinet minister inaugurated an open gym at Hamiri Khera village. He said the government was taking various initiatives to boost sports infrastructure in villages to restore the prestine glory of the state. He said there was no paucity of funds for the rural development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-hands-over-rs-64-lakh-cheques-to-panchayats-for-development-works-334596
06-11-2021||---||One +ve case reported in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 5The health authorities reported one new Covid-19 in the district on Friday. With this the tally has increased to 63,406. No new Covid-19 related death was reported in Jalandhar today. The toll stood at 1,496. As many as 61,878 people have recovered in the district. At present, there are 32 active cases in Jalandhar.No new case in K’thalaNo new case of Covid-19 was reported in Kapurthala today. The tally stands at 17,853. No new death was reported in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-ve-case-reported-in-jalandhar-334597
06-11-2021||---||Talk on Philately Day at PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 5To celebrate the Philately Day, a seminar was organised on “Philatelic Activities” by the Department of Office Management and Secretarial Practices of PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar, in collaboration with General Post Office, Jalandhar. The college Principal Dr Pooja Prashar accorded a floral welcome to the guests.The keynote speaker, Princi Dua, in-charge of Philatelic Bureau, Post Office, Jalandhar, addressed the students and kindled the spark within their minds regarding the hobby of stamp collection. Addressing the students, the guest speaker Jatinder Kumar, PRI, Jalandhar informed about the different schemes introduced by the Postal Department such as Philately Deposit Scheme, My Stamp Scheme etc.He also said that these schemes encourage the students to collect stamps and improve their knowledge on the affairs of the world. At the conclusion of the seminar, Narinder Kumar, Senior Superintendent, Post Office, Jalandhar honoured the Principal and felicitated the teachers and the students with gifts and certificates.Principal of the college Dr Pooja Prashar said that the conduct of such seminars is in accordance with the vision of the college management which is highly sensitised towards the empowerment of women of the region by facilitating their all-around development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talk-on-philately-day-at-pcm-sd-college-for-women-jalandhar-334598
06-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Seminar held on free legal aid||The CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority, Aparajita Joshi, said 2,980 people have been made aware by secretaries and sarpanches in 120 different gram panchayats with the help of district development and panchayat officer.Apart from this, awareness programme regarding free legal aid was held in 155 villages with the help of the District Programme Officer, in which 4,650 people participated. Seminars were also organised in villages by four para legal volunteers of the District Legal Services Authority (Hoshiarpur).Apart from this, 110 people were made aware by playing pre-recorded audio messages through vans run by the Agriculture Department. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seminar-held-on-free-legal-aid-334599
06-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: 4 of family booked for assault||Three booked for dowry deathHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have registered a case of dowry death against a husband, mother-in-law and sister-in-law. Jaswant Singh, a resident of Badda Guda, Sirsa, Haryana, had lodged a complaint with the police in this regard. He told that his niece Sumandeep Kaur was married to Gurjinder Singh, a resident of Kotli Khurd. He told that after the marriage, her husband, mother-in-law Sukhjinder Kaur and sister-in-law Lovepreet Kaur started harassing her for dowry. Seeing that the alleged demand for dowry was not being met, the accused allegedly poisoned her niece. The police said a case under section 304-B of the IPC has been registered. OCWoman killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A woman died in a road accident while her son and another woman got injured in the mishap. The Hariana police have registered a case against the accused driver, identified as Naveen Saini. Harvinder Singh, a resident of Bassi Maroof, told the police that his daughter-in-law Harpreet Kaur was going to a school in Hariana with her son Tejveer Singh and relative Balveer Kaur when a tractor driver hit them. All three were admitted to a hospital where Harpreet Kaur died during treatment. OC2 held with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers from different places and recovered a huge quantity of intoxicants from them in the past 48 hours. The Model Town police arrested Somprakash, a resident of Pathial and Javed Ahmedani, a resident of Kupwara, and recovered 20 kg of poppy husk from him. While the Dasuya police have arrested Sunny, a Chhangla resident, and recovered 30 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered. OC1 arrested for smuggling liquorHoshiarpur: The Hariana police have arrested a person and recovered 18,000 ml smuggled liquor from him. The accused Harsh Varma, a resident of Janauri village, was nabbed by a police party on Wednesday night near Atbarapur. The accused tried to flee seeing the police party. He has been booked under the Excise Act. OCTwo booked for Rs40-lakh fraudHoshiarpur: The police have booked two persons for duping a Dasuya resident of Rs 40 lakh by selling him a disputed land. Harinder Pal Singh Virk, a resident of Old Bank Road, Dasuya, filed a complaint to the SSP, Hoshiarpur, on October 12 alleging that Pradeep Kumar Goyal, a resident of Homeland Heights, Sector 70, Mohali, and Amarjit Singh of M/S Reetu Constructions Private Limited, Sector 37, Chandigarh, sold a piece of land to him for Rs 40 lakh. Later, he came to know that there was a case pending regarding the land and the accused had not informed him about it and cheated him. After inquiry over the said complaint by DSP (R) Gurpreet Singh, a case was registered against the accused under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. OC7 booked for murder attemptHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have booked seven persons in a case of firing in Kainthan Mohalla. Rachhpal Singh, a resident of Mohalla Kainthan, Dasuya, has filed a complaint with the police alleged that he along with Rajat and Vishal had gone to buy sweet potatoes from a street vendor Khimu on Wednesday evening. Meanwhile, Khimu had a argument with them. During this Ranjit Singh alias Vicky, Harmanpreet Singh Harry, Vicky Jaggu, Sukhwant and Sanjeev, all residents of Kainthan came there. They were armed with a revolver, swords and sticks. Ranjit attacked at his brother Avtar Singh alias Ladi with a sword and Harmanpreet shot five bullets. One of the bullets hit Ladi in the chest and he was seriously injured. The Dasuya police have booked the seven accused under Sections 307, 323, 148, 149 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of Arms Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-4-of-family-booked-for-assault-334600
