07-11-2021||Jalandhar||Students design clothes for slum kids||Samriti shines in MA resultsSamriti, a student of Lyallpur Khalsa College Jalandhar, who secured first position in Semester II in university exams of MA (geography) by getting 362 marks out of 400 whereas Saloni Devi and Manpreet Singh of the same class secured 2nd and 3rd positions by getting 357 and 349 marks, respectively. In a press release, the principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra gave this information adding that Lyallpur Khalsa College is the only college in Doaba region to offer MA (geography) and is the first choice of students because of its excellent teaching and impressive results in university exams. The president of the college governing council, Balbir Kaur, congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Prof JS Rana, HOD Geography, Dr Pooja Rana and Prof Onkar Singh were also present on this occasion.Mandeep tops with 82.1%Students of DIPS College of Education, Dhilwan, secured good marks in B.Ed 1st semester examination. College principal Mukesh said Mandeep Kaur stood first by securing 82.1 per cent marks, Rajbir Kaur secured 81.2 per cent marks and got the second position and at 79.5 per cent marks Rajbir at the third position. Student secured excellent marks and all got first division. MD Tarwinder Singh, vice chairperson Preetinder Kaur, CAO Ramneek Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra congratulated all students on their superb performance and also encouraged them to perform well in the next semester examination.NCC cadets win medalsThe 2 Punjab (Girls) Battalion NCC, Jalandhar, organised a training camp. Cadets were provided training for drill, firing, weapon training, map reading and various competitions were held to inculcate sportsman spirit among them. HMV won the Best College Trophy in the camp, five gold medals in Guard of Honour, four silver medals in Tug of War and four silver medals in volleyball game. Commanding Officer Col. NPS Toor congratulated ANO Lieut Sonia Mahindru and the entire team. Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen also congratulated NCC Wing and gave them best wishes.Seminar on philatelic activitiesA seminar was organised on ‘Philatelic Activities’ by the Department of Office Management and Secretarial Practices of PCM SD College for Women in collaboration with General Post Office, Jalandhar. College Principal Dr Pooja Prashar accorded a floral welcome to the guests. The keynote speaker, Princi Dua, in-charge of Philatelic Bureau, Post Office, Jalandhar, addressed the students and kindled the spark within their minds regarding the hobby of stamp collecting. She also foregrounded the significance of developing language skills through letter writing and thereby inculcating the stamp collection hobby. Guest speaker Jatinder Kumar said different schemes introduced by the Postal Department such as Philately Deposit Scheme, My Stamp Scheme etc. The system manager of the event was Jaswinder Kumar. At the conclusion of the seminar, Narinder Kumar, Senior Superintendent, Post Office, Jalandhar, honoured the Principal and felicitated the teachers and the students with gifts and certificates.Group discussion competitionShiv Jyoti Public School, organised various activities for students. An inter-house group discussion competition for classes IX to XII was held. The participants put forth their enthralling performance. Nearly 29 participants were shortlisted for the same by Pooja Sharma for class 9th, Neenu Singh for class 10th, Inderjit Walia for class XI and Richa Sharma for class XII. The final judgement was made by Richa Sharma and Pooja Sodhi. In Group-1, Kesar bagged the first position and Madhav and Moksha were declared runners up. In Group 2, Tanish bagged the first position and Vanshika was declared runner up. In Group 3, Anushka got the first position and Rakshita was the runner up. In Group 4, Tanvir stood first Nishtha was runner up. In Group 5, Bhawni bagged the first position, Vanshika and Manya Sharma were runners ups.Career counselling seminars heldEklavya School organised workshops for Aakash National Talent Hunt Exam (ANTHE). The resource person of the workshop was Rahul Tyagi (MSc, MPhil, B.Ed). The Aakash ANTHE is a national level schoolarship exam for classes VII to XII class students that helps students to take first step towards their goal of becoming doctor or an engineer. In this test every year two lakh students participate in this test. He explained about the NEET and JEE exam preparation for classes IX to XII student. Eklavya School Chairman JK Gupta encouraged students aware all about KVPY or NTSE exam. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-design-clothes-for-slum-kids-335108
07-11-2021||Jalandhar||Adopt zero tolerance against drugs: DGP||Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on Saturday directed all border district SSPs to maintain a strict vigil along the border and check the activities of listed smugglers on a regular basis.The DGP, who was chairing a crime review meeting with officials of Jalandhar Range and Border range at PAP Complex here, also directed all the CPs/SSPs to adopt a zero tolerance policy against drugs, illegal mining and corrupt practices. CP Jalandhar Naunihal Singh, IGP Jalandhar Range Gurinder Singh Dhillon, IGP Border Range Mohnish Chawla and CP Amritsar Sukhchain Singh Gill also attended the meeting.The DGP directed border officials to keep strict vigil on drones being used for smuggling of arms, ammunition, explosives and drugs. He also ordered district heads to install CCTV Cameras at all Police Stations and religious places.On action against gangsters, the DGP asked CPs and SSPs to prepare dossiers of gangsters/smugglers and their associates and ensure action against them under the PMLA.During the meeting, the DGP also directed CPs/ SSPs to launch a crackdown against the drug smugglers and bootleggers in their concerned areas. He directed them to identify hotspots infamous for drug smuggling in their concerned areas and launch suitable operations to nab all those selling/smuggling drugs.The DGP also directed CPs/SSPs of major cities including Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, etc. to further improve their traffic management system to ensure smooth and hassle-free travel for commuters.Meanwhile, the DGP ordered Border SSPs to start Night Domination Operations along the Indo-Pak international border from 9 pm to 4 am. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adopt-zero-tolerance-against-drugs-dgp-335105
07-11-2021||---||YAD district chief injured in protest||Jalandhar, November 6As the Shiromani Akali Dal today took out a massive protest outside the official residence of Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi in Chandigarh, Youth Akali Dal district chief Sukhminder Singh Rajpal was among those who got injured in the face-off between the party leaders and the Chandigarh Police.Rajpal, who was leading about 30 youth workers from the city, said he had climbed upon the barricades during the protest during which a cop thrashed him. “My right arm got badly hurt and I was not able to move it. I fell off and a few of my fellow workers in the party took me to a hospital at Sohana village in Mohali. They did X-ray and I was told that there was a fracture. They plastered my arm and told me to give it complete rest for the next three months”, he said.Rajpal said the police was too brutal against the party workers today as they were protesting over the issue of rising fuel prices in Punjab and inflation. The party leaders have also alleged that the Congress and BJP were playing a friendly match over various Centre-state issues including allowing BSF to operate up to 50 km from the international border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/yad-district-chief-injured-in-protest-335103
07-11-2021||---||Raipur-Meheru road to be widened to 18 ft, says Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, November 6To give infrastructural boost in Jalandhar Cantt constituency, the state government has approved road project to widen 2.5-km long Raipur-Meheru road to 18 feet at an outlay of worth Rs 1.2 crore, said Sports and Education Minister Pargat Singh during a tour of the constituency. He said the state government has already approved the project and the work was expected to begin within a few days. He further directed the officials to carry out this work on a fast track pace so as to ensure the benefit of people with the project.The minister said there was no paucity of funds for the development projects and distributed cheques worth Rs 1.35 crore among panchayats of 13 villages. Chahowal, Hardo Pharala, Raipur, Salarpur, Daulatpur, Jandiala, Pandori Masarqati, Daduwal, Abadi Daduwal, Mashiana, Samrai, Naitewal and Dhanipind villages which received a sum of Rs 8 to 14 lakh. Notably, Pargat Singh had also distributed cheques for Rs 64 lakh to seven panchayats on Friday.Speaking on the occasion, the minister said these funds would further ensure the holistic development of the rural areas at par with the cities. He added that the state government was committed towards the all-round development of the villages and to achieve the goal a slew of measures have been taken thus paving a way for all round development of basic infrastructure in rural areas. He said the state government has emphasised the improvement of the rural road network, availability of clean drinking water, strengthening of infrastructure in schools, healthcare facilities in villages and construction of model playgrounds for the rural folk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raipur-meheru-road-to-be-widened-to-18-ft-says-pargat-singh-335102
07-11-2021||---||Camps for first time voters at 1,974 booths||Jalandhar, November 6Batting for maximum participation of youths, especially the first time voters in the electoral process, District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori directed booth level officers (BLOs) to ensure maximum registration of youngsters during the special camps being organised by the district administration across all 1,974 booths in the district.During a surprise visit at a polling station situated at Ladowali Road, the DC asked the BLOs to work earnestly so as to achieve this goal. He said the district administration is all set to cover a large number of population under the special voters’ list revision programme.The DC said a campaign was started in the district to cover remaining youths so that their participation in the electoral process could be ensured, which was the ethos of our democracy. He also said that all BLOs are sitting in their respective booths to facilitate voters with different services, thus reaching out to them at doorsteps. He further asked BLOs to ensure registration of 10 voters from each booth.He said as per the revision schedule, anyone attaining the age of 18 years on or before January 1, 2022, could register themselves as voters.Meanwhile, the DC also interacted with visitors approaching the special camps and appealed them to come forward to register their eligible young children as voters. The camp would continue tomorrow on Sunday.Submit forms by Nov 30: DCDeputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Apneet Riyait said as per the orders of Election Commission, persons who will attained the age of 18 years or above by January 1, 2022, should submit their forms to BLOs by November 30 for registration of new voters. These can also be submitted to the office of the District Election Officer. She said special camps would be organised on November 7, 20 and 21 in which BLOs would sit at their respective polling stations from 9 to 5 pm and collect the forms from eligible persons. — TNS/OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/camps-for-first-time-voters-at-1-974-booths-335101
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Guest teachers refuse to relent till demands met||Hoshiarpur, November 6The Guest Faculty Assistant Professors Association, Punjab, continued its protest for the sixth day in the government colleges of Punjab. On Saturday, the constituency in-charge of the Aam Aadmi Party, Brahm Shankar Jimpa, participated in their dharna outside Government College, Hoshiarpur.Jimpa said the party stands with the Punjab Guest Faculty Assistant Professor Association. He said he has joined the dharna and demanded from the government to fulfil the justified demands of the association terming the policies of the Punjab Government as ‘fake’.On this occasion, Sandeep Singh Sikri, member, Panjab University Senate, said the state government was snatching the job of the guest faculty assistant professors by advertising new posts against guest faculty/part time and contract teachers working in government colleges for the past 15-20 years. If this happens, they will lose their jobs. “On the one hand, the government is talking about providing door-to-door employment, while on the other hand, it is firing the teachers working in government colleges,” he said. Sikri said the Higher Education Department has issued letters for direct recruitment of principals for 12 government colleges instead of appointing the principals by promoting regular professors. Similarly, instead of promoting Principals and appointing them to the post of DPI, DPIs are being deployed from among the PCS/IAS cadres. In this way, by banning departmental promotion, direct recruitment has been started from outside. It has led displeasure among the principals and regular staff of government colleges.The protesting guest faculty teachers demanded from the government to secure the jobs of guest faculty/part time/contract teachers working in the government colleges, Higher Education Department of Punjab for the past 15-20 years, to give regular promotions to the regular professors and to promote the DPIs from among the principals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/guest-teachers-refuse-to-relent-till-demands-met-335100
07-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Woman molested, six men booked||ASI dies as service weapon goes offHoshiarpur: An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was killed after accidental firing from his service revolver in the Police Lines on Friday. ASI Gurmeet Singh was deputed as a gunman with DSP Gurpreet Singh. After DSP Gurpreet was transferred, he reached the Police Lines on Friday evening to deposit his service revolver. Before depositing the gun, he was checking the revolver which suddenly went off and he died on the spot. SP (Headquarters) Mandeep Singh said Gurmeet had come to deposit his service revolver and while checking the revolver, it got fired mistakenly and Gurmeet died on the spot. The police have started inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. OCCopies given to slum childrenHoshiarpur: Celebrating the Festival Week of Indian Sanatan Traditions, Alliance Club International District-119 distributed juice, copies and writing materials to the slum dwelling students living in the shanties along the bank of Choe near Shastri Nagar. Club’s Past District Governor Dr Mohd Jameel Bali, International Advisor Ashok Puri and District Governor Sumesh Kumar distributed the articles. Project Chairman Ally Umesh Kumar was especially present. Among the needy boys and girls present, children named Krishna, Arjun, Radha and Lakshmi were honoured with garlands. OCFour test +ve in districtJalandhar: The health authorities reported four new Covid-19 cases in Jalandhar on Saturday. With this, the tally increased to 63,4011. The authorities reported no new Covid-19 related death in the district today. The toll stood at 1,496. As many as 61,886 people have recovered in the district so far. At present, the district has 29 active cases. Of the 17,62,523 samples collected, 16,28,294 samples tested negative. TNS12 dengue cases in hoshiarpurHoshiarpur: A total of 4,729 samples of suspected dengue patients have been collected from the district during this season, Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said. Today, samples of 57 suspected cases of dengue were taken. During the past 48 hours, as many as 12 new positive cases were reported which have brought the total number of cases to 1,597. She said the Civil Hospital has all facilities for treatment and examination of dengue and government health institutions were providing services to dengue patients 24 hours everyday. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-molested-six-men-booked-335099
07-11-2021||---||Kapurthala cop to appear on Bhajji’s show||Jalandhar, November 6Assistant Sub-Inspector Gurbachan Singh Bangar, who is popularly known as a one-man army, when it comes to environment and social issues, will soon appear on a reality show hosted by cricketer Harbhajan Singh.In a series of activities organised by him, he has conducted various plantation drives and held seminars and cycle rallies against harmful effects of drugs and traffic awareness.Gurbaachan has been actively doing social service for the past 27 years. At the age of 55, he still pedals to spread awareness related to environment. Recently, he organised traffic awareness activities for students in Kapurthala and Phagwara.A resident of Kapurthala, Gurbachan said, “I’ll appear in the upcoming episode of the show. I received a call in August, following which I went through two rounds of auditions. Later, a documentary was shot on my social service and achievements. In past 15 years, I have written to around 29,000 people. Owing to the appreciation I receive on social media, the casting team of the show contacted me.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-cop-to-appear-on-bhajjis-show-335098
07-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Chest infections rise manifold due to smog||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 6Chest infections and interstitial lung diseases (ILD) have seen a dramatic jump due to the deteriorating air quality post Diwali fireworks. Along with stubble burning and vehicular pollution, firecrackers have aggravated the issue further.The Jalandhar Civil Hospital, which used to witness 100 patients per day at OPD, has seen 60 to 70 per cent rise in the cases of patients suffering from severe respiratory problems. Many patients had recovered from Covid.Senior Medical Officer Dr Rajiv Sharma said, “There has been a considerable increase in cases of chest infections and related ailments. Such cases have almost doubled. At the Civil Hospital’s OPD, the number of cases with aggravated symptoms has seen a 60 to 70 per cent increase due to the smog and air pollution.”He said, “People are reporting with chest infection, breathlessness and cough more frequently. There are many cases of ILD in those who have recovered from Covid. ILD is basically an umbrella term for a lung condition in which lungs lose their elasticity and become more plastic or brittle.”Dr Hapreet Singh Thind, pulmonologist, Tagore Hospital Jalandhar said, “There is an acute increase in OPD and emergency cases of chest related and respiratory illnesses. There has been a significant rise in emergencies Post Diwali. Patients with respiratory illnesses who were doing well and had no symptoms for eight to nine months are suddenly landing in the emergency. Bronchial asthma has seen a sudden spike. There has also been a sharp rise in post Covid lung fibrosis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chest-infections-rise-manifold-due-to-smog-335097
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Woman dies, in-laws booked after blockade||Tanda Urmar, November 6A married woman died under mysterious circumstances in Tahli village on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Harjinder Kaur. Parents of the deceased accused her in-laws of murder and blocked the highway.Shankar Singh, father of the deceased, and mother Kulwinder Kaur of Bahadar (Purana Shala) Gurdaspur, reached Tahli village along with their relatives who blocked the highway near Darapur bypass and demanded arrest of Harjinder’s in-laws.Amid the uproar, the Tanda police reached the spot and marked the probe. The protesters lifted the blockade after cops registered the case.The Tanda police have registered a case against her husband Jagmeet Singh, mother-in-law Surjit Kaur, brother-in-law Ranjit Singh Raja and Nishan Singh Rinku, a resident of Miyani.In his statement, Jaswant told the police that his daughter got married to Jagmeet in 2015. He said Jagmeet started assaulting her today and demanded dowry.He said Harjinder called them and said the accused were beating her. Later, I got a call that Harjinder has been killed by the accused, he said. Jaswant alleged Harjinder’s brother-in-law Raja, who is settled in the US, was behind the murder. Inspector Bikram Singh, SHO, Tanda, said the police have registered a case and started further probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-dies-in-laws-booked-after-blockade-335096
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Mehatpur bypass: Farm unions oppose acquisition of land||Nakodar, November 6Tension prevailed in and around Nakodar and Mehatpur after hundreds of activists of different farm unions strongly opposed the acquisition of land for the construction of Mehatpur bypass on Saturday.Sub-Divisional Magistrate Nakodar Poonam Singh, Executive Engineer Balbir Singh, SP (D) Manpreet Singh Dhillon and Shahkot DSP Shamsher Singh reached Udhowal village with 300 cops for the acquisition, but farmers vehemently opposed the move.The protesters said the issue has been handed over to the Joint Kisan Morcha, Delhi, which will decide the issue.After heated arguments between farmers and officials, the SDM agreed and fixed a meeting on November 22 at 10 am at Circuit House in Jalandhar.Farm leaders said the land was being acquired to give benefit to Baba Baldev Singh, sole trustee of the Gobind Marg Charitable Trust, Nanaksar Thath, Bulandpuri, who had purchased more than 300 acres on the leftside of the road from Mehatpur to Parjian.They said there was already a 66-feet road from Mehatpur to Parjian, which was upgraded under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana.The state government had acquired nine acres, two kanals and four marlas in Udhowal and Pachharian villages in 2013.Jagtar Singh, a resident of Udhowal village and others had filed a special leave petition challenging the acquisition in the Supreme Court which was dismissed in May 2018.Earlier, the farmers had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court for cancelling the notification issued for acquiring land, but it was also dismissed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mehatpur-bypass-farm-unions-oppose-acquisition-of-land-335095
07-11-2021||Our Correspondent||2 killed as tractor falls into canal||Talwara (Hoshiarpur), November 6A Class XII student and her brother died in a road accident near Badla village on Friday.Kritika was a student of Class XII and her brother Karthik was a student of Class VIII at Sarvahitkari Vidya Mandir Sahoda-Dadiyal. The duo was residents of Ranak Mohalla Badla village.They had gone to their farm and on their way back home they took a lift from a tractor driver identified as Rajesh Kumar.The tractor went out of control on the bridge near Maharaj Trilok Puri Ashram and fell into Kandi canal as there were no railings on both sides of the bridge. Both the siblings got stuck under the tractor and died on the spot. The tractor driver also received serious injuries.It’s pertinent to mention that father of both the children had died around 12 years ago and they lived with their mother.After starting the inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC and getting the post-mortem done, the bodies of the deceased were handed over to the family members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-killed-as-tractor-falls-into-canal-335094
07-11-2021||Ajay Joshi||Human Trafficking: Jalandhar police announce Rs 1L reward for info on immigration agent||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 6The Jalandhar police have announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information on a travel agent involved in a multi-crore immigration and human trafficking scam, which involves high-profile singers and officials of various embassies.The accused has been identified as Himansh Verma, managing director, Navrattan Group of Companies, who has offices in Mumbai, Chandigarh and other cities.Verma, who was arrested on October 15, had been booked under Sections 406, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC.He was brought to Chandigarh from Mumbai by the Jalandhar police as he had claimed to have kept certain passports at his house-cum-office in Sector 8, Chandigarh. The accused escaped from the custody of the police by jumping from a window of his home in the cover of darkness.During investigations, it came to the fore that Verma had created Navrattan Group of Companies as a front to cover up his illegal business of trafficking people abroad.A seperate FIR has been registered against him im Chandigarh for absconding from the police custody.As soon as people became aware of an FIR being registered against him, many more victims came forward to lodge complaints against Verma.As per investigation, Verma started his career as a helper at a jewellery shop of his father in Patiala. He always wanted to be associated with high-profile people and wanted to live a luxurious life. He started a business of sending students abroad. Later, he launched Navrattan Group of Companies as a front and started his illegal activities. He claimed that his company used to sign contracts worth thousands of crores for green cement with various state governments.He used the names of singers to portray that he was taking various persons along with them. His Mumbai office was in the same building as that of VFS office of Hungary in Mumbai and used to obtain visas at exorbitant rates. He would eventually send people to America through Mexico. Many of these people have reportedly gone missing. Senior police officials said the roles of various singers were being investigated and it’s feared that this racket may turn out to be a fraud worth hundreds of croresVerma had also claimed to be in close relation with various judicial officers through a lawyer in Chandigarh. The role of the said lawyer is also being probed.Escapes from custody||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/human-trafficking-jalandhar-police-announce-rs-1l-reward-for-info-on-immigration-agent-334864
