08-11-2021||Set up more health care centres||Open House:  What efforts are needed to tackle the current dengue situation in Jalandhar district?||Dengue has been causing a lot of trouble in all districts of Jalandhar and there is a sudden surge in its cases. As a result, the health infrastructure has been affected a lot. People from other districts and places have started coming for treatment as they do not get much facilities in their areas. The administration can take up many precautionary steps to overcome this like set up some special government funded health care centers where the people from the surrounding areas can come for treatment. There should be free blood tests so that the doctors can get to know the severity of the patient suffering from dengue. There must be a proper accommodation for the people that are having severe symptoms. As we all know that dengue only strikes when there is collection of water somewhere or mostly in the monsoon season, we can take many obvious precautionary measures to fight against it. It could or could be right or wrong to term dengue as a medical emergency because we all and the doctors are somewhat familiar with the symptoms and how it reacts and it can also be cured. It can be cured but we still don’t have to be reckless.Sanidhya BhaskarAware public of causes & symptomsThe administration needs to reveal the list of areas were fogging was carried out. Creating an atmosphere of awareness against the dengue is not sufficient until and unless intensive fogging is also carried out in the city. As last year it was Covid-19 pandemic which had created atmosphere of fear among the masses and fogging was being carried out in large number in every area. As in the private hospitals the number of patients is increasing it is high time for the administration to prepare a road map for fogging in the entire city. Political leaders should refrain from issuing statements on this sensitive issue, especially the social organisations should come forward for financial assistance to those dengue patients who are daily bread earners and are not in a position to meet up the medical bills in private super specialist hospitals. Cleanliness drive at vulnerable places should be carried out by the administration and the social organisations. Yes, we are heading towards another health emergency due to the spread of dengue. As the health services in all the other states are also available, the patients cannot be refused treatment here. It will be better that respective states should take preventive measures and arrange medical services for the dengue patients. The government should implement a blanket ban on migration of the doctors, nurses, medical and para-medical staff from India who have studied here and completed their courses. They should be a law providing for mandatory service for minimum five years in the country in which two years in rural areas and three years in urban areas before migrating abroad, the reason the number of doctors is very less as compared to the population of the country.Rajat Kumar MohindruKeep city litter-free, Don’t throw garbageCleanliness is the important for leading a healthy life. The dengue cases are on surge as the city is in deplorable condition and Municipal Corporation does not pay heed to the problem. The aedes mosquito which spreads dengue often grows in the filthy areas. The disease is spreading fast during the festival season. People are responsible for spreading garbage in the city and they don’t even think this will make a huge complication for them and their family. People shouldn’t do this and don’t let anyone to make city murky. If they do so, dengue cases will automatically go down.Saahil HansDestroy mosquito breeding groundsAfter the Covid-19 pandemic, the state is now confronted with the dengue outbreak which has remained a potential challenge every year since 1990s, courtesy increased urbanisation, climate changes and apathetic and indifferent attitude of government agencies. With the rush of dengue patients from places across Punjab and other states, the district health infrastructure is over-burdened. If government hospitals lack adequate medicines, medical staff and other facilities, the private hospitals and laboratories are fleecing patients for the tests and blood units. There is not much hope from the civic authorities also. There is neither any proper sanitation drive nor timely spray of insecticides and larvicides to destroy the mosquito breeding grounds such as garbage dumps, stagnant water places and unwanted growth of grass, weeds and bushes. In the face of apathetic and nonchalant approach of the health and civic authorities, the onus to prevent and check the spread of dengue is basically on the people. The government should at least create awareness about the importance of hygiene through print and electronic media. People should properly sanitise their homes, dispose of solid waste, cover and clean water containers, flower pots, coolers etc after the rainy season. They should use mosquito repellents, ovitraps and mosquito nets, avoid skin exposure by wearing protective clothing and refrain from going outside at dawn, dusk and early morning.Tajpreet S KangHealth infrastructure is ill-equippedDengue fever is spread by the bite of mosquito Aedes aegypti. There is no doubt that our hospitals and health facilities are not up to the mark to handle such emergencies as also seen during the Covid-19 pandemic. The hospitals are overwhelmed with patients suffering from dengue. Both the government and the public are to be blamed for the sorry state of affairs. The government should have made a of anti-mosquitoes chemicals in the cities and rural areas before the onset of the disease to nip the evil in the bed. The people should be made aware of the dangers of stagnating water in the streets or homes like in coolers or other utensils. As dengue is an annual calamity, both the government and the public should have been aware of the coming disaster. But that was not to be. The government hospitals lack the equipment to separate the platelets from the blood which is needed for the Dengue patients. The platelets reduction in the dengue fever leads to bleeding tendencies which can prove fatal in many cases. The government doesn’t spend much on health and education which many countries in south and south East Asia have done. Our Government also needs to emulate these countries.JS WadhwaConduct survey of all vulnerable spotsHardly, the people have come out of the fear of Covid pandemic, dengue outbreak has added to the woes of city residents. The government as well as private healthcare centres are abuzz with increased number of patients. Despite repeated alerts to be careful, the problem often gets aggravated due to the lack of adequate infrastructure and malfunctioning of aphaeresis machines that separate blood into platelets and other components. Attributing to the poor maintenance of equipment and the ill-preparedness to face the challenge, the disease causes big scare all around. The disease is preventable for which the health administration in coordination with the MC and NGOs should ensure cleanliness well before the rainy season, periodic fogging in the localities to prevent breeding of larvae. The health teams must conduct survey of all vulnerable spots and take required safeguards during the moist climatic conditions. Alongside, a vigorous campaign should be launched to sensitise people about the precautionary steps to be undertaken to avoid spreading of disease. The hospital staff and infrastructure should be well-equipped to face any kind of eventuality. The patients coming to hospitals ought to be promptly attended and provided urgent medical care. The government should also provide adequate trained manpower and financial support to health systems to withstand excessive burden and overcome any adverse situation in case of unusual inflow of patients for treatment. Any lackadaisical approach must be sternly dealt with, so that we do not move towards another health emergency. By all means, life and safety of the citizens has to be the top priority of our leaders.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathDestroy larvae breeding habitatsWhile the Covid-19 pandemic has not yet been eradicated completely, the state is in the severe grip of dengue infections. The dramatic rise in the number of dengue cases in the past one month is a cause of serious concern. As before, public as well private hospital wards and corridors in the district are packed to capacity with dengue patients not only from other districts of Punjab but from other states also. Unfortunately, the health infrastructure repeats the same old story. In the absence of adequate medical facilities including qualified doctors, nurses and technicians, it is again overwhelmed. Due to its lackadaisical approach, the Municipal Corporation has also been unable to improve the sanitary conditions in the city. How can the health and civic administrations deal with the emerging situation effectively and efficiently? The public at large is simply not bothered to keep their homes and surroundings clean and dry. There is no specific vaccine or treatment available for dengue. In the prevailing scenario, apprehensions are rife that we might be heading towards another health emergency. Only concerted and cooperative efforts by the concerned departments and the people will help at this critical juncture. These stakeholders should strictly implement the following preventive measures to check the further outbreak of dengue: destroying larvae breeding habitats, limiting exposure to mosquitoes by wearing proper clothes, revamping the ailing health system for proper fever survey, contact tracing and adequate stock of platelets, enhancing public awareness about the viral infection and consulting the doctor in case of developing dengue symptoms.D S KangPrevention is better than cureRise in dengue cases has overburdened our existing healthcare system and infrastructure. It has posed great challenge for system to combat a epidemic, creating a double burden. Laboratories must be more vigil while diagnosing the patients. It is difficult to distinguish between dengue and Covid-19 because of similar symptoms. We can’t rely on authorities. Ultimately, it is our life and we have to save you. The healthcare system is already overburdened with the deadly duo. Many a time it is discussed and warned the public, how to save from virus by wearing full clothes, use of repellents, cleanliness and clean pots from stagnant water. Regular fogging can be helpful. Take the help of area MC to get the fogging done. Take all the precautions to save from mosquito bite and spread of dengue.Shashi KiranIdentify, address reason of spreadThough the onslaught of dengue is the severest during the current season, yet it can’t be perceived as another health emergency. The emergence and spread of dengue is largely manageable provided the public and the administration take preventive measures at their end. As the reasons and circumstances leading to outbreak of dengue are identifiable and also being confined to a particular season only, there is no reason of it growing into an emergency which can’t be handled with normal health infrastructure. It is casual attitude and gross negligence on the part of the public at large and the concerned health authorities, which are solely responsible for the disease. The administration must take both preventive steps in advance and remedial measures to check the spread effectively. The public needs to be sensitised about the conditions under which the dengue mosquitoes breed and make them aware of taking preventive measures at vulnerable places.Jagdish ChanderFocus on destroying dengue larvae QUESTIONThe ETT-TET and BEd-TET qualified teachers are protesting against the state government for not keeping their promise of giving them jobs. The Congress came to power in 2017 with unemployment being one of the prime issues facing it. Do you think it is high time for the government to address shortage of teachers in government schools and release appointment letters as demanded by protesting teachers?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 11)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-efforts-are-needed-to-tackle-the-current-dengue-situation-in-jalandhar-district-335316
08-11-2021||Garhshankar||Garhshankar: Poets focus on social issues||Om Prakash Jkhmi’s second book ‘Shahnai aur Janaza’ was released at a function organised by the Doaba Sahitya Sabha and the Darpan Sahitya Sabha jointly today. During this, famous poets of Punjab recited their poems.Amrik Hamraj, principal Bikar Singh, Avtar Sandhu, Sarwan Sidhu, Jog Singh Bhatla, Pardesi Mahilpur, Resham Chitrakar, Sohan Singh Sunni, Sohan Singh Tony, Ranjit Singh Posi, Tara Singh Cheda, Jasveer Kaur, Jyoti Sharma, Taranjit Gogo , Nav Kamal, Dilawar Singh, Diksha and Om Prakash Jakhmi presented poems exposing social evils. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/garhshankar-poets-focus-on-social-issues-335317
08-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Cornea transplant lights up 171 lives||Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur Midtown, president Praveen Paliyal said under the project — ‘Gift of Sight — adopted by the Rotary Club, Hoshiarpur Midtown, in September and October, 25 dark lives were enlightened by corneal transplant.The surgeries were carried out by Guru ka Langar Eye Hospital, Chandigarh and Dr Shakin Eye and Dental Hospital, Amritsar. Chairman Manoj Ohri said 171 corneal transplant operations were performed in a year from October 2020 to October 2021 in which visually-impaired patients from several states benefitted. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-cornea-transplant-lights-up-171-lives-335318
08-11-2021||---||BJP Yuva Morcha burns Punjab CM Channi’s effigy||Jalandhar, November 7Members of the BJP Yuva Morcha today burnt an effigy of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi at the Company Bagh here on failure of his 50-day government.Morcha’s state co-president advocate Ashok Sareen Hicky said the Congress’ various promises like Ghar Ghar Naukri, unemployment allowance, provision of smart phones, ending of drug menace in four weeks etc. all remained unfulfilled. They also said the Channi government in its 50 days hadn’t launched a single scheme or plan for the betterment of youth and had thus betrayed their trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bjp-yuva-morcha-burns-punjab-cm-channis-effigy-335319
08-11-2021||---||Jalandhar district administration readies up for Assembly poll||Jalandhar, November 7As many as 15,723 voters participated in two-day special camps organised by the district administration. The camps were held to facilitate the voters for verification of their names, new registrations, and changes in the voter details and corrections in the Voter ID cards for the upcoming Assembly elections 2022.Divulging the details, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said the booth-level officers (BLOs) on the second consecutive day organised these camps at all 1,974 polling booths across the district to facilitate the voters. This included 242 booths in the Phillaur assembly constituency, likewise 252 in Nakodar, 250 Shahkot, 228 Kartarpur, 183 Jalandhar West, 190 Jalandhar Central, 196 Jalandhar North, 216 Jalandhar Cantt, and 217 booths in Adampur Assembly constituency.Thori said these camps received massive response as a total of 15,723 persons participated for various services, including 9,008 persons applied for getting themselves registered as voters while 3,426 have filled form 7, 2,932 have filled form 8, and 317 filled form 8A and 196 have filled form 6. Of these, 3,830 visitors between age group 18-19 have applied for votes, thereby becoming the first time voters. The DC visited special camp held at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nehru Garden, where he interacted with the young voters, besides motivating them to participate in democratic process by exercising their right to franchise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-readies-up-for-assembly-poll-335320
08-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||23 booked for theft, molestation||36-yr-old hangs self to deathGarhshankar: A 36-year-old man of Ward No.6 in Garhshankar committed suicide by hanging himself in his house here on Sunday. In his statement given to Garhshankar police, Darshan Lal, a resident of Saroya village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, told the police that his son Mukesh Kumar (victim) was living in Ward No.6, Deep Colony, Garhshankar. Owing to some domestic problem, he committed suicide in his house. The police handed over the body to the family members after a postmortem. OCDowry death: Husband heldHoshiarpur: Tanda police have arrested husband, Jagmeet Singh, and mother-in-law, Surjit Kaur, for ‘killing woman’. Jaswant Singh, a resident of Puranashala village in Gurdaspur district, told the police that his daughter, Harjinder Kaur, was married to Tahli village resident Jagmeet Singh in 2015. After marriage, her daughter’s husband and mother-in-law Surjit Kaur and brother-in-law Ranjit Singh, alias Raja, started harassing her for dowry. Jaswant alleged that the accused killed her under a conspiracy in collusion with their another relative Rinku, alias Nishan Singh, a resident of Miani, after their demand for dowry was not met. A case has been registered against the accused. OCMan killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: An employee of Randhawa Sugar Mill was killed in a road accident on Saturday night. Dasuya police have registered a case. Jaswant Singh, a resident of Berchha village, told the police that his son Gurdeep Singh (34) was working in Randhawa Sugar Mill. On Saturday night, when Gurdeep Singh was crossing the road, a car hit him, leaving him seriously injured. He was taken to the hospital in a critical condition where he died. The car driver fled the spot leaving the car behind. The police have registered a case. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/23-booked-for-theft-molestation-335321
08-11-2021||---||Four new Covid cases reported in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, November 7Four new Covid cases were reported today in Jalandhar district (two of them from other districts). With this, the total tally has increased to 63,413 cases. No new Covid death was reported in Jalandhar today. The district deceased tally remained 1,496. As many as 61,887 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 30.One new case in K’thalaOne new positive case was reported in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached 17,854. A 58-year-old Phagwara woman tested positive. No death from Covid was reported at Kapurthala today either.3 cases in HoshiarpurThree new Covid cases were reported from the district on Sunday, taking the Covid tally to 30,834. No death was recorded. There are 12 active cases, while 29,836 persons have recovered from Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-new-covid-cases-reported-in-jalandhar-district-335322
08-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Mukerian man duped of Rs 1.31 cr, 5 West Bengal residents booked||Hoshiarpur, November 7The Model Town police have booked five West Bengal residents for duping Rs 1.31 crore which was originally sent to a car company for the dealership. Dinesh Singh Dogra, a resident of Dhaula Khera village of Mukerian, gave a complaint in this regard to the SSP on September 2.The complainant said he had applied for a dealership of a renowned car company. For it, he had deposited the said amount in the company’s account via different separate transactions through RTGS. But instead of the company’s current account, the amount was credited to the accounts of the savings accounts of the five accused — Achntya Bhunya of Kotepara, West Midnapore, West Bengal, Tapati Debnath of Rama Krishana Parganas, West Bengal, Rama Bala Sarkar of Barishal para, Bamun Para, Roy Dakshin Para, Chaube Gopal Nagar, North 2 Parganas, West Bengal, Ramendra Nath Sarkar of Ward No.10, Taki Road Near Geetanjali Path, Bhawansrinagar Colony, Basirhat North, 24 Parganas West Bengal and Rajesh Bhalchandra Yande of Dongarpara, Chorghe, Ali Virar, Alipurduar, West Bengal.He said the primary investigation revealed that the bank branch to which these amounts were transferred had been closed and did not exist now. Then how the amounts were transferred to these accounts has become a mystery.The police have registered a case against the accused under Sections 406, 420, 468, and 120-B of IPC and 66 (c) of information and the Technology Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mukerian-man-duped-of-rs-1-31-cr-5-west-bengal-residents-booked-335323
08-11-2021||---||AAP lends support to jobless teachers||Jalandhar, November 7The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday extended support and solidarity to the unemployed teachers’ unions members of which have been sitting on a dharna since October 28. They are demanding regular jobs.Party leaders like mahila wing president Rajwinder Kaur, district president Olympian Surinder Singh Sodhi and district rural president Principal Prem Kumar met unemployed TET Pass BEd teachers, sitting on a dharna, to extend support to them.They said the Channi government and the previous Capt Amarinder government had made false employment promises which were even included in the party’s manifesto. They said successive governments had failed to provide employment to hundreds of teachers in the state. The said while unemployed teachers had been asking for their right while climbing atop tanks for the past over a week, the government had done nothing to redress their grievances.The AAP leaders said even the water tank which the teachers had climbed was itself in a very bad state which could cause a mishap in the coming days. The leaders said the Channi government had also failed in addressing people’s problems like the previous government.Notably, teachers Munish Fazilka and Jaswant Ghubaya have been sitting atop a water tank near the bus stand, Jalandhar, since October 28 demanding the release of advertisements by the state government for posts of 9,000 teachers in the Education Department. Members of the BEd TET Pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union have since held several dharnas outside the residence of Cabinet minister Pargat Singh stressing on the same demand.On the occasion, AAP leaders Jagtar Singh Sanghera, Dr Shiv Dyal Mali, Subhash Sharma, Joginder Pal Sharma, IS Bagga, Amrit Pal, Mukhtiar Singh, Varun and Jaspal Singh were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-lends-support-to-jobless-teachers-335324
08-11-2021||---||Relief for dealers, people as Punjab Govt cuts VAT on petrol, diesel||Jalandhar, November 7The Punjab Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association on Sunday announced to withdraw their decision to open petrol pumps only between 7 am and 5 pm with the state government slashing value added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel by Rs 10 and Rs 5, respectively. In the wake of the statewide protest demanding VAT parity with neighbouring states and revision of dealer margins, the petrol pump dealers had announced to hold a strike from November 7 onwards.Price cut just a drop in oceanHoshiarpur: Senior BJP leader and former cabinet minister Tikshan Sood has lashed out at the Punjab Government over the reduction in petrol and diesel prices in Punjab, saying that cutting diesel price by Rs5 per litre is nothing more than a drop in the ocean. The Modi government at the Centre cut petrol price by Rs5 per litre and diesel by Rs10 per litre, so everyone welcomed that. He said every transport vehicle, all agricultural equipments, etc, were dependent on diesel. He demanded that the state government should cut diesel and petrol prices by Rs15 per litre. Tikshan Sood, Senior BJP leader and former cabinet ministerA gift to people of PunjabThe Punjab Government has given a gift to the people of Punjab by cutting the prices of petrol and diesel. Dr Kuldeep Nanda, president of the District Congress Committee, Hoshiarpur, said the decision taken by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to reduce petrol price by Rs 10 and diesel by Rs 5 was commendable and it will bring great relief to the people. It is a historic decision of the Punjab Government to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel after slashing the electricity and water prices. Dr Kuldeep Nanda, president of the District Congress Committee, HoshiarpurSukhmohan Singh Sehgal, president of the Jalandhar Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association, said a few hours before the strike, they had received an assurance by the government that the VAT on fuels would be regularised in the next Cabinet meeting.However, the association members in the district said they welcomed the revised rates, but VAT on both petrol and diesel should have been reduced equally as per their demands as diesel was still costlier in Punjab.Now, the retail price of petrol in the state will be Rs 96.16 per litre and for diesel, it will be Rs 84.80 per litre.Sehgal said for the past couple of months, the petrol pump dealers were facing the wrath due to inflated fuel prices. Especially in the districts that share boundaries with neighbouring states, the petrol pump dealers were suffering huge losses. Petrol and diesel are costlier in Punjab as compared to neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh.Owing to the cheaper fuel prices, people in the bordering district tend to fill petrol from petrol pumps based in Haryana, Chandigarh and HP, which eventually caused a big loss to petrol pump dealers. The sale in the district also dipped since the last quarter,” added Sehgal.There are around 3,500 petrol pumps in the state, nearly 800 are in the bordering districts, 225 are in Jalandhar and daily revenue loss was in crores, said Raghbir Singh, one of the members of the association.Residents hail the moveHours after Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced VAT reduction on petrol and diesel, people took to social media welcoming the move. While some shared it as a poll stunt ahead of the Assembly elections, some considered it as a significant move to control unreasonable inflation. Sandeep Singh, a resident, said better late than never. “But we would want the fuel to be a little cheaper as since the beginning of this year, we are spending a lot on fuel,” added Sandeep.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/relief-for-dealers-people-as-punjab-govt-cuts-vat-on-petrol-diesel-335325
08-11-2021||---||No let-up in dengue cases as Jalandhar district tally touches 389||Jalandhar, November 7On September 26 this year, the number of dengue cases in the district was merely 31. On October 27, there were 241 cases. The tally today stands at a whopping 389. The number of dengue cases in the last fortnight alone has climbed by over a 100 cases.Until November 2, the district had 338 cases of dengue which rose to 389 today. A majority of the cases are being reported from urban areas. In the last one week alone, there have been reported 51 more cases of dengue.As many as 18 new cases have been reported in Jalandhar out of the 25 (others were from other districts) tested positive. Of the 18 cases, five were reported at the Civil Hospital. We are surveying areas where dengue cases are being reported regularly. Fogging drives are also being carried out twice in vulnerable areas. The samples pending over the holidays were tested today. The situation will be clear on Monday. Dr Aditya Paul, Epidemiologist, JalandharA dip in the mercury usually leads to a fall in the number of dengue cases. Despite a change in the temperatures, there has been no let-up in dengue cases in the district so far. Cases continue to increase. Following the festival week, the first week of November has seen a substantial increase in dengue cases.A healthy and nutritious food is a good thing, but if someone feels that goat milk alone can cure dengue, it is just a myth. A patient must take complete bed rest, vitamin C in any form and increase intake of fluids A physicianOn November 2, as many as 42 samples of dengue tested positive, while in the sampling conducted today as many as 25 cases tested positive out of which 18 are from Jalandhar. These samples also included those tested for the last two days.Of the 18 Jalandhar samples which tested positive today, as many as 15 samples are from urban areas while three are from rural areas.HotspotsNotably, while a majority of the cases in the district have been reported from urban areas, some areas have emerged as hotspots in both urban and rural areas. Among urban areas, Jalandhar Cantt with 18 cases, Basti Dainishmandan with 13 cases and Sodal area (with eight cases) have emerged as major hotspots. Meanwhile in rural areas, Barapind (with 31 cases), Kartarpur with 19 cases and Jamsher and Kala Bakra with 16 and 15 cases, respectively, have emerged as hotspots.Among urban areas, cases are being reported from following areas — Garha and Railway Colony (5 cases each); Sant Nagar, Islamganj and Tej Mandi, Kamal Vihar (Bashirpur), SAS Nagar, Ladowali Road, Urban Estate, Bachint Nagar, Jatpura Mohalla, Basti Bawa Khel, Army Enclave, Buta Pind, Gandhi Nagar, Avtar Nagar, Partap Nagar, Ashok Vihar, Ram Nagar and Adarsh Nagar (2 cases each); Gurunankpura, Guru Ram Das Nagar, Industrial Focal Point, Hargobind Nagar, Model Town, Panj Peer Colony, Bargo Camp, Shaheed Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Tagore DAV Colony, Jalandhar Vihar, Wazir Nagar and Greeb Avenue (3 cases each); Shaeed Babu Labh Singh Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Noorpur-Bulandpur (4 cases); Sodal Road (8 cases); Jalandhar Cantt (18 cases); Basti Dainishmandan (13 cases); Basti Sheikh (7 cases); Raja Garden, Basti Peer, Shastri Nagar (9 cases collectively) and Sanotkhpura (6 cases).Across rural areas, areas which have reported cases include Barapind (31), Kartarpur (19), Jamsher (16), Kala Bakra (15), Mehatpur (11), Shahkot (4), Jandiala and Adampur (3 each), Bilga (1).SymptomsPeople infected by the dengue virus may suffer from high fever, severe headache, severe pain behind the eyes, joint pain, muscle and bone pain, rash and mild bleedingDosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-let-up-in-dengue-cases-as-jalandhar-district-tally-touches-389-335326
