09-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Waterlogged Jalandhar Civil Hospital entrance open invitation to vector-borne dengue||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8While hectic fogging and hotspot surveillance drives mark the fight against a dramatic increase in dengue cases in Jalandhar, the hub of healthcare in the city, the Civil Hospital, itself has turned into an eyesore amidst the peak of the mosquito-borne disease.Sewer water accumulating right at the hospital entrance has been greeting visitors for days’ altogether. A video of rats scampering outside the ICU dialysis unit at the Civil Hospital went viral a few days ago while the hospital was today seen flooded with water.Right near the main emergency of the Civil Hospital, which is besides entrance to its main building, the hospital facade can be seen in ankle- deep waters. A sewage accumulation problem is stated to be the cause of waterlogging.Notably, the number of dengue cases in Jalandhar today climbed to 415 with 33 more patients testing positive for the disease.With daily dengue case hike averaging between 20 to 30, the hospital’s own front yard grapples with waterlogging problem. While all critical patients at the hospital go through the emergency, right next to it is also the trauma ward and the ICU, which also accommodates all sensitive Covid, burn, accident and other cases. Over 500-bed Civil Hospital has many wards with critical patients.The severely waterlogged area outside the emergency at the city’s healthcare hub hence poses an open invitation to disease in a vulnerable phase of the dengue outbreak.The Civil Hospital is already marked with piles of debris due to the ongoing construction works in its various wards and units.While the health and MC teams hold fogging at least twice a day in the waterlogged areas and at dengue hotspots, the Health Department, it seems is not bothered to clear its own front yard.The Medical Superintendent, Jalandhar, Dr Seema said, “The work for cleaning sewer has been allotted to the PHSC engineering wing. I have asked them to get it done immediately due to the outbreak of dengue.”The SDO, Punjab Health System Corporation (PHSC), Ravinder Saini said, “We received a letter from hospital only two days ago. Minor work can be done by hospital’s own maintenance team. I also sent my men to clean the place, but the main manhole for the sewage cleaning work can be opened from the parking where there is a huge rush of vehicles throughout the day due to its proximity to the mortuary. Our men had to return once. Now work can only be done in the night. It will be completed in one or two days.”While there were 398 dengue cases until yesterday, their count has now risen to 415. Majority of cases are from the urban areas while some are from the rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/waterlogged-jalandhar-civil-hospital-entrance-open-invitation-to-vector-borne-dengue-335872
09-11-2021||---||Minor blast at CIA staff police station in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, November 8A minor blast took place in the CIA staff police station along the Banga road on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday. However, no casualty was reported due to the blast.The blast reportedly occurred due to some explosives thrown from outside. Owing to the impact, a crater got created in the verandah of the police station and a water cooler fell over. The window of the clerk’s office was also broken after the blast.A team of forensic experts reached the police station this afternoon and collected evidence and samples of the explosive substances for its findings. No CCTV footage has reportedly been found to identify the miscreant.Most police officials, who are tight-lipped about the matter, have said that they are still investigating it. Manvinderbir Singh, SP (Headquarters), said, “An FIR has been lodged in the case. We are still in the process of tracing all clues.”The police have lodged an FIR against an unidentified person under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Explosive Substances Act, and Sections 307, 427 and 120-B of the IPC on the basis of a complaint lodged by senior sepoy Jagtar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/minor-blast-at-cia-staff-police-station-in-nawanshahr-335873
09-11-2021||---||Protest against Akshay’s Sooryavanshi continues in Jalandhar, PVR’s loss crosses Rs 10 lakh||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8Amid ongoing protest by farmers against Akshay Kumar starrer, Sooryavanshi, the PVRs in the district suffer a loss of over Rs10 lakh. PVR MBD today also had to issue refund of about 150 tickets.Members of various farm outfits and NGOs supporting farmers’ movement today reached the MBD Mall to stop screening of Sooryavanshi at the PVR movie theatres. The agitators said they would not allow the actor’s movies to be screened here as he had in the past made statements against farmers’ protest and supported the centre on farm laws. However, the PVR manager on the condition of anonymity stated that, in the PVR’s in the city, they suffered a loss of over Rs10 lakh.“There are around four PVRs in Jalandhar and for the past three days, they have been issuing refund of already booked tickets. While refund of nearly 450 tickets was issued on Saturday, around 500 tickets were refunded on Sunday. Refund of about 150 tickets was also issued at PVR MBD Mall today,” the manager added.Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Punjab) and Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee while staging a sit-in outside the mall said, Akshay was among the many Bollywood actors, who had not only supported BJP on farm laws but also tweeted against farmers’ sympathiser, American pop star Rihanna, who had posted a tweet in favour of farmers movement against controversial farm laws.After staging the protest, Kanwar Sartaj Singh (Spokesperson, Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee) also appealed to people of the state to boycott every movie of Bollywood stars who were against farmers’ protest. “Akshay Kumar supported the three black farm laws introduced by the BJP government. Farmers are protesting peacefully at Delhi Borders for almost a year and more than 650 farmers have been martyred during the protest. Akshay kumar has done shooting in Punjab’s villages in his previous movies, but he still never supported farmers,” added Sartaj.A city-based organisation called ‘Fikr-e-Hond’, which has been working for social welfare for a long time and has been supporting the farmers’ struggle from day also reached Curo mall on Sunday to halt screening of Suryavanshi. The movie directed by Rohit Shetty hit the cinema screens on November 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-against-akshays-sooryavanshi-continues-in-jalandhar-pvrs-loss-crosses-rs-10-lakh-335874
09-11-2021||---||Seeking better pay, nurses go on pen-down strike in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 8The Nursing staff from across the district under the banner of the Punjab Nursing Association held strike at the Civil Hospital here today. The strike was held in solidarity with the nursing staff across the state to support their demands regarding the Sixth Pay Commission.Nurses went on a mass casual leave and observed a pen-down strike during which all emergency services were suspended.Members of the joint action committee (JAC), Punjab, also held a meeting with Dr Vikas Garg, Health Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, on Monday between 8 am and 10 am. Union members submitted their demands to the health secretary during meeting. The prime demands of the nursing staff include increasing their pay grades.Earlier, they were receiving salaries in the Rs4,600 (B grade), which were reduced to Rs3,200 (C grade) and now there were plans to move it further down to Rs2,800 (D grade), said nurses. They sought rectification of this error and pay matrix correction. They also demanded nursing care allowances along other allowances and staff nurse be given the designation of nursing officer, implemented in other states.Meanwhile, Dr Vikas Garg, assured members of the JAC, Punjab, that their meeting with the Finance Minister would be arranged soon.Earlier, their meeting was held in three parts. Union members said no fruitful results came out of the meeting and they were unsatisfied.The JAC, Punjab, decided that as long as their grievances were not resolved the nursing staff would remain on pen down strike and emergency services would also remain suspended. The nursing staff is on mass casual leave for two days. Their strike will continue tomorrow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/seeking-better-pay-nurses-go-on-pen-down-strike-in-jalandhar-335875
09-11-2021||---||Good Samaritan couple donates books for Old Age Home inmates||Jalandhar, November 8Touched by the fact that the inmates of the Old Age Home at Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar do not get anything to read, a Good Samaritan couple yesterday visited the centre and donated a couple of books, basically short stories by Rabindra Nath Tagore.Navjeet Kaur, a computer science lecturer from Government Polytechnic, Ladowali Road, and her husband Gurraj Singh, who is an Assistant Professor of Industrial Engineering from Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, said they had read a report in Jalandhar Tribune last month and made up their mind to make books available to the elderly putting up at the Old Age Home.“I asked my father, who has been a professor of Library Sciences, as to which books would be good for the elderly to read. So, he suggested me some books which we purchased from the local market and handed over to the inmates. The inmates were really happy on getting the books. We spent some time with them and asked them about their other needs,” said Navjeet.She said she had plans to visit the centre again next month. “The elderly men and women at the centre requested us to bring books in Hindi also. They said they would prefer some books of Radha-Krishan or other stories related to mythology. We also plan to donate them some blankets when we plan to go the next time in December as it would be cold then,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/good-samaritan-couple-donates-books-for-old-age-home-inmates-335876
09-11-2021||---||7 fresh cases surface in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 8Seven new Covid cases were reported on Monday in Jalandhar district. With this, the total tally has risen to 63,420 cases. No fresh Covid death was reported in the district. As many as 61,889 persons have recovered from Covid in the district so far while the number of active cases is 35. Of the 17,67,163 samples collected in the district so far, 16,33,565 samples have tested negative. Meanwhile, no new case as well as death was reported in Kapurthala on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/7-fresh-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-335877
09-11-2021||---||2 booked for attacking cop on sentry duty at Lohian Khas police station||Our CorrespondentLohian Khas, November 8Two villagers have been booked on the charge of attacking a senior constable on sentry duty in front of the Lohian Khas police station.IO, Pargat Singh, said, “The accused have been identified as Lakhvir Singh, a resident of Fateh Pur Bhangwan village, and Bindar Singh, alias Gurprit Singh, a resident of Fukiwal (Shahjahanpur) village, falling under the Sultanpur Lodhi police station jurisdiction.”In his statement senior constable Rannjit Singh stated that he was on sentry duty when two clean shaven men knocked at the police station gate at 8.30 pm and said they had a problem. Ranjit said when he asked them what was the problem? They said the police station was theirs and who was he to ask them such questions, Ranjit added. The accused were in an inebriated condition, Ranjit said.Bindar tried to snatch his weapon and Gurprit tore his uniform, Ranjit added. The accused said they had contacts with gangsters and threatened to kill him, Ranjit said while adding that when other staff members came out the accused misbehaved with them too and interfered in their duties.The Investigating Officer said a case under various Sections of the IPC, was registered against the accused and further investigation was in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/2-booked-for-attacking-cop-on-sentry-duty-at-lohian-khas-police-station-335878
09-11-2021||---||Chargesheet against 12 BLOs in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, November 8A strict action has been taken against 12 BLOs who were found absent from special camps organised on November 6 and 7 in the Kapurthala Assembly constituency to facilitate people at all booths for registration as voters and other election related services.Found absent from special campsA strict action has been taken against 12 BLOs who were found absent from special camps organised on November 6 and 7 in the Kapurthala Assembly constituency to facilitate people at all booths for registration as voters and other election related services.Electoral Registration Officer, Kapurthala, Dr Jai Inder Singh has recommended to the parent departments to issue chargesheets immediately, besides marking entries in their annual confidential reports (ACR ) about the gross negligence towards the election duty.He said as per the orders of the Election Commission of India (ECI), special camps were organised by the BLOs on November 6 and 7 at each booth to collect objections on the claims of the people for Assembly Election 2022.He said 12 BLOs were found absent at the respective booths on duty on the due date and time.These employees are Baljinder Singh, Senior Assistant PTU, Baljinder Singh-2, Senior Assistant, PTU, Narinder Singh, Senior Assistant PTU, Angrej Singh, Senior Assistant, PTU, Dharminder Kumar, Pradeep Kumar, Ravi Kumar, Balwant Singh-1, Balwant Singh-2 (All Office Assistants), Jaswinder Singh, DPE, Government School, Saidowal, Amanpreet Kaur, Sikhya Provider Government School, Mansurwal, Ritu Devi, ETT Teacher Government School, Jhal Thikriwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chargesheet-against-12-blos-in-kapurthala-335879
09-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: 3 held, 4 booked for betting||Webinar dwells on free legal aidJalandhar: As per the directions of the National Legal Services Authority and Punjab Legal Services Authority, Jalandhar, launched a Pan India Awareness Campaign to create awareness among the public, villagers and the educational Institutions about free legal aid services. Rupinderjit Chahal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, informed the faculty members and students of thee colleges and universities of the concept of free legal aid, Lok Adalats and Mediation and Victim Compensation Scheme. A toll free number of 1968 of Punjab Legal Services Authority could also be contacted. Besides, the court fee affixed by the person filing the case, also gets refunded. TNSDist sdms review paddy purchaseHoshiarpur: On the instructions of DC Apneet Riyat, various mandis of the district were inspected by the SDMs and other officers on Sunday. SDM Hoshiarpur Shivraj Singh Bal checked the mandis in Hoshiarpur and Chabbewal, while Rajpur Bhaian, Phuglana and Nasrala mandis were checked by Tehsildar Gurpreet Singh. BDPO Hoshiarpur-2 Abhay Chander inspected the mandis of Mahilanwali, Jallowal and Kangmai. OCTipper stolen at petrol pumpHoshiarpur: Tanda police have registered a case against an unidentified person for stealing a tipper parked at a petrol pump here on Saturday. Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Sri Hargobindpur in Gurdaspur district, told the police that his driver had parked his tipper at a petrol pump, which was taken away by unidentified thieves. He told that after the theft, the GPS system installed on his tipper was also switched off by the thieves. oc2 arrested for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police arrested two accused on charges of illegal mining and seized two trolleys filled with sand. The accused have been identified as Mandeep Singh and Kulwinder Singh, both residents of Maili. They have been booked under Mining Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-3-held-4-booked-for-betting-335880
