10-11-2021||Jalandhar||Rise in sale of petrol, diesel in Jalandhar after VAT cut||A day after the state government reduced value-added tax (VAT) on petrol and diesel, their sale witnessed a rise in the district on Monday.The petrol pump dealers here said while the sale was very low on Sunday as the residents were awaiting revised rates, a large number of consumers thronged petrol pumps to fill tank. Petrol and diesel were being sold at Rs 96.21 a litre and Rs 84.59 a litre, respectively, in the district on Monday.Davinder Singh Makkar, owner, DM petroleums, at PAP Chowk, said people were eagerly waiting for the cut in fuel prices and on Monday, the sale and consumption remained double.Similarly, the owner of HP petrol pump on the Nakodar road said in addition to commercial vehicles, a large number of personal vehicles also arrived at his petrol pump to fill fuel. “The sale was estimated above 10-15 per cent. We are expecting that the sale would increase further. Likewise, diesel vehicles also flocked to petrol pumps,” he added.Meanwhile, Sukhmohan Singh Sehgal, president of the Jalandhar Petroleum Association, said even as prices of petrol and diesel had been slashed in the state, diesel was still costlier than neighbouring states. “A surge was seen today, but the profits would be calculated after a few days. Compared to the sale on Diwali, when the Centre reduced excise duty, the sale was pretty low,” added Sehgal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rise-in-sale-of-petrol-diesel-in-jalandhar-after-vat-cut-336092
10-11-2021||---||Activist manages to save two banyan trees facing the axe in Mukerian||Jalandhar, November 9An aged activist from the town used the PIL route to ensure that two 50-year-old banyan trees in the compound of the Civil Hospital, Mukerian, are not uprooted for the construction work.Engaging Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer HC Arora, Kuldeep Rai Dogra of Mukerian, who was in Jalandhar today, shared the copy of the orders as per which the state government, through the state counsel, has undertaken to make all possible efforts for saving four trees, at least two banyan trees, standing in the premises of Civil Hospital, Mukerian, while constructing the new Emergency Block.Through his petition, Dogra had sought the issuance of appropriate directions to the respondent - state of Punjab and the Punjab Health Systems Corporation (PHSC), against cutting of trees. The petition has been disposed of by a division bench of the High Court, comprising the Chief Justice and Justice Arun Palli, by recording an assurance by the state government that all efforts shall be made to save the trees.The petitioner had submitted that a map plan for the New Emergency Block was approved by the PHSC in December, 2020, which did not envisage the cutting of the four trees standing in the premises of the Civil Hospital.“However, subsequently in an arbitrary manner, the said map plan got revised as per which the trees would have to be cut,” he pleaded through his counsel contended that although all four trees are required to be saved from environmental aspect, yet the banyan tree has a special place in the Hindu community and deserved to be saved. Earlier, the petitioner had also served a legal notice on the respondents on October 30 on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/activist-manages-to-save-two-banyan-trees-facing-the-axe-in-mukerian-336093
10-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Maximise focus on physical and emotional development||Hoshiarpur, November 9A multidisciplinary international seminar on ‘Emerging challanges and concerns in education’ was organised under the leadership of Surinder Singh Bhullewal Rathan in SBHSM Khalsa College of Education, Mahilpur, recently on in online and offline mode in collaboration with Global Teacher Educators Association (GTEA).The purpose of the seminar was to bring researchers, academicians and stakeholders on a common platform to exchange knowledge, experience and research innovations for the betterment of educational ventures to provide an interdisciplinary forum for delegates to discuss the emerging challenges and concerns in multi-level education with reference to NEP and Covid-19 pandemic.The seminar was inaugurated with the lighting of lamps by the chief guest Dr. Dinesh Kumar Singh, Clinical Psychologist, Nutritionist and Orthotist prosthetist, Paolo International Hospital, Bangkok. Dr. Rohtash, Principal, Sant Baba Hari Singh Memorial Khalsa College of Education, welcomed the chief guest. Dr. Dinesh advised the students and researchers of India to maximise focus on physical, emotional, and intellectual development.They need to inculcate creativity in the self and should have enough courage to face the challenges in the present and future and for that they need to develop patience and quality of entrepreneurship in the self. GETA representative Dr. Umender Malik focused on the quality of teacher education. NCTE representative Dr. Surender Kumar Sharma discussed the issues of teacher education programmes in India. Sandeep From CIE and Ajit Kumar from CIE, New Delhi, Ajit Kumar Bohet from JMI, Delhi, Prof JD Malik elaborated the NEP 2020 issues and challenges of Covid 19.In the technical sessions various resource persons from India and outside presented the worldwide view of challenges of online education and Covid-19 impact on the educational entrepreneurship and how the stakeholders are affecting in the emerging scenario. In online mode Dr. Jatinder Grover, Prof. Emam A. Alam-,Egypt, Prof. T. Thanraj-Srilanka, Terasa- USA and Prof. BP Phardwaj NCERT, New Delhi India said that massive closures of educational institutes have created a challenge to the world especially in education and forced for a backup system of educational entrepreneur but again an economic challenge who afford it.According to UNESCO, over 320 million students in Indian schools and colleges are currently impacted. New Education Policy establishes the determination to re-energize the entire education system in India. In the valedictory session Dr. Jaspal Singh, Principal, SGGS Khalsa College, Mahilpur, concluded the seminar and reflected the main points of the theme of the seminar.Motive of the seminarThe purpose of the seminar was to bring researchers, academicians and stakeholders on a common platform to exchange knowledge, experience and research innovations for the betterment of educational ventures to provide an interdisciplinary forum for delegates to discuss the emerging challenges and concerns in multi-level education with reference to NEP and Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maximise-focus-on-physical-and-emotional-development-336094
10-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Flowers, foliage, fire place & more||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9It certainly is a treat to walk in and spend some time in the plush farmhouse of acclaimed landscapist Surinder Pal Singh Dosanjh at Wadala village near here. Huge sprawling lawns, a tree house, plants grown in a bath tub, swings made of wooden tree logs, a fire place underneath a shed, beautiful waterfalls through huge rocks, a swimming pool and age-old and rare bushes and trees all around define what he calls a “simple, zero-maintenance garden”.Dosanjh, who retired as a Senior Landscapist from Punjab Agricultural University, has served as the Advisor (Landscaping) for Punjab government, has undertaken the project of landscaping of Pushpa Gujral Science City and done various consultancy works, says that he does not have even a single gardener for his huge lawns. “It is the best past time for me at this stage of life. I spend all my day here doing pruning and training of the plants so that they acquire the best shape,” he quips.The septuagenarian proudly shows around his rare collection – golden bottle brush tree, philodendron, Murraya exotica with scented white flowers, ballerina, oxalis, Russelia etc. “All of these plants are self-sustaining. Even if I am not around, anyone in the house can just water them off and on and they keep growing and shooting more foliage and flowers,” he beams.Dosanjh has created beautiful beds of flowers all around with nasturtium, ferns and various flowering and foliage shrubs and creepers growing in them. He has decorated them with wooden fencing, huge rocks and other material available around.He even shows the various iron planters and hangers that he has created on his own, far more designer than those available in the market. “I have used iron rods and rings available from various condemned items at my place like an old jeep, weighing balance etc, and have even cut and welded them in my workshop to get the desired shape.The landscapist has shown a great teamwork with his son Inderdeep Singh, who is an architect. He too has partly contributed and helped him work with the hardware and set up various things including the tree house, which remains an attraction for his grandchildren and everyone who visits the family here. Dosanjh’s wife takes care of the kitchen garden which already has winter vegetables sown including spinach, fenugreek, radishes, lettuce, turnips and carrots. The kitchen garden has several papaya trees, lemon grass shrubs, mango and lemon trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/flowers-foliage-fire-place-more-336095
10-11-2021||Members of the Physically Disabled and Blind Workers Union||Won’t hear anything against Joginder Singh Maan||A tourney dedicated to farmersAs part of the Udda Punjab campaign, a kabaddi tournament was organised by the Naroa Punjab Organisation at the Rusulpur village. The tournament was dedicated to the farmers’’ protest. Defeating their opponents, Sharp Transport Team lifted the winning trophy of the tournament which was orgaised with the assistance of Kartar Singh Sarabha sports club and the village panchayat. Guru Hariyay Kabaddi Club Phagwara remained on the second spot. Similarly, in the 21 years age category, Chak Desh Raj team remained on the first spot followed by Kariha team. While giving awards to the winners, Barjinder Singh Hussainpur stated that apart from supporting farmers’’ movement, the motto of the tournament was to keep the youths and children associated with the traditional games.The gift of warmthIn order to help the destitutes in winters, members of the Rotary Club, Phagwara, Mid Town, distributed blankets among the shelterless outside the Phagwara Railway Station. The members said, this was a Diwali gift to them from the Rotary Club. Manoj Kumar, president of the club, said, they would continue their drive to help homeless people during chilling nights. Secretary of the club Rajkumar Heer, assistant governer Narendra Saini, Swaran Singh and others were also present on the occasion. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wont-hear-anything-against-joginder-singh-maan-336096
10-11-2021||Phagwara||CIA Staff bust gang of thieves, kingpin arrested||The Phagwara CIA Staff on Tuesday busted a gang of thieves and arrested the kingpin. The accused (kingpin) has been identified as Sunny of Baheli who was nabbed with two country-made weapons. SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said Sunny along with his two acccomplices Sunny of Gali Zero Subhash Nagar and Jasveer Singh of Kolsar Mohalla, who is currently in Dubai, have been involved in various theft incidents. The probe is under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cia-staff-bust-gang-of-thieves-kingpin-arrested-336097
10-11-2021||Under the aegis of the Bowry Memorial Educational and Medical Trust||Digital Preservation Day celebrated||Rayat Bahra students get jobsHoshiarpur: More than 100 students of Rayat Bahra Group have achieved high level positions with placements in top companies on high pay packages. Gurwinder Singh Bahra, Chairman, Rayat Bahra Group, said this has become possible because of the dedicated efforts of Rayat Bahra Group’s professional teams. The Campus Director Dr Chander Mohan said five students have been selected in QA Infotech Company as Software Engineers up-to-Rs12 lakh annual pay package and three students have been selected in Intellipaat Company on pay package of Rs9 lakh while three on annual package and in Tach Nook on Rs8 lakh annual pay package.Webinar on Communication SkillsA webinar on ‘How to Improve Communication Skills’ was organised by the Department of English, DAV College Hoshiarpur. Dr Vikas Kumar, Assistant Professor, Chandigarh University, was the resource person. He dwelt at length on various aspects of communication skills – verbal and non-verbal communication, formal and informal communication, the importance of confidence building, tips on resume writing, developing interview skills and how to introduce oneself. He reiterated that not just what is said, is important but how it is said, is more important. Dr Vikas Kumar explained various do’s and don’ts of communication saying that language should not be a barrier in communication. OCKids play zone inauguratedJalandhar: It was a moment of immense pleasure where the State Public School, Jalandhar Cantt, commenced with the new play zone at the entrance of the school. It includes many swings and rides. It took place in the presence of invited parents. The kids were overjoyed playing in the play area. President Dr. Narotam Singh alongwith Principal Savina Bahl inaugurated the play zone and provided the kids with new platform of joy.Inter-School Hindi Poetry RecitationMayorites made a conspicuous mark at the Inter-School Hindi Poetry Recitation Competition organised by Sahodaya in the district for the students of Nursery to Grade XII. Around 70 students participated in this onscreen contest. The event was ramified into four categories. The contestants presented their mesmerising poems on arresting topics like trees, sea, rain, desire, flight, human being and plastic, and abode etc. Adding to the glory of the institution, Vanshika Dilawari of Class VI clinched the first prize in third category and Prabhneer Kaur of Class I bagged the third prize in first category.Exhibition on StatesUnder ‘Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ programme launched by CBSE, Shiv Jyoti Public School organised an exhibition on pairing states of Punjab and Andhra Pradesh in which around more than 100 students along with teachers took part enthusiastically. Charts on the culture, dress, agriculture, cuisine and flora fauna were displayed by students. Co-associate teachers of Jagriti House Neeraj Sehgal made the students aware about the national integration through PPT (Presentation) as well.University toppersSimranjit Kaur and Yashasvi Sharma of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, has bagged first position jointly in the university exams of Bachelor of Physiotherapy (BPT)-II Year by getting 660 marks out of 800 whereas Manmeet Kaur and Harpreet Kaur bagged 2nd and 4th positions by getting 656 and 644 marks respectively and Manjot Kaur and Rajneet Kaur bagged 5th positions jointly by getting 632 marks and Mahima Gladwin bagged 10th position by getting 623 marks in the same class.Harnoor Ist in MVoc CosmetologyStudents of MVoc Cosmetology and Wellness (Sem-II) of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya, Jalandhar, got university positions. Harnoor Kaur got 386 marks out of 400 and got 1st position. Priyanka got 383 marks and stood second. Harpreet Kaur got the third position with 365 marks. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen congratulated the students and Head of Department Mukti Arora, Aditi and Manpreet.Nitika wins silver in boxingKanya Maha Vidyalaya student Nitika won silver medal and Lovely bagged bronze medal in the boxing tournament organised by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated both the students on their achievement. She said players at KMV are provided many facilities which include free education, hostel, mess and transport as well as state of the art infrastructure comprising gymnasium, health club, swimming pool and sprawling play grounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/digital-preservation-day-celebrated-336098
10-11-2021||Jalandhar||Veteran lensman Pyare Lal passes away at 84||Sedatives seized, three arrestedHoshiarpur: The district police arrested two smugglers with a huge quantity of sedative medicines and injections on Monday night. Garhshankar police arrested Lakhi Singh, a resident of Dagham, near Chauhra village on the Banga road while on patrol on Monday night and recovered 100 sedative pills from him. Meanwhile, Mehtiana police seized a large number of sedative injections and syringes from Kuldeep Singh Deepa, alias Mukhliana. The accused has been arrested. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. OCK’thala man wins fitness contestKapurthala: Manpreet Singh (29), a city-based fitness enthusiast, clinched the Iron Man of Punjab title in the recently concluded Fitness International Federation (FIF) bodybuilding and men’s physique competition. Harminder Dulowal, president, FIF India, who is also known as a vegetarian bodybuilder, stated that they did not charge any fee from the participants instead gave cash prizes, trophy, certificates and medals to the winners. Manpreet Singh was awarded a cash prize of Rs11,000 followed by Rs5,000, Rs4,000, Rs3,000, Rs2,000 and Rs 1,000 to the runners-up. TNS Betting: 2 held, Rs21K recoveredHoshiarpur: The district police arrested two persons who were betting (gambling) at different places and recovered Rs 11,360 cash from them on Monday. Garhdiwala police arrested Rakesh Kumar Gill, a resident of Hariana, and recovered cash and betting slips worth Rs 10,530 from him. While Mahilpur police arrested Charan Das while indulging in betting and recovered cash and betting slips worth Rs 830 from him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/veteran-lensman-pyare-lal-passes-away-at-84-336099
10-11-2021||Kapurthala||Phagwara petrol pump robbery case cracked, 3 held||The police have arrested three persons in a case related to Rs 30,000 robbery at Kapoor Petrol Pump, Phagwara. The accused have been identified as Sivam, alias Kaka, a resident of Daddal Mohalla, Phagwara, Jugesh Kalra, a resident of Khalwara Gate, and Anshu Sarma, a resident of Dosanj Kalan village.Senior Superintendent of Police Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said the CIA Staff had formed different teams and a naka was laid near Dusanjhan Puli Urban Estate.He said a motorcycle driven by Sivam, which had Jugesh and Anshu as pillions, was stopped. The SSP said cops frisked the trio, which led to the recovery of a country made-pistol and two live cartridges, from their possession. Khakh said the trio had snatched Rs 30,000 from an employee of a petrol pump in Phagwara.He said a case under Sections 379 - B of the IPC and 25, 27, 49-59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. The SSP said the accused had procured the country- made pistol and two cartridges from Sandeep Kumar, a resident of NRI Colony, Phagwara.He said the trio equally distributed the robbed money, which they spent during Diwali. The SSP said the trio would be produce before the court and they would seek their remand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-petrol-pump-robbery-case-cracked-3-held-336100
10-11-2021||---||Phagwara man booked for firing in the open||Jalandhar, November 9Phagwara police booked a man for firing two gunshots near Gaushala Road here on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Harpreet Singh (32), a resident of Phagwara city.The accused had reportedly fired outside a shop on Monday night. Inspector Gagandeep Singh Sekhon, SHO, city police station, said the accused was absconding. The accused had reportedly used his licensed revolver to fire the gunshots.Ashish Sood, a resident of Agnihotri Mohalla, alleged that he happened to pass near Gaushala Road around 9pm. A man was sitting outside a shop. He first aimed his revolver at his forehead and fired two gunshots in the air. He himself informed SHO Gagandeep Singh Sekhon about the incident over the phone.The SHO visited the spot. Confirming the incident, he stated that a case would be registered against the accused.A case under Section 336 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused. The police would also check the footage of CCTV on the spot. At present, the reason behind the firing was not known, the SHO claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-man-booked-for-firing-in-the-open-336101
10-11-2021||---||Ex-Phagwara MC officer held in corruption case||Jalandhar, November 9The Vigilance Bureau, Jalandhar, on Tuesday arrested Executive Officer of Urban Development, Jalandhar, in connection with a corruption complaint lodged against him since his tenure as Assistant Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Phagwara, in 2017.The accused, identified as Adarsh Kumar, a gazetted officer, was sitting in his office, when a team of the VB came and arrested him in the case. The matter was being investigated by the VB for the past nearly 14 months and a case was finally registered against him under Sections 7 and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act on Tuesday.The case pertains to 49 illegal conveyance deeds done by him in the name of encroachers in his capacity as the Assistant Commissioner of the MC. Sharing the details, Vigilance Bureau SSP Diljinder S Dhillon said, “The state government had floated a scheme in December 2016 as per which ownership rights were to be given to the tenants and lease holders for residential and commercial properties of the government. There were conditions under the scheme that the area for residential properties was fixed at 150 sq yards and for commercial at 50 sq yards and the occupancy should be of minimum 20 years. Encroachers were not to be covered as per the government notification. Adarsh Kumar was appointed as the nodal officer for the scheme.”Dhillon said the officer went on to issue Letters of Intent to 49 encroachers on commercial properties by March 2017 and even got conveyance deeds registered. “Since the inquiry proved that he had overlooked the conditions of the scheme, benefiting illegal beneficiaries and causing a huge loss to the government exchequer, he was liable to be booked and arrested. We will produce him in a court in Kapurthala tomorrow,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-phagwara-mc-officer-held-in-corruption-case-336102
10-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Indeed, a Diwali with a difference for this factory worker||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9A factory worker from Jalandhar spent his entire Diwali evening tending to and finding a home for a two-year-old abandoned child, skipping his plans to head back to his hometown in Behraich in Uttar Pradesh for the festive celebrations.‘Abused & judged’Do din se, jise bhi bola, sabhi gaali hi diye. Shabashi ko nahi diya. Sab kahe tum pagal ho, tumhara dimaag kharab hai, ise kahan se utha laye. Ye to bhikhari lagta hai. Par humne kaha atma to bhagwaan hi diya hai. Baccha hai. (Everyone abused me. Said I had gone mad, I was crazy. Why did I pick him up? He looks like a beggar. But I said he is still a God's creation.) Shailesh, a factory workerShailesh Kumar (40), a worker at a factory at Ladowali Road, who was due to reach his home on Diwali, instead came back all the way from Bareilly to find a home for the two-year-old, who he had found on a busy road in Jalandhar. Shailesh cleaned his poop, fed him and spent his Diwali night in a Jalandhar thana with the child and two other cops so that the boy could find a home. Shailesh has three kids (two daughters aged 12 and 9 and a son aged 2) back in Behraich, but now he proudly tells everyone that he has four. He has been listed as the guardian of the little boy at the Nari Niketan, Jalandhar.Heading to board a train to Lucknow to spend Diwali with his family, at the Jalandhar Cantt railway station on the evening of November 3, Shailesh rescued the boy dressed in rags from almost being run over by a vehicle near Lamma Pind. With the boy unable to tell about his home, Shailesh took him to the Cantt railway station where he approached the local police. Shooed away, Shailesh took the kid along on train.At Bareilly, Shailesh got off and took the child to the local GRP thana, seeking shelter for him. But from there, two cops escorted him all the way back to track the child’s home in Jalandhar. Back in city, they approached the Rama Mandi thana where Shailesh spent the Diwali night in a room with the child and two Bareilly cops. It was on the morning of November 5 that the boy was handed over to the Nari Niketan, Jalandhar, with the help of a Good Samaritan Surinder Saini.An astounded Shailesh said, Do din se, jise bhi bola, sabhi gaali hi diye. Shabashi ko nahi diya. Sab kahe tum pagal ho, tumhara dimaag kharab hai, ise kahan se utha laye. Ye to bhikhari lagta hai. Par humne kaha atma to bhagwaan hi diya hai. Baccha hai. (Everyone abused me. Said I had gone mad, I was crazy. Why did I pick him up? He looks like a beggar. But I said he is still a God’s creation.)He shared, “I got weary of telling the story. I have been giving explanation to everyone. Cops looked at the child with great apathy when they saw his soiled pants. I washed him. When I reached Jalandhar back at 6 pm on Diwali night, the police station was lit with diyas. Cops gave me sweets and were surprised at my story. We slept in thana. I lied to my wife and children that I had Iost my bag and hence was stuck. But I couldn’t abandon the child. The police station cops were very supportive. They trusted me and went around looking for the parents but could not find anyone. Eventually the boy landed at Nari Niketan. I will again go to meet him.”When handing him over, the boy cried uncontrollably and wouldn’t leave Shailesh, which even evoked the sentiments of the cops. Shailesh cancelled his Diwali leave and distributed the crackers and sweets which he bought for his kids to his neighbourhood children.Activist Surinder Saini, said, “I was informed about the child after Diwali day. Shailesh has done a commendable job. He washed, fed and provided clothes to the boy like people care for their own children.”Cancelled his Diwali leaveWhile handing him over, the boy cried uncontrollably and wouldn't leave Shailesh, which evoked the sentiments of the cops. Shailesh cancelled his Diwali leave and distributed the crackers and sweets which he bought for his kids to his neighbourhood children||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/indeed-a-diwali-with-a-difference-for-this-factory-worker-336103
10-11-2021||Ajay Joshi||Nurses’ strike takes toll on health services in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 9Demanding the implementation of the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, nurses and health workers under the banner of Punjab Nursing Association continued their state-level strike for the second day here on Tuesday. As a result, the patients admitted to the Civil Hospital as well as the ESI Hospital had to leave their beds.In the absence of nurses, they said there was no one to provide them primary care. While all serious patients were already shifted from the Civil Hospital, those who were recovering also vacated the beds on Tuesday. A visit to the hospital revealed that only four to five dengue patients were found receiving treatment.Around 120-150 nurses in government health centres also joined the strike. Palwinder Kaur, president of the association, said if their demands were not met, they would launch their indefinite strike from Wednesday onwards. Meanwhile, even as the nurses justified their strike stating that they were not being paid enough as compared to the amount of work they do, the patients found themselves on the receiving end.Patients from both the trauma and paediatrics wards were discharged by the hospital administration, leaving all the beds vacant. Similarly, there was only one patient in the ICU ward, 12 in the main medical ward and 10 at the family medical ward.Satnam Kaur (42), whose teenage daughter was admitted in a health centre, said there was no one to attend to her daughter, so she had to leave the hospital to continue her daughter’s treatment at a private hospital.Likewise, this was the first time in the last three months that the dengue ward in the Civil Hospital was without patients. Sources claimed that the patients were waiting for the nursing staff to end their strike. Doctors at ESI Hospital said in the absence of nurses’ assistance, patients were shifted to the Civil Hospital. However, ESI patients were again transferred to private hospitals.The only multispecialty machine in the dialysis unit could not be operated (since Monday), forcing patients to get their tests done in private hospitals at expensive rates.Raj Kumar, who had come for his wife’s treatment, said after he was told that he had to go to a private hospital for treatment, he had to borrow money from his friends.Though Dr Vikas Garg (Health Secretary, Health and Family Welfare) assured the members of the Joint Action Committee, Punjab, that their meeting with the Finance Minister would be conducted shortly, the nurses said unless a fruitful result came of it, they would continue to hold strike.Major demands of nurses||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurses-strike-takes-toll-on-health-services-in-jalandhar-336104
