11-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Assault: Woman among 3 booked by Mahilpur police||Man kills self by jumping into canalHoshiarpur: Disturbed over a land dispute, a man ended his life by jumping into a canal after being allegedly harassed by his brother and nephew. The Hajipur police have registered a case against the accused father and son for allegedly abetting the suicide. According to the information, Aneet Devi, a resident of Sibo Chak village, has lodged a complaint with the police. She said her husband’s brother Tarsem Singh and his son Rohit Kumar used to mentally harass her husband Ram Sarup over the land dispute. Being fed up of this, her husband ended his life by jumping into Bhavnal Canal. OCDrugs, liquor seized, 3 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers after recovering huge quantities of intoxicants from them on Tuesday. Mehtiana police arrested Amarjeet Singh, alias Ladi, and recovered a huge quantity of sedative injections from him. Mahilpur police arrested Ranjit Singh, alias Jeeta, and recovered a huge quantity of sedative injections from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. Similarly, the Hariana police arrested Amar Singh, and recovered 7,500 ml of liquor from him. An FIR under the Excise Act has been registered. OCThieves break into shopHoshiarpur: Unidentified thieves stole cash by breaking opening the locks of a shop in Mahilpur. The Mahilpur police have registered a case in this regard. Harbans Singh, a resident of Sarhalan Kalan village, told the police that some unidentified thieves broke opened the locks of his shop located in Mahilpur and took away cash worth Rs6,000. The police have registered a case. OCThree arrested for bettingHoshiarpur: The Talwara police have booked four accused on the charges of betting and arrested three of them after recovering cash worth Rs 17,950 from them. The arrested accused have been identified as Harjit Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur, Naresh Kumar, a resident of Datarpur and Shamlal, resident of Talwara. While the absconding accused has been identified as Amit Kumar, alias Googly, a resident of Talwara. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/assault-woman-among-3-booked-by-mahilpur-police-336733
11-11-2021||---||Popularising science amongst masses need of the hour: Expert||Kapurthala, November 10Pushpa Gujral Science City celebrated World Science Day for peace and development in virtual mode to underline the importance and relevance of science in our daily life. More than 100 students from all over Punjab participated in this programme. The themefor World Science Day 2021 is “Building Climate-Ready Communities.”Anuj Sinha, chairman of the Board at Network of Organisations for S&T Communication, was the key speaker on the occasion. The focus of the talk was “Science for and with society”.In his address, he said there was need to link science more closely with the masses so as to ensure that citizens are kept informed of developments in science and emphasised its importance in addressing the problems of society.He encouraged students to showcase their talent in many prestigious science fairs being organised at local, national and international levels. A good scientist must hone his/her analytical and observational skills and be able to communicate with experts and the public, he added.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director-General, Science City, said climate change has become a serious threat to the lives of billions of people. It generates solutions for everyday life and helps us to answer the great mysteries of the universe, creating new knowledge, improving education and increasing the quality of our lives, she added.Dr Rajesh Grover, Director, Science City, said there was no life without science today. “The focus of the talk of World Science day for 2021 “Science for and with society” is quite apt as it is science that is helping the world in dealing with the global Covid-19 pandemic.It is, therefore, necessary to popularise aptitude for science amongst the masses, especially those in the rural areas,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/popularising-science-amongst-masses-need-of-the-hour-expert-336732
11-11-2021||---||Jalandhar: Give us underpass or overbridge, say Ram Nagar, Gandhi Nagar residents||Jalandhar, November 10Ruing that their colonies are surrounded by railway lines and drains affecting their connectivity with adjoining areas, the residents of Ram Nagar and Gandhi Nagar localities falling under Ward No. 70 are demanding construction of an underpass or an overbridge for better access.The members of the Royal Club representing people of both the colonies have said that they have been consistently taking up the matter with their area MLA Bawa Henry and MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh but to no avail. Now they have now shot off a missive to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.Led by general secretary SP Birdi, the members have shared their woes: “Ram Nagar and Gandhi Nagar localities are thickly populated areas. These ill-fated areas are cut off from all sides. While one side is covered by Bist Doab Canal, the second side is covered by DAV institutions, the third is covered by the busy Amritsar railway line and the fourth side is covered by Ferozepur railway line.”They further lamented: “In case of emergency arising due to health issues, accident or fire outbreak, we cannot move according to our need or wish. Even the rescue vehicles like ambulance, fire extinguisher etc cannot enter our area. It may seem a bit ironical but we feel captive at times just like prisoners as there is no proper way to reach our destination in time. We are sandwitched between two railway lines. Due to heavy rush of trains, Ram Nagar crossings remains closed for most part of the day. Our life has been very miserable as we cannot often reach our destinations on time”.Birdi said: “There is a small waterway near Gazigulla Railway crossing on Ferozepur railway line. This waterway which connects the colonies with an area near Jalandhar City Railway Station can be used as small underpass after carrying out proper renovation. This can prove to be a great relief to the residents of both localities.” The residents have proposed this as a standby, quicker way to mitigate their problems and hardships.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-give-us-underpass-or-overbridge-say-ram-nagar-gandhi-nagar-residents-336731
11-11-2021||---||Architect brothers compile 100 years  of journey of their school in Garhdiwala in a book||Jalandhar, November 10Alumni of Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwala, Hoshiarpur, which recently completed its centenary, have come up with a unique way to pay off their dues to their temple of learning. Brothers and architects by profession, Sarbjit Bahga and Surinder Bahga of from Chandigarh, had yesterday launched a book dedicated to their school, which is a compilation of the 100 years of its history since its inception in 1921.The book has been titled “A 100-year journey - Centenary Celebrations: Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwala, Hoshiarpur, Punjab (1921-2021)” has been compiled and edited by the Bahga brothers and published by White Falcon Publishing Company. While Sarbjit Bahga passed out school in 1974, Surinder passed out five years later.Sharing the details, they said, “The book is an anthology containing an eclectic mix of articles and pictorial essays by some like-minded school alumni. Through these articles, the authors have penned down their memories in the school, exciting anecdotes, tributes to their revered teachers, and introductions to some of the noted alumni. The book aims to record the love and feelings of the authors about the school, which will encourage and motivate future generations of students and teachers.”Delving into its history, the elder of the two, Sarbjit said, “Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwala, is one of the oldest schools in the region that is rendering service to the rural belt of Hoshiarpur district. It was established in September 1921 with the earnest efforts of visionaries like Subedar Sham Singh, Subedar Mall Singh and another friend. These three retired JCOs of the Indian-British Army felt that education was the only difference between Indians and Britishers. Thus, they decided to start a good school in this region.”Surinder Bahga explains how the project to pen a book was conceived and finalised, “About a year ago, during a casual conversation, my elder brother shared that our school is completing 100 years. He suggested that we should float this idea with the school management. We spoke to many old school friends, teachers, and authorities. The school management formulated a committee to chalk out plans for the centenary celebrations. Proposals like the upgrade of the school entrance, creation of literature, installation of a statue of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur were finalised. Many ex-students, faculty, friends opted to donate to the cause. This book on school is a small contribution from Sarbjit and I for this noble cause.”It contains 80 black and white and 80 coloured photographs which showcase the long history of Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Garhdiwala. A 150-page treatise contains articles by about a dozen authors who are alumni of this school and have excelled in various fields. These include Gurkanwal Singh, Avtar Singh, Charanjit Singh Bahga, Harbans Singh Sahota, Jaswinder Singh Sahota, Rajwinder Singh Bedi, Gulzar Singh, Tejinder Singh Bahga, apart from the editors Sarbjit Bahga and Surinder Bahga.Apart from this, the book also contains brief biographical introductions to some of the noted alumni of the school. Pictorial Sections such as ‘School in Pictures’, ‘Group Photos – A Frozen History’, ‘Sweet Memories of the School’, and ‘Centenary Celebrations’ are other exciting features of this book. The last chapter of the book contains a Punjabi poem, ‘Yaadan di Shatabadi’ by Gurpreet Singh Dhugga. It sums up the entire history of the school in a poetic version.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/architect-brothers-compile-100-years-of-journey-of-their-school-in-garhdiwala-in-a-book-336716
11-11-2021||---||Additional Secretary Arun Baroka takes stock of Rurka Kalan in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 10Arun Baroka, IAS, Additional Secretary, Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation, Ministry of Water Power, Delhi, visited Rurka Kalan village here on Monday.He also visited Gaddiwalas’ place of living and talked with them. The Additional Secretary also appreciated the Rurka Kalan gram panchayat for the various projects undertaken in the village.The gram panchayat, which has developed toilets for members of a tribe settled in the village, is one of the rare panchayats which is undertaking projects to rehabilitate poor tribe people without designated land or houses in their village.Arun Baroka said in the future he would like to extend help to the gram panchayat in every possible way.On the occasion, KS Saini, Chief Engineer, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, NP Singh, Superintendent Engineer, Water Supply and Sanitation, Jalandhar circle, and Rakesh Sharma, State Coordinator, Department of Water Supply and Sanitation, Mohali, were also present on the occasion.Notably, since the Panchayati Raj came into existence in Punjab, the Government of Punjab and the Government of India have been sending funds from time to time to village panchayats for the development of villages. The present gram panchayat of Rurka Kalan village has also been undertaking various such development projects.The village is very famous for its freedom fighters as well as sports organisation. For the last 50 to 70 years, migrants have been living in Rurka Kalan who are locally called Gaddiwalas. The gram panchayat has constructed toilets for them in view of their basic needs. The toilets have been built right by the shanties and settlement of the said tribe.The gram panchayat has constructed separate toilets for men and women and another two bathrooms for washing clothes. A sum of over Rs 7 lakh was spent on the building of the toilet complex. Of the total amount, Rs 2.1 lakh was from the Swachh Bharat Gramin Mission and a grant of Rs 90,000 is from the 15th Finance Commission. The YFC, Rurka Kalan, has spent over Rs 4 lakh on the project.Nekki (main leader of Gaddiwalas) said, “The gram panchayat and the YFC solved our problems, for which we all are very grateful to the gram panchayat and the YFC, especially to sarpanch Kulwinder Kaur and president Gurmangal Dass.”One rare panchayatThe gram panchayat, which has developed toilets for members of a tribe (Gaddiwalas) settled in the village, is one rare panchayat which is undertaking projects to rehabilitate poor tribe people without designated land or houses in their village. The gram panchayat has constructed separate toilets for men and women and another two bathrooms for washing clothes. A sum of over Rs7 lakh has been spent on the building of the toilet complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/additional-secretary-arun-baroka-takes-stock-of-rurka-kalan-in-jalandhar-336717
11-11-2021||---||Jalandhar DLSA organises legal aid camp||Jalandhar, November 10As per the directions of National Legal Services Authority and Punjab State Legal Services Authority, the District Legal Services Authority, Jalandhar, on Wednesday organised a district level legal aid camp at Saint Soldier Law College, Jalandhar.It was presided over by Rupinderjit Chahal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-chairman DLSA Jalandhar. On the occasion Amit Kumar Garg, CJM Jalandhar, Gagandeep Kaur, Secretary, DLSA, Jalandhar, were also present.Fifteen stalls of various departments of Jalandhar like District Social Security Officer, District Red Cross, District Welfare Officer, Health Department, Employment Office, Assistant Labour Commissioner Office, Food Supply Controller, Horticulture, Sakhi One Stop Centre, District Child Protection Officer, Education Department as well as of District Legal Services Authority Jalandhar, were established in the camp, in which Smart Ration Card, employment letters to youth, Sarbat Bima Yojna Card, wheel chairs to handicapped persons, sewing machines to women were provided at the spot. A vaccination camp was also organised with the help of Health Department, Jalandhar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dlsa-organises-legal-aid-camp-336718
11-11-2021||---||Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary visits protesting nurses on Day 3||Jalandhar, November 10Four days after the apheresis machine at the Civil Hospital finally began working after months of glitches, Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary finally visited the hospital here on Wednesday amidst chaotic scenes. The MP visited the hospital on the third day of statewide strike by nurses. The strike has brought government healthcare to a standstill in the hospital.The MP’s visit came amidst the nurses’ strike. Long queues for the OPD slips, complaints of shortage of blood and a barrage of grievances of patients greeted the MP.Dengue cases rise to 464 in districtHe did not interact with nurses, who had planned to stage a protest during his visit today in the beginning of his visit and took a longer detour to avoid their protest. He later met them and asked them to withdraw their strike in the interests of the patients.While at least 12 patients were admitted to the dengue ward until on Tuesday, there was left only one patient on Wednesday. The rest had been discharged due to the ongoing strike and dearth of nurses to attend to them.Chaudhary interacted with patients in the queue, visited the dengue ward and visited the apheresis unit to see its functioning.Besides, no blood transfusions of thalassemia patients are being done for the past three days due to lack of nurses. Moreover, dialysis patients are also not being admitted due to the same reasons.Ashok Kumar, a patient, complained to the MP that he had been visiting the hospital for the last three days for medicines, but had not received them so far. An elderly patient, Gurmail Singh, also complained that he had to go up and down the stairs for a CBC test many times.The MP met nurses on protest and urged them to withdraw their protest in the interests of the patients. However, they said they would do so if a notification in response to their demands was issued.Notably, the MP came on a day when the dengue ward was nearly empty as doctors themselves admitted they were in no position to handle day-care patients due to the nurses’ strike. A majority of the patients had already been discharged and the dengue ward had only one patient today.Dengue cases have been rising for the past few months and the tally of dengue cases in the district has reached 464. The MP could not give any satisfactory answer as to why his visit to the Civil Hospital was so delayed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-mp-santokh-chaudhary-visits-protesting-nurses-on-day-3-336720
11-11-2021||---||AIDS awareness van flagged off in Jalandhar district||Jalandhar, November 10Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra on Wednesday flagged off an AIDS/HIV awareness van in the district to spread AIDS awareness in Jalandhar.The van will stay in Jalandhar until November 26 and will spread AIDS awareness in various areas. Civil Surgeon Dr. Ranjit Ghotra, Assistant Civil Surgeon Dr. Varinder Kaur Thind, District Family Welfare Officer Dr. Raman Gupta, District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra, District Health Officer Dr. Arun Verma, District Dental Officer Dr. Baljit Ruby, SMO Dr. Rajiv Sharma, District TB Officer Dr. Ragupriya, Dr. Satinder Kaur, District Programme Manager Dr. Sanjeev Malhan, Deputy MEIO Paramjit Kaur, BEE Manav Sharma, Distrsict BCC Coordinator Neeraj Sharma, among others were present on the occasion.Civil Surgeon Dr. Ranjit Ghotra said AIDS was a disease which attacks our immune system.He also said with the help of the AIDS awarenss van, free HIV tests of people will also be conducted and counsellors will spread awareness among people about prevention from AIDS and the myths about it.Discussing the reasons of the spread of AIDS infection the Civil Surgeon said AIDS is caused by unprotected sex with an HIV infected person, transfusion of HIV infected blood, sharing of HIV infected syringes and from an HIV positive mother to her child.District Family Welfare Officer Dr Raman Gupta said, the van would cover over 100 villages going from village level to spread AIDS awareness.He said on Thursday the van will head to Kala Bakra, covering the villages near it and on the next two days it will be heading to Adampur and its villages. He said on subsequent days it will head to villages in other blocks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aids-awareness-van-flagged-off-in-jalandhar-district-336721
11-11-2021||Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday issued directions for all government and private hospitals to have fire safety audits done of their respective establishments to ensure safety of patients in the event of any fire incidents||Jalandhar DC orders fire safety audit of all hospitals||The DC said keeping in view the massive oxygen storage at hospitals arising out of Covid-19 pandemic, it was the call of the day to have such audits. He mentioned that safety of lives of patients was on top priority of district administration and fire safety audits could avert such instances by highlighting safety loops in the hospitals, thereby paving the way for its plugging.He stated that such safety threats needed to be tackled through fire safety audits at the earliest adding these audits would enable hospitals to identify potential threats and their redressal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-dc-orders-fire-safety-audit-of-all-hospitals-336722
11-11-2021||Jalandhar||Talent hunt competition at Innocent Hearts, Jalandhar||NSS wing holds welfare driveThe NSS wing of GNA University organised welfare drive in a nearby orphanage of the university. The sole objective behind this drive was to spread happiness and joy among all the elderly people. The drive also let the aged experience a feeling of togetherness and extreme warmth. Students of GNA Business School participated in the activity with full enthusiasm and deep rooted concern to serve the humanity. Gurdeep Singh Sihra, Pro-Chancellor, GNA University expressed, “I appreciate the efforts done by NSS wing of GNA University for organising such welfare drives.”Investiture ceremony organisedTo inculcate the leadership qualities in the students and to give them a feel of functioning of the administrative body, Central Association and Cultural Enlightenment Cell of PCM SD College for Women organised an investiture ceremony. It was held in the morning assembly wherein different students were adorned with badges representing various acclaimed offices. This ceremony was held with a motto to instil the students with a sense of responsibility and duty. The celebrated badges encouraged them to incorporate discipline in their daily life and in bringing out and polishing their leadership skills.Vigilance Awareness WeekThe Central Vigilance Commission, and apex integrity institution of the country, in its endeavour to promote transparency , accountability and integrity in public life, has been declaring the observance of Vigilance Awareness Week every year to encourage the fight against corruption. This year the Vigilance Awareness Week was observed in Shiv Jyoti Public School from October 26 to November 1 on the theme ‘Independent India @ 75: Self-reliance with integrity’. Various activities were organised like e-Integrity pledge under the supervision of Housemaster of Jagriti House Rajni Sharma and co-associate teachers Simmi Grover and Pooja Sodhi. Students of Classes IX and X participated zealously.Mime competition at DIPS SchoolDIPS School, Dhilwan, organised an inter-house mine competition. Students participated with great enthusiasm on the topic gender discrimination. Participants exquisitely exhibited their Idea through action and emotion in perfect synchronisation on gender discrimination and highlighted ways to eradicate it. DIPS Chain of Institutions director Lakhwinder Kaur praised of all participants and remarked that mime is a technique in which participants convey their message through facial action and gesture. Ivory House was declared the winner.KMV expressions blogKanya Maha Vidyalay inaugurated a blog under the banner of ‘KMV Expressions’. This blog is the joint initiative of the Post Graduate Department of English and Department of Student Welfare. In this blog, the students will share information on various important topics as well as will also work for the promotion and dissemination of awareness on various social issues. During her address on the occasion, Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi addressing averred that such activities help in giving a meaningful direction to the energy of the students. Students will be able to use their time wisely by engaging themselves in literary and educational activities through this blog.Award by Red CrossAradhya, a student of Eklavya School, has brought glory by securing second position in national painting competition organised by Red Cross Bhawan. Special classes of painting were organised for the students where the students learnt how to use oil pastels. Aradhya student of Class III made a beautiful scenery on the given topic “Having fun in the playground”. JK Gupta, chairman, and Seema Handa, director, motivated the participants. Komal Arora, Principal, congratulated the Team Eklavya. Dimple Malhotra, Administrator, appreciated the efforts of the students.Quiz contest organisedAn inter-departmental quiz competition was conducted by the Centre for Historical Studies under the Post Graduate Department of History of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar. Five teams took part in it. The theme of the quiz was ‘History of Modern India’. In this competition, students of team-B Brahmsevar, Anisha and Paramjit Singh won while team-A and C got second and third place respectively. The quiz was conducted by Dr Amandeep Kaur.Workshop on entrepreneurshipThe Department of Commerce and MAC forum of Apeejay College of Fine Arts organised a five-day workshop on ‘Campus corporate and entrepreneurship’ in collaboration with IIM Kolkata. The resource person of the seminar Kartik Mehta was welcomed by Dr Monika Arora, HoD, Commerce Department. She briefed the students about the relevance of the workshop. Principal Neerja Dhingra, addressed the audience about the usefulness of the same. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talent-hunt-competition-at-innocent-hearts-jalandhar-336723
11-11-2021||---||Murder mystery resolved; 2 held||Jalandhar, November 10With the arrest of two accused, Nakodar (Sadar) police have resolved a murder mystery in which a youth was found murdered at a brick kiln here on November 3. The remaining suspects are absconding.The Sadar police found the body of the victim, identified as Akshay, alias Sonu, and his motorcycle at a brick kiln on the Boparae road near Shankar village.DSP Lakhwinder Singh deployed a team, including Sadar police station chief Sukhjit Singh and area outpost in-charge ASI Gurnam Singh, to start investigation from different angles. The police got many important leads.In his statement given to the police, Vishal Kumar, a resident of Patti Purewal village, told the police that his elder brother had gone to Nakodar on his motorcycle on November 2 around 1 pm. His brother called him around 2.45 pm and told that he was going to Dhaliwal village to meet his friend, who had recently come from abroad.However, neither did he return home nor picked up the phone. When he called his friend and asked about his brother, he said he did not come to him.On November 3, at 8 am, it was discovered that his brother's body was lying at the brick kiln and his Bullet motorcycle was also parked nearby. The gold chain around his neck, earrings and money from his pocket were also missing.He further told the police that his brother was killed by Ashwani Kumar, Bunty, alias Balram, Abhishek, alias Abo, and Surinder Kumar, alias Sindar, all residents of Patti Purewal village.Based on his allegations, SHO Sukhjit Singh said the police had registered a case against the four accused at the Sadar police station. Following which the police managed to arrest the suspects Surinder Kumar and Abhishek. He claimed that the absconding accused would also be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/murder-mystery-resolved-2-held-336724
11-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Labour Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian reviews status of ongoing infra works||Hoshiarpur, November 10Reviewing status of ongoing development projects, Forests and Labour Minister Sangat Singh Gilzian on Wednesday emphasised to ensure completion of these works within stipulated time frame so that people could be facilitated with the benefit of such projects.Chairing a meeting here at District Administrative Complex this evening, to take stock of development works and welfare schemes, the Cabinet Minister directed the officers of different departments to get the pace of works expedited besides providing maximum benefit of welfare schemes to eligible beneficiaries.Accompanied by MLAs Sunder Sham Arora, Pawan Kumar Adia and Indu Bala, the Cabinet Minister also instructed to accelerate the process of providing 5 marla plots to beneficiaries in villages by including all eligible ones in the ambit of welfare measure. It was also informed that in Hoshiarpur district a total 52,103 consumers would get benefit of more than Rs 30.23 under waiver of arrears of electricity bills. So far, 9,581 beneficiaries have got advantage of scheme with waiver of amount to the tune of over Rs 6.73 crore.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait apprised that under Punjab Nirman Programme funds worth Rs 20 crore had been sanctioned of which Rs 6 crore was released while the remaining Rs 14 crore would also be disbursed shortly, which would further speed up the development works. It was also informed that under MGNREGA, a target of works worth Rs 93.85 crore had been set and till date Rs 50.34 crore was incurred.Sangat Singh Gilzian also asked to ramp up process of Smart Ration Card, Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana Cards and other welfare measure so that maximum people could take advantage of these schemes.MLAs Sunder Sham Arora, Pawan Kumar Adia and Indu Bala told officers to ensure effective supervision and timely review of these works in larger public interest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/labour-minister-sangat-singh-gilzian-reviews-status-of-ongoing-infra-works-336725
