12-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Tech varsity raking in big moolah||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 11Admitting students with bare pass marks in various professional courses, including engineering, pharmacy and management, has enabled technical universities to rake in moolah.IKGPTU spokesperson said the entire information shared by the complainant has been verified at various levels and nothing wrong has been detected. “The university is working in the most transparent manner and has been sharing all the details through the RTI. A large number of students shown in the data also include those enrolled in the distance education,” he said.Mass re-appears and re-evaluations has fetched close to Rs 694.19 crore for IK Gujral Punjab Technical University till December 2019 (updated figure of fee collected for 2020, 2021 not available yet) and Rs 22.03 crore for 7-year-old Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University.It has been noted that as many as 71 per cent students of the IKPTU opt for re-appears while up to 60 per cent students from the MRSPTU opted for re-appear exam. Further, the IKGPTU even collected Rs 29.89 crore by selling marks to the students (Rs 5,000 for four grace marks as per a special scheme).In 2017, the state government had asked the Vigilance Bureau to probe the matter, but nothing has come up so far. Amount varying between Rs 26.5 crore (as in 2019) and Rs 69.2 crore (in 2014) was being collected annually as re-appear and re-evaluation fee at the IKGPTU.The fall in amount has happened due to decrease in number of students with the IKGPTU owing setting up of the MRSPTU. As many as 77,149 students had applied for re-appear in May 2016, but the number came down to 30,492 in May 2021.All the details have come out through multiple RTI applications filed by Navdeep Kamboj, who has been raking up the issue since 2012. Alleging foul play, he has even written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to “uncover the scam”.Kamboj said even incumbent Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had remained the Minister of Technical Education, but nothing happened during his tenure. “I had even sought reply on the probe through the RTI, but to no avail,” he said.A close perusal of the data shows that percentage of students seeking re-appear has been steadily increasing over the years at the IKGPTU. Around 50 per cent students had gone for re-appear in December 2012, the figure touched 71.27 per cent in May 2019. As many as 24.04 per cent students (35,735) students applied for re-evaluation in May 2012, but 15.69 per cent (5609) of them passed in that semester.The data further shows that majority of the students going for re-appear and re-evaluation were the first and second year BTech students.In December 2011, a total of 29,220 students had applied for re-evaluation at the IKGPTU, of whom 7,743 students were from BTech (1st year) and 9009 from BTech (2nd year). Others included 205 MCA, 633 BBA, 1,600 BCA and 1,407 MBA students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tech-varsity-raking-in-big-moolah-337069
12-11-2021||---||Bhargo Camp SHO held for taking bribe||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 11The Jalandhar unit of Vigilance Bureau today arrested Inspector Gurdev Singh, SHO, Police Station, Bhargo Camp, red-handed for seeking a bribe of Rs10,000 from a person seeking verification required to run a travel agency.Complainant Daljinder Singh is a resident of New Model House locality here. Having retired as a technician from the Indian Army, he wanted to start a travel agency for which police verification from the concerned police station was required.As per the reports, the cops initially denied his request and negative report was sent by Inquiry Officer-cum-SI Balbir Kumar to the SHO, who further sent it to the licensing branch of Commissionerate, Jalandhar.After a long delay in matter, the complainant enquired himself and came to know that his application had been denied. The complainant again requested the SHO to reconsider his application, being a genuine case. The SHO demanded bribe money of Rs10,000 for favourable fresh report, said SSP (Vigilance) Diljinder Singh Dhillon.Inspector Gurdev Singh called the verification file back to the police station from the licensing branch (dealing hand Lal Chand). The Vigilance officials suspect that the staff of the Police Commissionerate, Jalandhar, was also hand in gloves with the SHO as they returned the verified report by hand to the complainant.Today, Gurdev Singh accepted the bribe money of Rs 10,000 in the presence of government witnesses after a trap was laid by DSP VB Dalbir Singh. The money recovered from the uniform trouser of the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/bhargo-camp-sho-held-for-taking-bribe-337070
12-11-2021||---||Rubber factory gutted in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 11A massive fire was reported at a rubber factory in Sangal Sohal village on the Kapurthala road on Thursday morning. Goods worth lakhs of rupees were gutted. The Fire Department officials said they received a call at 4 am about the incident. As many as 20 fire engines had to be pressed to contain the flames. The firefighters worked for more than four hours to bring the flames under control. No loss of life was reported. In another incident on Wednesday evening, a moving Mahindra XUV caught fire near Football Chowk. Gurpreet Singh of Kapurthala jumped out of the car in time and managed to save his life even as the car burnt within a matter of a few minutes. The onlookers immediately came to Gurpreet’ rescue and offered help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rubber-factory-gutted-in-jalandhar-337071
12-11-2021||---||SSP warns chemists selling banned drugs in Kapurthala||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, November 11In order to tighten the noose around chemists selling the prohibited drugs (tramadol, tapentadol and etizolam), the Kapurthala police have chalked out a comprehensive strategy to wipe out the menace and take stern action against the miscreants.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said various teams have been formed to keep the close vigil on anti-social elements. He said licences of all chemist shops were being cross-checked.He said the teams would hold meetings with chemists who have been instructed not to sell drugs tramadol, which is a ‘Schedule H’ drug and can be sold only on prescription.He appealed all the chemists to maintain the stock register of sale-purchase of such drugs.Chemists assured that they would not indulge in any kind of malpractice and inform the police about any such medicines being sold illegally by anyone in the market.The SSP said they were committed to wipe out drug menace in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ssp-warns-chemists-selling-banned-drugs-in-kapurthala-337072
12-11-2021||---||RCF-Kapurthala employee commits suicide||Kapurthala, November 11A painter working at Rail Coach Factory (night shift) was found hanging in his changing cabin early this morning. The victim has been identified as Jasbir Singh.The deceased is survived by his wife and two sons. While the deceased’s wife and children were putting up in a quarter in the RCF, his parents were residing at Deep Nagar, a colony in front of the RCF.Police sources said the victim was reportedly under heavy debt and was disturbed owing to which he took the drastic step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rcf-kapurthala-employee-commits-suicide-337073
12-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Distressed patients cling to hope amid nurses’ strike in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 11It has been four days since work at the dialysis unit and the ICU, thalassemia unit, operation theatres, including the gynae ward OT and caesarean surgeries has been lying suspended due to the strike by nurses. On the fourth day of the strike by nurses, health services in Jalandhar remained in disarray with patients in several emergencies being turned away due to the lack of staff to attend to them. While the dengue ward has entirely been emptied, in others, single ward attendants tended to patients.With both the dengue outbreak and the escalating cost of healthcare, the poorest of the poor have been worst affected. Majority of the patients — especially those in emergency — are being referred elsewhere while the remaining are those who do not have any money to take their seriously kin patients to other hospitals. The remaining staff members have been slugging on despite insurmountable odds.In most general wards, there are just four to five patients. The few remaining patients at the female surgical ward at the top floor of the Civil Hospital present a picture of poverty and helplessness.Two men, who tended to their wife, an elderly labour couple tending to their severely injured daughter and a 60- year-old abandoned patient are all that remain in the female surgical ward. Most of these patients remain because they have nowhere to go. Some of them have sold their belongings to tend to kin.Woman abandoned by kinSince August, a 60-year-old woman, a resident of Ghazi Gullah, has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. Admitted with a fracture, the woman lay at the CH in mere rags with just a few bandages in the name of covering and her body exposed to the elements. She was brought with a fracture and is a diabetic. The hospital staff said since then, only once, some relatives (son and daughter-in-law) came in and got her thumb imprint on some papers. Since then, no one has returned to check on her. The woman lay slumbering in an isolated corner of the female surgical ward emanating a stench. The hospital staff said, “She was in a very bad condition. Except once, when some relatives came in to get thumb impression, no one had returned for her. We keep dressing her from time to time. She also has a mental condition so every time we have tried to dress her up, she removes her clothing. She also pushes off the bandages. Since there is no one to take care of her, she has been receiving treatment here.”Do-gooder staffAt some wards, lone ward attendants tended to patients during the shifts. Many surgeries are also held up due to the strike, as a result of which some severely ailing patients are at the wards. Staff members said for over 20 years, even as more staff members kept on retiring, others haven’t come in their place. No new regular appointments have been made either. With the hospital growing quiet at dusk and most staff away to homes, ortho specialist Dr Mukul Bansal quietly came in to check on his patient who had been operated recently. The young doctor quietly interacted about the health of a patient who had recently been operated upon. The doctor said, “It’s my routine. I have to check on the health of those with recent surgeries.”Couple tends to severely injured daughterGopal (60) and his wife Sheela tearfully tend to their daughter who has had multiple injuries due to a train accident. She has three fractures in her leg and injuries on both her arms. A daily wager, Gopal tends to his daughter and her two sons. His wife Sheela is a domestic help. The couple said after bandaging her leg yesterday, so far no other dressing of her wounds had been done. Gopal said: “We went to Amritsar but were asked to take her elsewhere. She has various fractures and bruises. So far there has been no X-ray or scans. Due to the strike, her tests haven’t been conducted. The bandage was also done with the ones we brought. Now, the doctors ask us to take her to Chandigarh. We are poor. We don’t have that much money.”Ex-serviceman tends to ailing wife||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/distressed-patients-cling-to-hope-amid-nurses-strike-in-jalandhar-337075
12-11-2021||Short-distance peaceful getaways on the weekends have become a way of life for the urban dwellers. Doaba residents have quite a few options||In the lap of nature||Do you want to have an adventure of off-roading? No need to go to Himachal Pradesh. The tiny, quiet hamlet of Kukanet, falling just along Dholbaha in Hoshiarpur, offers a much better experience.The 8-9 km of alley of the village neither has nor can have a metalled road. This stretch is filled with sand and gravel over which a steady stream of water keeps flowing throughout the year. The water originating from underground springs is quite clean for anyone to jump off the vehicle and enjoy standing in the ankle-deep stream.But what is even more enticing is the play of sunlight and shade through a canopy of bamboo formed over it. The entire stretch has a huge natural plantation of bamboo on either side. A lot of peacocks, peahens, monkeys and butterflies can be spotted here and there.As one goes deeper, it is common to spot caves of the wild animals. Locals tell that they have been sighting leopards almost every other day. They have frightening stories to share of leopards taking away their domestic animals. Their claims are corroborated by the fact that every house has set up its own small watch tower to spot the wild cats from a distance before moving ahead.The serenity and tranquillity of the place is astounding. The sparsely populated village does not have any market, public transport owing to which it is only about 10-20 odd tourists who can be spotted here. Most of these tourists are young men on SUVs or bikes.These boys ride up to the forest guest house, which is lodged in the thick of jungle. The guest house has a lawn with bamboo furniture placed here and there underneath thatched canopies. Some tourists combine this trip with a visit to an adjoining Dholbaha dam.Notably, except for one tiny dump of few paper plates, the entire stretch to Kukanet forest guest house was clean. The villagers shared that they have been telling to the visitors that they are certainly welcome but they must ensure that they do not litter the place and do not harm its peaceful environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-the-lap-of-nature-337076
12-11-2021||Jalandhar||Dr Mehtab Singh among top 2% scientists in list of Stanford University||0.04 pc pendency in citizen servicesNawanshahr: Nawanshahr district has secured top position in the state by ensuring 0.04% pendency in the citizen services. DC Vishesh Sarangal said the administration had achieved this target by ensuring a timely disposal of applications being filed by the citizens at the Sewa Kendras. The DC said from November 10 to November 11, as many as 1,36,274 applications were received for different services at all 17 Sewa Kendras, which were disposed of by the officials in a time-bound manner. Of these applications, only 0.04% i.e. 61 were pending for disposal. TNS4,694 identified for 5-marla plotsJalandhar: As many as 4,694 beneficiaries have been identified for the allotment of 5-marla plots across 559 villages in Jalandhar district as the district-level committee has accepted their applications, thereby paving way for the allotment of land to them, said DC Ghanshyam Thori. The DC further added that the administration has identified government lands in 559 villages which would be allotted to all these eligible beneficiaries. TNSCongress councillor’s building sealedJalandhar: A commercial building owned by a local Congress councillor was on Thursday partly sealed by the team of Town Planning Department of the Municipal Corporation. The building which housed a restaurant Dana Pani is owned by councillor Major Singh, who is also the Chairman of Punjab Khadi Board. Action started after Simran Jit Singh, complainant, alleged that the upper floors of the building had come up illegally. The upper floors were thus sealed. TNSSix new cases surface in JalandharJalandhar: The district reported six new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. With this, the tally has reached 63,429 cases. No new death due to Covid-19 was reported in the district. The death toll remained at 1,496. As many as 61,895 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district and the number of active cases is 38 in the district. Of 17,77,908 samples collected in the district so far, 16,42,323 samples have tested negative. Reports of as many as 1,825 tests are still awaited. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dr-mehtab-singh-among-top-2-scientists-in-list-of-stanford-university-337077
