13-11-2021||Jalandhar||Pargat Singh hands over cheques for Rs 1.07 cr to 13 panchayats||Continuing his drive to distribute funds to the panchayats for development work, Punjab minister Pargat Singh today handed over cheques for Rs 1.07 crore to 13 panchayats of his Jalandhar Cantt constituency for various projects. These villages included Kot Khurd, Alipur, Kukkar Pind, Bambiawal, Kheda, Kasimpur, Sabhrai, Channanpur, Jamsher, Jagral and Nanak Pindi.The minister said this grant would further ensure the holistic development of the rural areas at par with the cities, adding that the gram panchayats must utilise all these funds within stipulated timeframe. Pargat Singh said the state government was committed towards the all-round development of the villages for which a slew of initiatives were already launched by the government.He also said that the state government has emphasised the improvement of the rural road network, availability of clean drinking water, strengthening of infrastructure in schools, healthcare facilities in villages and construction of model playgrounds for the rural folk. Pargat said the sarpanches of these villages were asked to immediately initiate the development works in their respective villages as there was no paucity of funds for the rural development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargat-singh-hands-over-cheques-for-rs-1-07-cr-to-13-panchayats-337381
13-11-2021||Jalandhar||Extension Lecture on ayurveda||Children’s DayThe birthday of first PM of India Pt Jawaharlal Nehru was celebrated by the St Soldier’s Group of Institutions, in which students disguised themselves as Nehruji, wearing white furry pajamas, headgear and a rose flower in a jacket. The programme was started by paying homage to the first PM. On this occasion, students presented speeches and poems on patriotism. Apart from this, patriotic group songs were sung by the students and chanted. Congratulating the students, vice-chairperson Sangeeta Chopra said Nehru had a lot of love for children, hence his birthday is celebrated as Children’s Day.DLSA organises moot courtThe District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), celebrating Pan India Awareness Week under the umbrella of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, organised a moot court competition on Friday at Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus. Six teams competed and two teams were selected for the final round. Each team had three participants. The team comprising Harshit Khanna, Swarnjit and Akanksha Gautam were declared the winners. Advocates PP Singh Ahluwalia, Bharat Bhushan and Angelina J Brar judged the competition. They were felicitated by the Dr Rupam Jagota and all faculty members.Football training campKanya Maha Vidyalaya in partnership with the Footie Skill Football Academy has commenced a football training camp in the college. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that this special programme started at the football ground of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya will prove to be helpful in teaching the techniques of football to boys and girls in the age group of 5 to 14 years. She further maintained that the techniques of the game are being explained to the players by professional football coaches from 4 pm to 5 pm every day.University exam resultsStudents of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, performed excellently in Guru Nanak Dev University exams. Akanksha Nayyar has bagged 1st position in the Master in Tourism and Management (MTM) - IV Semester by getting 2079 marks out of 2400, whereas Poonam Sandhi of the same class bagged 2nd position by getting 2070 marks and Neha bagged 3rd position by getting 2021 marks. The president of the College Governing Council, Balbir Kaur, congratulated the students and wished them success in life. Dr Rashpal Singh Sandhu, head, Department of Commerce, and Prof Vineet Kumar Gupta were also present on the occasion.Community radio launchedGNA University inaugurated the GNA Community Radio- GNA Radio 90.0 ‘Duniya Badal Denge’ with the presence of Pargat Singh, Cabinet Minister for Sports & Youth Affairs, NRI Affairs, School and Higher Education. The GNA Radio will be a non-commercial radio set up purely beneficial to the local residents within 20-km radius. The people of the nearby vicinity would be able to listen to the GNA Radio at a frequency of 90.0 FM on the university webpage. The objective behind the GNA Community Radio is to impart the necessary life skills, apt education and hands-on training making the targeted audience self-reliant and self- sufficient.”Workshop on Microsoft AzureThe Department of IT of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women organised a workshop on “Create a website to deploy Microsoft Azure”. Resource person Rohit Sharma, Senior Software Engineer, Calyx Hyderabad, shared his knowledge with all the students of IT department (BCA & MCA) and CSE department. He discussed about the various methods of Cloud services as well as hands on experience on Microsoft Azure. The main objective of this session was to enhance the knowledge of students on the same.National Education DayTo commemorate the birth anniversary of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, the first Education Minister of India, ‘National Education Day’ was celebrated at Shiv Jyoti Public School. Essay writing activity was done on ‘ Importance of Education’. As many as 160 students participated with the motivation of their teachers - Pooja Sodhi, Aarti Tandon and Sandeep Saini in the activity. The students expressed their views on the pivotal role of education in our lives. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/extension-lecture-on-ayurveda-337382
13-11-2021||---||Provide sand at Rs 5.50/cubic ft to public: Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner||Jalandhar, November 12With the state government giving approval to the Punjab State Sand and Gravel Mining Policy, 2021, according to which sand must be sold at Rs 5.50/cubic ft, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori today directed officials of the Mining Department to immediately implement these new rates at all mining sites in the district.He said after the notification by the state government, the administration has quickly implemented these new rates to facilitate people of Jalandhar with cheaper rates of sand.The DC further mentioned that the state government has taken a historic decision by bringing in the new mining policy to ensure that people get these items at nominal prices adding that the directions have been passed to authorities concerned to ensure effective implementation of these new rates.He unequivocally stated that any kind of laxity in this task would be highly unwarranted as strict action would be taken on the complaints of overcharging. He also added that an elaborate mechanism was being put up in place to ensure availability of sand at approved rates besides keeping an eye over the fleecing and overcharging by contractors.Executive Engineer, Mining Department, Gurtej Singh Garcha, said as per the new policy, the sand would be provided to the public at Rs 5.50/cubic ft at mining sites, including loading charges. He further added that all directions issued by the state government would be implemented in letter and spirit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/provide-sand-at-rs-5-50-cubic-ft-to-public-jalandhar-deputy-commissioner-337383
13-11-2021||---||Conference on Guru Nanak Dev’s 552nd Parkash Purb concludes||Kapurthala, November 12A two-day Vishav Sikh Conference dedicated to the 552nd Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev, which was held at Gurudwara Bebe Nanki, Sultanpur Lodhi, concluded today. The conference was organised by the newly-formed organisation Global Sikh Vichar Manch, Sultanpur Lodhi, headed by Dr Assa Singh Ghuman and coordinated by Dr Paramjit Singh Mansa.The deliberations focused on the topic ‘Relevance of Guru Nanak’s bani in the present day world.’ The programme with the gurbani shabads were sung melodiously by the students of Akal Academy, Sultanpur Lodhi. Technical sessions were presided over by Padma Shri Baba Sewa Singh. Special guests included Sant Sukhjeet Singh Seechewal, Gurpreet Kaur, member SGPC, Sawarn Singh, Dr Mehar Singh Nadala, Balwant Singh Mali, Chetan Singh, Director, Bhasha Vibhag, Prof Gurwinder Kaur Ghag Canada, Mukhtiar Singh Chandi, Satinder Singh Ludhiana, Ajaib Singh Chhatha, Meeta Khanna and Bhagwan Singh Khoji.Papers were read on various sub-themes at the conference. The valedictory session was chaired SGPC Chief Jagir Kaur. She honoured the learned scholars who participated in the conference, including Dr Paramveer Singh and Dr Daljeet Singh from Punjabi University, Patiala, Dr Kulwinder Singh Bajwa, Chetan Singh Khalsa, Harvinder Singh Khalsa, Sayiad Simer Singh, Dr Paramjit Kaur and Dr Jaswant Singh Bugran. She also felicitated Dr AS Ghuman and Dr Paramjit Singh Mansa.The SGPC president also announced Rs 2 lakh grant for the publication of the proceedings of the conference and honoured the persons who have contributed for the success of this conference who included Prof Amarjit Singh Khera, Gursimranjit Singh Canada, Jaswinder Kaur Mansa, Sukhdev Singh Judge, Jaswinder Singh Tarn Taran, Dr Parminder Singh Thind, Mandip Singh Rimzim and Sarabjot Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/conference-on-guru-nanak-devs-552nd-parkash-purb-concludes-337384
13-11-2021||---||Farmers get tips on protected growth of veggies||Jalandhar, November 12A three-day training course on ‘Protected Cultivation of Vegetables’ organised by the Department of Horticulture at the Centre of Excellence for Vegetables concluded in Kartarpur today.The programme was held on the directions of Director Horticulture, Punjab, Shailender Kaur (IFS). On the concluding day today, Dr Sukdeep Singh Hundal, Deputy Director, Horticulture Jalandhar, and Dr Lal Bahadur, Assistant Director, Horticulture-cum-Controlling Officer, Centre of Excellence, also participated. They discussed about the government schemes and policies related to farmers and motivated them towards the diversification in agriculture.They also said the Centre had gained importance among farmers day-by-day. As many as 25 farmers from 10 districts participated in this training and so far, more than 1,157 farmers have been trained by this centre, which are diversifying their farming from traditional method to new technology. They explained that training on production of disease free vegetable seedlings, open field production of vegetables, poly-house production of vegetables and post harvest management is being provided to the farmers.Dr Daljit Singh Gill, Assistant Director, Horticulture-cum-Project Officer COE, said farmers could earn profit of Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000 from one kanal covered area (500 sq m) if they adopted new technologies in their fields. The new technologies are being shown to farmers through field demonstrations. He also claims that till date, more than 1.57 crore healthy vegetable seedlings are also supplied to the Punjab farmers and interested people for kitchen gardening.During the three-day training session, expert from Haryana Dr Suresh Kumar Arora and from the Department of Horticulture Punjab Dr Bikramjit Singh, Dr Vikram Verma, Dr Tejbir Singh, Dr Tripat Kumar, Shelly Sandhu, Anmoldeep Singh and Sandeep Kaur have delivered their valuable lectures on different subjects related to vegetable cultivation. At the end of session, certificates are distributed to the farmers. Farmers showed keen interest in training and said they would convert some area under protected cultivation to earn more profit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-get-tips-on-protected-growth-of-veggies-337385
13-11-2021||---||Nurses’ strike in Jalandhar: Healthcare remains crippled on Day 5||Jalandhar, November 12Health services in the district remained crippled for the fifth day today amid the strike by the Punjab Nursing Association who have been demanding that their pay scale be brought back to the previous pay grade of Rs 4,600 from the Rs 3,200 to which it has currently been reduced.Amidst the strike, nurses have been sitting outside the emergency of the Civil Hospital for the past five days. While there are 500 nurses in Jalandhar, all of them are on protest. Separate protests are also being held at several PHCs and CHCs by nurses.While the strike began on November 8, Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra had said as many as 15 nurses had been brought in to fill in for the nurses on strike.However, with the civil hospital alone having as many as 200 nurses the strike has brought healthcare to a standstill at the hospital.While many daycare patients, especially those in the dengue wards - which were chock-a-block before Diwali have already been discharged, other hospitals also gave sparse patients admitted to them.Staff on duty aid many critical or surgery cases. Meanwhile, nurses continue their strike on a rotation basis where those on duty as per the hospital rosters - now sit on strike as per the same schedule. Some of the nurses on night duties are spending the same shifts on strike in the nursing superintendent’s room at the hospital.The trauma, maternity, neo-natal and dengue wards of the hospital — which are among the busiest in the state — have been severely affected due to the strike. many patients are being silently referred to private care. Meanwhile, nurses said they will continue on strike for an indefinite period until their demands are met.Dengue cases reach 503With an already clear and substantial rise in Covid cases, Dengue cases in the district also contnue to register a steady rise. The district Dengue cases crossed the 503 mark today. The dengue cases have risen by 39 in the past two days. There were 464 dengue cases on November 10, in the past two days they have risen to 503.More alarmingly, until November 8, the cases were merely 415. Among rural hotspots, Barapind, Kartarpur, Kala Bakra, Jamsher, Mehatpur, Adampur, Jandiala, Shahkot and Bilga have reported most Dengue cases while among urban areas, the majority of the cases have been reported in Basti areas, - basti Danishmandan and basti Sheikh as well as Sodal Road and its adjoining areas.Trauma, maternity wards severely hitSome of the nurses on night duties are spending the same shifts on strike in the nursing superintendent's room at the hospital. The trauma, maternity, neo-natal and dengue wards of the hospital - which are among the busiest in the state - have been severely affected due to the strike. many patients are being silently referred to private care. Meanwhile, nurses said they would continue to strike for an indefinite period until their demands are met. While many daycare patients, especially those in the dengue wards - which were chock-a-block before Diwali have already been discharged, other hospitals also had sparse patients admitted to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nurses-strike-in-jalandhar-healthcare-remains-crippled-on-day-5-337387
13-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||One killed in road accident||Priest stabbed to death, 1 heldHoshiarpur: The Dasuya police have arrested an accused under the charge of stabbing a temple’s priest to death on Thursday. A case has been registered on the statement of Ranu Pandey, wife of Aklesh Pandey, a native of Hilgan, under Dahna police station, Sagar district, MP, presently residing at Temple Mitti Putt Khooh, Dasuya. She told the police that her husband Aklesh Pandey (33) was a priest in the temple. Surinder Kumar, alias Shinda, alias, Kola, a resident of Old Staff wala Mohalla used to visit the temple frequently. On November 10, he asked for food. Her husband said it was too late and there was no food left with him. Her husband had gone out to close the outer gate of the temple. In the meantime, she heard him scream and went out to see him. She saw that Surinder Kumar had a knife in his hand and was stabbing her husband in the chest and abdomen. On the basis of the said complaint, the police have booked the accused Surinder Kumar under Section 302 of the IPC and arrested him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/one-killed-in-road-accident-337390
13-11-2021||The 175th batch of recruits inducted as Constables passed out from the training centre of the Punjab Armed Police||176 pass out from PAP training centre, Jalandhar||Dr Kalia felicitated the recruits who performed well during the training.  Among them, Meenu Bala came all-round first. She was also selected as the best cadet in outdoor duties. Pooja Devi got the prize for best indoor duties. Jasbir Kaur was declared the best marksman and Jaswant Singh got picked as the best parade commander. Tribune Photos: Malkiat Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/176-pass-out-from-pap-training-centre-jalandhar-337388
13-11-2021||---||Unemployed teachers back in protest mode in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 12After waiting for several days after Education Minister Pargat Singh assured them of action, unemployed TET Pass B Ed teachers today yet again took to protest outside the minister’s home. Chaotic scenes ensued as teachers wanting to stage a protest outside the residence of Pargat Singh’s residence were stopped by the police.Teachers clashed with the police and were in turn prevented from going further. Some of the teachers were also manhandled. However, teachers continued protesting at the site.Education Minister Pargat Singh had specially met the teachers of the union on Diwali and assured them to look into their demands. Teachers had been waiting for their grievances to be addressed for about a week now. Led by Munish Fazilka, teachers also continued to hold protests on a water tank near Jalandhar bus stand.Gheraoing Pargat Singh’s residence, teachers said the Cabinet minister had assured them of addressing their demands by November 9-10 but there was no response from the minister on the issue until now. They said the minister had himself come out and assured them that information regarding the posts of master cadre — especially special studies, Hindi and Punjabi — will be intimated to them by calling them to Chandigarh.Teachers have been demanding filling of posts of 9,000 teachers of the Education Department through special advertisements. They said, however, despite repeated requests, protests and exhortations, they have not been given time for a meeting. Teachers said they were forced to yet again continue their dharna outside the Education Minister’s residence as the fear of the election Code of Conduct coming into being will rob them of the one opportunity they still had for the release of various posts of teachers of the Education Department and hence their hope for employment. They said once the Code of Conduct comes into place, they will again be held up for months.Union leaders Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, Aman Shekha, Sandeep Gill, general secretary of the Union Gagandeep Kaur, said the government was yet again adopting dilly dallying tactics to avoid addressing their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unemployed-teachers-back-in-protest-mode-in-jalandhar-337389
13-11-2021||---||SAD leader Rajwinder Singh Lucky mocks at CM, MLA at ‘Janta Darbar’ in Balachaur||Nawanshahr, November 12To mock at the functioning of the state government, an Akali leader of Balachaur constituency today organised a ‘Janta Darbar’ and posed various questions to the dummy CM and dummy MLA seated on the stage donning paper face masks.The event was organised in the grain market of Balachaur today. A stage was created for the arrival of leaders. Chairs were laid for the public to enjoy the event. Various banners and posters were put around to mock at the state leadership. One of the posters read, Mukh mantri di jhooth di dukan – Naukrian hi naukrian’. Another one read, Mukh mantra di loot di dukan – DAP khad hi khad.On the stage, three persons were made to sit. The first one came dressed like CM Charanjit Singh Channi and donned a mask made out of his photograph. The second one was the area MLA Darshan Singh Mangupur and third was for the MLA’s son on whose mask ‘Munda tax’ was written.Akali leader Rajwinder Singh Lucky took to mike as he asked Channi as to why the mandi had been closed even as there were some farmers who were yet to sell their paddy. The next poser was on the shortage and black marketing of DAP fertiliser owing to which the farmers were not able to sow wheat in time. The third question was on no attempt to retain the industry. Here he quoted the case of DCM factory which shut down about three years ago.As the volley of questions continued, the dummy CM only replied, “Channi karega masle hal (Channi will solve the problems)”. Lucky even quizzed the MLA and asked him about the lack of provisions at the Civil Hospital and no availability of CT scan facility. The next questions were on no stadium, 40 out of 48 vacant posts of patwaris, corruption in tehsil complex, poor sewage facilities and non-functional pipes of the Kandi canal in the area.The mockery concluded with the leaders unable to give any conclusive reply and leaving the venue as people continued to ask them more questions. Lucky said that his idea was only to highlight the poor functioning of the government in a funny manner and put the message across well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sad-leader-rajwinder-singh-lucky-mocks-at-cm-mla-at-janta-darbar-in-balachaur-337391
13-11-2021||---||‘Har Ghar Dastak’: Teams to identify people who have not taken Covid jab||Jalandhar, November 12To ensure 100 per cent Covid-19 vaccination in Jalandhar district, the local administration has flagged off a special ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign to reach out to every household and encourage them to get vaccinated in the district.This was told by Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, while participating a meeting chaired by Punjab Chief Secretary Anirudh Tewari by video conferencing here today. He said an impeccable plan has been formulated for the effective implementation of ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign in the district so that no eligible beneficiary would remain without of immunisation.Thori said under this campaign, ASHA and ANM workers have already started the process of identifying people, who have not get their first dose of the vaccination yet and who are eligible for the second dose, but haven’t got it.He further said that people eligible for the second dose will be encouraged on phone to get it from nearby government hospital at free of cost.The DC said mobile units have been formed to provide immunisation facility to the people at their doorsteps and coordination is being made with the industrial units for vaccination of their remaining immunised workers at their workspace.Apart from this, special arrangements will be made for immunisation of personal with physical disabilities and pregnant women in their houses. The Deputy Commissioner said a total of 21,59,808 doses, including 14,45131 to first and 7,14,676 second doses of Covid vaccine, have been administrated to the eligible people in the district so far, making Jalandhar district one of the three leading districts of the state.He urged to the people, who have not yet get first dose, to get vaccinated on priority basis so that the virus spread could be contained. Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Singh, District Immunisation Officer Dr Rakesh Chopra and other officials were also present at the meeting.Five fresh covid cases reported in jalandhar districtThere has been a spike in Covid cases in the district as five more Covid cases were reported today in Jalandhar district. With this, the total tally has reached 63,434 cases. No new Covid death was reported in Jalandhar today. The district deceased tally remained 1,496 today. As many as 61,897 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 41.Three new cases, no death in KapurthalaThree new cases of Covid were reported positive in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally reached 17,857. No death from Covid was also reported at Kapurthala today either. Three persons who were reported positive include a 40-year-old man from Kapurthala, a 32-year-old man and a 73-year-old woman from Baran village.Cases in Hoshiarpur on the rise again; 2 deaths reported in two daysAfter a relief of a few months from Covid, Hoshiarpur once again witnessed a rise in the Covid spread and the total number of cases is once again in two digits. In two days, Hoshiarpur has recorded two deaths due to Covid, taking the toll to 988 while 13 new cases have been traced in the district, taking the total number of cases to 30,854, which includes 2,081 cases from other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/har-ghar-dastak-teams-to-identify-people-who-have-not-taken-covid-jab-337392
13-11-2021||---||Day after sealing, Congress leader unlocks building in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 12Less than 24 hours since the Town Planning Department of the Municipal Corporation sealed a commercial building owned by a Congress leader, it was re-opened early this morning.The way the MC officials and the political leaders have acted in the case clearly shows that the former work at the behest of the latter and pay no consideration to the MC bylaws. Simran Jit Singh, complainantThe matter pertains to a building in Model House owned by Director of Punjab Khadi Board Major Singh. His wife Amanpreet Kaur has been an MC councillor of the area for two terms. The building was sealed by the Assistant Town Planner concerned as complainant Simran Jit Singh had alleged that he had raised two extra floors without due permissions from the MC and other departments concerned.As per the information, while a restaurant Dana Pani was already running from the building, he had recently also raised a banquet hall, rooms for lodging and a rooftop bar. Simran Jit Singh had taken the matter pertaining to the illegality in the Punjab and Haryana High Court after which the officials has sealed the building at 5 am yesterday.Infuriated, Major Singh rushed to Chandigarh to take up the matter with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Since Channi remained busy with the special session held yesterday, he had to wait till late evening to have a meeting with him and press him to get the orders reverted.Jalandhar West MLA Sushil Rinku, finally, arranged his meeting with the CM. Rinku reportedly returned to the city with Major Singh late night at 12.30 am and opened the seal without the presence of the officials from the MC. It was finally this morning, the MC officials did all the documentation required for opening of the seal.The MC officials have said that the seal had been opened as the building owner had given an undertaking that he was ready to pay the compounding fee. He also reportedly assured that he was ready to go for one-time settlement scheme for regularisation of his building once the government floats it now.Meanwhile, Simran Jit Singh said: “The way the MC officials and the political leaders have acted in the case clearly shows that the former work at the behest of the latter and pay no consideration to the MC bylaws. The upper floors of the building continue to be illegal. The violations are such that they might not be compoundable. Further, there are separate policies for setting up hotel rooms and banquet. Banquets fall under marriage palace policy. The officials need to look into that angle as well. Anyways, the matter is in the court and I will continue to contest the case.”Major Singh, however, maintains, “There is no violation in my building and I have followed all norms. Even if the officials find any violation, they can charge compounding fee from me. Today, the government has floated OTS scheme and I can use that as well, if needed. There are 459 illegal buildings in the city, the list of which I have handed over to the CM.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/day-after-sealing-congress-leader-unlocks-building-in-jalandhar-337393
