14-11-2021||---||Spike in Covid cases post Diwali||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13Thirtynine Covid cases reported this month have sent the alarms bells ringing about steadily rising tally of patients in Jalandhar district.After months of low coronavirus positivity rate in the district, Covid cases witnessed a spurt in activity around Diwali and onset of the festive season.At least two areas in Jalandhar with four cases each have been declared containment zones. Both Atwal Colony and Old Baradari have been declared containment zones.On an average, three new Covid cases are being reported per day during this month. While there were 63,397 Covid cases in the district on November 1, the count rose to 63,436 on Saturday.November 8 and 11 saw seven and six cases, respectively, which is the maximum number of patients reported in the district in November. The per day average of cases is increasing in November as compared to previous months. So far, no positive case was reported from the district on November 10.Two residential areas in Jamsher and Aman Nagar, which were previously containment zones, are no more under containment after reduction in positive cases.Recently, some school students were among those, who tested positive for Covid. Dengue cases in the district have already reached 503, but the increase in Covid patients is a cause of concern.District epidemiologist, Dr Gunjan said, “The festive season and flouting of social distancing norm by a large number of people has certainly contributed to increase in Covid cases. However, with one or zero cases being reported on some days the increase is marginal. Contact tracing has also been increased to map the spread of virus. Most of the cases, which are reported, belong to same family.”Jalandhar reports two more cases Jalandhar: Two more Covid cases were reported in the Jalandhar district on Saturday. With this, the tally has reached 63,436 cases. No new Covid death was reported in Jalandhar on Saturday. The district’s toll remains 1,496. As many as 61,899 persons have recovered from Covid in the district, while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 41. Of the 17,84,984 samples collected in the district so far, 16,49,976 samples have tested negative. The results of as many as 1,485 tests is still awaited. Four test positive in KapurthalaFour new cases of Covid were reported in Kapurthala on Saturday taking the district tally to 17,861. No death from Covid was reported. The four persons who tested positive include a 60-year-old woman from Phagwara, an 81-year-old man, a 31-year-old man from Dhilwan and a 76-year-old woman from Tajpur village in Kapurthala. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/spike-in-covid-cases-post-diwali-337940
14-11-2021||---||Unemployed teachers lift dharna after meeting Education Minister||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13After meeting Education Minister Pargat Singh members of the BEd TET Pass Unemployed Teachers’ Union today withdrew their protest outside his residence. The development comes after the union was assured that a declaration regarding their demands would be met by Tuesday (November 16).Ever since November 28, when the 31,000 member strong BEd TET Pass Unemployed Teachers held their first protest outside present Education Minister Pargat Singh’s house, the steady stream of teachers at his residence hasn’t stopped. Sticking to their warnings of holding a ‘pakkka morcha’ outside Pargat’s residence, unemployed teachers have regularly congregated outside his house since November 28 and been on permanent protest atop a water tank near the city bus stand.Union members outside minister’s house last night.Before heated exchanges between unemployed teachers and the police yesterday, Pargat was last seen reaching out to teachers on Diwali. Anger again flared among teachers as declaration regarding union demands wasn’t released within the stipulated time by the minister.The minister did not meet teachers yesterday while they tried to cross barricades to reach his home entrance and were prevented by the police from doing so.Today early in the morning, teachers gained access to another entrance of minister’s residence and sat on dharna there. The minister met teachers outside his residence today and assured them of another panel meeting after which they lifted their dharna.Peeved at their continued and relentless dharnas outside his residence, the minister today also chided teachers for coming back again to protest despite assurances.Union president Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan said, “We have been assured of a meeting on November 16 at which we will put forth our detailed requests. We had a meeting with the minister after repeated interventions by the administration yesterday and today. The minister expressed anger at our repeated dharnas, but our question is why hadn’t our demands been met within stipulated time?”“We were not given any further rescheduled date after Diwali meeting either. We have no other choice left. Many teachers will be overage for the job within months. Time is running out for us. The government needs to solve the issue before the code of conduct comes into place,” he added.The prime demand of teachers is release of advertisements by the state government for 9,000 posts of teacher in the Education Department.Teachers have threatened to gherao Education Minister Pargat Singh’s residence again on November 18 if Tuesday meeting is not held.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unemployed-teachers-lift-dharna-after-meeting-education-minister-337941
14-11-2021||---||Raid at guest house in Ban Bahadur Nahar residential area||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13A complaint from some residents led to a raid at a city-based guest house, where the police found rooms booked for various couples in the age group of 22 to 25 years.Four boys and girls were found present at the spot.All youngsters, including girls and boys at the guest house, were found to be adults. They came to the guest house on their own free will. No minor was found at the guest house. Therefore, there is no evidence of any illegal activity. The parents of the youths were called. Their children were handed over to them. No FIR has been lodged in the case. — Ajaib Singh, SHO at the police station No. 2The privately-owned guest house in the Ban Bahadur Nahar residential area has been inviting the ire of local residents, who complained to the police on Saturday, as they witness various boys and girls entering the place in pairs every day.The police, however, did not file a formal complaint or an FIR as the couples were all adults and not minors. Locals complained that previously run as PG, the happenings at the newly coverted guest house left a bad influence on youngsters of the area. The police, however, said no evidence of illegal activities was found at the guest house. The youths, who present at the guest house, were handed over to their parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raid-at-guest-house-in-ban-bahadur-nahar-residential-area-337943
14-11-2021||---||Love for Chacha Nehru comes alive on Children’s Day||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13As Children’s Day falls on Sunday, most schools of the city made sure that they gave their students a gala time this Friday or Saturday. The main attractions for the school events were fun games, singing, dance activities, fancy dress and picnic parties.Tomorrow, the district administration too is doing its bit by organising a relay race for the children of 15 to 17 years starting at 11 am from Government Senior Secondary School, Krari, up to Beas Pind via Rahimpur and Kala Bakra villages.Innocent Hearts SchoolsThe five branches of Innocent Hearts School celebrated Chacha Nehru’s birthday with great fervour, virtually as well as on offline mode. At Pre-Primary Wing of Pre-Nursery, Nursery, KG-1, KG-2 in Innokids, the little ones expressed immense love for him by dressing up like Chacha Nehru. Children took part in patriotic poems, singing activities with great enthusiasm. In virtual and offline classes, the teachers told the children that we celebrate the birthday of the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru as Children’s Day. Alka Arora (Director InnoKids) wished the children a very Happy Children’s Day and informed about Chacha Nehru’s love for children and contribution made by him for the country. She inspired the children to become restrained, courageous and tactful like him, adopting the ideals of Chacha Nehru.DIPS SchoolChildren’s Day was celebrated in all schools of DIPS Chain of school, keeping in mind that children are innocent and a true gift from god. Schools organised special assembly wherein students and staff paid rich floral tributes to Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. Little tiny tots come dressed up as Nehru in kurta pyjama, cap and rose the famous attire of Nehru. Teachers presented an interesting play depicting about the life of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. They also mentioned that Nehru loved children, so his birthday is celebrated as children’s day. Various games were organised for students, apart from that poetry, painting, speech competition etc. students danced and sang along with teachers to make it a joyous day. Principals distributed sweets and wished students a Happy Children’s Day. MD Tarwinder Singh, vice chairperson Preetinder Kaur, CAO Ramneek Singh and CEO Monica Mandotra felicitated the students. They remarked that this day reminds children of their rights and it believed children are a nation’s real strength of a society.The Nobel SchoolThe Nobel School, Kartarpur, organised a special programme “Fun Fiesta” on the Children’s Day to commemorate the birth anniversary of the first Prime Minister of India Pt. Jawahar Lal Nehru. The day focussed on children and their enjoyment. The celebration began with the special morning assembly, followed by variety of fun filled activities planned by the teachers for their children. Fancy dress competition was organised for Grade I to V. Special morning assembly was conducted for grade VI to XII followed by activities like dance, song, skit etc. All the students enjoyed every bit of their special day. Chairman Prof. C L Kochher awarded the winners with certificates and congratulated the winners as well as participants. They also stated that these kinds of activities motivate the children to build up their confidence. Principal Amita Sharma wished success to all the students and the staff members to keep up the spirit and achieve great heights in near future. The programme concluded with the National Anthem.Mayor World SchoolMayor World School celebrated Children’s Day with a myriad of activities categorised according to the Pre-primary ,Primary and Secondary levels of education. Mayor Galaxy organised a picnic in which the twittering of the tutees brought a smile to everyone’s face. There was music, dancing, games and a menu that catered to the palate of the tiny Mayorites. Under the guidance of the Headmistress, Aarti Gulati and her committed team the children’s squeals of laughter echoed loud from the playground. A Potluck Party was held for the students of Grade 1 to Grade IV. Children came in their casual clothes and bagful of goodies which were laid out as a buffet. Games such as tambola, statue and passing the parcel were played in the classrooms. Under the leadership of the vivacious Deputy Vice- Principal Charu Trehan, the day was ablaze with peals of laughter and beaming faces of all the pupils. Students from Grade V to Grade XII assembled at the football court ,where their athletic side was challenged with blindfold games, football matches etc.Ivy World SchoolIvy World School celebrated the Children’s Day on the school grounds with zeal and zest to make our young Ivyians feel special. The day’s focus was on the happiness of the young Ivyians. Kindergarten kids dressed as their favourite cartoon character and brought their favourite dishes for lunch with them. Following the morning prayer, the teachers organised a range of fun-filled activities and games for their kids. Teachers included their pupils in activities such as hit the pyramid, roll the dice, discover the ball, and musical chair, among others, to make Children’s Day more exciting for them. A fun quiz was also held, in which the children thoroughly enjoyed themselves and laughed their hearts out. S Chauhan, Principal, Ivy World School, greeted the students on the occasion and reminded them to be grateful and be empathetic towards the countless children who are homeless underprivileged, deprived, exploited or living in war torn areas. K K Vasal, president, Vasal Education Society, Sanjeev Kumar Vasal, Director Ena Vasal, and Raghav Vasal, CEO, wished all children a Happy Children’s Day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/love-for-chacha-nehru-comes-alive-on-childrens-day-337944
14-11-2021||Jalandhar||Rs20.35-cr power bills waived: DC||Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar Ghanshyam Thori that Rs 20.35 crore arrears of electricity bills of 16828 domestic consumers with up to 2KW load usage in the Jalandhar circle have been waived off by the Punjab Government till Friday.He said in East Division falling under Jalandhar Circle (Zone North), arrears of electricity bills of Rs 1.41 crore of 1,530 domestic consumers, in Model Town division arrears of electricity bills of Rs 10.92 crore of 9,523 connections, in West Division arrears of electricity bills of Rs 4.1 crore have been waived of 2,630 domestic consumers and Rs 3.91 crore of 3,145 domestic consumers have been waived in Cantonment division.He said the officials concerned have been directed to provide the benefits of this scheme to the needy consumers of all sections in a transparent manner. DC informed that beneficiaries of electricity bills upto 2 kW load can visit Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL)’s Suvidha Centres from 9 am to 5 pm to apply for the waiving off their arrears.He further informed that over 1 lakh people will be given the benefit of the scheme in the district. People can visit their nearby PSPCL’s Suvidha Centres under Jalandhar circle including at West division, Model Town division, East division office at Focal Point, Pathankot bypass and Cantonment division to avail benefit of the scheme.The DC appealed to the beneficiaries to contact the PSPCL’s Suvidha Centres for any queries or to attain further information about the scheme. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs20-35-cr-power-bills-waived-dc-337945
14-11-2021||---||Dust makes commuting difficult on dug up Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 13Even as residents of the city are facing pollution due to smog for the past few days, it’s dust, which has become a menace for drivers and commuters on the Jalandhar-Kapurthala Road.The road has been dug up for the ongoing underground pipeline work for the upcoming river drinking water project. As the work has been completed partially, dust from the dug up stretch keeps rising while vehicles pass over it. The visibility reduces to such an extent that commuters find it difficult to cross over the stretch. The road has become accident-prone. Meanwhile, residents are agitated over the slow progress of work.“Our life has become hell. Earlier, this road remained dug up for over two years for laying sewerage. Now, it has been dug again. We really do not know when all this mess will clear up,” said a teacher, who works in a school, which is on the dug up Jalandhar-Kapurthala road.When contacted, Mayor Jagdish Raja said, “The contractor has been instructed to repair every road as soon as possible so that the work is completed before moving on to the next stretch for laying water pipes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/dust-makes-commuting-difficult-on-dug-up-jalandhar-kapurthala-road-337946
14-11-2021||Jalandhar||Rs1.5-crore road project kick starts at Chhoti Baradari||Sports and Education Minister Pargat Singh inaugurated Rs1.5-crore road project at Chhoti Baradari, Part I, and distributed funds among panchayats for various development works here today.The minister said the road project would fulfil the much-awaited demand of residents of Chhoti Baradari, Part I. As many as 22 roads inside the locality, along with 100-feet wide main Garha Road, would be re-carpeted at the cost of Rs1.5 crore, he added.He issued directions to the executing agency to complete the project within stipulated period while strictly adhering to the road quality norms. He also told officials to accord top priority to the road project as any kind of inordinate delay would be dealt with strictly.The minister also listened to grievances of Chhoti Baradari residents. He gave on-the-spot directions to officials of the department concerned to resolve problems of residents at the earliest.The minister announced development of two sports stadiums at the cost of Rs1.25 crore, including stadium at Bambianwal village at Rs75 lakh and Bhode Saprai village at Rs50 lakh. These state-of-the-art stadia would ensure sports culture in the rural areas thereby triggering health awareness among people, he added.Meanwhile, the minister visited Diwali and Kangniwal villages and handed over cheques for Rs10 lakh each to both panchayats for several projects. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs1-5-crore-road-project-kick-starts-at-chhoti-baradari-337947
14-11-2021||Mukerian||Sukhbir promises time-bound payment to sugarcane farmers||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal today said the SAD-BSP alliance was committed to safeguard interests of the farming community. Once the alliance came to power it would pass an Act making it mandatory for sugar mills to pay sugarcane growers their dues within the stipulated timeframe.The SAD president, who addressed public meetings at several places in the constituency, said he had received widespread complaints that sugar mills were not paying farmers their dues for as long as one year.“This is not acceptable,” Badal said while adding that the new Act would have a provision registering cognisable offence against mill owners not paying dues to farmers within three months of crushing their produce.Badal also asked CM Charanjit Channi to ensure that sugarcane growers received the state assured price (SAP) of Rs360 per quintal notified by the government. Badal said despite the announcement of the SAP, sugar mills were not buying sugarcane crop at this price.Badal assured that once the SAD-BSP government was formed the scourge of illegal mining would be wiped out from the state and sand would be made available at low rates.He announced that students would be entitled to a loan provided by the state. Government schoolchildren would be assured 33 per cent reservation in professional colleges, said Badal.“We will also ensure that industrial units reserve 75 per cent of jobs for Punjabis,” Badal added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sukhbir-promises-time-bound-payment-to-sugarcane-farmers-337948
14-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Body of missing youth found||SSA staff seek regular jobsJalandhar: A delegation of the Sarv Sikhiya Abhiyan and Mid Day Meal Office Employees Union met Education Minister Pargat Singh at his residence, regarding their long-pending demand of regularisation. Union leader Shobit Bhagat, Ashish Julaha, Mohit Sharma, Vishal Mahajan, said the minister told them that an act has been brought by the state government wherein the employees who fulfil the condition of having spent 10 years in the Education Department will be regularised. Julaha said while the Finance Department had given approval for their regularisation in 2019, now only the Education Department has to implement it. The teachers said much time has already passed due to the lax working of the department and anger was increasing among employees. The education minister assured of doing the needful soon. Union leaders have said if they are not regularised soon, then employees will hold a pen down strike. TNSSimran 10thin PU MSc ITHoshiarpur: In the declared results of MSc IT (Sem II) of Panjab University, Simran Kaur of DAV College, Hoshiarpur, secured the 10th position in the merit list. Expressing happiness on the achievement of the meritorious student, Principal Dr Vinay Kumar told that Simran Kaur made the organisation proud by getting 1174 out of 1250 (93.92%) marks. Dr Anoop Kumar, president, college management committee, and DL Anand, secretary, conveyed their blessings to Simran. OCDLSA secy reviews medical campHoshiarpur: CJM-cum-Secretary District Legal Services Authority, Aparajita Joshi, inspected the medical camp organised for prisoners and undertrials at Central Jail, Hoshiarpur. Eye specialist Dr Santokh Ram, ENT specialist Dr Gagandeep Kaur, medical Specialist Dr Baldeep Singh Mander, gynaecologist Ivneet Kaur and dentist Dr Sanam Kumar conducted the check-up of inmates. Joshi said a legal awareness-cum-cyber crime awareness programme was organised at Khawas Purhiran GSSS, Hoshiarpur, in which about 250 children were made aware of the provisions of law. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/body-of-missing-youth-found-337949
