15-11-2021||Jalandhar||Father innocent, says Sukhpal Khaira’s son||He made these statements during a Congress workers meet at the Kahira’s ancestral village Ramgarh, held to express solidarity on Khaira’s arrest. Mehtab also said his father’s name was not in the Fazilka NDPS case or challan. He said no recovery has been made from him either. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/father-innocent-says-sukhpal-khairas-son-338373
15-11-2021||Jalandhar||Food & nutrition show organised||Nine fresh Covid cases in DoabaJalandhar: Seven fresh Covid cases were reported on Sunday in the Jalandhar district. With this the total tally of Covid cases has reached 63,443 cases. No new Covid death was reported in Jalandhar today. With one new case in Kapurthala, the Covid tally has reached 17,862. In Hoshiarpur, CMO Parminder Kaur said the reports of 747 samples were received on Sunday, out of which one new positive patient of Covid-19 has been reported. So far, the total number of positive patients reported in the district is 30,861. TNS2 mobiles seized from jail inmatesHoshiarpur: The City police have booked two inmates of the Central Jail on the complaint of Assistant Superintendent (Jail) Satnam Singh. The jail administration during a special checking at 10:40 pm on November 12 had recovered a mobile phone from an inmate, Sanjay Yadav of Sunder Basti, Patiala, when he was talking to someone over phone in bathroom. Also, another mobile was recovered from inmate Jasmeet Singh of Bullowal. Both the accused have been booked under Section 52A of the Prisons Act. OCHusband booked in dowry caseHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police have booked Avtar Singh, a resident of Ajnoha, for reportedly harassing his wife for dowry. His wife Sonia had complained to the SSP on September 16 that she was being harassed by her husband to bring more dowry. The complaint was inquired by DSP (PBI) and on the basis of inquiry report, the Mehtiana police have booked the accused Avtar Singh under Sections 406, and 498-A of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/food-nutrition-show-organised-338327
15-11-2021||Jalandhar||Paper Bag Making Contest at Shiv Jyoti Public School, Jalandhar||Finance Extempore competitionThe Finance Club of Apeejay Institute organised a Finance Extempore competition for the students of BBA, BCom and MBA. The purpose of this competition was to give the students a platform where they could improvise their conceptual knowledge with a better practical understanding. The participants showed their finance knowledge along with public speaking skills. The topics for the competition was given on the spot and topics were ‘Cryptocurrency: A new wave Stock Market: A wealth builder’; ‘Economics: A mother of all sciences’; and ‘Mutual Funds: Every drop counts’. The winners of the event were: Kartik Sharma of MBA I B, Parneet Kaur Sangha of BBA III and Aditi Rana of MBA-I.Annual Athletics MeetState Public School, Jalandhar Cantt held Senior annual athletic meet. The occasion was graced with the presence of chief guest, Dr Amarjeet Singh, president of Indian Medical Association, Jalandhar. The event started with welcome dance, followed by yoga dance and the track events of classes III onwards. There were also several inter house field and track events conducted. Sahibzada Ajit Singh House became the overall winner and honoured with the giant trophy. Bihu dance and and National Anthem concluded the event. The show stealer were the races for fathers and mothers.lecture on Women EmpowermentA guest lecture was organised by the English Literary Society and Women Empowerment Cell of PCM SD College for Women on the topic “Women Empowerment - How every woman’’s success must be an inspiration to others”. The speakers of the day were Parveen Abrol, president, NGO, Divya Drishti, and Dr Surinder Kaur Narula, former Head and Associate Prof in the Department of Punjabi, PCM SD College for Women, Jalandhar. Parveen Abrol said process of empowering women may be defined in several ways, including self-acceptance, faith in the self, self-dependence through confidence, raise in the status of women through education, awareness and moral values.Khel Ratna for LPU’s OlympiansPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind honoured two students of Lovely Professional University (LPU) with the highest national honour in sports - Khel Ratna. Olympics-2021 gold medal winner in Javelin Throw Neeraj Chopra and Bronze Medal Winning Hockey Team’s Captain Manpreet Singh are LPU students of BA and MBA programmes, respectively. This occasion was the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports’ ceremony for giving away national sports awards- 2021 to eminent sports persons of the country. The President presented the prestigious sports award to LPU students at Darbar Hall of the Rashtrapati Bhavan in New Delhi. Both of LPU students were prominently included in this year’s coveted winners’ list of 12 athletes.Parent-Teacher Meet in collegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised parent-teacher meet for the students of all streams of the college. It was an interactive exercise in which the parents and guardians joined with great zeal as their queries about their wards’’ progress were answered by the teachers and their performance in the exams was also discussed in detail. The parents were appreciative of all the subject teachers and the efforts that teachers are putting in the teaching. Other doubts and concerns of the parents regarding the upcoming final exams were also satisfactorily answered by the teachers. Every parent appreciated KMV for various student friendly initiatives started at KMV.World Immunisation Day organisedDAV University organised World Immunisation Day in the Department of Biotechnology. Major General (Retd) Dr Harinder Singh Basra, Head, Department of Community Medicine, Punjab Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS) Jalandhar, was the guest speaker on this occasion. Vice Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi welcomed the chief guest along with Registrar Dr KN Kaul, Dean Academics Dr RK Seth and Dr Yogesh Kumar. Around 200 students and faculty members took part in the event. Dr Basra shared his views on the topic ‘Vaccination and Immunisation Practices’. He made the students aware about the discovery and different types of vaccines.HMV wins badminton championshipBadminton Team of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya participated in GNDU Inter-College Championship held at Doaba College, Jalandhar, in which HMV got first position. Team members were Simran Dhiman, Kushman, Surbhi and Vanshika. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen congratulated the team and coach Gagan Ratti and gave best wishes to the team for the All-India Inter-University Badminton Championship. On this occasion, faculty of physical education Ramandeep Kaur, Navneet Dhadda and Harpreet Kaur were present. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/paper-bag-making-contest-at-shiv-jyoti-public-school-jalandhar-338326
15-11-2021||Keep teachers out of political circus||Open House:  Do you think it is high time the govt addresses shortage of teachers?||The ETT qualified teachers are devastated since the Punjab government had made false employment promises which were even included in the party’s manifesto. Why does the government make false promises to the jobless teachers if they can’t be fulfilled. The unemployed teachers have been struggling for the past many days for the vacant posts in the government schools and they have also protested numerous times against the government by burning effigies of leaders. However, the truth is that the administration does not pay heed to this matter but keeps itself busy by pulling each others’ leg. The Punjab politics has become a circus now and they do not think of the betterment of the state, unemployed teachers and the youth as well. The state government should consider all issues seriously and take the initiative in providing jobs to the deserving candidates.Saahil HansQUESTIONThe sudden increase in farm fires and indiscriminate bursting of firecrackers on Diwali night has led to widespread pollution, causing thick smog and deterioration of the air quality to ‘very poor’ level in Jalandhar. What should be done to check rising air pollution, which experts say can also lead to Covid resurgence, besides causing serious complications among bronchitis and heart patients?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 18)Don’t leave teachers in the lurchUnemployment is the most troublesome thing that the Covid-19 has brought with it. The scare of the virus has led to people quitting their jobs and even getting fired. But the ones who have been hit the most are the teachers. As we recall, the government had promised the teachers that if they complete courses of ETT-TT and B Ed-TET, they would surely be given jobs. The government has not kept its promise and as a result, teachers are now protesting on roads. Congress came to power in around 2017 and the unemployment rose as a major issue. There is also a shortage of teachers in most of the government and some private schools. The government should not let the teachers protest and give them letters to assign them to different schools. There should be a proper system that the government or even the administration could assign, like giving them a permanent tenure in a particular school so that the flow remains the same. As we know that teachers are the bases of learning for the coming generations, we should respect them. The government should also provide them with jobs and not leave them protesting and unemployed.Sanidhya BhaskarDecision might be taken ahead of pollSchools are the temples of education, which play an effective role in the nation building by educating the students in various streams. Teachers play a major role in educating the students and paving way for them in the future towards providing them job opportunities for themselves and others. The ETT-TET and B ED-TET qualified teachers have been protesting for permanent jobs, as during the 2017 pre-Assembly polls, Congress had promised that if voted to power, unemployment issue will be their priority. The teachers have been humiliated many times. Keeping in mind the shortage of teachers in schools, specially the rural areas, there is a need for immediate recruitment of teachers in various streams. Since one-and-a-half month has been left for the implementation of the Model Code of Conduct ahead of the Punjab Assembly elections in February 2022, chances are that the Punjab Government might give appointment letters to the teachers who have been working on ad-hoc basis and are serving temporarily for more than five years. If the present government fails to do so, it is difficult to predict their future.RAJAT KUMAR MOHINDRUEdu not a priority for power-hungry leadersThe state government must keep its words and immediately take steps for the appointment of trained teachers who have cleared the Teachers Eligibility Test (TET) in their respective fields to fill the vacancies in schools. It will not only help improve the quality of education but also reduce unemployment among qualified teachers who are agitating against the government since a long time. But it tragically falls under a non-prioritised agenda for a government whose survival is presumed to be solely resting upon winning the maximum votes by distributing freebies to people at the cost of exchequer already riddled with crunch of funds. Under such a scenario, education is not just a priority for power-hungry politicians. When the qualified teachers are available, allowing vacancies to be persisting in the educational institutions is no less than a crime against the society.Jagdish ChanderEducation can’t be ignored at any costRising unemployment and poverty are two big issues before the nation. To lure voters, every political party gives false assurances to resolve these problems. As the job scenario shows dismal improvement, the frustrated youth expresses its anger by protesting in various ways against the government. Currently, unabsorbed ETT-TET and BEd-TET qualified teachers in the state are struggling for the release of employment letters which the party in power promised while seeking franchise in 2017. Despite the fact that government schools are facing acute shortage of teachers, the recruitments are pending citing financial crunch. Deeming the attitude of administration evasive, the unemployed teachers exert pressure on political masters before Assembly elections to gets their demands fulfiled. In a welfare state, interest of people is supreme for which the grievances redressal mechanism need to be fully empowered to address the matters at the right earnest. On the contrary, the authorities lack inclination to reach a quick compromise. Consequently, working in many government departments also gets disrupted. Primarily, health and education are the core subjects that fall under state subjects, which should not be ignored at any cost. Well equipped schools/ colleges are nurseries for creating future guardians of governance for the country. While enlightened teachers and awared youth is a big asset, it is significant to provide them gainful employment to harness their potential for all around progress. A fair and stable employment policy be envisaged and perpetuated without being influenced by political upheavals. The rational demands of the TET cleared candidates to fill vacant posts in schools should be promptly and sincerely met to end the ongoing stalemate. Though late, the party in power must fulfil its electoral promise by addressing the shortage of teachers in government schools, which may give them edge over rivals in the forthcoming elections.Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathIgnoring merit won’t take us anywhereIt’s unfortunate that the teachers are struggling since many months to get jobs and employment. They are qualified with degrees but the government is totally deaf to their genuine demands. How will these candidates raise their families without getting jobs? Many teachers have committed suicide because of depression due to unemployment.The ministers and other politicians are getting pension from the government even after they have lost the elections and for many times they were in office. Even though they maybe illiterate. But the teachers have been totally neglected. Some even sit on the water tanks but the government doesn’t budge from its stand. It is good that the government has sacked the people who were re-employed even after retirement. The Education Minister has assured the teachers of giving jobs but how far this will this promise be kept needs to be seen. In ancient times, the teachers were equivalent to that of a Guru and parents used to send their children to their ashrams. Students later on used to give them money and gifts called ‘’dakshina’’. The government should not dither in giving them jobs and do it immediately.Dr JS WadhwaDon’t beat around bush, fulfil poll promisesThe government should address the shortage of teachers in schools. One of the biggest poll promises the Congress party had made before 2017 elections was of door-to-door employment but nothing happened. Government schools were filled with students but teachers were reduced. The government has taken out 6635 posts for ETT, TET teachers but not yet for B.Ed, TET qualified teachers. Due to staff crunch, subjects are being taught by teachers of other subjects leading to academic loss of students. The government should do justice to the students and teachers and fulfil the promise of door-to-door employment before the elections. B.Ed, TET qualified teachers should be exempted from age limit like assistant professors of Colleges as they have been struggling for the last four years to get the job.Sucha SagarDelay will hamper quality educationIn their reckless spending on education, our elected representatives raised structures called schools everywhere without recruitment adequate teachers. Posts created on retirement of teachers were not filled up and new admissions aggravated the problem. We often see headlines of a single teacher handling multiple classes/subjects. In order to delay recruitment, TET courses were introduced and comprehensive elementary teacher training ( ETT) and bachelor of education ( BEd ) courses were bypassed. But it is unfortunate that now even TET (Teacher Eligibility Test) qualified teachers are not being absorbed. Ideally, eligibility by way of deciding aptitude and attainments for being a teacher, should be decided at the time of admission to theses courses and if there are no vacancies, seats in these courses should be limited. But there are hundreds of unfilled posts as on date and fully qualified and competent teachers available for appointment. Therefore, the new government should fill the posts and give a good account of it. Now is the time to teach, post Covid.MOHAN SINGHFuture of thecountry is at stakeIt is such a sad state of affairs in Punjab that teachers who are entrusted with the task of instilling good values in children are harassed by the state government. It is very commonly seen in the news that teachers were beaten by the police while protesting for their demands or that some teachers climbed the water tanks and went on a hunger strike. The government must recruit the teachers as soon as possible as it will help both the students and teachers. The future of the country will be bright when the students are bestowed with good qualities by the teachers and the teachers will find jobs to fulfil their aspirations. It is a very common scenario in the state that most of the poll promises are fulfiled near the elections, which sets a very bad example. The welfare of people must be the top priority for the government so as to ensure the holistic development of our nation.Jatinderpal Singh BatthDon’t fall prey to false poll promisesPoor leadership qualities are very well explained by Nick Fewings in the following words “Often, poor leadership is masked by those with the loudest voices and strong opinions”. In this way politicians make series of promises before the elections, to get the votes and afterwards forget the same thus making fool of voters. The modus operandi of the politician is very simple; the words they speak make them successful. Those words become our belief and prompt the voter to cast vote in their favour. But politicians forget their pre-election promises, thereby deceiving the people. The ETT-TET and BEd-TET qualified teachers also fall in this category. Belonging to educated class, teachers should remember the old saying of Otto Von Bismarck which says, “People never lie so much as after hunt, during a war and before an election. But let us support the cause of teachers.Harsh JoharActions speaklouder than wordsSchool education is an important function of the state and teachers are indispensible part of it. Hence, it is high time for the state government to address the shortage of teachers in government schools and release appointment letters as demanded by protesting ETT-TET and BEd-TET qualified teachers. Shortage of teachers in government schools has been taking a heavy toll on the standard of education across the state. Education cannot play a catalytic role in the socio- economic development unless qualified teachers are appointed. The introduction of ‘Cluster System’ has failed to yield the intended results. Subject-wise learning, quality education, equality in education, innovations in class room and interactive content for students cannot be visualised in the face of teacher shortage. It has been aptly said: “As are the teachers, so are the schools, as are the schools, so will be the youth.” Therefore, it is obligatory for the state government to address the shortage of teachers.Tarsem S BumrahHigh time to resolve issues of teachersEducation plays a significant role in nation’s development. Being the future of country, children should have an access to proper academic knowledge and it doesn’t matter whether it is given in government or private school, provided it should be given by qualified teachers. Unemployment, the big issue which has been there prolonged, should be given due consideration by authorities. After the pandemic, the problem has spiked at another level. TET cleared teachers, who are deserved for government jobs, not being conferred for their endeavours only shows the false claims of regime. It’s high time for the government to consider this foremost issue needed to be resolved.Sukhmeet Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-do-you-think-it-is-high-time-the-govt-addresses-shortage-of-teachers-338325
15-11-2021||---||Hoshiarpur: Murder case of 22-year-old youth cracked, two arrested||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, November 14The police have nabbed two youngsters involved in the murder of a 22-year-old youth who had gone missing on November 10 and later his body was recovered from Bhangi Choe on November 12.The deceased has been identified as Aryan Hans, a resident of Hari Nagar. Those nabbed have been identified as Dalveer Singh, a resident of Mohalla Kali Kambali, and Manminder Singh, a resident of Basi Maruf village.Hoshiarpur Senior Superintendent of Police Kulwant Singh Heer said family members of Aryan said he had gone out on his two-wheeler on November 10, but did not return. The SSP said the body of the deceased was recovered from Bhangi Choe on November 12 and there were marks of injuries inflicted with sharp-edged weapons on the body.The SSP said Manminder and Aryan went towards Bhangi Choe on November 10 and Dalveer also accompanied them on his two-wheeler. He said the trio had a scuffle and Manminder stabbed Aryan on his neck with a knife. Later, Dalveer smashed stone on Aryan’s head and fled from the spot, said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-murder-case-of-22-year-old-youth-cracked-two-arrested-338324
15-11-2021||---||Prof Piara Singh Bhogal bestowed with Lifetime Achievement Award||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 14The nonagenarian litterateur Professor Piara Singh Bhogal was bestowed with “Lifetime Achievement Award” by the Punjabi Virsa Trust and the Punjabi Lekhak Sabha on Sunday, for his outstanding contribution to Punjabi literature.Prof Bhogal is an eminent Punjabi writer, critic and columnist. Prof Jaswant Singh Gandam and Gurmit Palahi presented the award to Prof Bhogal at his residence in Jalandhar.Punjab Press Club Jalandhar chief Satnam Singh Manak and Punjab Arts Council secretary Dr Lakhvinder Singh Johal were also present on the occasion. Manak made a special mention of Prof Bhogal’s memorable association with the Punjabi Jagriti Manch, a body wedded to Punjab, Punjabi and Punjabiat. Prof Gandam and Palahi said they started writing after getting encouragement from Prof Bhogal. Samjho asi ehna di ungal phar ke likhna sikhiya (We learnt the nitty-gritty of writing from him,” said Palahi.Prof Bhogal said he took to writing around 70 years ago. “I was hardly 23-year-old when my first two books hit the stands,” he said.Prof Bhogal said,” I have so far written around 60 books, including six novels, five short stories, four plays, 10 books of criticism, an autobiography, besides some translations. I rate my recent novel ‘Nari’ as the best of all other novels while my book ‘Punjabi Sahit Da Ityihas’, whose four editions have been published so far, is virtually a magnum opus. I have also written 400 articles for Punjabi newspapers. For almost a decade, I regularly wrote political columns for Ajit and Punjabi Tribune.”“Literature mirrors life as well shows mirror to it,” he quipped.He added: “For writing, you have to read good literature. I still read daily for one hour despite crossing the age of 90.” He said Punjabi literature is rich, but Punjabis lack book culture.Maintaining that books are enduring friends, Prof Bhogal pleaded for bridging gap between publishers and readers by developing a mechanism for distribution of books to readers in order to inculcate reading habit among Punjabis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/prof-piara-singh-bhogal-bestowed-with-lifetime-achievement-award-338323
15-11-2021||---||Colourful start to youth fest at Dasuya||Our CorrespondentDasuya, November 14The four-day Panjab University Zonal Heritage and Youth Festival of Zone B of Hoshiarpur district kick-started on the campus of JC DAV College, Dasuya, on Sunday. The theme for the festival this year is “Love and Respect Nature”. As many as 800 students from 13 colleges of the district are participating in 67 different items, including music and dance and other cultural, literary, heritage and Fine Arts items.The festival was inaugurated by Pratap Singh Bajwa, Member, Rajya Sabha from Gurdaspur.Bajwa said competitions in such youth festivals develop creativity skills and enhance the true potential of the students by providing them am opportunity to showcase these talents in various activities. He also maintained that these events are playing a vital role in transmitting the cultural and heritage legacy to the new generations in Punjab. Himself an alumni of the DAV, Bajwa appreciated the efforts of the DAV in nation building. Taking into consideration the blended mode of education in post-pandemic period, he announced a financial aid to the college for smart classrooms. Arun Dogra, MLA, Dasuya, and other leaders of the region were also present on this occasion.Prof Nirmal Jaura, Director, Youth Welfare Department, Panjab University, Chandigarh, congratulated the college authorities and staff to host this function this year. He highlighted the role of educational institutions in transferring dreams into reality. Dr Amardeep Gupta, convener of the festival and principal of JC DAV College, welcomed the guests and wished all for a healthy competition during the next four days of festival. Prof Nivedika, organising secretary, acquainted the audience with the schedule of events on different days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/colourful-start-to-youth-fest-at-dasuya-338322
15-11-2021||---||No Challan Day: Raja Warring launches road safety campaign||Jalandhar, November 14On the occasion of Children’s Day, Transport Minister Raja Warring on Sunday, launched a road safety campaign in the city. Underscoring the urgent need to ensure implementation of road safety protocols, Warring appealed residents to take ‘Sadak surakhya mera farz’ pledge to save lives.Denying any tussle between Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu, the transport minister said the Congress would win majority of seats in the 2022 Assembly poll. He said a SIT would be formed to investigate the loss of revenue to the tune of Rs 6,688 crore in the roadways during the tenure of Capt Amarinder Singh and SAD-BJP.Warring accused Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of not allowing Punjab roadways buses to enter Delhi airport. “Let us make the state safest for children through road safety,” he said, while making an appeal to citizens to adopt traffic compliance into their day-to-day behaviour.Launching the statewide road safety campaign ‘No-Challan Day’, Warring expressed deep concern over high rate of road fatalities in the state and directed the department to ensure strictest implementation of low and safe speed limits within school zones.Administering the road safety pledge to violators at BMC Chowk, the minister urged them to obey traffic rules and gave them helmets.“Punjab loses 10-12 precious lives everyday in road accidents. It will be highly regrettable if we do not act to ensure safe road environment for our kids. It starts with you and me at home and schools to make our children vigilant about traffic rules,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-challan-day-raja-warring-launches-road-safety-campaign-338320
15-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Cases of abandoned infants see dip in Jalandhar this year, only 1 so far||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 14The cases related to abandonment of infants have taken a dip during the pandemic in the district. The authorities concerned said eased regulations have also brought about a change. Jalandhar district has two children homes where infants can be kept under Panghura (cradle) scheme. These unique homes are run by Parkash Kaur and Nari Niketan.Barring the infants kept in cradles, only one case of baby boy abandonment has been reported in Phillaur in 2021 so far. In July, a six-month-old baby boy was found abandoned near a dump at Landhara village in Phillaur. Wrapped in a blue cloth, the newborn was found drenched in rain by a local. The baby was rushed to a hospital where he breathed his last at 4 pm.At least three babies were abandoned in Jalandhar in 2018. On July 10, 2018, a baby was abadoned at Rurka Khurd village, on September 2, 2018, a baby was abandoned at a Shahkot hospital toilet and on September 23, 2018, a baby was dropped in bushes at Kalia Colony.Unique Home activist Ghanshyam said a baby girl’s body was found abandoned in Panghura in July. Nari Niketan received two cases, wherein the infants were kept in the Panghura. Navita Joshi, CEO, Nari Niketan, said several cases were also reported where babies were brought in.Ghanshyam said: “Two infants were handed over and not dropped in cradles in July and August. In one case, a baby was found abandoned in a plastic bucket in Hoshiarpur was brought to the Unique Home. In the second case, the Pathankot police had brought a baby who was about to be sold off by his own father and was nabbed minutes after the deal was struck.”District Programme Officer Gurminder Singh Randhawa said: “There has been increased awareness among people on the issue. One can surrender a baby and cannot be criminalised. People can surrender their babies to us and we route them to the local shelter homes. This is one of the reasons that the cases have gone down.”Infants illegally put up for adoption?Sources said, “In many cases infants are privately or illegally put up for adoption. During the pandemic, there was less vigilantism by passersby. In majority of the previously abandoned cases, passersby picked up babies and gave them to the authorities concerned. In many cases abandoned babies do not reach the designated shelter homes where they can be legally put up for adoption through due process. Lack of government-run shelter homes is also a concern.”Case file||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cases-of-abandoned-infants-see-dip-in-jalandhar-this-year-only-1-so-far-338319
