16-11-2021||Jalandhar||Donation drive for autistic children at Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus||Awareness session on legal rightsDIPS Institute of Management of Technology, organised a webinar to make students aware about their legal rights. Civil Judge Ravinder Singh Rana attended the camp as the keynote speaker. He informed the students about the legal action to be taken in different situations of social issues such as quarrels, divorce etc. Along with this, he inspired all students to make other people aware through the information. During the webinar, he made the youth of today aware about their fundamental rights and duties. During this Director Dr KK Handu said along with fundamental rights, it is equally important for the youth to be aware of their fundamental duties.Athletics meet at MGN SchoolMGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar, organised the 45th Annual Athletic Meet. Retired SSP Mukhtar Singh Dahiya was given a warm welcome as the chief guest. He encouraged the children to show enthusiasm in sports and mark their active participation remarking the value sports hold in life. He announced the athletic meet open by releasing the balloons. March past by NCC of the school and the athletes of four houses grabbed special attention of all. Principal KS Randhawa, Vice Principal Gurjeet Singh, Headmistress Sangeeta Bhatia and Sukham, incharge, KG Wing, presented a memento to the chief guest expressing their gratitude.Extension lecture on historyThe Centre for Historical Studies, PG Department of History, Lyallpur Khalsa College, organised an extension lecture. The theme of the lecture was ‘The Relevance of History in the present context’. A former bureaucrat, Prof. Sukhvinder Singh Head, Department of History Doaba College was the resource person. Dr Suman Chopra, co-coordinator of the Centre and Head PG Department of History, welcomed the esteemed guest, the faculty members from the different departments and the students.Measurement lab at GNA varsityGNA University keeping its vision to provide the industry-ready engineers, GNA University has established a measurement laboratory on the campus by Accurate, a measurement equipment manufacturing company of Pune. The laboratory established at GNA University includes all the basic to the latest measuring equipment as per the current trends in global industry. The lab includes the instruments like range of vernier calipers and micrometers, radius gauge, filler gauge, depth vernier calipers, digital height gauge, surface plate, CMM etc.Seminar on beat reportingThe PG Department of Journalism & Mass Communication of Doaba College organised a seminar on ‘Importance of beat reporting: Education and culture reporting’. Bharti Sharma, reporter and alumnus acted as the resource person. Dr Pardeep Bhandari, Principal, stressed upon mantra of ‘Learn, Create, Grow and Enjoy’ and lauded the department for producing not only students with degrees but with professional media skills through consistent training in community radio and Hi tech media studio established on the college campus.Children’s Day celebratedCommemorating the birth anniversary of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Children’s Day was celebrated at PCM SD Collegiate Senior Secondary School with great zeal and enthusiasm. Showcasing their talents in diverse fields, the girls of the school performed various activities such as classical dance, dances on Punjabi folk songs, monoacting, poetry recitation, motivational speeches and comic skit during the event. Addressing the students, Monika Sharma of the Department of Computer Science, explained the significance of the Children’s Day.Children enjoy short movieUnder the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshth Bharat’ programme launched by the CBSE, a short film ‘A Hero ‘(Malgudi Days) on the occasion of Children’s Day was shown to students of Class IV. They enjoyed the short film and learnt about the culture and famous places of Andhra Pradesh. They also learnt that being brave isn’t the absence of fear; being brave is having that fear but also finding a way through it. Principal Neeru Nayyar apprised the students regarding the significance of Children’s Day and she also inspired them to read books and visit the library on regular basis.‘Rhythm’ at St Soldier InstituteSt Soldier Institute of Engineering and Technology organised a cultural event “Rhythm 2021”, in which students showcased their talent by performing solo dance, singing, poetry, group dance, mime, skit, modeling etc. In solo dance, Abhijit Singh got first, Megha second, Mansi and Jyoti third prizes. In singing Paramjit Singh got first, Harish second, Ankita and Rabia got third, in poetry Paramvir Singh got first, Damini second and Aditya got third. In Group Dance Girls’’ Bhangra got first, Kashmiri Dance second and Boys’’ Bhangra got third position. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/donation-drive-for-autistic-children-at-lyallpur-khalsa-college-technical-campus-338499
16-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Talwara: Opposed by farmers, BJP workers wind up dharna in 15 minutes||Talwara, November 15Following the protest of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) activists who had gathered at the Hajipur Civil Hospital to protest against the poor condition of the health centre, ended their protest within 15 minutes by submitting a memorandum to the naib tehsildar. The BJP workers had announced to hold a dharna from 10 am to 12 noon on Monday at Hajipur Civil Hospital.Farmers led by Ajaib Singh, Pritam Singh, Amarjit Singh and Deepak Thakur opposed the BJP workers. Agitating farmers said those who ruled Punjab for 10 years were shedding crocodile tears on the deplorable condition of the government hospitals.They alleged that during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government, 36 per cent of fees of nursing courses and 42 per cent fees of medical colleges were increased in the state.Farmers said seven years of the BJP government at the centre have passed, saffron outfit leaders should tell how many medical colleges have been established in Punjab by them. They said Talwara medical college was shifted to Bathinda during the tenure of the SAD-BJP government.Farm leaders warned the administration and leaders of the BJP that as long as the Centre does not revoke the agri laws, every event of the party would be strongly opposed. Harbhajan Singh Bela Sariana, Sukhwinder Wahala, Tarsem Singh and Happy Saroa were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/talwara-opposed-by-farmers-bjp-workers-wind-up-dharna-in-15-minutes-338500
16-11-2021||---||19 teams take part in Nrittya Abhay at CT World School, Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 15CT World School hosted Sahodaya Inter-School Group Folk Dance Competition titled ‘Nrittya Abhay’ in which 19 teams from different schools participated. The chief guest for the occasion was Parminder Kaur Channi, co-chairperson, CT Group, who inaugurated the event in the presence of Principal Madhu Sharma.The schools that participated in the event included names like Police DAV Public School; MGN Public School, Cambridge International School, Nakodar; Eklavya School; Mayor World School; Shiv Jyoti Public School; Woodland International School etc.The teams were adjudged by renowned jury, including Paramjit Singh, International Folk Dance Performer; Lovepreet Badial, former captain of bhangra at GNDU regional campus, Ladewali and Neeti Verma, former captain of giddha team at one of the colleges and winner of zonal and inter-zonal youth festival.After the tough competition amongst the teams, Kamla Nehru Public School and MGN Public School, Adarsh Nagar lifted the first position trophies, whereas, Guru Amardass Public School and Swami Sant Dass Public School, Phagwara, won second positions and Police DAV Public School and Mayor World School remained at third. Consolation prizes were awarded to Lord Mahavir Jain Public School and Woodland Overseas School.CT Group Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi and Principal Madhu Sharma congratulated the winners and said such big level competitions give a wonderful platform to young artists to showcase their talent and build their confidence as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/19-teams-take-part-in-nrittya-abhay-at-ct-world-school-jalandhar-338501
16-11-2021||---||Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar, wins Zonal Youth Festival||Jalandhar, November 15Apeejay College of Fine Arts once again created history by winning Zonal Youth Festival (Jalandhar zone) held at Guru Nanak Dev University.Apeejay had participated in multiple events and had bagged the first position in group shabad/ bhajan, installation, poster-making contest, clay modelling, landscape, rangoli, costume parade, skit, play, folk song, poetry recitation, Western group song, Western instrumental, Western solo and classical dance. It bagged second position in folk orchestra, cartooning, collage- making contest, photography, phulkari and ghazal and third position in mehndi, mimicry and quiz.Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra congratulated the students for their achievements. She also appreciated their mentors who had burnt midnight oil to guide students and paved the road of success for them.She acknowledged the efforts of Dr Arun Mishra and Dr Amita Mishra. Dr Sucharita Sharma, director, Apeejay Education Society-cum-Pro Vice Chancellor, Apeejay Stya University, also congratulated the students.In group song/ bhajan contests, Apeejay College was followed by Prem Chand Markanda SD College and Lyallpur Khalsa College (second position) and DAV College ranked third. In folk orchestra, Lyallpur Khalsa College came first, followed by Apeejay College of Fine Arts and Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women. In cartooning, HMV College came first. The students of Apeejay and Lyallpur Khalsa College shared the second prize. Third prize was shared by the participants from BD Arya College and PCM SD College for Women.Apeejay came first in installation, followed by St Soldier College of Law and Lyallpur Khalsa College. In poster- making competition, Apeejay College ranked first, followed by KMV College. The teams of HMV, CT Institute and Lyallpur Khalsa College won prizes in poster-making. In clay modeling, Apeejay College students won the first prize. The second prize went to Lyallpur Khalsa College and KMV College. The third prize was shared by St Soldier College of Law and HMV College.In on-the-spot painting, Apeejay ranked first. The teams of KMV and HMV Colleges shared the second prize. The third prize was jointly won by the teams of Lyallpur Khalsa College and PCM SD College for Women. In collage making, the Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women student stood first. The second prize went to Apeejay College and Lyallpur Khalsa College. The third prize was shared by HMV, KMV and DAV Colleges.In photography contest, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women came first. The second prize went to Apeejay College and DAV College. The third prize went to the students from Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus, Jalandhar, and PCM SD College.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/apeejay-college-of-fine-arts-jalandhar-wins-zonal-youth-festival-338502
16-11-2021||Talwara||8 Congress councillors revolt in Talwara||Two nabbed with 270-kg poppy huskJalandhar: The Kapurthala police have arrested two peddlers and seized 270 kg of poppy husk from them. The accused have been identified as Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Chandan Nagar, Kartarpur, and Sandeep Singh, a resident of Bhagiwal, Mehatpur. Kapurthala Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said they have been keeping a close vigil on smugglers active in the district. He said teams have been formed under the supervision of SP (Investigations) Kapurthala. The SSP said during patrolling, the police party found six persons filling sacks in a truck on a road leading to Kala Sanghia. He said after spotting the cops, four of them got into the Innova car and fled away, nabbed Gurbachan and Sandeep. He said the cops seized 270-kg poppy husk from the truck. The SSP said the accused have been booked under various sections of the NDPS Act and added that the raids were being conducted to nab the absconders. Khakh said the accused would be produced before the court. TNS3 cases, 1 death in Doaba regionJalandhar: No new Covid case was reported on Monday from Jalandhar. The total tally remained at 63,443 cases. No new Covid death was also recorded keeping the deceased tally at 1,496. As many as 61,907 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases is 40. One new case of Covid was reported from Kapurthala, taking the Covid tally to 17,863. The new case reported positive is of a 47-year-old man from Kapurthala. No death was reported from Kapurthala today. In Hoshiarpur, two new positive patients of Covid-19 were detected. One death due to Covid of a 52-year-old Mukeiran resident was also reported taking the death to 989. The number of active cases are 28, while 29847 patients have recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/8-congress-councillors-revolt-in-talwara-338503
16-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Protesting atop a water tank since October 28, jobless teacher falls sick||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 15On the 19th day, the health of Munish Fazilka, who started the BEd TET-pass Unemployed Teachers Union protest by climbing atop an overhead water tank, worsened on Monday. The teacher had been sitting atop the tank with Jaswant Ghubaya, a fellow protester, since October 28 demanding jobs for 9,000 unemployed youth.A health team led by Dr Preetinder Singh climbed the tank to conduct his check up and took his blood and urine samples. SDM-1 Harpreet Singh also climbed the tank and requested him with folded to get hospitalised until he recovers, but he refused the request by saying, “I am thankful to you that you came to meet me here. I protested at Sangrur too, but no one met me there.”Munish had complaining of pain and swelling in his legs, difficulty in urinating and pain in the stomach for the past many days. Before he climbed atop the water tank in Jalandhar with fellow unemployed teacher Jaswant Ghubaya, he had been protesting at Sangrur. He started his Sangrur protest against former education minister Vijay Inder Singla by climbing a water tank there on August 21. After Pargat Singh became the new education minister, Munish began protesting on the Jalandhar water tank from October 28 onwards.Munish and Jaswant are provided food and water by fellow protesters. They use utensils to urinate and defecate. Hailing from Mandi Arniwala village in Jalalabad, Fazilka, Munish has two brothers, one is employed in the Pesticide Department and another is a gorcer.Pargat Singh on teachers entering his house: Not fairAs members of PTI Teachers’ Union barged into his residence at Mithapur locality this afternoon over their demands, Education Minister Pargat Singh took to Twitter to post the video and condemn their action.He put out three tweets and even sent across a video message to the protesting teachers giving his viewpoint: “This is not fair as the teachers have barged into my residence, that too at time when I was busy deliberating upon ways and means to solve their pending problems. I have already met these agitating teachers umpteen times and directed the department to look into their genuine demands sympathetically. But then also these teachers have acted irresponsibly due to which a huge inconvenience has been caused not only to my aged and ailing parents but also to several people residing in the area. This is highly unfortunate. I condemn this inhuman act by teachers and urge them to refrain from this in future.”Ever since Pargat Singh has become Education Minister, teachers have been lodging protest almost on daily basis and breaking barricades so as to enter his house. They were finally successful in their attempt today. Pargat even shared the video of the teachers sitting inside his house on his Twitter account while adding that it is a failure of the Punjab Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protesting-atop-a-water-tank-since-october-28-jobless-teacher-falls-sick-338504
16-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Tanda Urmar: Farmer shot dead near Jaura village by unknown assailants||Tanda Urmar, November 15A farmer was shot dead by unidentified car-borne assailants near Jaura village on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Parminder Singh Kala, son of Bhulla Singh, a resident of Nangal Farid village. The incident happened at around 10 am, when Parminder had come to irrigate his fields.Unidentified assailants came in a white car and opened fire on him. The farmer sustained three gunshots and was taken to a private hospital in Bhogpur in a serious condition.Later, he was taken to the government hospital in Kala Bakra but he succumbed during the treatment. SSP Kulwant Singh Heer, Tanda DSP Raj Kumar, SHO Bikram Singh and other police officers reached the spot and started the investigation.The slain farmer’s daughter had gone to Canada last month to study, while his wife Manpreet Kaur and his son Arshdeep, a Class XII student, lived with him.The police have registered a case against the unidentified killers and started investigation. Eyewitnesses, who saw the attackers fleeing from the spot, told the police that the attackers had come in an i-20 car with black coloured window glass.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tanda-urmar-farmer-shot-dead-near-jaura-village-by-unknown-assailants-338505
16-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Power play over waiver scheme||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 15With the Congress government rolling out a power waiver scheme for those having under 2 kW connection, local Congress leaders have gone into overdrive, visiting affected households and getting their supply restored by calling in PSPCL staff.To draw maximum mileage, the visits are made at night, and as the power supply to the houses is restored, residents break into a celebration.The list of applicants is sourced from government offices and the paperwork takes around 2-3 days. Once everything is in place, the politician concerned is informed and a visit is arranged to the house where the connection is to be restored.Nimisha Mehta, a ticket aspirant from Garhshankar, calls this campaign “Batti chalu karauna (getting power restored)”. “I have been regularly getting the connections restored for the poor. Whosoever approaches me, his file is moved through the PSPCL officials concerned. Once the clearance comes, I visit the villages and get the connection restored by calling in PSPCL staff. Most of the households had bills pending to the tune of Rs 50,000. A lot of people are availing of the scheme,” she said, adding she recently visited Badoan and Paldi villages of the constituency.Congress’ Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Cheema is adopting a different strategy. “I organise camps for a cluster of 10 villages on a daily basis. Thousands of poor families have got their connections restored by applying at these camps. Arrears to the tune of nearly Rs 13 crore have been waived. Some had dues up to Rs 80,000. Many families had been without power for the past two years and the scheme has come as a boon for them.”Deputy Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Harjinder Singh Bansal says: “So far, about 15-20 per cent of those whose connections had been disrupted have applied for the restoration of supply. We are expecting more applications in the coming days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/power-play-over-waiver-scheme-338506
16-11-2021||---||Punjab CM’s visit effect: Potholed Adampur highway gets repaired in days||Jalandhar, November 15For almost two years, the residents of Adampur had been consistently putting forth their demand that the condition of the service lanes along the Jalandhar-Hoshiapur under-construction flyover be improved. Their demand has finally got fulfilled just days ago as the roads were re-carpeted to ensure a smooth passage for Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi, who was to visit seven spots to lay the foundation stone.A flyover is being constructed here by the PWD as a part of the four-laning of Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur road and the residents had been ruing that the work is going on at a snail’s pace and their lives have been badly affected as there is no proper road to visit the market areas on the main road. Even the daily commuters between the two districts had been feeling harassed passing through this town as they said their journey had become back-breaking and their vehicles were getting damaged.On all those days when it rained, the condition used to be worse. The road would turn completely muddy and slippery and the commuters also would get their clothes soiled. Harinder Singh, a resident, said: “It is for the reason that the officials have ensure a good road for the VVIPs, we wish that they keep on coming in the town. We really do not know whether the works launched by him today would even get started but we surely will credit him for helping us provide the recarpeted main road in a matter of days.”The residents accompanied by Adampur Akali MLA Pawan Tinu had even met Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori few months back seeking his intervention into the problem. Thori had then pulled up PWD officials asking them to look into the problem, ensure provision of proper service lanes and to speed up the flyover construction work. Even as the work started more than three years ago, many pillars of the flyover are yet to be raised.There is a yet another issue that the residents are now confronting. Jasraj Singh, a resident, said a more serious problem was that their houses and shops abutting the main road were now on a much lower plinth level than the main highway. “The muddy rainwater gushes inside our houses and takes days to get drained. Our belongings too remain at a risk of being washed away or getting damaged due to standing water”, he said seeking that this grave problem too was required to be looked into.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-cms-visit-effect-potholed-adampur-highway-gets-repaired-in-days-338507
16-11-2021||---||It’s raining projects in Adampur||Adampur, November 15Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday was on a foundation laying spree in Adampur Assembly constituency. He laid the foundation stones of seven development projects, including four-laning of approach road to the local airport.The bouquet of projects, with a total cost of Rs 157.96 crore, also includes laying foundation stone of cricket stadium, renovation of bus stand, development of city centre and water supply and sewerage project besides laying foundation of Saragarhi Stadium at Damunda village.Inauguration spree evinces sharp criticism After nearly five years of completion of the tenure, the outgoing government is expected to showcase to the people all those works that it could accomplish. But less than a month left for the Assembly poll to get announced, the Congress CM was still laying foundation stones only. Pawan Tinu, Akali legislator from AdampurThe sewerage work for which Channi laid a foundation stone has been ironically launched for the fifth time today. The Bist Doab canal lining work is being done by the Centre for the past many years and it is just that the section of Adampur remains to be started Gurmeet S Monty Sehgal, BJP leaderIn addition, Channi also announced that the approach road to airport would be connected to Jalandhar-Hoshiarpur national highway having a total stretch of 5.55 km along with Bist Doab canal. This road, leading to airport, will be constructed four-lane at a cost of Rs 41.40 crore with its completion in one year, said CM Channi adding that this project would also ensure easy and accessible approach for commuters proceeding towards airport.Another project will provide potable drinking water to Jalandhar Municipal Corporation with a daily capacity 113 cusec up to the year 2036 and 150 cusec till 2051. Channi said this project will be completed at a cost of Rs 81.95 crore. Under this prestigious project, Bist Doab canal will be fully renovated with concrete lining from Jalandhar branch’s burji No. 90,000 up to burji No. 2,26,000 as this 66-year old double-tiled stretch was in dilapidated condition . The CM said now the work of concrete lining had been initiated, which would be accomplished in mid January.Fulfilling another major demand of people of this region, Channi also laid foundation stone of 17-km-long sewerage line at a cost of Rs10.44 crore, which would also ensure basic amenities, including house connections to nearly 4,000 households. The project will be completed by August 2022 as the work is all set to start within a few days.The City Centre project will be completed at a cost of Rs20.85 crore spread over 36 kanals and this would be one of the state-of-the-art project. The City Centre will have 400 shops, 100 booths, underground parking, lift facility besides Ambedkar Bhawan. Having an ample parking space, the project will certainly solve the traffic congestion in the city area, the CM added.Laying foundation stone of cricket stadium with capacity of 5,000 seats, Channi said this stadium would promote sports amongst youngsters. The project would be completed at a cost of Rs 2.02 crore near Dasehra Ground.Likewise, the Adampur Bus Stand will also be transformed to a modern one having facilities booths for street vendors, public conveniences, ramps etc. The bus stand project will be accomplished at a cost of Rs 1.30 crore. He also laid foundation stone of Saragarhi Stadium at Damunda village, which would be constructed at a cost of Rs 8 crore.Meanwhile, the Chief Minister along with other dignitaries also paid obeisance at Gurdwara Sant Baba Bhag Singh, Sri Jabbar Sahib, where he also partook langar. Earlier the Chief Minister planted a sapling in the Canal Rest House. He touched the feet of Sant Pardeep Dass from Kathar dera, who attended his rally at a palace here.Kaypee re-contesting from Adampur, MLA Rinku safeAfter Channi’s visit, one thing that came clear is that ex-minister MS Kaypee will be re-contesting from Adampur. There had been discussions that Kaypee was vying from Jalandhar West, his traditional seat from where Sushil Rinku is a sitting MLA. Since Kaypee is closely related to CM Channi, Rinku’s position was being considered as a threat. But as Channi sought the support of voters for Kaypee from Adampur and announced huge doles, it has become clear that Rinku’s seat remains safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/its-raining-projects-in-adampur-338508
