17-11-2021||---||Ex-Akali minister’s son attacks SAD chief Suhkbir Badal ahead of his Phillaur tour||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 16As SAD chief Sukhbir Badal is slated to visit Phillaur tomorrow, Damanvir Phillaur, son of ex-Akali minister Sarwan Singh Phillaur, said he would simply be wasting time in the Assembly constituency. Damanvir said the people of Phillaur would not favour him even if he shed crocodile tears as they have already been calling him “bluff master”.Reacting to Sukhbir’s schedule of back-to-back programmes, the Congress leader alleged, “Badals have only robbed the people of Phillaur when in power and have done no good to them. They minted money by plundering Phillaur and other parts of Punjab through illegal sand mining. People are not going to be fooled again.”Phillaur also questioned the silence of Sukhbir over his party’s step-motherly treatment to Bahujan people, and also warned the BSP against the SAD’s dirty ‘use and throw’ policy. “Doaba, including Phillaur has the dominance of Bahujan people. How many seats the BSP has got in this region? All seats should have gone to the BSP. They must be aware of Badal’s dirty use and throw policy,” he said.The Congress leader said the BSP should ask Sukhbir and he should accept to announce that an SC-OBC leader will be made the Chief Minister of Punjab if they are voted to power. “The SAD has no respect for the values and principles of Kanshi Ram or Dr BR Ambedkar. They just need their votes and then crush them,” said the Congress leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ex-akali-ministers-son-attacks-sad-chief-suhkbir-badal-ahead-of-his-phillaur-tour-339169
17-11-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar: 9 days on, no trace of 15-yr-old missing girl||More than nine days have passed since a 15-year-old girl went missing. The police have failed to trace the victim and nab the accused.On November 7, Sanjay, a resident of Khingra Gate, had allegedly kidnapped a 15-year-old girl after sedating her with intoxicants.Munni Devi, a resident of Awan Mohalla, had lodged a complaint against Sanjay at Division 3 police station on November 8. Devi alleged that the accused used to harass the victim and was forcing her to marry him.An FIR under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC was registered against the accused. The SHO said they were investigating the matter and the accused would be nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-9-days-on-no-trace-of-15-yr-old-missing-girl-339170
17-11-2021||Following the directions of Naunihal Singh||Two held in ATM theft case||The accused were arrested with the help of CCTV cameras and human intelligence. Both the accused were held in Amritsar after at a special check post. The accused were identified as Jagat Narayan alias Kaka Kunda, and Gopal Krishan, alias Vipan. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-held-in-atm-theft-case-339171
17-11-2021||---||Implement 7th UGC pay panel, say Jalandhar college teachers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 16Teachers associated with the Punjab Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union (PCCTU) held a rally on Tuesday on the call given by the Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) and demanded implementation of their demands.The protest was organised by staff of various universities, government and aided colleges, in their respective areas. Protesting teachers sought the implementation of the 7th Pay Commission at the earliest.Professor Sukhdev Singh Randhawa, general secretary Punjab Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union, said the government should make a valuable contribution to education by accepting their genuine demands.Prof Randhawa said there was no dearth of resources with the government, but higher education was passing through difficult times due to bad the bad policies of the government.Dr Sanjeev Dhawan, district chief, Punjab Chandigarh College Teachers’ Union, said, “Students are not getting quality education. Colleges and universities in Punjab are going through financial crisis and 50 per cent of the colleges are on the verge of closure. Unfortunately, the state government wants to separate the pay scales of teachers from the UGC pay scales.”Holding the governments responsible for the poor condition of the colleges, Dr Dhawan said neither the grant was received on time nor vacant posts were being filled in the colleges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/implement-7th-ugc-pay-panel-say-jalandhar-college-teachers-339172
17-11-2021||---||Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium, Jalandhar, gets Rs 10L grant for sports restaurant||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 16For building a sports restaurant at Raizada Hansraj Badminton Stadium, Congress MLA from Jalandhar Central constituency Rajinder Beri handed over a cheque for Rs10 lakh to the District Badminton Association (DBA) secretary and former national player Ritin Khanna here today.The construction work of this restaurant will start in December and the restaurant will start providing services to players in January next year. With the establishment of the restaurant, the players participating in the tournaments, staying in the hostel and practising in academy will get hygienic and nutritious food three times a day at the stadium itself.Beri said the Punjab Government was committed to promote sports. While appreciating the working style of the interim committee of the DBA, he said more the number of players coming in the sports administration will surely raise the standard of sports.While thanking the MLA, DBA secretary and former national player Ritin Khanna said there was a demand for setting up a sports restaurant at Hansraj Badminton Stadium for the past long time. “With the construction of this sports restaurant, the players will get a big relief,” he added.Khanna said arrangements would also be made for packing and takeaway orders in the restaurant. “Players will be able to enjoy hygienic and nutritious food in the stadium very soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/raizada-hansraj-badminton-stadium-jalandhar-gets-rs-10l-grant-for-sports-restaurant-339173
17-11-2021||---||Small wonder: Ordinary size of garden, but creativity is the key||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 16A school teacher by profession, Priya Puri has a garden of an ordinary size at her place but it is the overall arrangement and creativity that she has added to it is making a whole lot of difference.The lawn area is all lined by pots kept on a raised platform covered with synthetic grassy mat. The corners of the lawn have been especially designed to look attraction. These are lined with white fencing and stones to make the edges. On one corner is a huge cycas palm and on the other corner are bushy plants like bamboos and asparagus.The third corner is the most fascinating one. This one has a waterfall made of earthen material. The fall lands into a small pond where water lilies are growing. The pond is surrounded by cacti and shrubs of succulents and the whole set up has been done with near perfection.The windows of the rooms facing the garden have been especially decked up. “I and my mother Priscilla Bhatia have done a lot of upcycling in the garden area. We have used plastic bottles and covered them with jute and used them as planters, hanging them down from a ring like a chime. We have painted a drug thorny twig and fixed various items to it including dry pine cones, dry coconut shells, diyas, small pots and made it to look attractive. An old ring shaped table is acting as a nice plant stand. On an old chair, we have tried to create a dry garden by putting up some corals collected from here and there along with some creepers. All this keeps us occupied,” said Priya Puri.The hind side of the lawn, too, is designed to look attractive. A long moss stick has been hung vertically and branches of turtle vine hang down from it. “Recently we also bought some ceramic pots and some pot holders as these things are in. We have illuminated the garden with small night lamps fitted here and there and strings of lights twined around the shrubs. We really enjoy sitting out these days as the weather is really cool and the ambience makes us feel fresh,” added Bhatia.The mother-daughter duo is also in swapping of plants in the neighbourhood. They have also set up a system for compost making using the kitchen waste and dry leaves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/small-wonder-ordinary-size-of-garden-but-creativity-is-the-key-339175
17-11-2021||---||National Press Day: ‘It’s the responsibility of budding scribes to restore media’s credibility’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 16Various colleges on Tuesday observed the National Press Day and organised events to mark the day.National Press Day was celebrated in the Department of Journalism and Mass Communication at Guru Nanak Dev University Regional Campus, Ladhewali, to commemorate the establishment of the Press Council of India in 1966. On the occasion, Varinder Walia, Editor of a Punjabi Daily, was the guest of honour. An exhibition on newspapers from different states was held which was inaugurated by Walia. Old newspapers such as Gadar, Khalsa Samachar, Hicky’s Gazette were also exhibited. Later, Walia spoke about print media. He said media’s credibility has degenerated and it is a challenge before budding journalists to restore it. The students should inculcate reading habits to enrich their vocabulary. He also answered the queries of the students.Earlier, Shubita, student of MA Jornalism and Mass Communication Semester-I, welcomed the guests. Dr Namarta Joshi, Head of the Department, said she was optimistic about the future of print media. She also felicitated Varinder Walia. Dr Charan Kamal Walia, Savita, Sukriti Bahuguna, Rama Shankar were also present at the event.IKGujral Punjab Technical University students and faculty also celebrated National Press Day at its Department of Journalism and Mass Communication. On the occasion, the department organised a guest lecture. Sandeep Oberoi, a scribe, joined as key note speaker. In the beginning, Dr. Ranbir Singh, Head, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, gave a floral welcome to the resource person. While addressing the students journalist Oberoi highlighted the utmost qualities of a true journalist and shared his thoughts about the courage of journalism. He said that to be a good journalist one needs to have a good IQ level. He further shared his experiences and delivered some valuable information related to journalism. The resource person also answered gently all the queries and cleared the doubts of the students.Dr Ekta Mahajan, assistant professor delivered vote of thanks to the guests. She expressed her gratitude towards Oberoi for taking out time to guide the students of Journalism and Mass Communication.Meanwhile, two days ago the department also organised a photography competition. First prize has been awarded to Sooraj (BA 1st sem), Sanskriti and Laveena (MA 1 sem) shared a joint second position. Sakshi (BA IIIrd sem) secured the third position. All the participants were appreciated by Dr. Ranbir Singh for their sincere efforts. On the occasion, faculty members Dr Balbir Kumar, Mangla Sahni, Shiva and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-press-day-its-the-responsibility-of-budding-scribes-to-restore-medias-credibility-339177
17-11-2021||---||Chabbewal: MLA Dr Raj Kumar welcomes Akalis in Congress||Our CorrespondentChabbewal, november 16In Bham village, Congress party and MLA Dr Raj Kumar received a huge support when Akali leaders from the village joined Congress party along with their supporters. On the occasion, under the leadership of village sarpanch Parvinder Singh, Rajdeep Singh, incharge, Circle Youth Wing, Deepak Jaswal, Pradeep Singh, Jasmeet Singh, Satveer Singh, Amandeep, Lakhvir Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Jaskaran Singh and their other SAD leaders left the Akali Dal and joined the Congress. During this, they said they were impressed by the policies of the Congress party and the development work done by his MLA Dr Raj Kumar Chabbewal besides the respect given to the public by him. Due to which they have decided to join Congress. On this occasion, the sarpanch of the village informed that the development works have been done by MLA Dr Raj Kumar and he has provided a grant of Rs 77.47 lakh for the development of the village. Due to which the streets and drains of the village have been fixed, sports stadium, panchayat ghar and two dharamshalas have been built in the village. Apart from this, sewerage work is going on in the village, which will be completed soon. On the occasion, thanking the residents of the village for their support and love, MLA Dr Raj said his area residents are like his family and it is his duty to contribute to the prosperity and progress of the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/chabbewal-mla-dr-raj-kumar-welcomes-akalis-in-congress-339178
17-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Cheap sand only on papers||Residents of the city wrote around 2,000 letters to the Hoshiarpur District Collector and asked about availability of economical sand (Rs 5.50 per cubic feet fixed by the state government). Sanjeev Talwar, former chairman, Youth Development Board, said, “Residents want to know from where they can purchase sand on new price announced about the government recently.” — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cheap-sand-only-on-papers-339179
17-11-2021||Jalandhar||International Day of Endurance observed at Innocent Hearts College of Education, Jalandhar||Dengue awareness driveTo make the students aware about anti-dengue measures, a team from Municipal Corporation led by Saroj Rani Kapoor along with team motivators Jyoti and Gurpreet Kaur visited the Eklavya School Model Town campus. They talked about the causes of dengue spread and how we can contain its spread. They urged the students to keep the surrounding spick and span to bring down the cases of dengue. They asked the students to clean all sorts of water containers at least twice a day to break the breeding cycle of dengue larvae.Healthy munching activityIn winters to keep good health and immunity DIPS School, Tanda, pre-primary wing organised healthy munching activity. The purpose of this activity was to encourage students to adopt healthy eating habits. Students prepared healthy food along with their teachers in the activity cooking without fire. Teachers taught students the art of making salad with corn and sprouts fruit chat, sandwiches, juice etc dishes were prepared beautifully. They also discouraged junk food. Seasonal fruits and vegetables were used to prepare healthy dishes. Teachers mentioned about vitamins, nutrients, proteins etc present in these green vegetables which are beneficial for health.KMV shines in Zonal Youth FestivalKanya Maha Vidyalaya once again proved its excellence by lifting overall second runner up trophy in Zonal Youth Festival organised by Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Like every year, this year too the students displayed their talent and bagged first position in quiz, debate and elocution competition in the Youth Festival. Along with the top position, KMVites also bagged the second position in group dance, phulkari, poster-making, clay modelling and on-the-spot painting competition. In giddha, rangoli, fancy dress, collage and classical instrumental (non-percussion) competitions, KMV bagged the third position respectively.Homage to Mahatma Hans RajSanskrit Department and Vedic Adhyan Society organised an extension lecture to pay homage to Mahatma Hans Raj on his Nirwan Diwas at Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya under the guidance of Principle Prof Ajay Sareen. Principal Dr. Ajay Sareen, Dean Vedic Adhyan Society Mamta and Head of Sanskrit Department Dr Meenu Talwar extended a green welcome to the speaker Acharya Jayendra from Gurukul Noida. Principal Dr Ajay Sareen paid homage to the pious soul by saying that the institution stands firmly and proudly for the ideals preached by Mahatma Hans Raj after whom it is named.Seminar on DST schemesGNA University Research Division organised a seminar on “Scientific DST Project Schemes and Writing Skills” by two renowned senior scientists of Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, New Delhi. The main objective behind organising the seminar was to promote the research and project writing skills amongst the teachers by providing information on various project funding schemes and essentials for effective communication. Dr Rashmi Sharma, Scientist F, DST, New Delhi, delivered lecture on ‘Opportunities in Science & Technology’. In her lecture, Dr Rashmi acquainted the faculty about the components of DST and various scholarship schemes provided by DST like Inspire Scheme, SRG (Start Up Research Grant), NPDF (National Post-Doctoral Fellowship), SYST (Scheme for young scientists & Technologist), SERB, International S& T cooperation, Women friendly initiatives of DST and many more.DAV Prof gets global rankingDAV University faculty Dr Keshav Walia has made the institution proud by bagging the place in world’s top 2% scientists 2021. The list for the current year scientists has been published by Stanford University. He is working in the Department of Physics whose research area has been Laser Plasma Interaction. Top scientists’ names were shortlisted by Stanford experts on the basis of standardised parametres such as publications, journal impact, citations and composite score. He has an overall rank of 1,045 worldwide in the field of optics. Over 2,000 Indian scientists made it to the list.Student Council electedThe members of the student council for the academic session 2021-2022 were conferred with badges by Dr Navjot, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women, Jalandhar. Priya Chopra was pinned with the badge of president. The badge for Head Girl was given to Nisha and for Co-Head girl, the badge was given to Harsharan Kaur Maini. Class Representatives from different streams were also honoured with the badges. Principal Dr Navjot congratulated the newly formed student council and urged them to perform their duties with utmost dedication and sincerity. She also added that by becoming the members of the student council, the students will be able to enhance their leadership skills, decision making ability, confidence etc. The Student Council was formed under the guidance of Kiranjit Bajwa, Incharge, Student Welfare Committee of the college. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/international-day-of-endurance-observed-at-innocent-hearts-college-of-education-jalandhar-339181
17-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Hoshiarpur: Brother-sister killed in mishap||Two booked for luring minorsHoshiarpur: The police have booked Gajender Yadav, a resident of district Sambal in Uttar Pradesh, for luring a minor girl on the pretext of marriage. The complainant, a resident of Purani Bassi village, told the police about the incident. The police have registered a case. In another case, a resident of Roda village lodged a complaint with the Hariana police regarding abduction of her daughter. During the investigation it was found out that she had been lured away on the pretext of marriage by an unidentified accused. She had gone to school but did not return. The Hariana police have registered a case. ocThree arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested three smugglers and recovered a huge quantity of narcotics from different places. The Chabbewal police have arrested Paramjit Singh alias Madha, a resident of Sarhalan Kalan and recovered 32 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Meanwhile, the Tanda police arrested Jaimal Fatta and recovered three grams of heroin from him. Similarly, the Mukerian police have arrested Gurvinder Singh alias Goldie, a resident of Kala Manjh and recovered 10 grams of heroin from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused by respective police stations. ocTributes paid to SarabhaHoshiarpur: Shaheed Bhagat Singh Welfare Society Kirti Nagar paid tributes to Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha on his martyrdom day. On the occasion, president of the society, Kuldeep Dhami said Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha had awakened freedom in the country by doing great sacrifice at a young age. He said at the tender age of 19, he sacrificed his life for the country. Dhami appealed to the youth to dedicate their lives in the service of the country by shunning drugs and other evils and achieving well in education and sports. Satwinder Kumar, Amarjeet Singh, Om Prakash, Narayan Singh, Gurvinder Saini, Raj Kumar Pandey, Amit Kumar, Sanjeev Kumar, Sunny Kumar, Parminder Singh, Sunil Kumar and Dharmesh Kumar were present on the occasion. OC Corona rally for 100% coverageHoshiarpur: A corona rally was organised on Tuesday at Smt. PD Arya Girls Senior Secondary School by the Health Department to provide 100% vaccination coverage under the guidance of Dr Parminder Kaur, Civil Surgeon, Hoshiarpur. The rally was flagged off by District Immunisation Officer Dr Seema Garg. The team of Health Department conducted sampling of 98 children and screened 115 children. Principal of Smt. PD Arya Girls Senior Secondary School Timatiny Ahluwalia, Dr. Mandeep Kaur MO RBSK, pharmacy officer Sunita were present. OCWill form govt in 2022: JimpaHoshiarpur: With the hard work of the volunteers of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and with the cooperation of the common man, AAP government will be formed in the state. This was stated by the Brahmashankar Jimpa, party's constituency in-charge, while addressing the party office-bearers and workers. Jimpa said the work done by AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal for the development of Delhi has a great impact on the common man and this is the strength of the AAP. OCAwareness week on newborn careHoshiarpur: The Health Department, Hoshiarpur, is observing Newborn Health Week from November 15 to 21. Civil Surgeon Dr Parminder Kaur said during the week, ANM and ASHA workers will go door-to-door and give information to the mother and family members on how to take care of the baby at home. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-brother-sister-killed-in-mishap-339182
