18-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Hoshiarpur college wins overall trophy||Dasuya, November 17The PU Zonal Heritage and Youth Festival of Zone B, Hoshiarpur, concluded here today on the campus of JC DAV College.Participants from 13 colleges of Hoshiarpur district presented around 70 items. More than 800 students performed during the fest. Cultural and folk programmes were held. Students presented bhangra, giddha and folk song performances. Skits, one-act plays and debate were also organised during the four-day fest. Famous artistes from Punjabi film industry, Doordarshan and AIR, including Davinder Dayalpuri, Sardarji Bawa, Sarita Tiwari, Daljinder Basran, Rajkumar Tuli and Hardeep Gill judged the competitions held during the festival. This year’s theme was ‘Love and respect nature’.Renowned icons — Amrik Singh Basra, Jagdish Singh Sohi, Raghbir Singh Terkiana and Mukesh Ranjan — were also present. Ranjan, an alumnus of JC DAV College and owner of a construction firm, announced that an auditorium would be made at the college. The valedictory function was graced by Randeep Singh Heer, SDM, Dasuya. The SDM highlighted the role of such activities in developing leadership quality among students.Government College, Hoshiarpur, and Dasmesh Girls College, Chak Ala Baksh, bagged the first prize in bhangra and giddha, respectively. Government College, Hoshiarpur, also bagged the overall trophy.The college also released a souvenir to mark its golden jubilee year. Principal Amardeep Gupta thanked students for actively participating in the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hoshiarpur-college-wins-overall-trophy-339435
18-11-2021||---||Kapurthala: Consumers sensitised on their rights||Kapurthala, November 17To spread awareness among the public about their legal and consumer rights, Lalit Pathak, president, District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Kapurthala, today informed the consumers that cases up to Rs 1 crore could now be filed and penalty up to Rs 1 lakh and conviction up to three years could be imposed upon the defaulters.He said the process had become quite speedy as by taking documentary evidence, the consumer cases can be decided. The filing of cases has been made very easy and cases can be filed against misleading advertisement, unethical business practices and to recall, refund or return of products has been covered under the new Consumer Protection Act.The president also said awareness was required to be undertaken in the rural belt which covers most of the farmers. He said the commission could even engage counsels for the poor litigants from the account of Legal Aid Services and had told that for better understanding anyone could approach his office or could visit official website www.confonet.nic.in.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kapurthala-consumers-sensitised-on-their-rights-339433
18-11-2021||Jalandhar||9-month-old girl crushed to death in Kapurthala under tractor-trailer||A nine-month-old girl was crushed by a tractor-trailer outside her house in Kapurthala. The toddler was reportedly walking on her crawler when the tractor-trailer hit her while reversing the vehicle.Her walker collided with the tractor-trailer and she fell down unconsciousness. The girl was rushed to Sultanpur Lodhi civil hospital, where she succumbed to injuries.The girl's mother, Sonia Devi, a resident of Kalewal village lodged a complaint with the police and stated in her statement that a tractor-trailer driver hit her daughter while taking a turn. The police stated that the doctors declared the minor brought dead. On the statements of the mother, the police registered a case against the unknown tractor-trailer driver and started the search for the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/9-month-old-girl-crushed-to-death-in-kapurthala-under-tractor-trailer-339434
18-11-2021||Jalandhar||World Diabetes Day observed||Sports Meet organisedInnocent Hearts Group of Institutions organised its annual sports meet – ‘Spardha 2021’. To warm up the day, athlete race of 100 m and 200 m was organised followed by volleyball match. To inculcate the habit of concentration and presence of mind, two fun games lemon race and musical chairs were organised. Two popular games - cricket and badminton - were played with full fun and enthusiasm among the teams. A prize distribution function was held where Group Director Dr Shailesh Tripathi bestowed upon the mementos and trophies to the shining stars of the college.Fine Arts exhibition organisedThe Fine Arts Department of HMV Collegiate School organised an exhibition in the form of paintings and portraits. Students displayed their artistic skills with their captivating and enhancing works. Their works covered various aspects of animal study i.e. beautiful pictures of animals and birds. The beauty of nature is glorified in different landscapes and postcard painting. Along with them, the students exhibited portraits too in which the portrait of Amrita Pritam deserved special applause. The students also created designs on waste newspaper which were the most appreciable part of their artistic skills.Inter-house volleyball matchDIPS School Karol Bagh organised an inter-house volleyball match. Participants of all the four houses participated with great zeal and enthusiasm. Pearl House dominated the match with excellent sporting skills. Pearl House secured the first position and Diamond House got the second position. Principal Rajesh encouraged the students to participate in such competitions and excel in sports. The losing teams were also inspired to exhibit better performance next time and hope to live up to the standard of sports and continue playing with ardent desire to win.Kartar Singh Sarabha rememberedThe NSS Department of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women paid tributes to Kartar Singh Sarabha on his death anniversary being celebrated under 75th Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. On this occasion, a documentary on his life was also shown. Around 60 NSS volunteers attended this activity. Principal Dr Navjot Kaur also addressed the students in her words of wisdom and inspired them. She appreciated the efforts of NSS Officers Manita, Manjeet Kaur and Atma Singh.“Punjabi Maah” CelebratedLiterary Club and Alumni Association of MGN College of Education celebrated “Punjabi Maah” by organising poetical recitation event to connect the students with Punjabi language. The event was presided over by Surjit Singh Walia, president of Alumni Association of the college. On this occasion, Radhika Mehta recited her poem on the topic ‘Meri Ma Boli, Meri Jaan.’ Ekam with her poem ‘Sadi Boli, Khushiya di Chabi’ and Shampy with her poem reflected their deep rooted happiness connected with the use of Punjabi language. Radhika with her poem ‘Punjabi Boli’ showered her love for mother tongue Punjabi. Manjot with her poem ‘Meri Boli, Meri Pachan’ reflected that our identification is with our own language.Bookmark making contestEklavya School, Jalandhar, organised a bookmark making competition for the students. The students worked enthusiastically and experimented with different shades of colours to flaunt their artist imagination. Decorated and decorated the bookmark using innovative ideas to make them look more interesting and to capture the readers imagination. The chairman of Eklavya school JK Gupta said we should try to improve access to education and quality of life. The students use handmade papers paints glitter extra handmade the creative eye catching bookmark. Gurekam and Jasleen Atwal were declared the winners.Open Mic poetry contestGNA University organised an Open Mic- A Poetry Recitation Competition. The Open Mic was an Inter-Departmental Poetry Competition with an objective to unleash the hidden creative talent of the writing skills of the Guites in the form of recitation. The students participated in huge number and poured their heart out via their poetry in Hindi, Punjabi and English.Student council electedTo inculcate the leadership qualities in the students and to facilitate the efficient functioning of the institution, an investiture ceremony was organised by the department wherein students were adorned with badges representing various acclaimed offices by Principal Dr Pooja Prashar and Block Incharge Sushma Sharma. This ceremony was held with a motto to instil the students with a sense of responsibility and duty. Principal encouraged them to incorporate discipline, impartiality and honesty in their daily lives and in bringing out and polishing their leadership skills. Members of the managing committee and principal exhorted them to uphold the values with enthusiasm and loyalty. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/world-diabetes-day-observed-339436
18-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Admission drive for 1,228 Hoshiarpur schools starts||Hoshiarpur, November 17The admission campaign for the academic session 2022-23, Pre-Primary Bal Mela-2021, started today for 1,228 primary schools of Hoshiarpur district.Students and their parents participated in ‘bal melas’ and education officials visited different schools. Enrolment for the new academic session in the government schools of the district started today.Teams of ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ and Pratham supported the campaign. The DEO said each school had put up five stalls to showcase physical, linguistic, intellectual and creative development among students, and share report cards with parents.Students presented cultural programmes. Cash prizes were given to children by the sarpanch and panch of their respective villages.The objective of organising ‘bal melas’ is to motivate the parents to enrol their children in government schools. Competitions were organised for parents also.Various competitions organsiedCompetitions were also organised for parents on the occasion. Teams of ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ and ‘Pratham’ supported the campaign. The DEO said each school had put up five stalls to showcase physical, linguistic, intellectual and creative development among students, and share report cards with parents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/admission-drive-for-1-228-hoshiarpur-schools-starts-339437
18-11-2021||---||Contractual teachers hold fierce protest outside Pargat Singh’s residence in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 17Tense scenes were witnessed outside the residence of Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh yet again today as Kacche Adhyapak Union (Contractual Employees Union) laid seige to the street outside the minister’s home, demanding the pre primary teachers’ exam to be scheduled to November 21 from the present date of November 28.With elections nearing and the fear of the election code of conduct mounting among teachers, Education Minister Pargat Singh’s home has become a hub of protests by various irate teachers of the state.While the exam was scheduled to be held on November 21, it was recently postponed to November 28, which hasn’t gone down well with teachers.While the B.Ed teachers had already gone to meet Education Minister Pargat Singh in Chandigarh, members of the Kacche Adhyapak Union held a fierce protest outside the Education Minister’s residence today even as the minister’s home turned into a cantonment with hundreds of police personnel deputed.Heated exchanges and even scuffle between teachers and the police ensued outside the Cabinet minister’s residence today even as teachers also alleged they were manhandled by the police and some also claimed minor injuries.Teachers tried to push the human chain of police officials several times only to be pushed back. Women teachers, condemned being manhandled by male police personnel even as women police cops were present on the occasion. Teachers being apprehended by the police were strongly opposed by other teachers. They also in turn persuaded or tried to hold back police personnel who caught hold of their own colleagues.Satinder Singh Kang, a Tarn Taran-based teacher said, “Sadi bharti rul jaugi je exam time te na hoeya. (Our appointment will be squandered if exam doesnt take place on time.) The Pre Primary teacher Exam was scheduled on November 21 (Sunday) but was postponed by the government abruptly. Now, it has been rescheduled to November 28. If the election code comes into place, our recruitments will be delayed yet again. They cited technical reasons but it is a matter of our future. It should be taken as soon as posible on a priority basis. Failing this, our enitre cadre will come down and hold dharna in Jalandhar. The minister has raised issues with ETT teachers on repeated protests outside his home. We dont want to do this, but the government doesnt leave us with a choice.”He added, “The government had already released 8,300 posts of primary teachers for which we are thankful. But there are 13,000 of us. We also demand release of additonal posts as well so that all teacher may be covered.”Another woman teacher said, “We have given 18 years of our lives to primary school teaching. It has been 18 years since we are making do with meagre salaries. Now our test is being deliberately delayed by the government. On top of it police has manhandles us. Our leader Harpreet Kaur was thrown very badly. Gents pushed us and twisted our arms. We have been making do with Rs 6000 for so many years. They have nothing for Teachers. Instead of ladies police, male police members pushed and pulled us. Why has ladies police been deputed if gents police will handle us.”Contractual Employees Union said they would continue to protest outside the minister’s residence overnight.Unemployed teachers to hold dharna on November 23Meanwhile, members of the B.Ed TET Pass Unemployed Union today met the Education Minister at Chandigarh and they were assured by the minister that an advertisement regarding the recruitment for 9,000 posts of teachers will soon be released by the government as demanded by them.Union state president Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan and members Amandeep Sekha, Rashpal Singh Jalalabad, Gagandeep Kaur Grewal and Balkar Singh Mansa said even though the Congress government has been adopting dalaying tactics on our demand for years, yet we will wait for several days more.The union members declared instead of November 18, now they will gherao the education minister's residence on November 23. They said the education minister has assured them of getting approval regarding notification regarding posts from the CM and the finance department. They also demanded that partial policy being adopted with social studies, Punjabi and Hind for the past some time also be done away with. The Contractual Employees Union will continue the protest outside the education minister's residence overnight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/contractual-teachers-hold-fierce-protest-outside-pargat-singhs-residence-in-jalandhar-339438
18-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Man killed in road accident||Drug money seized, 4 heldHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested four smugglers from different places and recovered huge quantity of intoxicants, besides drug money from one of them on Tuesday. The Bullowal police have arrested a smuggler from Fattowal village and seized 35 grams of intoxicating powder and drug money worth Rs20,200 from him during a naka in the area. The accused has been identified as Vinod Kumar, alias Bodhi, a resident of Dhoot Khurd. In another case, Bullowal police arrested Karnail Singh, a resident of Nainowal Vaid village and recovered 35 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Similarly, the Chabbewal police arrested Ranjit Kumar, alias Jeeti, a resident of Gondpur and recovered 27 grams of intoxicating powder from him. The Dasuya police have arrested Bala Kooliyan village resident Kuldeep Kumar and seized 20 grams of intoxicating powder from him. separate cases under various sections of the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused. OCJunk dealer assaultedHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have named three accused, including a father and son duo, for allegedly assaulting a junk dealer by taking him hostage and snatching cash from him. Riyasat Ali said Harpreet Singh, alias Gora, a resident of Mahimdowal, his father Jagtar and another accused Babbu put him in a tempo and started beating him. According to him, the accused was accompanied by a woman who was posing as a retired police personnel. He said the accused allegedly snatched cash worth Rs 3,500 from him. The complainant said the accused shot a video while beating him and made it viral. A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 323, 341, 34, IPC. OCJunior athletics meet beginsJalandhar: The two-day Open Junior Athletic Championship kicked off on Wednesday at the Sant Baba Bhag Singh University, Khaila, Jalandhar. As many as 250 athletes from the district participated in the championship. Sarabjit Singh, coach, said athletes participated in the under-20, under-19 and under-15 categories. Gurwinder Singh, who recently created a record in the 100-metre senior athletic games met the students to motivate them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/man-killed-in-road-accident-339439
18-11-2021||Ushering in the 552nd Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak falling on November 19||Nagar kirtan organised in Jalandhar to mark Guru Nanak Parkash Purb||The devotees offered parshad in the form of sweets, fruits, milk etc. all through the passage. Jathas recited shabad kirtan. Nihang jathas and children displayed their skills in martial arts. Various political leaders and MC councillors also participated in the programme. Tribune photos: Sarabjit Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nagar-kirtan-organised-in-jalandhar-to-mark-guru-nanak-parkash-purb-339440
18-11-2021||---||Jalandhar Improvement Trust to pay Rs 100-cr loan in 6 instalments||Jalandhar, November 17The Jalandhar Improvement Trust (JIT) has started repaying a loan of Rs100 crore to the Punjab National Bank (PNB) and handed over a cheque for Rs 5 crore to the bank.Daljit Singh Ahluwalia, chairman, JIT, said Rs100 crore would be given in six instalments spanning six months under the ‘one time settlement’ scheme.He said out of the first instalment of Rs 20 crore to be disbursed before December 15, an amount of Rs 5 crore had been paid to the bank, and the remaining Rs 15 crore would be paid soon.He further said, “Under the ‘one time settlement’ scheme, the remaining amount will be paid in five equal instalments as per the rules and guidelines of the bank.”The chairman said he had written to the authorised officer of the PNB in Jalandhar and asked him to cancel an e-auction that was to be held yesterday for the recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-improvement-trust-to-pay-rs-100-cr-loan-in-6-instalments-339441
18-11-2021||---||Children roped in by administration to meet 100% vaccination target in Kapurthala||Jalandhar, November 17To ensure 100 per cent target of Covid-19 vaccination is achieved, an awareness rally was taken out in various blocks of Kapurthala by schoolchildren today.On the directions of Civil Surgeon Dr Gurinderbir Kaur and as per the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign, rallies were taken out in various blocks. The Civil Surgeon said the campaign was being run from November 3 to November 30. She said the aim was to cover all 618 villages of the district.Dr Gurinder Bir Kaur said the purpose of including students in the campaign was to ensure all citizens became part of the drive. She said awareness teams of the state Health Department had been set to check the status of vaccination of people. The teams were holding door-to-door visits to clear people’s misconceptions about the vaccine.The Civil Surgeon appealed to people to cooperate with the health teams. At Fattu Dhinga also, a rally was taken out by schoolchildren under Senior Medical Officer Dr Rajiv Prashar.District reports three new casesWith three new Covid cases reported on Wednesday in Jalandhar, the total tally touched 63,446. No new death was reported and the number of fatalities remained 1,496. As many as 6,1918 people have recovered in the district, while the number of active cases is 32. Of 17,95,250 samples collected in the district, so far, 16,60,039 have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,244 samples is awaited. Meanwhile, no new case or death was reported in Kapurthala, and the total number of infected persons remained 17,863.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/children-roped-in-by-administration-to-meet-100-vaccination-target-in-kapurthala-339442
18-11-2021||---||Undemocratic: Backed by cops, Cong ‘rigs’ Cooperative Bank poll in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 17The ruling Congress today showed extreme high-handedness in the process of filing nomination papers for the elections to the Board of Directors of Jalandhar Central Cooperative Bank today. While the candidates backed by the party filed their nomination papers around 8 am, the bank was sealed thereafter not allowing the SAD-supported aspirants to file the papers.Police barricading was done on both the front and the back gates and no one was allowed to enter the gate during the time of filing papers, which was 10 am to 1 pm. Since only the papers of the Congress candidates had been accepted and well before the start of the scheduled time, they are now likely to be announced as unopposed in a day or so. The elections were otherwise slated to be held on November 24.The candidates said that a DSP-rank officer was deputed to ensure that no one could enter the bank premises. They said they repeatedly called the officials of the bank asking them to get the gates opened but their calls went unattended. At this, Nakodar MLA and SAD district (rural) chief Gurpartap Wadala came in along with 150 workers and staged a dharna for over three hours, blaming the state government for playing a dirty game just a month ahead of the expected announcement of the Assembly polls.There are nine zones under the bank for which nine posts of director were to be filled. Insiders said that even though it could not be clear as yet but there are reports that at least three of the candidates, who could be declared unopposed are closely related to Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder S Randhawa. Son of Congress ex-district president Sukhwinder Lally, who is related to the minister, too is in fray. The minister’s maternal uncle’s grandson, too, is a candidate from City zone.Gurminder Kishanpur, who was to file papers from Adampur zone, said: “I reached here at 10.30 am to file the papers but the gates were locked and there was no way we could go inside and file papers. So, we kept waiting till 1:30 pm but no one was allowed inside. This is no democratic way of conducting elections. Had our papers been accepted and elections got conducted, the Congress was surely going to lose. Sensing defeat, they resorted to such tactics.”Jagroop Singh Sandhu, an ex-president of the cooperative society, said he had come to accompany Inderjit Singh Talwara, who was to be the Akali candidate from Kartarpur zone, but he was not allowed to even file the papers. “It was for the first time that we saw such a blatant misuse of government machinery in any elections in Doaba. While such kind of tactics has been common in Malwa and Majha, this was a completely new style of use of power for Doabites, he said.MLA Wadala said: “There already is a litigation pertaining to the cooperative society pending in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the hearing for which is scheduled for tomorrow. We will file a plea to get these elections cancelled”.What the Joint Registrar of bank says…Confirming the presence of heavy police outside the bank on Wednesday amid filing of nomination papers, Joint Registrar of the bank Gurpreet Singh said he was not present inside the bank when nominations were filed. “A Returning Officer had come from Gurdaspur to conduct the elections. I do not have his contact. Only nominations were to be filed today, the announcement regarding the elected candidates would be made later,” Gurpreet Singh said.Why ruling party chose this path?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/undemocratic-backed-by-cops-cong-rigs-cooperative-bank-poll-in-jalandhar-339444
