19-11-2021||As 552nd Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak falls today||Satguru Nanak Pargateya: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Sultanpur Lodhi||Also read: Spiritual journey of Gurdwaras in AmritsarSpiritual journey of Gurdwaras in Tarn TaranAmritsar Bungas: On the brink of extinctionSINCE the 550th Guru Nanak gurpurab celebrations, Sultanpur Lodhi town falling in Kapurthala district has emerged as one of the most common pilgrimage sites. It is here that the guru attained enlightenment after taking a dip in the holy waters of Bein.He stayed in this town for 14 years and used to meditate under the Ber tree, where Gurdwara Ber Sahib stands. The present building of the gurdwara was built by Maharaja Jagatjit Singh of Kapurthala.After attaining enlightenment, the guru had emerged from a spot 2-km upstream where now Gurdwara Sant Ghat has been renovated. The guru uttered his first words, “No one is Hindu, no one is Muslim” here.Besides, Gurdwara Ber Sahib and Gurdwara Sant Ghat, the town has other historical gurdwaras all of which have been renovated nearly two years ago. These include Gurdwara Hatt Sahib where the stones used by the guru as weights during his job in a provision store have been kept.Gurdwara Kothri Sahib, Gurdwara Guru Ka Bagh, Gurdwara Antaryamta, Gurdwara Sehra Sahib and Gurdwara Bebe Nanki are also other shrines where the sangat visits on this holy day and round the year.Ahead of the gurpurab, nagar kirtans were taken out today. One nagar kirtan was also taken out by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal where in a palanquin of Guru Granth Sahib decorated with strings of flowers went past several villages.The participating jathas recited hymns spreading across the guru’s message and teachings among members of the community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/satguru-nanak-pargateya-spiritual-journey-of-gurdwaras-in-sultanpur-lodhi-339928
19-11-2021||Garhshankar||Youth held with stolen bike in Garhshankar||Hit by passenger train, man diesJalandhar: An unidentified youth in his late 20s was killed today after being hit by a passenger train. The train was heading from Jalandhar City towards Ferozepur when the incident took place near the Nagra railway gate. The deceased lost one arm, one leg and suffered a severe head injury. According to information, two trains had already passed over body of the deceased before the Government Railway Police (GRP) reached the spot. Sub-Inspector Rajveer Singh of the GRP police reached the spot and took the body in his possession. No ID was obtained from the deceased to establish his identity, said Rajveer. The body had been kept in the Civil Hospital mortuary for 72 hours, Rajveer added. Meanwhile, a railway official urged people to avoid walking along the railway tracks to avoid any mishap. TNSPlantation drive at Police LinesJalandhar: Commissioner of Police (CP) Naunihal Singh launched a plantation and cleanliness drive at the Police Lines here on Thursday. The CP said the drive would continue for a week in which extensive cleaning of the Police Lines surroundings would be undertaken, besides ensuring maximum plantation on the campus. Clean and green environment was the key to a healthy and prosperous society, the CP added. He also asked cops to take care of saplings. “We all must adopt a positive approach towards nature to sensitise our future generations for the preservation of the environment,” the CP said. TNSTwo held with 15-kg poppy huskHoshiarpur: The Mehtiana police arrested two smugglers after intercepting their car at a naka and recovered 15 kg of poppy husk from them on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Baldev Singh, alias Billa, a resident of Harkhowal, and Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Gagowal, Amritsar district. The police also seized the car of the accused and registered and FIR against them under the NDPS Act. OCStamp vendors’ exam on Nov 21Hoshiarpur: DC Apneet Riyait has said candidates, who applied for the stamp vendors’ licence, would have to appear for the written test on Sunday (November 21) at DAV College. She said: “Candidates should report at the centre at 9:30 am. Those candidates, who have not received their admit card/roll number can get it from Room No. 202, second floor, DC office, on November 20 from 11 am to 1 pm.” OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-held-with-stolen-bike-in-garhshankar-339930
19-11-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district reports 11 Covid cases, 1 death||There has been a dramatic rise in the number of Covid cases today. As many as 11 new cases have been reported in the district on Thursday. With this, the total Covid tally in the district has reached 63,457 cases. One person also died of Covid in Jalandhar today. With this, the district deceased tally has reached 1,497 today.Meanwhile, one new case of Covid was reported positive in Kapurthala on Thursday as the Covid tally reached 17,864. No death from Covid was reported in Kapurthala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-reports-11-covid-cases-1-death-339931
19-11-2021||Jalandhar||Intoxicants, drugs: STF raid at garment showroom near Adarsh Nagar, Jalandhar||The Special Task Force (STF), on Thursday, conducted a raid at a garment showroom, located near Adarsh Nagar. According to the information, the STF has received a tip-off that intoxicants and drugs were hidden inside the showroom (London Wear Men and Women Garment Showroom). Following this, a checking was conducted inside the store. The owner of the showroom was also taken into police custody for further investigation. The raid lasted for about an hour. Significantly, the state government has already given instructions to the police to take strict action against drugs. As soon as the Channi government took over, the police have been active since the past few days to prevent the incident of drugs and robberies in the state. Recently, the police raided many shops and malls in the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/intoxicants-drugs-stf-raid-at-garment-showroom-near-adarsh-nagar-jalandhar-339932
19-11-2021||---||Congress making false promises to farmers: AAP||Jalandhar, November 18Members of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) today sought the waiving off of the entire debt of farmers and farm labourers in the state before the election code of conduct comes into place. Taking potshots at the state Congress government, AAP leaders said the state government had always misled farmers and continues to do so. In a press conference addressed by the Punjab Mahila Wing President Rajwinder Kaur, District Lok Sabha in-charge, Ramneek Randhawa and District President and Halka in-charge Jalandhar Cantt Surinder Singh Sodhi; AAP leaders sought answers from the state CM whether he would waive all farm debts of farmers in the state ahead of the election code of conduct or not.Sodhi said the Congress, on January 19, 2017, had committed to provide complete debt waiver to farmer and labourers, which included government, cooperative and private banks as well as debts associated with the unorganised sector. He said the entire sum of this debt amounted to nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore. He also added many forms had been filled with this promise but unfortunately the Congress showed its true face to people the moment the governemnt was formed.Rajwinder Kaur, while targeting CM Charanjit Singh Channi, said the CM was again trying to mislead farmers and labourers. Our question is to the CM is whether he will waive the entire debt. If he will, then he should declare a time limit for the same and waive the debt before election code of conduct comes into place. If you can’t fuflill the promise, then all the other assurances have no meaning, she said. She said debts and finacial crisis are the key reasons for farmers’ distress. They are the prime reasons for farmers’ suicides and entire farming community was reeling under gloom due to same reasons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-making-false-promises-to-farmers-aap-339933
19-11-2021||---||Jalandhar district administration fixes sand retail rates for municipal areas||Jalandhar, November 18The Jalandhar district administration on Thursday fixed retail prices of sand for various municipal areas in consultation with all stakeholders, including contractors, transporters and retailers at a meeting held today at the district administrative complex.Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said it was unanimously decided that the sand would be made available at retail outlets at Rs 15/cubic ft in the municipal area of Jalandhar city, likewise at Rs 11.5 in Phillaur, Nakodar, Noormahal, at Rs 11 in Mehatpur and Shahkot, Rs 12 in Bilga, Lohian, Rs 13 in Goraya and Kartarpur (from Beas), and Rs 15 in Adampur and Alawalpur municipal areas. These rates include transportation charges.Since, these new retail rates have been agreed upon by all the stakeholders, any kind of violation of them would be met with strict legal action, including FIR against the violators, said the DC. The new rates shall also come into effect immediately.Thori further clarified that these rates only entail availability of sand at retailers’ outlets and its further delivery at customer’s location may include additional transportation charges. The DC also asked the contractors to ensure that all mining sites were operational in the district so that there was no scarcity of sand adding he urged all transporters, contractors and retailers to feel free to contact him if they had any kind of problem and shared his personal mobile number with all stakeholders.Notably, the state government had already rolled out the Punjab State Sand and Gravel Mining Policy, 2021 to provide sand and gravel at Rs 5.50/cubic ft at pit-heads (excluding transportation charges). However, the administration was receiving complaints of overcharging in spite of relief given by the government, thereby making it necessary for the administration to fix the retail prices to resolve this issue.The DC has urged the people to inform the administration about overcharging through WhatsApp No. 9501799068 for swift action on such instances. He said after fixation of the retail prices, any kind of overcharging and fleecing by sellers would be highly unwarranted and attract strict legal action. Officers from the civil and police administration besides contractors, retailers and transporters were present at the meeting.The DC has urged the people to inform the administration about overcharging through WhatsApp No. 9501799068 for swift action on such instances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-fixes-sand-retail-rates-for-municipal-areas-339934
19-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Fire safety not a priority for private hospitals in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 18The district has 800 private hospitals and is known as Asia’s biggest medicare hub, but fire safety arrangements at most healthcare facilities have not been checked for ages altogether.Besides, majority of hospitals in Jalandhar district don’t have designated fire safety officers despite the 2020 Supreme Court guidelines calling for a nodal officer for each establishment.The exact number of hospitals in the district, which have obtained NOCs, will be clear after we receive lists. Instructions have been issued to hospitals to get fire safety audits conducted. Jaswant Singh, Assistant Divisional Fire Officer, JalandharKeeping in view the recent fire incidents at medical establishments in various parts of the country, directions for fire safety audits have been issued to hospitals recently. A nodal officer has also instructed hospitals to review their fire safety arrangements. Ghashyam Thori, Deputy Commissioner, JalandharLack of space, including that for parking vehicles, is a problem faced by most hospitals, but many have found shortcut solutions for the same.At some establishments, basement parking runs side by side with labs. Sensitive wards are housed in many commericalised basements closed from all sides.A few hospitals renovated recently have latest, state-of-the-art facilities and sprinklers for dousing flames. Many hospitals have dangerous towering buildings with some floors marked by a network of heavy-duty cables and wires for complicated medical equipment.Even hospitals with proper fire safety equipment don’t hold regular mock drills or undertake maintenance. This increases chances of equipment malfunctioning when the need actually arises.Sources in the Fire and Health Departments told The Tribune that politicians and key officials at times called when big hospitals were denied NOCs (No Objection Certificates). “The ‘sifarish culture’ is a regular for a hospital to obtain an NOC despite inadequate fire fighting arrangements,” the sources added.Many hospitals also have PROs, security personnel or even clerks or accountants doubling up as fire safety personnel. Most of them are untrained in fire safety protocol.The two city private hospitals, Vedanta Hospital and Sigma Hospital, which The Tribune visited, had basic fire safety arrangements.The basement parking area of the Vedanta Hospital, which also houses a lab, had three oxygen cylinders while all floors had two or more cylinders barring the ground floor OPD, which had only one.Besides, an oxygen cylinder is stored outside the Vedanta Hospital gallery. There is one fire extinguisher in the oxygen storage area of the hospital. Meanwhile, the upper floors of the hospital have two or more fire extinguishers. The hospital, however, has no fire hydrants.Meanwhile, at Sigma Hospital, which also specialises in paediatrics and childcare, has fire hydrants hoses on every floor. Fire extinguishing cylinders at the hospital were found to be valid till this month (November). Almost all cylinders, except a few, bore expiry date as November 2021. Barring the congested hospital ground floor, which also houses the neo-natal care unit, has a network of pipes, wires etc in some sections. The upper two floors of the hospital are better ventilated.The Vedanta Hospital authorities also shared the NOC with The Tribune, which was renewed recently.The Assistant Divisional Fire Officer, Jalandhar, Jaswant Singh said, “The exact number of hospitals in the district, which have obtained NOCs, will be clear after we receive lists. Instructions have been issued to hospitals to get fire safety audits conducted.”“Only 15 to 20 per cent big hospitals in Jalandhar have latest sprinkler systems. Rest of the hospitals have only basic fire safety arrangements. However, most hospitals are fit to tackle fire exigencies. Basements are also being used in many hospitals in which sprinkler systems have been installed,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fire-safety-not-a-priority-for-private-hospitals-in-jalandhar-district-339935
