20-11-2021||Sultanpur Lodhi||Sultanpur Lodhi: Pictures of Ber Sahib gurdwara distributed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sultanpur-lodhi-pictures-of-ber-sahib-gurdwara-distributed-340631
20-11-2021||---||Civic body seals entire multi-storey structure in Jalandhar||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19The Muncipal Corporation on Wednesday sealed an illegal multi-storey building on Ladowali Road. A team of the bulding branch of the MC, led by ATP Rajinder Sharma sealed the entire building. Earlier, an upper floor of the building was sealed by the authorities concerned.A fortnight ago, The Tribune had highlighted about gross irregularities in the said structure.Complaint Kuldip Singh had alleged violation of building bylaws and massive corruption in complaint submitted to the MC on October 23.He had alleged that the illegal commercial building was being constructed in violation of the laws of the Local Bodies Department. He also marked the complaint to the Chief Justice (Punjab and Haryana High Court); Lokpal; Chief Minister; Vigilance Bureau; Local Bodies Minister and Principal Secretary.Kuldip alleged that ‘Central Town’ was being constructed without obtaining change of land use (CLU) and sans rear and front parking. He stated that the building was being constructed with utter disregard to floor area ratio (FRA) in connivance with the MC officials.The complainant mentioned that the multi-storeyed building was being made after depositing false documents and maps. He alleged that the builder has caused massive loss to exchequer.Kuldip said, “Building’s ownership, registry, CLU, front and rear parking area, FRA and height approval should be probed.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/civic-body-seals-entire-multi-storey-structure-in-jalandhar-340632
20-11-2021||---||‘Wild Himalayan Fig alternative to synthetic painkillers’||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19A team of scholars conducted a study on ‘Wild Himalayan Fig’ and found that it has medicinal properties to cure pain. The ‘Wild Himalayan Fig’ is a popular fruit known as ‘Bedu’ in Kumaon region. It also has many other medicinal benefits, including curing skin diseases and infections. What the study reveals...The research was carried out in collaboration with Lovely Professional University, Kumaon University, Ganpat University, Sharda University, Messina University (Italy), Tehran University of Medical Sciences and Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences (Iran). The research was led by Dr Devesh Tiwari of the LPU.The study found that ‘Wild Himalayan Fig’, scientifically known as ‘Ficus Palmata’, contains two major components ‘psoralen’ and ‘rutin’. Psoralen helped to block an enzyme called ‘cyclooxygenase-2’ (COX-2), which is also blocked by pain relievers (diclofenac) and rutin helps in binding mu-opioid (morphine).Over a time period of three years, the researchers studied analgesic results of ‘Wild Himalayan Fig’, which were tested on experimental rats and through computer modelling. According to study, ‘Wild Himalayan Fig’ can be used as an ingredient in nutraceutical products with therapeutic values.Dr Tiwari said, “Wild Himalayan Fig is a safe plant-based alternative to synthetic pain relievers, including aspirin and diclofenac. Traditionally, this fruit is used for curing backpain in rural areas. So far, there is no study available on the analgesic effects of ficus palmata. Our research is the first to establish the ‘Wild Himalayan Fig’ as a natural pain reliever.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/wild-himalayan-fig-alternative-to-synthetic-painkillers-340633
20-11-2021||---||Gurpurb celebrations: Students vow to tread on path of righteous conduct||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19On the occasion of the 552nd Parkash Purb of the first Sikh Guru and the founder of Sikhism — Guru Nanak — various schools organised shabad kirtan and langar on the campuses. The school authorities exhorted children to follow the righteous path as shown by the guru. They sent across the message of Ek Onkar — One god.Mayor World SchoolMayor World School celebrated the gurpurab with devotion and reverence. On the auspicious occasion, students of grade III , IV and V competed in ‘Inter-house shabad gayan- group singing competition’ . The topics for the competition were- ‘Kar kirpa tere gun gaavan’, ‘Waheguru Waheguru’, ‘Aaise preet karo mann merai’ and ‘Miti dhund jag chahan’. All the teams sung melodiously and mesmerised the audience with their performance. It purified the surroundings with its rhythmic resonating echo. The competition was won by Keats House, the second position was shared by Shakespeare and Dickens House. The vibrantly dressed tiny tots of Mayor Galaxy also sang the shabad with such dedication and enthusiasm that it enthralled and captivated everyone present there. Chanting of the hymns created a tranquil and placid ambience. The event concluded with the “Ardas” and preachings of Guru Nanak, fervently presented by students of KG-I. They paid tributes to Guru Nanak by spreading his divine message of harmony, humility and equality. It brought the unparalleled peace of mind and soul that one gets while meditating. Langar was served to everyone, regardless of their religion, caste or community. The occasion was graced by Director Sarita Madhok, Principal Harjeet Kaur Ghumman, Deputy Vice Principal Charu Trehan and the Headmistress Aarti Gulati. They blessed the students and said that such activities are important to connect the present generation with their roots.Innocent Hearts GroupThe “Prakashotsav” of Guru Nanak was celebrated with great reverence and gaiety virtually and offline in all the five schools of Innocent Hearts Schools. Students of classes KG-1 to IX participated enthusiastically on this occasion.The little ones of KG-1 and KG-2 of Innokids Pre-Primary School donned traditional costumes. They went to the gurdwara and offered “Ardaas”. The children recited “Shabads” and “Mool Mantra”. Students of Classes VII to IX wrote articles on the life of Guru Nanak. The teachers of all the classes told the children that we should work for the betterment of humanity by following the path shown by the guru. They asked the students to make the teachings of Guru Sahib Ji ‘Naam Japo’, ‘Kirat Karo’ and ‘Vand Chhako’ a part of their lives and follow the path shown by him.St Soldier GroupSukhmani Sahib Path was organised on the auspicious occasion of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak in various branches of St. Soldier Group of Institutions in which staff members, students and their parents participated. Together they recited the Path and learned about the teachings given by the guru. After the recitation, the students performed shabad kirtan. After that Ardas was performed for the progress of the institution and bright future of the students. Apart from this, guru’s langar was prepared and served to all. Chairman Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra while congratulating everyone on Parkash Purb and asked everyone to adopt the three teachings given by the guru -”Naam Japo”, “Kirat Karo”, “Wand Ke Chhako” in life.Emm Aar International School, AdampurParkash Purb of Guru Nanak was celebrated with great pomp under the supervision of Principal Navdeep Vashishta in Emm Aar International School, Adampur. On this occasion the children recited the morning prayer and threw light on the life of Guru Nanak. The message given by the guru was conveyed by the children. Emm Aarians chanted the Mool Mantra and connected everyone with the feet of the Guru. School Chairman Dr Sarav Mohan Tandon and Director Dr Simmi Tandon extended their best wishes on the occasion of Prakash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev. Manisha, Deepika, Richa Sharma, Sumiti, Shiv Prabha, Radha Sharma, Shivani, Ashwani Kumar, Satish Kumar and all staff was present.Cambridge International School (Co-Ed)Cambridge International School (Co-Ed) celebrated Guru Nanak’s 552nd Gurpurb with great religious fervour within the school premises. To commemorate the occasion, a special assembly was organised in the school. The assembly started with a soulful rendition of “Shabad” sung by the students. The philosophy and timeless preaching of Guru Nanak Dev was shared by the students in the form of a speech. The atmosphere of the school exuded religious fervour and divinity. On this occasion, Chairman Nitin Kohli, Vice Chairman Deepak Bhatia, President Mona Bhatia, vice president Paarth Bhatia and Director and Principal Dr Ravinder Mahal congratulated everyone on this momentous occasion and prayed that the words of the great Guru be enshrined in every heart and spread the message of humanity and universal brotherhood.The Nobel SchoolThe Nobel School celebrated Guru Nanak Dev’s Parkash Purb in the school premises. The life of great saint, guru and a spiritual mentor on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak were highlighted among the young generation and the future of our society. The function commenced with the “Mool Mantra” by young student Ishrat Kaur Sandal of grade II. Followed by the singing of the holy hymns -”Shabads” by the students of grade I to XII added the sacred atmosphere and the spiritual ambience of devotional “Path” and “Ardaas” sparkled a religious fervour in the air. The teachers also participated in the Shabad Kirtan. Chairman of the school Prof CL Kochher and Managing Director Kumar Shiv Kochher stated that the teachings of Guru Nanak are of great significance to mankind and help in transforming the society in a better way. Adding to this, Principal Amita Sharma mentioned today’s youth need to inculcate the values of patience, tolerance, honesty, sharing and follow the path of equality, oneness and brotherhood as preached by Guru Nanak Dev to make the world a better place for one and all.Sanskriti KMV SchoolSanskriti KMV School celebrated Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary with devotion and reverence. The festive event commemorated with a prayer. Teachings of Guru Nanak Dev were remembered through eloquent speeches by the students epitomising their faith in his glory. A serene and calm atmosphere was created by soothing ‘shabad’ sung by the budding singers. The whole school was immersed in the diversified enchanting that raised their spirit and inculcated a sense of gratitude amongst them. Rachna Monga, Principal, spread the message of harmony and oneness. She apprised the students about teachings of Guru Nanak Dev and emphasised on following the path of universal peace and brotherhood. The programme concluded on a happy note with festive spirit and unbeatable excitement among the students.PCM SD SchoolPCM SD Collegiate Senior Secondary School for Girls celebrated Gurpurb to commemorate the exceptional sage on his birth anniversary. Principal Dr Pooja Prashar was the chief guest of the day. Sangita Sharma, Incharge of the collegiate block, made a cordial welcome to the principal. The event began with the recitation of “Mool Mantra”. The chief guest delivered a fruitful discourse on the quintessential and magnanimous figure of Guru Nanak and the phenomenal doctrines expounded by him. Students chanted “Shabad” on the occasion. They also narrated “Sakhies”, which are tales documenting the episodes from his life. Towards the close of the event, “Ardaas” was made. Monika expressed vote of thanks to the chief guest. Members of the managing committee and Principal acknowledged the endeavours of the Incharge and other faculty members wished everyone a Happy Gurpurb.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/gurpurb-celebrations-students-vow-to-tread-on-path-of-righteous-conduct-340635
20-11-2021||---||150 take part in Netflix auditions held on campuses||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19To give students a window to the wider world and provide them with unwavering guidance and support, Innocent Hearts School organised auditions for an upcoming series on a popular OTT platform in which the students participated.The event turned into a grand success, owing to the fervent and spirited participation of Innocentites. The Netflix team guided and motivated the students to pursue their passion.A similar audition by the Netflix for age group 14 -19 years was also held in Eklavya School this week. The students were asked to display their talent through a previously memorised and rehearsed solo piece or by performing a work or piece given to the performer at the audition. JK Gupta, chairman of Eklavya School, encouraged the children by saying that taking participation in these activities is good for their future.Director Seema Handa appreciated the students calibre and talent. Principal Komal Arora lauded the efforts of Netflix team and the administrator Dimple Malhotra appreciated the efforts done by the students.The auditions for an upcoming Netflix series were also conducted at Apeejay College of Fine Arts by the production house named- The Perfect Way. The auditions were open for the students of age from 14- 21 years old. All the students, dancers, influencers, charismatic personalities were invited.Nearly 150 students had participated in these auditions. These auditions were judged by Sumit Attari and Bhavana, Casting Directors of the production house. Talking of the web series, they put forth that through the series they want to showcase the effect of social media on teenagers and young people who are obsessed with the desire to increase their followers. They also shared that the shooting for the same is expected to begin in the month of December- January.Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra expressed her immense joy at the presence of such significant and professional people from Netflix. She added Apeejay is full of artists and talented people and Netflix will surely find few actors here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/150-take-part-in-netflix-auditions-held-on-campuses-340636
20-11-2021||---||This 21-year-old possesses rare coins, some dating back to over 2,000 years||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 19Twentyone-year-old Anmol Bharti has a rare collection of coins, which he claims date back to over 2,000 years. Belonging to the Magadha dynasty (shown in pic) some of these are as old as 2,600 years.}We have been watching stories of dynasties, their rise and fall on historic dramas and reading about these in books. But holding these in hand give a unique pleasure. Interestingly, these coins are of irregular shapes, indicating towards rudimentary technology being used in manufacturing. —  Anmol Bharti, a numismaticOffering a peep into the bygone era, the ancient coins are classified as punch-marked coins with symbols including elephant, sun, tortoise, fish and others inscribed over these.“We have been watching stories of dynasties, their rise and fall on historic dramas and reading about these in texts. But holding these in hand give a unique pleasure,” he said, adding that interestingly these early coinages were of irregular shapes, indicating towards rudimentary technology being used in manufacturing. It took hundreds of years or more to develop the finesse and churn out regular coins.Over 10 years ago, he had visited a relative, who possessed a little collection of old currency notes, which were no longer in use. Like any child of this age group, he insisted on possessing some of these. At that time, his demand was not fulfilled but it gradually developed into a keen desire to possess old coins and currency notes. He has spared an entire room in his house for the purpose, where he keeps his collection. Pursuing MBA from Guru Nanak Dev University, his objective is to set up a museum to house his collection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/this-21-year-old-possesses-rare-coins-some-dating-back-to-over-2-000-years-340637
20-11-2021||---||Congress raises pitch for ‘one man-one post’ rule||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19Raising a pitch over the implementation of rule of one man-one post, the Congress workers today met Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Chaudhary and co-incharge Chetan Chauhan and sought the implementation of the rule in the upcoming appointments for the district committees.Amid buzz that a new District Congress Committee (DCC) chief and two working presidents could be appointed from among the Municipal Corporation councillors, the party workers said this was uncalled for. “These posts should go to someone who is not holding any post or else the workers who have been standing for the party and working at the frontal level for so many years would feel ignored and sit back home,” said Sanjay Sehgal, a party leader.Chaudhary and Chauhan, along with Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni, listened to the grievances of the workers for nearly 45 minutes at the Congress Bhawan here. Several councillors demanded a replacement of Mayor Jagdish Raja. “If the CM can change mid-term, why not the Mayor. We do not like his style of working”, many councillors raised the issue during the meeting.Party leader and director of the Punjab Khadi Board levelled allegations of a thriving nexus in the Municipal Corporation to loot the public. “Open bribe is being accepted by the Town Planning Department from even 2 marla plot holders. The officials are using their own men to lodge RTIs to put pressure on people to garner money”, he said, while also talking about a harmful internal opposition created by the party by removing own chairmen and letting them down at the fag end of the term.Ruing that their grouse had not been addressed for the past nearly five years since their government was in power, the Congress workers also sought a better redressal system. At this, Chaudhary asked co-incharge Chetan Chauhan to visit the city again on November 23 to listen to the workers. Many workers who did not get time to be heard called the meeting a mere eyewash.Ahead of the meeting, all leaders addressed the workers. During his address, OP Soni requested Chaudhary to take an early decision on announcement of party tickets. “All other parties have started announcing their candidates, who are already in field ready with their campaign. We too must not delay things on our part,” he said. In response, Chaudhary said the announcement could take time as some surveys, advisory committee meetings and a whole lot of process was pending. “We will announce tickets at the tactically best timing instead of joining a rat race”, he said.Chaudhary also said, “No ticket of any candidate from 117 Assembly seats has been finalised – not even of the CM or the Deputy CM or ministers or the sitting MLAs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/congress-raises-pitch-for-one-man-one-post-rule-340638
20-11-2021||Jalandhar||No fresh Covid case reported in Jalandhar district||No new case, no death in Kapurthala: No new positive case was reported positive in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained 17,864. No death from Covid was also reported in Kapurthala today either. tns10 new cases, 1 death in Hoshiarpur: There has been a steep rise in the number of Covid cases today. As many as 10 new cases were reported in the district on Friday. With this, the total Covid tally in the district has reached 30,881cases. One person, a 63-year-old male of VPO Kullian Bala of Mand Bhander block died of Covid in Hoshiarpur today. With this, the district deceased tally has reached 990. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-fresh-covid-case-reported-in-jalandhar-district-340639
20-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Farmers elated, but to stay put at Delhi borders||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 19After Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday declared to repeal the three agri laws in the upcoming Winter session of Parliament (November 29 to December 23), a wave of jubilation spread among farmers who have been protesting against these laws for the last one year.While photographs and videos of farmers dancing and celebrating at Delhi border did the rounds on social media, activists of BKU (Rajewal) distributed laddoos in the district on the occasion. However, wary farmers said they would end the protest at Delhi (Singhu and Tikri borders) after getting a nod from the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. As the news broke out, farmers started heading out in jathas towards Delhi to celebrate the occasion.Amarjot Singh Jandiala of the Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) distributed sweets and added that the the morcha would continue. Jandiala said, “The Centre has bowed infront of the grit and determination of farmers. It is a welcome move by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government, however, the morcha is far from over yet. The protest has claimed lives of 700 farmers. It will continue as long as three farm laws are not formally repealed in Parliament. Till then all farm unions will continue to hold the fort at Delhi borders.”He said, “In view of the anniversary of farmers’ agitation on November 26, farmers will be heading to Singhu in hordes. Thousands of farmers will be at Delhi border when the Winter session of Parliament begins on November 29.”Salwinder Singh Jania, district chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said “A total of 700 farmers lost their lives. There are 700 homes, which have lost their loved ones. They did not celebrate Diwali or Parkash Purb. Right now, our organisation is also not celebrating. We will consider it as a victory only when the agri laws are repealed in Parliament. Our morcha will continue as long as laws are not made to grant MSP to farmers. Similarly, the Electricity Bill 2020, should also be withdrawn and those who killed farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri should be punished. Unless the Centre addresses all these issues, which are causes for farm distress, we are not moving.”Farmers head towards DelhiWhile many farmers, including those of the Bharti Kisan Union (Doaba) headed towards Singhu border today, some unions have schedules set until January for the farmers’ protest. A 500-member jatha of the Kisan Mazdoor Sagharsh Committee (KMSC) heads to Singhu daily, which will continue till the end of the month. Everyday, 15 people from each district go to Delhi. Farmers said a huge gathering on the lines of the one seen around the Republic Day this year is again expected to gather at Delhi borders in the coming days.Not all issues resolved, says BKUJoginder Singh Ugrahan and Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan, president and general secretary of BKU (EKTA-UGRAHAN) respectively, said the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government had to bow before the historical peasant struggle, but still it has not affected any change in its policies designed for the infiltration of corporates in agrarian sector. The decision regarding the movement shall be taken after today’s announcement is implemented by the government. Besides these laws, the issues of MSP, PDS and the Electricity Bill 2020 are still pending. The PM’s announcement does not even touch upon these demands. They said further strategy would be devised after due consultations with the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmers-elated-but-to-stay-put-at-delhi-borders-340630
