21-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||SMOs deputed to carry out checks at all hospitals||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 20After the Deputy Commissioner on November 9 directed the Civil Surgeon to ensure a fire-safety audit report of all hospitals (government and private) in Jalandhar, the Civil Surgeon has deputed various SMOs in Jalandhar to ensure respective audits of private hospitals in their areas.While the DC’s directions came in the wake of fire incidents in various areas of the country, Jalandhar, with its vast network of private hospitals and nursing homes — also considered as Asia’s biggest medical hub — is an especially vulnerable medical centre of the state.As per the Civil Surgeon’s directions, all SMOs have been directed to conduct fire safety audits of the institutions associated with them. Regarding fire safety audits of private hospitals, the SMOs are directed to ensure a visit to the private hospitals in their respective areas along with a fire safety officer during the fire safety inspection. Additionally, the directions say that Urban Medical Officers will conduct the inspection of private hospitals in their areas concerned. The directions regarding the inspections to be conducted in private hospitals falling in the area of Medical Officer Dispensary, ESI, will be done by Medical Superintendent, in-charge, ESI Hospital, Jalandhar.The fire safety office has been directed to release the schedule for these audits. The inspection is time bound, therefore it be given importance on a priority basis, say the directions.The DC, Jalandhar, had instructed the Civil Surgeon, Jalandhar, on November 9 to ensure a fire audit on a priority basis at all government and private hospitals in Jalandhar to assess safety risks at these facilities and mitigate them. Jaswant Singh, Fire Safety Officer, said, “Special advisories have further been issued to the IMA and the Nursing Associations to release the lists of private hospitals and nursing homes falling under them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/smos-deputed-to-carry-out-checks-at-all-hospitals-340956
21-11-2021||---||HC Judge concerned over death of 60 jail inmates||Kapurthala, November 20Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Justice Avneesh Jhingan on Saturday expressed his serious concern over the death of 60 jail inmates, mostly by suicides, in less than two years during a surprise checking of the Modern Jail here.Justice Avneesh Jhingan, who is also the administrative judge of the District Sessions Court, Kapurthala, said he would again inspect the jail soon to ascertain the causes behind the suicides committed by the inmates. He was told that most of these inmates were drug addicts to which he said the precious human lives could be saved by taking some remedial measures such as upgrade of de-addiction centre in the jail and taking some strong stringent measures.The judge also instructed District and Sessions Judge Amarinder Singh Grewal to visit the jail and take the remedial measures to check the rising death cases in the jail and submit its report to him. Replying to a question regarding the inordinate delays in deciding the bail cases to the under trials languishing in the jails, the judge said it was a judicial process which took time to decide such cases.Regarding the illegal availability of mobile phones and SIM cards in the jail being used by the inmates despite the jammers installed in the jail premises, the judge said since the jammers had become old and the jail authorities are studying new devices to check this menace. The judge said that the lower judiciary has started its working normally after the Covid pandemic. District and Sessions Judge also said all judges had been instructed to decide the cases expeditiously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/hc-judge-concerned-over-death-of-60-jail-inmates-340957
21-11-2021||Hoshirpur||Woman dies in road accident||Get admit card at entry pointHoshiarpur: Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Sandeep Singh on Saturday reviewed preparations for the test for stamp vendors. He said the candidates who did not get the admit card / roll number for the written test, can get it at the entry point on November 21. While inspecting the examination centre, he said the examination would be held on Sunday (November 21) at DAV College, Chandigarh Road, Hoshiarpur. He said candidates should report at 9:30 am. He also directed the authorities concerned to ensure all necessary arrangements. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-dies-in-road-accident-340959
21-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Parkash Purb: Artist donates 3 art pieces for holy town Sultanpur Lodhi||Tribune News ServiceSultanpur Lodhi, November 18As devotees have started converging in the holy town of Guru Nanak for the 552nd Parkash Purb celebrations, there is something new and amazing for them to watch.The site is the Guru Nanak Art Gallery in Nirmal Kutiya, the dera of environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal. Just at the entrance of the gallery, famous artist Arpana Caur has brought in three pieces of art associated with Guru Nanak – replicas of his musical instrument ‘rabab’ which the guru’s follower Mardana used to play as he used to recite the bani, a hand holding a ‘mala’ used in prayers which is symbolic with the guru and the guru’s wooden footwear ‘Khadawan’.The three pieces of fine art have been made by chiselling pure white marble. The work has been done so perfectly that on touching the khadawan one can actually feel the contours of the feet. All three pieces have been decked up by placing marigold flowers around them.Says Gurwinder Boparai from Baba Seechewal’s team: “These solid pieces of art have been donated by the artist. She said she had got them designed from craftsmen of Rajasthan. She had planned to donate them at the time of the 550th Parkash Purb programme, but it took a lot of time to achieve that perfection level. So few days back, these art pieces were delivered to us”.The Seechewal team had two years back set up Gurdwara Gurparkash Sahib in the Nirmal Kutiya compound at the basement of which the art gallery was planned to be set up. While the gurdwara, the seminar hall and a screen for showing documentaries has been ready for two years, the art gallery is slowly getting more pieces.“All the pieces that we require to be kept in the gallery are a bit expensive. So it is taking little time to set up. We are setting up various items here which are connected with the history of the first Guru. Various sculptures, paintings, scripts etc which depict his teachings including those based on his lines Pawan guru pani pita and So kyon manda aakhiye, jitt jamme raajan. We are also partly using this gallery to exhibit the works being done by Baba Seechewal for the upliftment of environment of this holy town,” said Boparai.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/parkash-purb-artist-donates-3-art-pieces-for-holy-town-sultanpur-lodhi-339929
