22-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||60 oxygen cylinders at Jalandhar Civil Hospital, but no fire safety plans in place||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 21While the DC’s recent letter calling for fire safety audits, specifically flagged oxygen cylinders and supply pipelines in hospitals as one of the sources for potential fire disasters — the ground reality across medical establishments is pretty sordid.Deputy Commissioner had already flagged the challengesIn his initial letter written on November 9 to the Civil Surgeon, the DC had directed: “It is instructed that a fire safety audit be conducted at all government and private hospitals in Jalandhar to assess safety risks at these facilities and mitigate them at the earliest. Unprotected live electrical points, oxygen cylinders and oxygen supply pipelines among others, are all sources of potential disasters. Given the increase in oxygen shortage and usage in hospitals due to Covid-19 pandemic, the risk associated with fire incidents has increased manifold. As such quick identification of such weak points and remedial actions are of utmost importance.”A visit to the largest government oxygen plant in the district — Civil Hospital — confirmed the fears of gross negligence with regard to fire safety measures. A survey of the area revealed a gross lack of fire safety arrangements and an invitation to potential disaster around the unit. While the district presently has three government and 10 private hospitals with oxygen plants, sources in the Fire Department said most establishments did not consider oxygen plants, oxygen cylinders or their storage areas as areas particularly vulnerable to fire hazards.Of the oxygen producing units in district, the Jalandhar Civil Hospital has the largest oxygen plant. Sources in the Fire Department said medical establishments already do just the bare minimum to ensure the fire safety; Oxygen plants are not even on the priority list of areas for top fire safety upgrades.Barring one big fire extinguishing cylinder, there is nothing in the name of fire safety arrangements outside the PSA oxygen plant of the Civil Hospital, Jalandhar. While the plant generates 130 oxygen cylinders daily, the main plant had one fire extinguisher. However, the entire passage, which was seen housing at least 60 oxygen cylinders right outside the plant did not have a single fire safety hydrant or extinguisher.A passage right by the stairway near the ground floor OPD of the Civil Hospital leads to a back lane which houses the oxygen plant at the Civil Hospital. The oxygen cylinders are stored in a passage under a shed without fire hydrants, hoses, doors or windows! A curtain serves as the only partition/door/entryway in the area.A no entry sign to the passage where oxygen cylinders are stored lay fallen when The Tribune visited. A big room houses the compressors and the huge cylinder manufacturing and storing oxygen produced at the Civil Hospital. Right by the unit - smaller concrete compartments store generators, pumps and other equipment. In the passage that connects the plant to the civil hospital building — oxygen cylinders are kept on one side and pipeline circuitry marks the passage on the other. The area also has potentially hazardous network of wires, cylinders, compressors, generators among other equipment. This entire area has only one little oxygen cylinder - the one housed within the main room of the plant.The fire hydrant within the Civil Hospital is at least 20 to 30 yards away from the oxygen storage area and plant It has already been a long time since a mock drill or an audit has been conducted at the Civil Hospital - there is no way to tell if the CH fire hydrant works either.Assistant Divisional Fire Officer, Jalandhar, Jaswant Singh, said, “In the district-wise audits which are to be conducted onwards, fire safety audits of the oxygen generating units will also be conducted. Oxygen storage and manufacturing areas are on the priority list in terms of fire safety measures.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/60-oxygen-cylinders-at-jalandhar-civil-hospital-but-no-fire-safety-plans-in-place-341383
22-11-2021||---||Four new cases in Jalandhar district||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 21Four new Covid cases were reported from Jalandhar on Sunday, taking the district tally to 63,462 cases. With no new Covid death today, the deceased tally remained at 497. As many as 61,932 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 33. Of the 18,05,878 samples collected in the district, so far, 16,71,172 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,009 samples is awaited.Meanwhile, no new case of Covid was reported positive in Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained at 17,865. No death was also recorded at Kapurthala today either.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/four-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-341384
22-11-2021||---||Pay Rs 21.48L dues to project manager of city bus, Jalandhar MC told||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 21Passing speaking orders in a matter pertaining to a civil writ petition filed by Sushil Kumar, who was the project manager of the now defunct Jalandhar City Transport Services Ltd (JCTSL), Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar has directed Director JCTSL-cum-Commissioner Municipal Corporation to pay him dues to the tune of Rs21.48 lakh. The DC has also directed him for initiating strict disciplinary action against the delinquent officials responsible for the lapse for over six years.Sushil Kumar had prayed for the release of his salary and allowances from June 2015 to December 2019 along with interest and gratuity. The MC Commissioner, too, has agreed to pay him an amount of Rs 18.89 lakh on account of salary and allowances from July 2015 to November 16, 2018 and gratuity of Rs 2.59 lakh from June 2008 to November 2018, totalling to an amount of Rs 21.48 lakh. In his report, he had said that the applicant neither attended the office nor worked for JCTSL from November 17, 2018 to November 2019 up to the date of his resignation. Therefore the payment for this period could not be released to him.It was also observed that the matter had been inordinately been delayed at different levels by not putting up the representation of the applicant, which was a grave negligence and disciplinary action was required to be taken against the officials responsible for the lapse.In the CWP titled ‘Sushil Kumar v/s M/s Jalandhar City Transport Services Limited’, the court had on August 19 passed orders to the respondents to consider the legal notice of the applicant dated January 2, 2020 and decide it by passing a speaking order within a period of one month from date of receipt of certified copy of the order. The Deputy Commissioner, who is also the Chairman of the company, finally passed the orders five days back.The applicant had pleaded that he had joined the company as Office Assistant in 2008 and he was promoted as the Project Manager on account of his performance in May 2011. He was drawing Rs 45,000 in addition to Rs 1,000 as conveyance charges and Rs 600 as mobile expenses. He said he was made to work without pay for a long time owing to which he suffered financially and psychologically. Finally, the order was passed after the Deputy Comptroller of Finance and Audit Sandeep Kumar put up all the facts before the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pay-rs-21-48l-dues-to-project-manager-of-city-bus-jalandhar-mc-told-341385
22-11-2021||Jalandhar||Teachers to protest outside Pargat Singh’s house on Nov 23, 24||Despite assurances by Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, the Unemployed TET Pass B.Ed Teachers Union is again planning to hold a protest outside the minister’s home on November 23. Similar protest is planned by The Meritorious School Teachers Union on November 24 outside Pargat’s residence.Teachers said the minister had assured them that their demand for release of advertisements would be met soon in a meeting on November 17.They said if the advertisement isn’t released by November 23 morning, they will again gherao the minister’s house on the said date.Teachers such as Munish Fazilka and Jaswant Ghubaya have been on protest since November 28 in Jalandhar while several teachers also remain on hunger strike in support of their demands.Meanwhile, teachers of the meritorious schools of the state along with their families;will gherao the residence of Cabinet minister Pargat Singh on November 24, the declaration was made in a meeting of the Meritorious School Teachers Union after which they decided to gherao the education minister’s residence on November 24 in support of their long pending demand for regularisation. Teachers said they had been demanding for years that they be regularised as per a 2018 notification released by the state government. Teachers said while 10 meritorious schools had been made in the state to raise the level of education and make it accessible to the talented and meritorious poor students, the teachers of the same schools were being ignored. Teachers said of the teachers across 10 merit schools in the state - about 260 teachers who had M.Phil, UGC, NET Phd. cleared were also teaching on contractual jobs for the past seven years.Teachers said the issue regarding their regularisation was also raised in a meeting with education minister, DPI and education secretary on October 12 and their demand was acknowledged to be valid. Despite this it has not been addressed therefore they had decided to hold the protest on November 23 to raise their demands. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-to-protest-outside-pargat-singhs-house-on-nov-23-24-341386
22-11-2021||---||Stolen cycles recovered, accused held||Jalandhar, November 21The police division No. 2 cops have arrested the accused who carried out the incidents of cycle theft in the city. The accused has been identified as Rishi Kumar, alias Rambo, a resident of the Bhargava Camp.Police station in-charge Ajaib Singh Aujla said Sub-Inspector Balwinder Kumar was patrolling the area during which he received an information that the accused had hidden the stolen cycles in an empty plot near the Gandhi Vinita Ashram.Following this, a raid was conducted in the area and the accused was traced. As per the sources, the accused is popular as Rambo and several cases have been registered against him in the past.He was arrested today with five bicycles. A case has been registered against him.In another incident, the cops at Jandusingha police chowki, falling under Adampur police station today arrested an accused with intoxicants and banned capsules. Station incharge, Harjinder Singh said the search party was at Haripur village, when the police Sukhwinder Singh, alias, Sukkha, a resident of Leshadiwal village was held with 207 drug pills. The cops have registered a case against the accused under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/stolen-cycles-recovered-accused-held-341387
22-11-2021||Pollution leading to severe health problems||Open House:  What should be done to check rising air pollution?||It’s axiomatic that this season, which is full of festivals, is also marked by public health problems such as bronchitis, asthma and heart diseases. No single entity is to be blamed for this sorry state of affairs. In fact, the culprits include people, police and government. Smog, a combination of smoke and fog, engulfs the whole atmosphere and surroundings. The elderly and the patients are the worst sufferers. It is appalling that Delhi Government blames Punjab farmers for air pollution in their state. The Supreme Court has rightly castigated the Delhi Government for the same and asked them to keep their own house in order. Keeping that aside, we should also keep our own house in order. The Punjab Government should subsidise farmers during harvesting of paddy season so that they don’t burn stubble but mow it with available machinery to later use it as manure for the next season crop. Though all festivals are worth celebrating, burning firecrackers should be strictly controlled, even prohibited during Diwali. Not only air pollution, but also noise pollution is a worrying factor. They disturb sleep and can even cause high blood pressure and hypertension.Dr JS WadhwaCrackers still making their presence feltDespite educating farmers not to burn stubble, few of them have not acceded to the request and burnt stubble, causing thick smog and deteriorating the air quality. Sharing my personal experience, I have been taking medicines due to breathing issues caused by deteriorating air quality. The government also is more concerned about revenue generated from the sale of fire crackers. Even though the administration had specified the timings for bursting of crackers, the overenthusiastic masses did not care about the appeal and went on burning crackers even up to midnight. Other reasons for pollution are emission from vehicles, industry and felling of number of trees for expanding the National Highways. Because of air pollution, patients of bronchitis and asthma have to suffer a lot. Unless we all stand united to curb the menace of pollution, no positive outcome can be expected.Rajat Kumar MohindruFailed to learn lessons from CovidEvery year, Diwali and stubble burning come almost at the same time. It becomes a double whammy for people and adds to their woes and makes it difficult for them to breathe. Hospitals are flooded with people having breathing problems. Air quality is poor. It is not a new thing, we have to bear. We have not learnt anything from Covid, people are already struggling with lungs infection and poor air quality has worsened their situation. I am still wondering why cracker factories are there, what purpose they solve. If these should be shut permanently, from where will the people buy crackers? On the other hand, farmers are burning stubble to protest against the government to meet their demands. Shutting down schools and other activities is no solution. Atleast for the time being, we should go for carpools and public transport to save and improve the air quality. Stop burning leaves, trash and other materials to improve the air quality. Go for an air purifier if you can afford it, close the windows to avoid outdoor air and avoid outdoor exercise, and stay inside as much as possible.SHASHI KIRANPersuasion and tech upgrade can helpAt the onset of winter, Air Quality Index starts depleting continuously and reaches dangerous level across Delhi and its surrounding areas around Diwali. The causes of this environment degradation are many but the burning of crop residue left in the fields in the neighbouring states is much in debate for the past few years. It is a fact that in the process of producing more food grains, there is a colossal increase in biomass residue. Upon harvest, farmers set the stubble on fire for readying the soil for transplantation of the next crop as it takes long time for decomposing it in the fields otherwise. Besides, vehicular emissions and indiscriminate firing of crackers on Diwali badly affects the AQI, causing serious health hazards such as bronchitis and heart-related ailments to many. The visibility on the roads gets impaired due to the emergence of thick smog all around, and consequently serious accidents occur at many places. Taking note of the issue, NGT and PCBs have issued several instructions for environment managing, which includes forewarning people to follow the suggested measures scrupulously as well as heavy penalties against violations, but the problem goes on escalating year by year. The situation has turned so grievous that the Supreme Court had to intervene and direct the states to address the matter according top priority. Meanwhile, schools in Delhi & NCR have been shut till air quality improves. Post Diwali, sudden spike in number of Covid cases reported at various hospitals is a cause of big worry as our economy and the people in general have already suffered a lot. While humans are still battling with the deadly virus, the experts apprehend that current adverse situation may not end up in resurgence of the disease again. It is, therefore the responsibility of each one of us to be extra conscious to keep our water and air in its pure form so as to lead a disease-free life and protect other living organisms as well. Although, rising pollution is of worldwide concern before the global leaders. Among the various measures, use of toxic chemicals, unspecified chimneys and untreated flow of harmful affluent into water reservoirs be strictly prohibited. For early decomposition of bio-waste to avoid burning, technology be made available to farmers at an affordable cost in abundance. Further, to make good use of agricultural organic residue, scientists should be promptly engaged to invent alternatives while industrial pollution has to be curbed by incentives such as subsidies and carbon credit etc. As regards the vehicular pollution, congestion on roads and busy markets during peak hours ought to be monitored and properly channelised to control emissions. Construction activity be allowed only upon complying with the laid down norms. Regular persuasion mantra as well as technology upgrade and improvising city infra can do wonders. Obviously, air pollution has to be contained by all means!Nirmaljit Singh ChatrathProvide farmers with sound solutionIncreasingly concerned over the worsening air quality in Northern India, Jalandhar Tribune has been repeatedly seeking suggestions from the residents for checking pollution. In turn, the residents have always come out with multiple remedial measures. But despite intervention by various government pollution control agencies and the SC, the problem goes on unabated, becoming more and more complex with each passing year. The crux of the matter is that we, the government and the public at large, are not serious about the issue, courtesy lack of visionary leadership, strong political will, efficient legal framework and personal self-restraint and discipline. Closing educational institutions, shutting down industrial units and implementing work from home are only emergency solutions. Like China, the US and Mexico, we should focus on a comprehensive, integrated and long-term plan of action involving all stakeholders. Compared to industrial smoke, construction activities, power plants run with coal, brick kilns, vehicular traffic etc, it is the farm fires and indiscriminate bursting of traditional fire crackers on Diwali that bear the major blame for air pollution. But there is still utter confusion about the percentage of air pollution created by paddy residue burning. In the absence of proper stubble management facilities, farmers have been compelled to take this high-risk recourse. The government should liberally help farmers prepare their fields for the next crop. It should enhance public awareness, frame and implement stringent laws against farm fires and ban the manufacture and bursting of traditional fire crackers to tackle the appalling situation.Tajpreet S KangGovt measures not up to the markThere has been a sudden surge in farm fires cases since Diwali and also the stubble burning by farmers. There are many reasons for this. Some of the prime reasons are the straw management not being up to the mark. The subsidy paid by government is not fully sufficient so that each and every farmer could afford proper machines, above all people had been bursting crackers recklessly which led to large scale pollution. Also, people did not follow norms imposed by the government as the government had imposed a restriction for the timings of bursting crackers. This has resulted in smog in the atmosphere which could turn out to be problematic for people and could also worsen the air quality too (which is on the higher side). The government could take a ton of precautionary steps such as imposing a ban on stubble burning and imposing fines so that farmers don’t burn stubble, the government can also publish posters and other means of communication for spreading awareness.Sanidhya BhaskarVehicular emissions also to blameThough Jalandhar administration was fully aware of the problem of air pollution before Diwali and even blanket ban on bursting firecrackers was announced, unfortunately no follow-up action plan for enforcement was in place. The most intriguing was the fact that not even a single FIR was filed against the blatant violators anywhere in the city, a message wrongly received by the people who continued indulging in bursting firecrackers even after Diwali. Now, since the stubble burning is at the peak and such incidents are reported more than the numbers of last year, the problem has multiplied precariously to the extent that it has culminated into a severest health hazard besides being nightmare for those suffering from breathing and heart diseases. Of late, issue of farm fires which are substantially contributing to air pollution, is being politicized due to ensuing state election early next year, there is least left to be done by the local administration. However, what the local administration can do is to prevent the incidents of garbage burning and unauthorised cutting of trees at the public places. The violators and delinquent officials need to be punished to ensure zero tolerance. Since a significant chunk of air pollution comes from vehicular emissions and dust particles resulting from construction activities, there is much scope for local administration to take effective measures to minimise the incidence. Needless to add that spreading public awareness about the value of clean and healthy environment through checking all pollutants must be a coercive and regular phenomenon of the administration.Jagdish ChanderLure farmers with monetary incentivesThe constantly deteriorating level of air quality index (AQI) has raised a serious national concern. Not only the Delhi-NCR region and its surrounding areas, the industrial cities of Punjab, including Jalandhar, have also experienced a choked atmosphere during the last few days. Rather than the industry, transport, construction work, dust, coal power plants and households, paddy stubble burning and bursting of fire crackers on Diwali are primarily held responsible for the mess. From time to time, environmentalists and health experts have been expressing their anguish over increasing pollution that has a debilitating impact on human health, ecology and economy. Despite directions from the NGT, PCB and the apex court, and launching of awareness campaigns by government agencies and civil society organisations, nothing constructive has been undertaken so far to reduce it. The state government has reportedly spent a huge amount of money on machinery for in situ and ex situ stubble management but it has not benefited the hapless small and marginalised farmers who are left with no choice but to burn their crop residue. The government must give monetary incentives to restrain farmers from doing so. The authorities must enforce laws strictly to rein in the alleged violators. Instead of indulging in a political slugfest over this challenging issue, parties should rise above petty electoral mileage and cooperate with the ruling dispensation to find out a tangible solution to the vexing problem. Hopefully, after the fresh Supreme Court directions to the Centre and the concerned state governments, a meaningful executive action will be taken to ensure that future generations breathe in a cleaner air.D S KangPromote e-autos, reduce traffic snarlsEnvironmental pollution is a global problem and has to be tackled urgently. At the national level, our indifference to the problem can be seen from the very fact that most of our power plants are coal-based. Efforts must continue to create awareness regarding the dangers of bursting crackers and farm fires. Electric auto-rickshaws should be encouraged by giving subsidy and/or zero-interest credit. Another major air pollutant is frequent traffic jams. It can be tackled by providing quality and encroachment-free roads/lanes with an adequate deployment of well-trained traffic police. During the peak hours no heavy commercial vehicles should be allowed entry into the cities/towns. There should be no entry for four-wheelers in crowded bazaars. Instead of one big ISBT at city centre, there should be three small bus stands on the three main entry points to the city and these could be connected to the metro bus service. Citizens too should show responsibility in the effort. With a collective will, the air quality can certainly be improved.HL SharmaQUESTIONNow that the PM has announced withdrawal of the three contentious farm laws, farmers’ unions have refused to end their protest and vacate the protest sites. Are farmers right in continuing with their protest and waiting for the actual follow-up of the decision and for their other demands, including legal protection of MSP, to be met?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 25)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-what-should-be-done-to-check-rising-air-pollution-341388
22-11-2021||Jalandhar||Workshop on handwriting skills||Cooking competition organisedKanya Maha Vidyalaya students participated in a cooking competition organised by Pushpa Gujral Science City, Kapurthala. During the competition, students of BVoc. (Nutrition, Exercise and Health) named Arshdeep and Akshita with their very creative presentation secured the second position and was also rewarded with a cash amount of Rs 3,000. Principal Prof Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi congratulated the students. She lauded the efforts of Dr Gopi Sharma, Director, Skill Development Centre, and all the faculty members of BVoc (Nutrition, Exercise & Health) for imparting proper guidance to the students.Kartar Singh Sarabha rememberedPaying tribute to iconic freedom fighter Kartar Singh Sarabha on his 106th martyrdom day, the History Association of PCM SD College for Women organised a paper reading contest, thus contributing to the year-long series of events to mark Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. The topic of the contest was ‘Punjabi Sikh Revolutionary Kartar Singh Sarabha’. In this competition, students from different streams participated enthusiastically. The judges of the competition were Ujla Dada Joshi, Head of the Department of English and Dr Neelam Gupta, Head of the Department of Sanskrit. Manisha of BA Semester III stood first, Umang of B.A Semester V won second prize and Simran of BA Semester III secured the third position.Moot Court CompetitionCT Institute of Law organised a moot court competition as a part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, under Pan India Awareness and Outreach Programme. Total nine teams participated in it including three participants (two mooters and one researcher). Advocate Sandeep Singh Sangha, Secretary District Bar Association, Advocates Ravneet Singh and Jagmohan Singh Gill attended the inaugural function as the chief guests and judges. Ashmeen, Vishali and Deepak of BCom, LLB. 9th semester remained the winners, whereas Muntaha , Neha and Manpreet of BA,LLB. & B.Com,LL.B. semester 9th were the first runners up and Jasmine, Arshdeep and Vivek of BA,LLB & B.Com, LL.B. semester 9th were declared as 2nd runner up. Advocate Sangha stated that it is a privilege to be part of the various awareness and outreach programmers conducted by the Punjab State Legal Services Authority.Tribute to Lala Lajpat RaiUnder the guidance of the school management and Principal Neeru Nayyar, entire fraternity of Shiv Jyoti Public School paid rich tribute to Punjab Kesari Lala Lajpat Rai ji on his martyrdom day. A special morning assembly was conducted and students of Class VIII delivered the speech on his contribution towards freedom struggle of nation. A presentation in the form of PPT prepared by students of Class VIII. Taniya , Haritika and Jiya Jasmine of Class VII was shown to the students of Classes 1st to 12th.The activity was performed under the supervision of the Housemaster of Kirti House Nirmal Singh and co-associate teachers Neelam Sharma and Simmi Grover. On this day, entire staff and students contributed for charity to Gulab Devi Hospital as a mark of respect to the great martyr.Seminar on PhotographyThe PG Department of Computer Science and IT of Lyallpur Khalsa College conducted a photography seminar where over 98 students participated and were introduced to the latest techniques and aspects of photography and production. The children were addressed by Suraj Dogra, an expert in photography and cinematography, and Vishal Sabharwal, Production Executive. In this function Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra told the students that photography is an important need of today’s time and students should learn this kind of technique. The Head of the Department of Computer Science and IT, Dr Manohar Singh, said that students should participate in such sessions which enhance their knowledge.Workshop on storytellingThe PG Department of Mass Communication and Video Production of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised a one-day workshop on “Storytelling” on the occasion of the third anniversary of Radio Awaaz under the guidance of Principal Prof Dr Ajay Sareen. Renowned media personality Gurvinder Singh was the resource person of the workshop. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen welcomed him and congratulated the department for third anniversary of Radio Awaaz. During the workshop, Gurvinder Singh said that radio has played a large role in the popularising the art of story telling. He further said being an intimate medium radio has always been able to connect with the listeners. Good stories have the power to transform our perception of the world. He made this workshop all the more lively by presenting some of the part of stories live. He stressed upon voice modulation and sound effects too. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-on-handwriting-skills-341389
22-11-2021||Jalandhar||Jalandhar district selected for regional meet||Vijay Mashaal flagged offJalandhar: The sanctified Swarnim Vijay Mashaal was flagged off on Saturday from the precincts of Siramani Brigade in a ceremony held at Jalandhar Military Station on its onward journey towards the Rising Star Corps. During the course of last few months, the Victory Mashaal has traversed 1,250 kms along the Punjab frontiers, visiting nine battle zones of Vajra Corps. Befitting felicitation ceremonies and ceremonial functions were organised to honour the 1971 war veterans, veer naris and martyrs at the military stations of the Golden Arrow and Panther Divisions during the course of the journey of the Mashaal through the Vajra Corps Zone. TNS102 units donated in blood campTalwara: A mega blood donation camp was organised by Shiv Shivay Welfare Society and Blood Machine Welfare Society, Mukerian, at Kali Mata Mandir in Talwara Town. As the chief guest in this camp, Ranveer Singh Arora, Managing Director of E-Planet Company, participated in this camp, Vikas Goga, member of Nagar Panchayat Talwara, was also specially present and praised the work of the society. He said the youth should come forward to donate blood so that there is no shortage of blood in hospitals and if a person dies due to lack of blood, then it will be unfortunate for us. As many as 102 youth donated blood in the camp. The blood collected in the camp was given to the Civil Hospital Blood Bank Mukerian and Satyam Blood Bank, Jalandhar. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-selected-for-regional-meet-341390
