23-11-2021||---||Jalandhar ranks 161st, slips 42 notches||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22After improving its ranking in previous Swachh Survekshan (cleanliness survey), Jalandhar has again slipped in the rankings by 42 notches. As per the latest Swachh Survekshan 2021, Jalandhar secured 161st rank. It was placed at 119th rank last year.The city is producing as much as 500 tonnes of waste daily, which is taken to a 14-acre site at Wariana. In 40 years, the site now has nearly 8 lakh cubic waste and huge mounds of garbage can be spotted from a distance. A tender to the tune of Rs40 crore had been cleared, but nothing has happened on ground. Parameters for cleanliness rankingWe started with file work for bio-mining project three years back. Various approvals were required from time to time and it finally got sanctioned this year after the survey had been done. So, we could not get the marks on this account. Civil work in the will start in 15-20 days.—  Karnesh Sharma, MC CommissionerThe fall in ranking shows that the present Congress-led MC House team has no intention to perform well. The Centre has been doling out huge funds under the mission but MC authorities have not been able to use these doles aptly. —  Sushil Sharma, BJP CouncillorTo my mind, the rank has fallen as the MC officials failed to do proper publicity of the need to do waste segregation at source. Advertisements were put up but no ground work has been done for a long time. So implementation is zero.  — Pankaj Mehta, ActivistWith this, the cleanliness performance of the city has also dipped in the state. It was fourth cleanest city in the state last year after Bathinda, Patiala and Ferozepur, but this year Jalandhar bagged 10th spot out of 14 major cities.With 80 wards, the overall score of the city remained 2802.45 out of 6,000 in the Swachh Survekshan results. The 2021 survey results came as a shock to the Jalandhar Municipal Corporation as cities like Abohar (105), Pathankot (106), Barnala (129), Ferozepur (136) and Moga (100) are far ahead in terms of cleanliness.In the last survey, the city had improved its rank by securing 119th position since its previous three performances at 166th in 2019, 214th in 2018 and 233rd in 2017. The fallen back rank and the survey report indicate towards lapses in the waste management, pollution, open defecation and poor lifting of garbage.Even as tall promises are being made to the people, the plant for waste management has not come up in the city despite proposals being made for over a decade now. Neither the concrete waste management plant has been commissioned nor is there any trace of bio-mining plant in the city which was to come up at Wariana village.The Jalandhar Municipal Corporation topped in the paperwork, but on ground the garbage is piling up in the city. Machinery worth crores of rupees have been purchased which is getting rusted in its workshop.Pit compositing alsonot much successfulThe MC had started a project on pit compositing and was to go ahead with its plans to set up nearly 640 pits, but only 200 could be set up. Wherever these pits were created, the residents have had an issue and proper work to make manure and sell it could not be done.Another hurdle in the project is that so far no waste segregation at source is being done and the dry and wet waste are being carried in the same cart by the garbage pickers. No education and trainings have been imparted to the residents for the past over two years. While earlier two bins for waste disposal had been distributed in some wards and demonstrations too had been held to show them the segregation process, but it remains forgotten now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-ranks-161st-slips-42-notches-341772
23-11-2021||---||No vaccination, no salary, orders Hoshiarpur DC||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, November 22Hoshiarpur Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait on Monday directed officials of all government departments in the district to ensure 100 per cent Covid-19 vaccination of all government employees whether they are regular or contractual or on outsourced basis. The DC said salaries of those employees or officials, who have not got themselves vaccinated, will also be withheld for which instructions were being given in writing to the District Treasury Officer.She was addressing a meeting of the District Task Force on Covid-19 vaccination at the district administrative complex here today. During the meeting, the DC directed the heads of all departments to ensure that the Covid-19 immunisation certificates of all employees working in his office be forwarded to the office of the Additional Deputy Commissioner by Wednesday and mention the number of first and second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines administered to the employees.She said it was important to get both doses of vaccines, so each and every one should the second dose administered and motivate others as well. He said if any health problem of an employee prevents him from getting vaccinated, then he should submit a doctor’s certificate for it. Such certificates would be checked by a panel of doctors and appropriate action would be taken.The DC said so far 16,42,857 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to the beneficiaries in the district, including 10,15,668 first and 6,27,189 second doses.So far 85 per cent eligible beneficiaries have taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and 53 per cent beneficiaries have taken the second dose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/no-vaccination-no-salary-orders-hoshiarpur-dc-341773
23-11-2021||---||3 fresh Covid cases in Doaba||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22The Doaba region recorded three new cases of Covid, all of them coming from Jalandhar. There was not even a single case of Covid from Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr. Today, six patients completed their quarantine in Jalandhar, four in Kapurthala and two in Hoshiarpur. With this, the number of active cases now stands at 28 in Jalandhar, 25 in Hoshiarpur, four in Kapurthala and nil in Nawanshahr. The only issue of concern is that one previous patient from Hoshiarpur got serious and had to be shifted to the ICU. Despite nil cases today, Nawanshahr tested 265 samples, Kapurthala tested 516 samples and Hoshiarpur teams took 341 samples.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-fresh-covid-cases-in-doaba-341774
23-11-2021||Jalandhar||Youth shoots self, drives to hospital||In an unusual incident, a youth in mid 20s shot himself on Monday and then drove to a private hospital to take treatment. The incident of firing came to light around 12 noon today, when the youth reached the emergency ward of Sanjeevani hospital.He took the extreme step after a girl refused to accept his marriage proposal. Studying in a city-based college here, the girl was being pressurised by the boy to accept his proposal. Before shooting self, he had also gone to her hostel.The name of the youth is Amarinder Singh, who is a resident of Ferozepur. It is said despite having a bullet wound; youth himself drove the car to the hospital.The youth had also reached the girl’s hostel yesterday to meet her, but the girl refused to meet him and get married. After this, the young man shot himself in the chest. A team of doctors operated him and removed the bullet.Sub Inspector Sewa Singh said the 21-year-old youth used his father's licensed revolver to shoot himself. A case has been registered against him and his father under Section 309 of IPC and 25/27/30/59 of the Arms Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-shoots-self-drives-to-hospital-341776
23-11-2021||---||Kuldip Singh Wadala’s portrait to come up at Golden Temple museum||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22As a mark of respect for his tireless efforts on getting the Kartarpur corridor opened, it has now been decided that the portrait of Jathedar Kuldip Singh Wadala, ex-general secretary of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, will be installed in the museum of the Golden Temple in Amritsar on November 25.Wadala’s son and Nakodar MLA Gurpartap Wadala shared the information this evening. “My family and I have been invited to attend the ceremony by the manager of the gurdwara committee. It gives me a great sense of pride and honour to be the son of such a huge stalwart. I am deeply thankful to the gurdwara committee for giving my father the due respect”, he said.A veteran Akali leader, Kuldip Singh Wadala had passed away in June 2018. A road leading from Dera Baba Nanak to the Indian side of the Kartarpur corridor has already been named after him by the state government to give him credit for his endless efforts.In 1999, Kuldip Singh Wadala had started to mobilise masses to raise the demand for the opening of the corridor for the darshan of the Darbar Sahib in Kartarpur. He had been performing prayers every month on no moon day (amavasya) for the construction of the corridor. To achieve the goal, he had also instituted a religious organisation, comprising Sikh and Hindu leaders, which he had named Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib Darshan Abhilashi Sanstha. Before he passed away, his organisation had already performed prayers 224 times at Dera Baba Nanak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kuldip-singh-wadalas-portrait-to-come-up-at-golden-temple-museum-341777
23-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmer dies in road mishap on Jalandhar-Jammu National Highway, couple injured||Tanda Urmar, November 22A farmer got killed in a road accident on Jalandhar-Jammu National Highway on Monday morning near Cholang. On the basis of the statement of Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Jahura village, the Tanda police have registered a case against an unidentified driver of a Baleno car. Kuldeep is the uncle of Jagmohan Singh (pic) who died in the accident. He told the police that when he, along with his nephew, was returning to Tanda on separate motorcycles from a dharna site at Cholang toll plaza near Saini Palace, a Baleno car hit another car ahead of him which went out of control and rammed into his nephew’s motorcycle. The deceased fell on the road and died on the spot. The couple in the car, Amit Kumar, a resident of Ludhiana and his wife Ramanpreet Kaur, also got injured. The injured were admitted to the government hospital in Tanda.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/farmer-dies-in-road-mishap-on-jalandhar-jammu-national-highway-couple-injured-341778
23-11-2021||---||She owns a garden for all seasons||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22Residing on the second floor of a flat with not much sprawling space to grow plants does not deter Harleen Gulria from pursuing her passion for gardening.Her abode at Green Model Town has more than 120 potted plants ranging from medicinal herbs to organically grown vegetables and several seasonal flowers. As the winter has set in, her pansies, marigolds, chrysanthemums have already started blooming. “When I come out in my balcony and stand amid these flowers to sit in my cup of tea every morning and evening, I really enjoy the fragrance of these flowers. It is so refreshing,” she quips.Serving as Deputy Director at Innocent Hearts School, she says that she enjoys spending her evenings and Sundays to repot the plants, sow new seeds, and shift them around for a better arrangement. “Since both my daughters are married and busy with their own lives, gardening has become my favourite time pass. I have been keeping plants for more than 15 years but I have increased the number more recently. I am also up cycling all those items in the house which can be used as planters starting from curd pots, bottles, disposable ice cream buckets, bath tubs and even steel utensils,” she tells.Gulria shared, “I know which plants can be regenerated from twigs and which ones from roots, seeds etc. I keep on multiplying them and even share them with my friends whenever they want a similar variety. My tulsi, mint and curry leaves are doing really well. My hibiscus shrubs with a variety of different colours have always been the main attraction. I have some permanently growing bushes and shrubs but it is the seasonal flowers which give me more joy. I am especially fond of winter flowers and waiting to see my dahlias, sweet peas and dog flowers to bloom as well as the winter progresses.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/she-owns-a-garden-for-all-seasons-341779
23-11-2021||---||Jalandhar district administration to run anti-drug campaign with Art of Living||JALANDHAR, NOVEMBER 22The district plans to run its anti-drug campaign by involving volunteers from NGO Art of Living.Participating in a video conference chaired by Director Information & Public Relations Sumeet Jarangal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Amarjit Bains said under Mission Red Sky, there are 520 drug-dependent youths and of them 58 were provided with job opportunities while 98 others have been taking skill development training. The remaining drug dependents would soon get job opportunities so as to bring them back in the mainstream, he added.Bains said as many as 23,000 volunteers have been enrolled by the administration in the district, who have been working in both urban and rural areas to spread awareness among masses against drug abuse and to protect youngsters from falling prey to drugs.Meanwhile, representatives from Art of Living also joined the video conference and shared their vision to carry out the anti-drug drive in partnership with the district administration to make Punjab a drug-free state. Representatives from various departments were also present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jalandhar-district-administration-to-run-anti-drug-campaign-with-art-of-living-341780
23-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||A communion of cultures||Under the ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ campaign, a cultural programme was organised under the joint aegis of BSF Wives Welfare Association, Subsidiary Training Centre, Border Security Force, Kharkan Camp and Baba Aughad Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Jaijon. During this programme, the new BSF constables from different states, clad in their traditional costumes, interacted and shared information about their culture, traditions and state with the students of the college and presented a beautiful cultural programme. Madhu Sudan Sharma, Inspector General and Jyotsna Sharma, President of BWWA, long with Avinash Rai Khanna, Former Rajya Sabha MP and president of Baba Aughad Trust, officers, subordinate officers and staff of the STC were present. Speaking on the occasion, Avinash Rai Khanna, while appreciating this effort of BSF and BWWA, lauded the contribution of the force and urged to continue such efforts in the future as well. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/a-communion-of-cultures-341781
23-11-2021||---||CT Institute holds 7-state food festival||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 22The CT Institute of Hotel Management organised a seven-state food festival to celebrate the festive season and spread the message of oneness. In this fest, students showcased food and culture of Jammu Kashmir, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala, West Bengal and Leh Ladakh.The students enjoyed typical dances and songs of different states on the other hand they relished Indian regional cuisine. Special exhibitions included monuments, archaeological objects, architectural designs, wildlife, landscapes, geological supremacies, antique acquirements, cultural and allied art and other dominances of different states of the country.Students from Kerala presented their culture and traditions along with the famous food — dosa and sambhar. Himachal students presented Hadimba Temple and Jatoli Temple and the regional food i.e. Kangri dham, babru and patrore. Students from West Bengal presented their traditional Dhunuchi dance and their traditional jhal muri, phuchka, cholar dal, ghee bhat and rosogulla. Jammu & Kashmir students served their traditional meal wazwan, students from Bihar presented Mahabodhi Temple and Jal Mandir and their famous food lithi chokha. Punjabi students presented their regional dance giddha and bhangra along with traditional food of Punjab i.e makki ki roti and sarson ka saag and the students from Leh Ladakh came up with House of Ladakh, Buddha temple and their traditional food — thukpa, suja, khamiri roti and mok-mok served with the traditional chutney.Awarding the participating students of CT Group Co-Chairperson Parminder Kaur Channi said such fests teach us emphatically what oneness, friendship, peaceful existence and bonds of togetherness are to exist peacefully in this world. These fests guide us to have a warm welcome for others’ peculiarities through such huge participations.”On the occasion, CT Group of Institutions Director Rahul Malhotra, Dean Academics Anupamdeep Sharma and Principal Baljit Kaur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ct-institute-holds-7-state-food-festival-341782
23-11-2021||Garhshankar||Naib Tehsildar among 4 held for taking bribe of Rs 13K||Joint Vigilance team of Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr today caught four persons red-handed with a bribe of Rs 13,000 taken from two persons to get their land registered. After the arrest, the Vigilance team arrested the Naib Tehsildar and took him to Hoshiarpur. It is being said Dharam Singh Rupowal, a resident of Ward No. 13 Mahilpur was asked for a bribe of Rs 6,500 by the Naib Tehsildar to get the registry of a plot done. A complaint in this regard was given to Vigilance Bureau, Hoshiarpur. Four persons have been arrested for taking the bribe. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/naib-tehsildar-among-4-held-for-taking-bribe-of-rs-13k-341783
23-11-2021||Kamla Nehru Public School||School bags Microsoft Showcase Impact Award||district improves Swachhta rankingPhagwara Municipal Corporation (MC) was recently awarded Cleanliness Award by the Central Government at a function organised at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi. Phagwara performed better in the annual Swachh Survekshan (Cleanliness Survey) conducted by the Central Government by securing 13th spot this time as compared to 79 in the previous year. The Local MLAs also appreciated Phagwara MC officials on this feat. MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal said, Phagwara is the only city in the state that bagged this award in the Cleanliness Survey 2021.Community marriage function organisedIntending to help families belonging to underprivileged section, Phagwara-based NGO, Helping Hands, along with Punjab Radio, London, on Sunday organised a community marriage function. Girls belonging to poor families were wedded in the ceremony. NRIs and people belonging to various religious and socila organisation contributed to the noble cause. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/school-bags-microsoft-showcase-impact-award-341784
23-11-2021||Jalandhar||National Trekking Camp||Zig-zag race at Eklavya SchoolA zig zag race was organised at Eklavya School with the hoisting of the flag followed by the school song. Chairman of Eklavya School JK Gupta lit the sacred flame of the games, which represented the endeavour for perfection and symbolised the light of spirit, knowledge and life. After the Chairman declared the meet open and released the mascot of the games ‘Hardy’ into the blue sky, the participants reaffirmed their pledge towards maintaining the true spirit of sportsmanship, integrity and fair play in the games. While the preprimary and primary sections enthralled the spectators with their skillful frog dance, umbrella dance, fan dance and yoga postures, the middle school displayed their dexterity in their football drill, lazium, and zumba and taekwondo skills.Humanity Olympiad-2021HMV Collegiate Senior Secondary School organised 7th International Humanity Olympiad-2021 to instil moral and humane values in the young students to make them mentally and emotionally empowered for the prosperity of the nation. The main objective of the Olympiad is to make the students do self introspection so that a sound character development takes place with high integrity. The Olympiad was organised in two levels. After scoring 90% in the first level, the students appeared in the second level held on August 28 and 29. They were asked questions about evolution of consciousness, social charity and social goodness so that spontaneous compassionate attitude and humanitarian approach can be imparted in their minds and hearts.Discipline Squad set upKanya Maha Vidyalaya organised an investiture ceremony of Discipline Squad and Cleanliness Cops. The initiative was done under the aegis of Student Welfare Department of the college. These committees have been established with the aim of inculcating the virtues of discipline in the students and motivating them to go ahead with hard work and dedication to achieve the goals in life as well as to ensure cleanliness of college campus and its surroundings and keeping the environment clean and green. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi explained to all the students about the importance of discipline in life and described it as the first step of success.World Toilet Day at dipsStudents were enlightened on cleanliness on World Toilet Day at DIPS School. Students made poster and expressed their views to point out the importance of toilet. It is estimated that about 4.5 billion people are lack of proper toilets. People compromise on basic amenities due to which food and water get polluted inviting many diseases. In India since ages people went outside to answer nature’s call. To bring an end to this practice, many movements have been started by government. Principal Sushma urged students to keep their surroundings clean otherwise there are consequences of dangerous diseases which affects social and economic development. Cleanliness is of prime concern and people should avoid going in the open.Outreach Campaign organisedNSS unit of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, in collaboration with DM Sudhir Kumar Tuteja organised an online lecture on PAN India Awareness and outreach Campaign themed Free Legal Aid under the direction of DPI colleges. On this occasion, Principal Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra lauded the effort as it is very important to provide such information to youngsters. Many times victims remain silent because of lack of knowledge about their legal rights and sometimes due to lack of funds. Chief guest and key note speaker DM Sudhir Kumar Tuteja explained the free legal aid concept and how to avail it in simple language.National Library Week celebratedIvy World School under the aegis of the Vasal Educational Society provided a platform to the Ivyians to honour National Library Week, 2021. Various activities were conducted to celebrate this week. The motive behind this was to enlighten the students with the valuable role of library, books and they do transform life. The students showed exuberant participation in various activities. During the week, the students donated and read various books. The activities promoted the idea that libraries extend far beyond the four walls of a building. Principal Sanjeev Chauhan applauded the efforts made by the students and also encouraged them to participate more in such activities.Workshop on Innovative BankingA workshop on “Innovative Banking” was organised by Economics Association of PCM S.D. College for Women for the postgraduate and undergraduate students of economics. The resource persons of the event were Sarita (Manager), Richa Gupta (I-T Officer), Nisha (Operations Officer) and Gurmeet from Bank of Baroda. While addressing the students, they informed about origin and need for banks and also explained various concepts and terms associated with banking like, credit score, KYC, etc. Students were provided with holistic view of the innovative banking methods like, internet banking, mobile banking, etc. and were also made aware of the various Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) options available to them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/national-trekking-camp-341786
23-11-2021||Nawanshahr||Rs 100-cr push for Banga today?||Youth killed in road accidentHoshiarpur: A youth was killed while another was injured in a collision between a motorcycle and a bus at Badesron village on Hoshiarpur road. Lakhveer Singh Lakha and Talwinder Kumar, both residents of Satnaur, were going from Garhshankar to Satnaur on Sunday late night. When they reached near Badesron village, their motorcycle collided with a bus of a private company parked on the roadside. In the accident, Lakhvir Singh Lakha died on the spot, while Talwinder Kumar was referred to the PGI after first aid. The police have registered a case against the unidentified bus driver. ocInmate flees from reform homeHoshiarpur: An inmate lodged at children’s reform home managed to flee by jumping from the roof of the building. The Sadar police station have registered a case against the accused and an employee of the institution. Superintendent Puneet Kumar has lodged a complaint with the police. He told that he had a phone call from House Father Ashok Kumar at around 9:35 in the morning. He informed him that when the attendance of inmates was being taken, one of the accused Chandan Kumar, a resident of Phagwara, jumped from the terrace and fled. He told that a case was registered against the absconding accused and house father under Ashok Kumar under Sections 222, 223 224 of the IPC. OCSix booked on assault chargeHoshiarpur: The Mahilpur police have registered a case against six persons, including three women, for allegedly molesting a girl and quarrelling with her family members. The complainant, a resident of Sakruli village, told the police that the accused, Budh Pal and Mangu, used to harass his daughter on her way to school. The accused had tendered an apology after a complaint was made to the village panchayat. However, the accused again molested her. Later, Nanna, Kanti, Kamlesh Kaur and Sonia, the relatives of the accused, allegedly quarrelled with her and family members, he added. After registering the case, the police have started an investigation. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/rs-100-cr-push-for-banga-today-341787
