24-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||1 arrested for ATM card fraud||Two booked for dowry harassmentHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked two persons, including the husband, for harassing a woman for dowry. Harpreet Kaur, a resident of village Talwandi Jattan, told the police that she was married to Maninder Kumar, a resident of Dashmesh Nagar. She said her husband, along with his aunt Manjeet Kaur, allegedly started harassing for dowry. The husband threw her out of the matrimonial house after the demand for dowry was not met. The police have registered a case against both the accused. OCWoman held with intoxicating pillsHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police have arrested a woman smuggler and seized a large quantity of banned pills. The accused has been identified as Mandeep Kaur, a resident of Denowal Khurd village. A case has been registered against her under various sections of the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/1-arrested-for-atm-card-fraud-342226
24-11-2021||Jalandhar||Fun, activity-based mathematics||Inter-class poetry competitionThe Punjabi Sahit Sabha of Postgraduate Punjabi Department of Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalaya organised an Inter-Class Poetry Recitation Competition in context of 75 years celebration of India’s Independence. Students from various streams and classes participated in the competition in all the three languages - English, Hindi & Punjabi. The topics of the poems were love for country, importance of relations, social evils, women sensitivity and environmental issues. Around 30 students participated in this competition. In Punjabi poetry, Kirti got the 1st prize, Simranjeet got 2nd prize and Charu got 3rd prize. In English poetry, Harpreet Kaur got 1st, Jyot Sifat got 2nd and Aashima got 3rd prize. In Hindi poetry, Sheetal got 1st, Aanchal got 2nd and Roohani got 3rd prize.Workshop on self-analysisKanya Maha Vidyalaya has introduced many innovative programmes at its campus of which one is on personality development. A workshop held on ‘Self Analysis, Self Confidence and SWOT Analysis’ was held. The resource persons for the workshop were Karandeep Gulati and Riteish. Karandeep highlighted the importance of developing a positive attitude to become successful in life. She also discussed about the peculiar problem of mental illness which is on a rise these days. She urged the students to open up, believe in themselves and also motivated them to accomplish their goals. Stressing on the importance of developing a strong personality, Riteish motivated the students to embark on a journey towards betterment and success. Principal Prof Atima Sharma Dwivedi averred that such workshops were beneficial for the growth of the students.DAV University holds e-conferenceDAV University organised an international e-conference on ‘Intellection, Innovation and Implication in Chemistry IIIC-2021’. Around 150 participants across the world were registered in this intellectual meet. Vice-Chancellor Dr Jasbir Rishi welcomed all distinguished speakers, faculty members, research scholars and delegates from various institutions. Dr KN Kaul, Registrar, introduced keynote speaker and renowned scientist Prof Hirotaka Ihara (President, National Institute of Technology, Okinawa College Japan) and congratulated the Department of Chemistry for this initiative. Dr RK Seth, Dean Academics, talked about the aim of this conference for expanding the possibilities in various fields of chemical sciences and focusing on accelerating the new advancements in the field of technology by utilising principles of chemistry. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/fun-activity-based-mathematics-342225
24-11-2021||---||NGO distributes sweaters to needy in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 23City-based NGO EduYouth Foundation (Regd) distributed sweaters among students of Guru Nanak Public School, Wariana, Jalandhar, under the campaign, ‘Free of cost sweaters to needy students.’ Prof Kanwar Sartaj Singh, president of NGO said, “Students are the future of the society and it is the moral duty of every citizen to put in their best efforts to facilitate students from needy families. Our NGO has been conducting various activities since last one year to serve the society in many ways. We will be distributing sweaters in some other schools also in the coming days. All volunteers are working tirelessly towards welfare of society.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ngo-distributes-sweaters-to-needy-in-jalandhar-342224
24-11-2021||---||Workshop dwells on mushroom cultivation||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 23An interdepartmental workshop-cum-hands-on-training on ‘Mushroom Cultivation’ was organised by the Department of Zoology and Botany of DAV College Jalandhar on Tuesday. The training was sponsored by DBT, Government of India. Two students of BSc (Medical III) Abhishek and Mehak delivered a presentation on mushroom cultivation.They had highlighted the nutritional and medicinal importance of mushrooms and also discussed in detail the procedure of mushroom cultivation, harvesting and marketing strategies. They also focused on the extra income generation by the agribusiness. Around 100 bags were packed and distributed to students, teaching and non-teaching staff of the college.Prof Salil Uppal appreciated the efforts of Head, Department of Zoology and all the students for organising an informational event in the college which is necessary for the skill development and practical exposure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/workshop-dwells-on-mushroom-cultivation-342223
24-11-2021||---||Cong delaying Bhogpur Sugar Mill project: Tinu||Jalandhar, November 23The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA from Adampur Pawan Tinu on Tuesday blamed the state government for delaying the Bhogpur Sugar Mill project. He said while the SAD government had already passed the sugar mill project worth Rs 102 crore in the Cabinet meetings during its rule and received bank-related clearances, the Congress government only delayed the project.“The sugar mill project was supposed to be completed in 2017, however the government only delayed it and when the elections are approaching. The Congress government is taking the credits for inaugurating the project. In addition, we also condemn the statements of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on announcing police action against the SAD MLA’s. The Congress leaders are now resorting to political vendetta to defame, Opposition leaders,” said Pawan Tinu.He further stated that it was SAD government that initiated developments in Adampur block. Apart from sugar mill project, we had developed factories in the region, ITI colleges and sewage projects. However, Channi led congress government in now taking the credits. Its been five year, no major development project was launched by Congress in Adampur.Addressing mediapersons, he also stated that the sugarcane growers in the state were debt-ridden and were upset with the sugarcane prices. It was only after the protest by the farmers, that the MSP on sugarcane was revised, which was still less than Haryana. Contrary to its promise, the government couldn’t offer the MSP at par with Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-delaying-bhogpur-sugar-mill-project-tinu-342222
24-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Lack of political will ruining industry, education in Punjab: Manish Sisodia||Hoshiarpur/Dasuya, Nov 23The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia interacted with various traders, businessmen, industrialists, educationists and teachers in Hoshiarpur and Dasuya. The interaction was aimed at understanding the needs, challenges and problems of the businessmen and the education system so that practical solutions can be provided to them. He said all traders and businessmen have many problems, but they also have the solutions. The only thing lacking is the political will. Sisodia said every trader, small and big, including industrialists and businessmen of Punjab, knows what their problem is and its solution, the government just has to listen to it.He said it was unfortunate that the politicians of Punjab not only neglected the industry, but also lost the trust of the people for strengthening the education system. He said before the AAP government in Delhi, the attitude of the people towards government schools was despondent, similar to that of Punjab. But, the AAP with its political will held meetings with academicians and teachers, found solutions and implemented the policy of solution and today the government schools of Delhi were at such a stage that their example was being given in the country and abroad.Sisodia alleged that the political interference was ruining the industry of Punjab as firstly the leaders ask for their share and then the inspectors ask for commission. “Unless traders, businessmen and industry do not get exemptions and facilities, by that time neither employment will increase nor any state or country can progress”, said the AAP leader.Sisodia said the much fraud takes place under the guise of affidavit that is why Arvind Kejriwal abolished 454 types of affidavits in Delhi and 140 types of facilities are available sitting at home by just dialing 1076. He said that only when the politics of the country would be honest for education and business, the country would develop.Hoshiarpur constituency in-charge Brahm Shankar Jimpa, Dasuya constituency in-charge Karamvir Ghumman, Dr Anil Bhardwaj, Shiv Kaura, Harminder Singh Bakshi, Sandeep Saini, Jaspal Chechi, Dilip Ohri, Mohan Lal, Karmjit Kaur, Raman Mittal and Anil Thakur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lack-of-political-will-ruining-industry-education-in-punjab-manish-sisodia-342221
24-11-2021||---||Banga gets new college, model sports stadium||Banga, November 23Trying to woo the voters of the reserved Banga Assembly seat ahead of the forthcoming elections, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday announced a grant of Rs 132 crore for the constituency, including a government college and an integrated sports stadium.The Chief Minister while addressing a public gathering here today announced that these grants included Rs 15 crore for construction of government degree college in Sarhala Ranua village in the name of Dr BR Ambedkar. Channi envisioned that the college would be instrumental in providing affordable quality higher education to students, especially from weaker and underprivileged sections.Likewise, the CM also announced a grant worth Rs 12 crore for the construction of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Integrated Model Sports Stadium at Khatkar Kalan in the native village of iconic martyr. He said the stadium would act as a catalyst to wean away the youth from menace of drugs and channelising their energy in a positive direction. The CM said this will be a humble tribute to legendary martyr by the state government.The Chief Minister also announced grant of around Rs 30 crore for rural development works, Rs 2.5 crore for various works in Banga city, Rs 1 crore for constructing fire station at Banga, Rs 10 crore for upgrading CHC Banga to Subdivisional Hospital, Rs 4 crore for upgrading Primary Health Centre Aur to Community Health Centre, Rs 32 crore for constructing new link roads in Banga and Aur blocks and Rs 3.5 crore for construction of residence of the Banga SDM. He also announced to waive off Rs 25 crore arrears pending towards members of cooperative societies. CM Channi also announced to give the status of sub-tehsil to Aur block falling in Banga Assembly segment.Earlier, the Chief Minister paid obeisance at Mazara Sri Nabh Kanwal Raja and Dera Sant Baba Mela Ram in Bharo Majara village.Prominent amongst others present on the occasion included Cabinet Minister Rana Gurjit Singh, MLAs Angad Singh and Darshan Lal Mangupur, former Punjab Minister and Chairman Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Joginder Singh Mann, DC Vishesh Sarangal, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur and others.Many fail to meet Chief MinisterAs CM Charanjit Singh Channi was in Banga today, several people had thronged at his rally to get to talk to him and plead their individual or union-level cases. There were people trying to hand over their representations including various government employees. Among them were members of the Medical Practitioners Association who wanted to avail the right to do private practice. There were employees who were seeking restoration of the pension benefits for those who got appointments after 2004. Since these protestors did not get a hearing, they raised slogans against the the police officials for not letting them reach up to the Chief Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/banga-gets-new-college-model-sports-stadium-342220
24-11-2021||---||Randhawa orders probe into ‘misuse’ of panchayat funds by Adampur MLA||Bhogpur (Jalandhar), November 23Lashing out against Akali MLA Pawan Tinu, Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa today ordered a probe into the alleged misuse of funds meant for panchayats during previous SAD-BJP government in the Adampur Assembly segment.Directing the Jalandhar (Rural) SSP to submit a report in 10 days, Randhawa, who also holds Home portfolio, said none would be spared if found guilty in the probe. Randhawa also mentioned that officials of the police, Vigilance Bureau and Rural Development and Panchayat departments would carry out the probe.“If anyone would be found indulging in malpractices during the SAD-BJP government, he could be brought to book as these funds were meant for development of the villages,” he said. Randhawa addressed a rally on the sidelines of the event to the start Bhogpur Sugar Mill at a cost of Rs 60 crore. He also laid the foundation stone of 15 MW of bio-CNG plant that would use paddy straw for energy generation.While addressing a gathering here, after laying foundation stone of two projects in Bhogpur Sugar Mill and initiating the crushing season, the Deputy CM acceded to the demand put forth by Chairman of the Punjab Technical Education Board Mohinder Singh Kaypee.Randhawa alleged that the SAD-BJP alliance badly compromised with the interests of cane growers of this region. He said the previous government not only halted the development of this cooperative sugar mill, but also made up its mind to handover operations of this venture in private hands. The incumbent Congress government had already enhanced its capacity to 3000 TPD besides making efforts to make these mills viable and profitable in the larger interest of cane growers, he added.The Deputy CM also said that it was the Congress government that has given a record hike in the prices of sugarcane taking it to Rs 360/quintal. He also announced that the payment to farmers during the current season would be started immediately after the season started. He also mentioned that special focus was being laid on increasing the profit of these mills and the dividend would be distributed among cane growers.Randhawa warned surveyors of strict action if anyone found exploiting cane growers in lieu of slips for selling their crop besides urging farmers to get such slips through the stipulated process. Kaypee and ex-Adampur MLA Kanwaljeet Singh Lalli also addressed the gathering. Young Congress leader Ashwin Bhalla was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/randhawa-orders-probe-into-misuse-of-panchayat-funds-by-adampur-mla-342219
24-11-2021||---||Jobless teachers, police clash outside residence of Pargat Singh||Jalandhar, November 23Continuing their stir against the state government, the BEd and TET pass unemployed teachers today again protested outside the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh in the city. The city police had made strict arrangements to control the protesters, but the agitating teachers still tried to break the barricades.During this, the teachers tried to move forward and the police made every effort to stop them. Amid this, a confrontation began between the teachers and the police, followed by a scuffle between the teachers and the police. Slogans were also raised against the Education Minister by the unemployed teachers on this occasion.For the past several days, the house of Education Minister Pargat Singh is being gheraoed by the teachers continuously.On Tuesday, as many as 400 teachers assembled outside the residence of the Education Ministers to raise their demands against the unavailability of jobs. The protest started at 12 pm today and continues till 7.30 pm.Teachers stated that they were only being given fake promises by the government for jobs. Amandeep Singh, an unemployed teacher stated that they would continue to hold the protest until their demands were met.Union cancels night protest after assuranceThe teacher union leaders had planned to hold a dharna outside the minister's residence throughout the night but they later changed their plan. Amandeep, a leader from the union, said: "We were made to talk to the PA of the minister over phone He assured us that an announcement in our favour would be made on Wednesday by the minister. We will wait for it till 2 pm before again marching towards his residence”. The union leaders have returned to their site near overhead water tank close to the Jalandhar bus stand where they have been squatting for the past many weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/jobless-teachers-police-clash-outside-residence-of-pargat-singh-342207
24-11-2021||---||Sarpanch: I was suspended for not allowing corrupt practices||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 23Levelling serious allegations of corruption against Congress MP from Jalandhar, Santokh Chaudhary, and his son and Phillaur constituency in-charge Vikramjit Chaudhary, a woman sarpanch has written to the Punjab CM seeking a Vigilance inquiry into the matter.Darshana Kumari, who is a suspended sarpanch from Virk village, made the revelation about having shot off the missive today during a press conference where she alleged that she was suspended as a sarpanch after she allegedly objected to “the corrupt practices of the father-son duo, who wished to use panchayats as their fiefdom.” The panchayat department officials had appointed an administrator in the village since May this year, post her suspension.The sarpanch said: “It is in public knowledge how the local MP and his son are looting people’s money. They wanted me and other sarpanches to use the RO water filters, inter-locking tiles and street-lights for Phillaur villages of their ‘favourite companies’. We were pressurised to sign on cheques even when the resolutions for these works had not been moved in the panchayats. I told them that we do not need an RO filter for the village, but they kept on pressing me to follow their diktats. When I did not let them do so, they got me suspended. Since our Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has vowed to make zero tolerance towards corruption a reality, he should order a probe by the Vigilance Bureau into the corrupt practices of the MP and his son,” she demanded.Making an emotional appeal, Darshana Kumari said she has developed critical health issues as she had recently also suffered a minor heart attack as well. “I am paying a heavy price for being honest. Pressure tactics of Santokh Chaudhary and his son are ruining my family and my life as well. If I am not delivered justice, I will move the High Court as well,” she said.Darshana has stated in her communiqué to the CM: “I have been a dedicated Congress worker and expect justice from you. A party wins an election because of its team of dedicated workers. On the other hand, corrupt politicians like Santokh Chaudhary and his son have sullied the image of the party when the elections are around the corner”.The sarpanch was accompanied by Damanvir Phillaur, Congress leader and son of ex-minister Sarwan S Phillaur. Damanvir, who is also the founder of Phillaur People’s Forum, said: “The allegations of corruption against senior Congress leader and MP and his son come at a time when the ruling party in Punjab is going to make the ‘neat and clean’ governance a poll plank for the party. In this scenario, how will the common workers face the voters during elections?” he asked.A viral audio of Surinder, a former sarpanch from Phillaur tehsil and a Panchayat Secretary, on the same issue had already remained a hot issue last month. She is being misguided, says Chaudhary||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sarpanch-i-was-suspended-for-not-allowing-corrupt-practices-342206
