25-11-2021||---||Adampur: Miscreants who came to set shop on fire get trapped, 1 dies||Jalandhar, November 24In a bizarre incident, miscreants who had allegedly come to set a bookshop in Adampur on fire in the wee hours today, themselves got trapped with one of them dying on the spot and the second sustaining severe burns on his lower body.The incident occurred at 2.10 am when shopkeeper Harinder Dhupal of Krishna Book Depot was still working inside. The moment he saw a car stopping outside and three men trying to enter his premises, he sneaked away. The three miscreants entered the shop with fuel like petrol or gasoline and set it on fire. As they were coming out, one of them Pardeep Kumar (36) got hit by the shutter which went loose and came down on his face.“He fell off outside the shop and died on the spot with severe injuries around his nose. The second one – Jatinder Singh (38) got trapped in the flames. Since there was a lot of inflammable material around, including books and papers, the shop caught fire very quickly. As he was coming out, his trouser caught fire and he sustained deep burns on his lower body. He is admitted in a private hospital and is in a critical condition,” Adampur ASP Ajay Gandhi said.The third accused has been identified at Simranjit Singh (32), who managed to flee safely. The police officials said all three accused hail from Basti Bawa Khel area. “The shopkeeper has told us that he was not known to any of the three accused. Since he is running the shop on rent, we are also exploring the angle of any dispute with the owner, who is a resident of Gazipur area in Adampur. Even the tenant lives in Adampur. It, however, is clear that there was no court case between the two,” said Gandhi.Post-mortem of the deceased has been conducted. The forensic experts had visited the site and had taken various samples, which have been sent to chemical laboratory. Even the shop got fully burnt, the police officials have ruled out the use of any explosives. A case under Sections 307, 436, 427 and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Adampur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/adampur-miscreants-who-came-to-set-shop-on-fire-get-trapped-1-dies-342581
25-11-2021||---||Maths concepts made easy at Science City, Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 24Making the concepts of mathematics more comprehensible for the students, Pushpa Gujral Science City today opened a new mathematics gallery to explain various concepts and theorems.Various exhibits have been put up in this gallery to explain the concept of Pythagoras theorem, binary numbers, origin of zero, place value, square roots etc. An exhibit on shapes and projections aims at explaining the concept of finding proper orientation and insert objects in the correct holes. A screen has been put up to explain the various linear and quadratic functions.A simplified version of mythological Brahma Tower of Banaras, too, has been erected at the Science City to explain the concept of probability using various disks. A section has been put up to explain Fractal Tree Index. Roller coasters have been installed to explain various geometrical concepts and angles. A huge hyperbola structure too has been put up for explaining axis, cones, cuts, coordinates, ellipses etc. While the Science City already had a solar clock, its mathematics gallery now also has a water clock in which the time is calculated on the basis of drops falling.Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Minister for Science and Technology, formally inaugurated the ‘Mathematics Gallery’. Kotli said: “I feel that such facilities in the form of science centres should be set up in every district of the state to supplement formal education. To begin with, one more science centre should be set up at Mohali, for which I will take up the matter with the Chief Minister for requisite support. I will also ask the Chief Minister to include mandatory visit to Science City as a compulsory part of curriculum of secondary, higher and technical education in Punjab”He said though the Punjab government organises visit of government school students to Science City under Mukh Mantri Vigyan Yatra every year, however, a large number of students still remain deprived of this facility. Dilip Kumar, Principal Secretary, Punjab, Science, Technology and Environment, Punjab, was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/maths-concepts-made-easy-at-science-city-jalandhar-342582
25-11-2021||---||‘Trouble’ for Nawanshahr Congress MLA as wife joins BJP in UP||Jalandhar, November 24Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh got caught in a piquant situation as his wife Aditi Singh, who has been Congress MLA from Rae Bareilly Sadar seat in Uttar Pradesh, has joined the BJP on Wednesday.Aditi Singh is the daughter of veteran leader Akhilesh Singh and had already been showing signs of rebellion against the party for the past two years. She has been openly rebelling against Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi and has even taken a stand against the Congress in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident of killing of four farmers.With the political dissent happening at home, Aditi told media not to discuss her family matters. “I have my own ideology and my husband can have his independent inclination and thoughts. Let us not mix political and domestic affairs,” she told media today. Even her husband Angad maintains: “I cannot force my wife to have political opinion as mine. She has the right to maintain her stand.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/trouble-for-nawanshahr-congress-mla-as-wife-joins-bjp-in-up-342583
25-11-2021||---||Expose overcharging on sand, get Rs 25,000: Jalandhar DC||Jalandhar, November 24To ensure availability of sand to people at new rates, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Ghanshyam Thori on Wednesday announced reward worth Rs25,000 for conducting sting operation for exposing overcharging in the district. Thori also warned that the overcharging on sand prices, if found, would be also dealt strictly.Soliciting support from general public to end the illegal practice, the DC urged them to conduct maximum sting operations so that appropriate action could be initiated. He further clarified that the reward would be given only in cases where such videos would lead to registration of FIRs against the violators on the basis of visual evidence.The DC added that people could send the videos recorded by them on overcharging at WhatsApp number 9501799068 for further action.DC Thori had convened a special meeting recently with prominent transporters, mining contractors, retailers where retail prices of sand were fixed on a consensus basis.Thori further added that during the meeting it was unanimously decided that the sand would be made available at retail outlets at Rs 15 per cubic feet (excluding transportation charges to consumers location) in the municipal area of Jalandhar city, likewise at Rs 11.5 in Phillaur, Nakodar, Noormahal, at Rs 11 in Mehatpur, Shahkot, Rs 12 in Bilga, Lohian, Rs 13 in Goraya and Kartapur (from Beas), and Rs 15 in Adampur and Alawalpur municipal areas. He also mentioned that the rates fixed by the administration are for retail counters and customers have to bear transportation expenses to further get the sand delivered at their locations.The Deputy Commissioner had announced cash reward for overcharging of Covid-19 tests also, which helped keep the rates under control and nab profiteers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/expose-overcharging-on-sand-get-rs-25-000-jalandhar-dc-342584
25-11-2021||---||Protest outside Pargat Singh’s house: Unemployed teachers scuffle with police, again||Jalandhar, November 24After they got no formal assurance about their recruitment, the TET-B.Ed Pass Teachers’ Union once again tried to gherao the residence of Education Minister Pargat Singh at Mithapur this afternoon.As the union members reached his place, barricades were laid across all roads which they tried to jump. This led to a prolonged scuffle between the youth and the police. The unionists even tried to snatch the lathis of cops.Though the police did not resort to any lathicharge owing to clear instructions from their political bosses in view of the approaching elections, the union activists said the cops wielded lathis on their legs and abdomen during the melee. Owing to this, three girls – Kulwinder Kaur, Sunita Rani and Veena Rani, all from Fazilka – reportedly got injured and had to be hospitalised, said union leader Amandeep Sekha.The teachers who started the protest after 2 pm as announced by them continued it till late evening. “We will not go back till we get an assurance from the minister. We tried to break the barricades thrice today but remained unsuccessful owing to heavy deployment. We kept insisting on getting a word from the minister but a DSP put us to his assistant once again who told us that the minister tried to catch up with the CM thrice today on our issue but to no avail”, he said.Amandeep said, “The time is lapsing and poll code could be imposed anytime after three weeks. We are asking for 9,000 recruitments. We do not want any excuses at the end. We have faced enough already. We are also upset over the fact that the CM has all the time to go to Punjabi University but has no time to spare for us. Our youth are sitting atop overhead water tank for the past 95 days but the politicians are not bothered.”Meritorious School teachers protestNearly 250 teachers from 10 Meritorious Schools of the state also lodged a protest outside the minister’s residence. They wore black gowns and demanded regularisation of their jobs. “We went through the toughest selection procedure to be recruited in 2014. We demanded that we be regularised. The government agreed adding a rider that we would face salary deduction while switching over from contractual jobs to regular jobs. We agreed but the government picked only a handful of teachers, leaving the rest of us to continue with our fight on the roads,” said Kulwinder Singh Bath, state president, Meritorious School Teachers’ Union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/protest-outside-pargat-singhs-house-unemployed-teachers-scuffle-with-police-again-342585
25-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Two killed in road mishaps||29-year-old man commits suicideJalandhar: A 29-year-old man on Wednesday allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan of his room. The deceased was identified as Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Bada Bazaar in Basti Sheikh. Gurpreet Kaur, sister of the deceased, said a year ago her brother married Riya Mehra. He was also going to have a child with her too. However, his mother-in-law and his wife used to trouble him a lot. Owing to their personal dispute, Gurdeep committed suicide. He had also written a suicide note, in which he had blamed his wife and his mother-in-law for his death. After receiving information about the incident, the matter was being investigated by the police. The police reached the spot and took the body for autopsy. TNSADGP Shukla to hold key positionPhagwara: Having served as Police Commissioner in Jalandhar about five years back, IPS officer Arpit Shukla is now back in the region as supervisor of Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur districts. DGP IPS Sahota had appointed senior officers as supervisors for all districts on Tuesday. ADGP Shukla is expected to supervise the key issues, including drive against drugs, drive against terrorist activities and gangsters, regularly. Accompanied by Gurinder Singh Dhillon, IG, Jalandhar range, Shukla today held his maiden meeting with Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh and Hoshiarpur SSP Kulwant Singh Heer at Phagwara wherein he reviewed security scenario. TNSTheft bid foiled, woman nabbedHoshiarpur: A woman was nabbed by locals while stealing the purse of another woman from a religious place and handed over her to the police. Amarjeet Kaur, a resident of Jangniwal village, told the police that she had come to a religious place near Mahilpur where a woman tried to steal her purse. Apart from her ATM cards, the purse contained her Aadhaar card, driving license etc. The accused woman has been identified as Shana, a resident of Railway Road, Phillaur. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-killed-in-road-mishaps-342586
