26-11-2021||Talwara||13 students test covid positive||3 fresh cases surface in distJalandhar: Three new Covid cases were reported from Jalandhar Thursday. With this the district Covid tally in Jalandhar on Thursday reached 63,475 cases. With no new Covid death today, the deceased tally remained at 497 today. As many as 61,945 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 33. Of the 18,14,609 samples collected in the district, so far, 16,79,489 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,251 samples is yet awaited. No new case of Covid was reported positive from Kapurthala today, keeping the Covid tally at 17,866. No death from Covid was also reported at Kapurthala today either. tnsCar plunges into pond, one diesTanda Urmar: A youth returning to his village died after the car plunged into a pond last night in Dhadiala village. The deceased, Himanshu Anand alias Nanni, was returning to his village after buying goods for his shop. On the way, he went to drop his friend Harman Saini to his in-laws at Dhadiala village. While they were on the link road outside the village, he lost control over the car and it fell into a pond on the other side of the road. Harman somehow got out from the vehicle during the accident but Nanni drowned. Around 12 noon, the body of Nanni was fished out from the pond with the help of divers. ocCanter runs over woman’s legsHoshiarpur: The police of Model Town police station have booked a truck driver in a case of an accident. Surinder Kaur (45), wife of Balwinder Singh, a resident of Mohalla Ram Nagar, Purhiran told police that on October 12, she had a fever and had gone to Shergarh on a motorcycyle with her brother Balveer Singh to get medicine. While they were returning, around 6:15 pm, near Bajwa Cold Store, their motorcycle slipped and they fell on the road. Meanwhile, a canter coming on the wrong side which was driven by Gulshan Kumar, a resident of Mohalla Katikawala, Banur, run over her legs. She was seriously injured and still undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh. A case has been registered against the canter driver under Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the IPC. ocRenew X-10 cards by December 31Hoshiarpur: The District Employment Officer Gurmel Singh said as per the directions of the Director Employment Generation, Skills and Training, all eligible candidates who had failed to get their registration (X-10) card renewed should apply for renewal before December 31. He said the candidates had to apply to the District Bureau of Employment and Trade, MSDC,in its office at 1st Floor in Government ITI Complex on Jalandhar Road, Hoshiarpur. Gurmel Singh said due to the lockdown the unemployed candidates could not renew their registration (X-10) card, in view of which, the department has given the candidates a chance till December 31. oc‘Rs1k promise to empower women’Hoshiarpur: A poster of the announcement to provide Rs 1, 000 per month in the account of every woman in Punjab was released in the office of Aam Aadmi Party’s assembly segment in-charge councillor Brahmashankar Jimpa. Appreciating the guarantee given by Kejriwal, Mr. Jimpa said every woman who would be above 18 years of age would be given Rs1,000 per month if AAP comes to power. He said this will be the biggest women empowerment scheme in the world. Rs 1,000 for each woman will be separate from the monthly old age pension, widow pension and handicapped pension or dependency pension already being received by women. oc512 to get five marla plotsHoshiarpur: As many as 512 beneficiaries have been identified for the allotment of 5 marla plots across 568 villages in Hoshiarpur district. The district level committee has accepted their applications thereby paving way for the allotment of land to them, said Deputy Commissioner Apneet Riyait here today. The DC said the administration has identified government lands in 568 villages which would be allotted to all these eligible beneficiaries. The verification process was already completed by the authorities concerned on a fast track mode. The administration has further intensified its efforts to provide the benefit of this scheme to needy and homeless people. Riyait said all out efforts were being made by the officials to complete the allotment process within stipulated time frame. OCWomen arrested with sedativesHoshiarpur: The Garhshankar police arrested a woman recovering 36 sedative injections from a plastic bag held by her during patrolling at the Beerampur road last night. She was identified as Seeta, a resident of Denowal village. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against her at the Garshankar police station. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/13-students-test-covid-positive-342996
26-11-2021||Jalandhar||10-day NCC camp at ikgptu||Orientation programmeInnocent Hearts College of Education organised an orientation programme to acquaint the new student-teachers with the BEd programme (2021-2023).The student-teachers were briefed about the cells and committees at the campus and its rules and regulations of the college. Principal Dr Arjinder Singh formally welcomed and addressed the new-comers. He briefed the student-teachers about the scholastic and co-scholastic achievements of the former students of the college and introduced the faculty members. Assistant Prof Tarunjyoti Kaur discussed the scheme of study, co-curricular and NSS activities regularly organised by the college during the BEd. session.Good construction practicesThe Department of Civil Engineering, Lyallpur Khalsa College Technical Campus, in association with Ultra Tech Cement organised workshop on “Good construction practices”. In this workshop, UltraTech Cement officials helped the students to learn evolutions of construction materials and innovations in construction techniques. Sachin Chopra (from UltraTech Cement) was the leader of the presentation who had an interactive session with the students which helped in clearing out their queries. Tarundeep Singh, HoD, Civil Engineering, appreciated the efforts of the event coordinator Harsh Kakkar from the department.NCC Day celebratedKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated NCC Day. During the celebrations, various activities were organised for the students. The cadets also pledged to protect the sovereignty and integrity of their nation and to contribute selflessly towards the development of their nation by doing community service. A general awareness quiz was also organised on the occasion along with a poster making competition on the themes of Fit India Movement and NCC, NCC and social outreach activity and plastic waste management. Cadets participated in all the activities and also made beautiful and innovative posters on the theme.Hostel Night at LKCWA hostel night-cum-Freshers’ Party was organised in the hostel of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women (LKCW). In this Sunanda Thakur was crowned as “Miss fresher “, Gurkeerat Kaur was “1st runner up”, while Samriti was “2nd runner up”. The students had a gala time during this event. Principal Dr. Navjot Kaur, LKCW, congratulated the winners and also blessed the hostel students. She also appreciated the efforts of Dr Maninder Arora, Hostel Superintendent, and Shashi, Hostel Warden, for their efforts in organising this party.Panel Discussion organisedThe PG department of Journalism and Mass Communication of Doaba College organised a Panel Discussion on “Is India becoming less liberal”. Chander Mohan, president-Arya Shiksha Mandal and college managing committee, Suresh Seth, renowned critic, author and poet, Arundeep, a scribe with a daily, graced the occasion as panelists. The dignitaries were accorded a hearty welcome by Principal Dr Pardeep Bhandari, Dr Simran Sidhu, head, faculty and 85 students. Student Rashi Rawal acted as moderator. Chander Mohan said that our constitution talks about composite culture, therefore, inclusiveness and criticism are integral to democracy.Quiz Competition at Apeejay InstituteTo make students come up with creative thinking abilities on marketing issues and make students aware of the current scenario and the happenings around the world in the marketing space, Marketing Club of Apeejay Institute organised a quiz competition for students of BBA, BCom and MBA. The purpose of this competition was to give students a platform where they could improvise their conceptual knowledge with a better practical understanding. The participants showed their knowledge on brand names, logos, punch lines, CEOs’, mergers and acquisitions, product line and general marketing news. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/10-day-ncc-camp-at-ikgptu-342993
26-11-2021||---||NHM staff hand over memo  at DC office||Our CorrespondentHoshiarpur, November 25The National Health Mission employees’ strike here today entered its third day. A memorandum was handed over by the NHM staff to Ashok Kumar, Assistant Commissioner (General) at the DC office today. The employees of NHM said the clerical, medical and para-medical employees working under Health Department have been recruited through proper process as per the instructions of Punjab Government. They have been providing their best services for the past 15 years on meagre salaries yet the government has overlooked their demands.The non-inclusion of NHM workers in the recent Punjab Protection and Regularisation of Contractual Employees Bill 2021, which has been framed to regularise Punjab’s contractual employees, is a total betrayal for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/nhm-staff-hand-over-memo-at-dc-office-342989
26-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||AAP, BJP councillors join hands to file objection||“The functioning of the Municipal Corporation is so discriminatory that it is being opposed not only by the councillors of AAP or BJP but also the ruling party councillors. A discriminatory policy is being adopted by the Congress regarding the development of the city. This will not be tolerated under any circumstances.”Municipal Councillor and Aam Aadmi Party’s constituency in-charge Brahmashankar Jimpa said this after the meeting of the corporation on Thursday, after filing their objections in writing along with the councillors of AAP and BJP. BJP councilors Surinder Bhatti, Narinder Kaur, Gurpreet Kaur and Geetika Arora and AAP councillor Jaspal Chechi, besides Congress councillors Rajni Dadwal and Sunita Devi were also present on the occasion. These councillors expressed their objection to the proposal brought in today’s meeting to give Rs 10 lakh more to cleaner wards and raised the question that on the basis of which parameters were they being given this amount.Jimpa alleged that the wards of non-Congress councillors were being given a step-motherly treatment and Congress councillors who talk of development were also being ignored. Due to this, two Congress councillors have also lodged a protest with him today. He said ruling Congress leaders were getting the development of the city done on their own whims, which is not development but destruction. He said they would not tolerate public money be wasted and spent in such places where it is not needed. There are many such areas in the city which are in dire need of development and people were forced to live in hell-like condition. But being the wards of non-Congress councillors, work is not being done there.AAP and BJP councillors said they were the elected representatives of the people and it was their first duty to solve the problems of people. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/aap-bjp-councillors-join-hands-to-file-objection-342982
26-11-2021||Our Correspondent||SC Dept of PPCC holds rallies across state||Hosiarpur, November 25The SC Department of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) has launched a series of state-wide rallies to express gratitude towards the Punjab government and Punjab Congress who have initiated many pro-poor and pro-farmers schemes in recent past.Chairman of PPCC SC Department and MLA Chabbewal Dr Raj Kumar said these rallies would be held on the behalf of the farmers of Punjab, SC community and the poor and the needy, to thank CM Charanjit Singh Channi, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and PPCC Chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for taking the bold decisions for the betterment of Punjab and Punjabis. He said such honour rallies will be held in all districts of Punjab, by the district bodies of SC Department of Congress. The first such rally was held at Mahilpur two days ago.Dr Raj said public interest had been the key motivator of the Punjab Government and the Congress party and people would always remember the historic decisions taken by this new team of Congress.He said in the recent past, commendable work has been done for providing relief to the electricity consumers of Punjab by waiving their outstanding bills. Chabbewal alone had arrears of approx 4 crores waived off. Also, by making electricity cheaper by Rs 3 per unit in Punjab, the electricity rates in Punjab have been reduced to the lowest in the region.Dr Raj Kumar said giving relief in water charges, electricity tariff and petrol prices, the government has tried to save the poor from the inflation caused by the Central government. Suresh Kumar, national coordinator, AICC, was also present on the occasion. He said the Congress government had created history by giving permanent government jobs to 36,000 contract workers in one go. Dr Jatinder Kumar and Sonia thanked all participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sc-dept-of-ppcc-holds-rallies-across-state-342976
26-11-2021||---||MP Tewari inaugurates road widening project||Nawanshahr, November 25Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari today inaugurated the renovation work of Banga-Garhshankar-Sri Anandpur Sahib road. The 37.73-km road is to be widened and rebuilt at a cost of 40.2 crore.The MP said this road connects two major religious places — Sri Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar, with Sri Anandpur Sahib and Takht Sri Keshgarh Sahib and this road goes further to Mata Naina Devi. But unfortunately, despite the long-standing demand of the people, it was not redeveloped.Before the Lok Sabha elections, ex-Akali MP Prof Prem Singh Chandumajra had laid the foundation stone of this road, but work did not begin after the elections. Tewari said he had met Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari along with PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla, but as the Centre did not take the work forward, a proposal was made by the Punjab Government in its budget.Tewari said the work would be completed within the stipulated time and the company would also maintain it for four years. Among others, MLA Darshan Lal Mangupur, former MLA Love Kumar Goldy, Nawanshahr District Planning Board Chairman Satvir Singh Palli Jhikki, Punjab Large Industrial Development Board Chairman Pawan Dewan, Pankaj Kripal, Sarita Sharma, Rajinder Singh Chhindi, Ajeeb Singh Boparai and Dr. Harpreet Kainth were also present.Hoshiarpur: Meanwhile, MLA Sundar Sham Arora inaugurated the construction work of widening road from Bassi Purani to Nara villages. The project would cost Rs 2.33 crore and the width of the road would be increased from 10 feet to 14 feet. Interlocking tiles were also being laid on the sidewalks of roads passing through residential areas so that the road would be paved and strengthened. Arora said in Hoshiarpur Assembly constituency, no shortage has been allowed especially in terms of development of villages and many more important projects were being started in villages in the near future. He said all basic amenities have been provided in the villages and now the villages of the constituency would be presented as model villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-tewari-inaugurates-road-widening-project-342975
26-11-2021||---||MP raises issues with Northern Railways GM||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25Member of Parliament Santokh Singh Chaudhary raised several issues pertaining to Jalandhar parliamentary constituency, including the execution of second entry to the city railway station project, over and under bridges and halts of various trains at a meeting with the General Manager of Indian Railways here in Chandigarh today.Chaudhary said Jalandhar Improvement Trust has given no objection certificate for usage of their land for second entry at Jalandhar City Railway Station and Jalandhar Smart City Ltd has confirmed that the requisite funds for this would be provided by them. Therefore, the Railways should begin the execution of the project at the earliest.Expressing concern over the inconvenience caused to the people due to the delay in the widening of ROB at PAP Chowk, he demanded the widening of the same to streamline the traffic movement on the Rama Mandi-PAP Chowk flyover. For the facility of passengers, Chaudhary asked for the extension of shed at Jalandhar City Platform No. 1 and Jalandhar Cantt. Platform Nos 1 and 2 towards Ludhiana end.He also raised the demand of ROB/RUBs at Goraya-Dallewal road, Ram Nagar, Phillaur-Nurmahal Road, and Dakoha. MP Chaudhary said the Vande Bharat Express train should also stop at Jalandhar Cantt station for the facility of passengers of the area.“A large number of devotees from my constituency visit the Vaishno Devi shrine every year. However, since the train does not have a stop at Jalandhar Cantt station, the residents of my constituency and surrounding areas are not able to avail the services of Vande Bharat Express,” he said.The MP asked for the stoppages of Amritsar-Dehradun Express, Amritsar-Chhatisgarh Express, Dadar Express and Katihar Express at Kartarpur railway station; Hem Kunt Express, Sachkhand Express, Shane Punjab and Paschim Express at Phillaur railway station; and Amritsar-Delhi Express, Amritsar-Dehradun Express, Amritsar-Chhatisgarh Express, Dadar Express, and Katihar Express at Goraya railway station.He also demanded that at least one express/superfast train connecting to New Delhi be routed through Jalandhar-Nakodar for the convenience of local residents. MP Chaudhary raised the issue of renovation of Gandhi Dham also.“Today, I raised several demands of the people of Jalandhar parliamentary constituency. I hope that the Central Government would consider them favourably and start the execution of these projects at the earliest,” he said after the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/mp-raises-issues-with-northern-railways-gm-342974
26-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||PCOD, infertility crisis looming large among obese women||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25Sedentary lifestyle, excessive reliance on home junk food and wrong eating habits have lately resulted in several young women getting prone to polycystic ovarian disease (PCOD) and hence infertility.The dieticians and experts across the city said it were the young women in the age-group of 20-35 years, who most commonly visit the doctors for counselling these days. The common signs of PCOD are disturbance in their menstrual cycle, hormonal balance, weight gain, mood swings, water retention, hirsutism, acne and pregnancy-related issues.Shivali Malhotra, a nutritionist, says, “Most of my patients these days are young girls, who suffer from PCOD and are grossly overweight. We tell the girls not to fall for crash diets as it only gives temporary results, quick weight regain and depression. I do not tell them to completely wean off carbohydrates completely from their diet but just focus on having portion control, maintaining a good dietary regime, skipping all kind of refined carbohydrates and lifestyle changes. My mantra to such girls is ‘Eat carefully and burn cheerfully’.Infertility expert Dr Jasmine Dahiya too points out, “PCOD has now gone down to girls who are just 15-17 years. Parents bring to me girls who are just in Class VII or VIII. They tell us that their daughters got periods in Class VI but never in Class VII and so on. The overuse of gadgets is to blame. Girls have a sedentary lifestyle, remain seated and occupied in front of screens. The worse is that PCOD takes all the beauty out of the girls with excessive hair growth and acne issues.”Some experts said it had become common for them to see patients, including women, who weigh over 200 kg and they need to carry special chairs along. Bariatric surgeon Dr G S Jammu said, “All those patients who are done with all sorts of other means to reduce their weight and cannot see any hope come to me for the surgery. Many of my patients also have co morbid conditions such as Type II diabetes, hypertension, high cholesterol, PCOD, snoring and sleep apnea etc. Recently, we operated upon a woman from Canada, who had visited every place for the treatment of obesity and PCOD. She was married for 15 years but could not conceive. As expected, after two years of gastric bypass surgery, she lost more than 50 kg of her extra weight and also conceived. Now, she even has a son and is leading a happy personal and professional life.” Know Anti-Obesity Day||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pcod-infertility-crisis-looming-large-among-obese-women-342973
26-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Lost her kin to protest, she couldn?t have left fight midway||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25Four months after she lost her sister during the ongoing farmers’ protest, a Jalandhar-based woman is all set to lead a women jatha to Delhi borders. On July 29, 2021, she lost her sister Ranjit Kaur (49) days after she returned from the Delhi border protests where she had gone to participate. On the morning of November 26, ie, tomorrow — the first year anniversary of the farmers’ protest — Jalandhar resident Pinde Bassi is all set to lead a women’s morcha from Jalandhar to the Singhu border.A resident of Gurunankpura in Jalandhar, Pinde Bassi is looking forward to the first anniversary of the Kisan Andolan which marks one-year-old fight of Punjab farmers against the three farm laws. While she is happy and triumphant over the PM’s recent announcement of the repeal of laws, she says the morcha will continue to get wholehearted support until farmers get it in writing that the laws have been repealed.Ranjit Kaur is also survived by her husband Manjit Singh, a daughter (married in Canada) and two sons one of whom pursues a private job in Chandigarh and the second is a basketball player.“My sister carried two households on her shoulders. Hers’ and mine. I am single. She was a huge support system to me. She had kids, an elderly mother-in-law and her husband who she took care of. Her husband also doesn’t keep well since her death. We went to the Singhu morcha on July 14. Within days, she began having pain in her legs. We consulted doctors at the morcha and near the Singhu stage but she developed fever too. So we came back on 18. While she was recuperating in Punjab, I went back to attend the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar because it was important for women leaders to be present there. On July 27 onwards, my sister’s condition deteriorated again. On July 29, she died,” Bassi shares as she breaks down.Bassi adds, “We are from a farming family. The future of our households depends on the repeal of the farm laws and the guarantee of the MSP. My sister’s life was lost during the morcha. But I haven’t stopped attending the morcha. It is imperative for our livelihoods. Earlier, I was among the few women joining the jathas from here. But in the course of the year, women have become quite aware and are joining the morcha in large numbers. Women have a huge stake in ensuring livelihoods. Our participation is very important. Tomorrow as well, women from Jalandhar, PAP, Nakodar, Jandiala and other villages near Jalandhar will be joining the jatha we are taking to Singhu.Heading to Delhi in hordes on annivFarmers in hordes have began heading to Delhi borders from Doaba. While 100 farmers of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) headed to Singhu on Thursday, many more tractors, trolleys and vehicles are also heading on Friday and others have been going all throughout the week. Farmers from Nakodar, Daduwal, Samrawan and Jandiala are heading to join November 26 anniversary at the Delhi borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/lost-her-kin-to-protest-she-couldnt-have-left-fight-midway-342972
26-11-2021||---||Operators unhappy over Rs100 cable fee||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25After Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi ordered to slash the cable fee to just Rs100, members of the Jalandhar Cable Operators Association today demanded that it must be kept at a minimum amount of Rs130 plus GST levies which are the TRAI guidelines.Members led by Sunny Chopra, general secretary of the association, said, “As politicians keep talking about cable mafia, the common people start thinking of us as mafia where as we are simply the local ground cable operators. The real mafia includes the illegal distributors. As per the government and TRAI guidelines, only three types of people can deal with public in our trade – broadcaster, multi-system operator (MSO) and local ground cable operators. But the MSOs play foul and rope in illegal super distributors, who get all the cable rights. Then they themselves hide away as the axe keeps on falling on us.”Going into technicalities further, he said, “There are about five to six broadcasters in India and about 15 MSOs. In Punjab, there is just one MSO –Fastway. It is the super distributors who are spoiling the entire trade and flouting the rules of the government. They are playing games of channel placements and replacements. They are also earning big money out of advertisements, which is nearly 60% of the total income. Out of this money, we do not get any share. They are also evading GST in a big way.”Members said the need of the hour was that the state government should tighten the noose around such illegal players, end monopoly in the state, promote healthy competition and ultimately benefit the consumers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/operators-unhappy-over-100-cable-fee-342971
26-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||Tweet war flares up issue of protesting teachers||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 25As election time is on and massive protests are being organised by the teacher unions seeking regularisation of jobs and salary hikes in front of the residence of Punjab Education Minister Pargat Singh in Mithapur here, a Tweet war has erupted between him and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.The issue seems to be taking a far more serious political turn with Kejriwal expected to arrive in Chandigarh on Saturday and meet the protesting teachers. The state government has all of a sudden come under a huge pressure because of the issue which has flared up all of a sudden.It all started after Kejriwal had on Tuesday given an eight-point guarantee for the teachers, including promising them recruitments and promotions, Pargat last evening took to Twitter to tell him: “Arvind Kejriwal ji, there is already a revolution going on in education in Punjab. It is another matter that you missed it. It is understandable for a Delhite whose interest in Punjab is aroused only around elections.”Pargat, who ahead of 2017 Assembly polls was at one point of time expected to join AAP along with Navjot Sidhu, immediately shot off five more tweets: “Punjab topped the country in school education in National Performance Grade Index. Delhi came sixth.” He even mentioned the five parameters on which Punjab was ahead of Delhi.Soon after, came his third tweet in which he talked of pupil-teacher ratio in Punjab being 24.5: 1 as compared to 35:1 in the national capital. His fourth tweet mentioned that his comparison of schools in Punjab and Delhi is not based on his personal opinion but on the facts coming from a national survey.His fifth one reads: “Punjabis have full faith on our government school system. In the last four years, the enrolment in pre-primary classes have risen from 1.93 lakh to 3.3 lakh.” The last one said: “You need not worry about our transfer policy of teachers. It is one of the best and the most transparent transfer policies in India which is fully online. Teachers get stations of their choice sitting at home and it is done once in a year.”At this, Delhi CM also replied today: “The Punjab Education Minister is saying that Punjab is doing very well in schools and its teachers are very happy. So, all those who are satisfied with Punjab’s schools and its education system can vote for the Congress. But the Punjabis who want the education system as in Delhi can vote for AAP.”Meanwhile, scuffle like scenes were witnessed even today as teachers tried to bypass cops preventing them from getting outside the house of Pargat Singh. Union leaders Sandeep Gill, Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan and Amandeep Sekha said the minister had been unable to keep his assurances for the past almost a month.If advertisements regarding 9,000 posts of social studies, Hindi and Punjabi are not released by November 28, then the minister’s residence would be gheraoed once again, they said. Meanwhile, Munish Fazilka and Jaswant Ghubaya continue to stay put atop the water tank in Jalandhar since October 29 onwards. A simultaneous hunger strike also continues by five other unemployed teachers. ‘We will meet Delhi CM on Nov 27 in Chandigarh’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/tweet-war-flares-up-issue-of-protesting-teachers-342970
