27-11-2021||Garhshankar||4 students hurt in group clash||Budding players get sports kitsJalandhar: Punjab Sports and Education Minister Pargat Singh on Friday took a round of Rurka Kalan and Jandiala Manjki villages to boost sports activities by distributing sports kits besides announcing Rs10 lakh grant for Youth Football Club (YFC) and another grant of Rs1 lakh. The minister also visited the multipurpose sports stadium in Rurka Kalan being developed by the YFC at a cost of Rs15 crore. Pargat also distributed sports kits among budding students during an event organised by Doaba Young Sports Club. He announced a grant of Rs 1 lakh for the club and urged the members to intensify their sports activities in the village. Meanwhile, the minister further announced a grant of Rs 71 lakh for gram panchayat Jandiala Manjhki for development works. TNSKin of deceased farmers honouredGarhshankar: Seven farmers belonging to the Garhshankar area have sacrificed their lives in the ongoing farmer protest. The families of these deceased farmers were given special honour under the leadership of Darshan Singh Mattoo, state vice president of Kul Hind Kisan Sabha and Bibi Subhash Chaudhary, state vice president of Janwadi Stree Sabha. On the occasion, a programme was organised at the memorial of Shaheed-a-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh, the families of deceased farmers — Darshan Singh Pangli Garhi Maton, Amarnath Chak Phullu, Malkit Singh Paddi Sura Singh, Ajit Singh Thind Goliyon, Gurjinder Singh Thana and Paramjit Singh Mahil Gahila and Parminder Singh Sadra, were felicitated. On the occasion the office bearers of various farmers’ groups were present. OCJob and loan fair in DecemberHoshiarpur: A job and self-employment loan fair will be organised in December to provide jobs to the educated youth in different private companies on good salary and to provide loans at low interest rate to the youth of the district to start new business. ADC (Development)-cum-CEO of District Employment and Business Bureau Darbara Singh made the announcement while addressing a meeting of lead banks and different loan agencies of the district on Friday under Ghar Ghar Rozgaar scheme. The ADC told the banks to issue loans on the spot and with minimum paper work in loan fairs so that the applicants do not face any problem. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/4-students-hurt-in-group-clash-343381
27-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||40-yr-old chases miscreants, recovers phone snatched from her mom||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, November 26Showing exemplary courage and grit, a 40-year-old woman of Sultanpur Lodhi on Thursday did not just locate the two-bike borne masked youth who snatched her mother’s phone, but also went on to chase them over several kilometres on her scooter before finally being able to catch hold of them.Gurvinder Kaur, who showed her exceptional bravery, is the district chief of the Gatka Federation of India. She has been imparting training in martial arts for the past nearly 22 years and is even a senior referee. She even faced a minor attack last evening before managing to overpower them.In recognition of her courageous act, Kapurthala SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh felicitated the brave girl with a commendation certificate. Khakh invited Gurvinder Kaur, along with her parents, over a cup of tea in his office and praised her valour. “Gurvinder has become an idol for other girls. The district stands proud of her. I will recommend that her name be included in the list of awardees on the occasion of coming Republic Day function,” he said.For 22 years, I have been training young boys and girls to be ready to face any adverse situation. The incident left me aghast. I was deeply shaken when I saw how my mother had been pushed by the snatchers. I did not marry and chose to take care of my parents all my life. I felt that I would not be able to face my trainees ever again had I lost this battle against the snatchers. But having remained triumphant, I feel I have emerged more strong physically & mentally. —Gurvinder Kaur, District chief of the Gatka Federation of IndiaSharing the sequence of events, Gurwinder said: “My mother was alone at our place in Satrangada locality on Thursday afternoon. She was sitting in her verandah when a youth entered the house, pushed her back and snatched her phone. The incident occurred at 1:18 pm and my mother called me from another phone just five minutes later. Since I serve in a gatka academy run by Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal, I was away but reached home soon after the call.”Showing her presence of mind, she said she wasted no time and asked her brother’s family living next door to quickly take down the CCTV footage. “I even asked other residents in the locality to provide as many video clips as possible. I quickly gathered them all and uploaded them in all my WhatsApp groups of gatka teams, city residents etc. They all started giving me some clues from the footage. Soon after, I received a call that the miscreants had been spotted outside Government Senior Secondary School, Sultanpur Lodhi, wearing the same jackets and caps but a changed bike,” she said.Gurwinder said she had already informed the police by then, showed them recording and even provided them her mother’s statement. “As soon as I got the clue, we informed the police while going onto chase them ourselves so that no time is lost. Some young boys, who are my trainees, accompanied me in the chase. The snatchers soon realised that they were being followed and tried to speed up but we too spread out our network and used smartness by following different routes and were finally able to catch them outside Gurdwara Hatt Sahib,” she said.The braveheart said: “They managed to gherao them and I held one of them with his scarf. They gave up as the community joined us till the police teams also reached there in some time. The next challenge was that even after checking, we found that they did not possess the phone that they had snatched. We asked the cops to help us trace the phone. I was a little touchy about getting it back as it had the last videos of my father, who passed away recently. We finally tracked the phone from a woman in Rural Area Chandigarh Colony. Unfortunately, they had damaged its SIM and cleared all data. But we matched with EMI number. It is still with the police as the crime evidence.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/40-yr-old-chases-miscreants-recovers-phone-snatched-from-her-mom-343346
27-11-2021||---||Cong leader alleges Rs100-cr fraud in Smart City projects||Jalandhar, November 26A city-based Congress leader today alleged corruption in the various Smart City projects being undertaken in the city.Leader Sudesh Vij alleged that the level of corruption in the works had gone to the extent that twin contracts were being allocated and double payments were being issued against one work. He said frauds to the tune of at least Rs100 crore had been committed by the officials in the Smart City projects.Vij said it was shocking for the residents that an amount of Rs21 crore had been allocated for the beautification of 11 roundabouts. “Everyone thought that with such a huge investment, the city’s façade would get lifted. But to our surprise, it is only some additional tiles that have been put up around each roundabout, which have been widened. Owing to widening, the roundabouts such as those at HMV College are only causing traffic congestion. Some roundabouts have high-mast lights put up. Spending up to Rs4 lakh was still acceptable going by the works done,” he fumed.He rued that an amount of Rs1.25 crore has been shown to have been spent on already developed parks such as Beant Singh Park. “Some vigilant councillors like Rohan Sehgal managed to save the funds under the LED lights project or else the work had been allocated for Rs 274 crore. Now the same work is being done for Rs 44 crore. But there are some glitches here yet again as the new light points being installed are of 30 watts against 70-watt points as per the contract,” he further lamented.The Congress leader said the entire city was upset over the repeated digging and endless delay on relaying of roads owing to the ongoing work for laying underground water pipes for 24x7 surface water project. He outrightly blamed MC Commissioner and CEO of the Smart City project Karnesh Sharma for all the wrongdoings.Meanwhile, Karnesh Sharma said it was wrong to blame him for everything, especially when there are SEs, SDOs and a whole lot of officials in each department to supervise the works. “Besides them, we have councillors who sign for all works and also the third party audit system in place.”Regarding 24X7 water supply work, he said it was being done by the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. About roundabout beautification project, he said: “It was commissioned before I joined. Still when I came, I got it stopped at Rs 8 crore work.”Meanwhile, ex-CPS and BJP leader KD Bhandari has sought a probe into the bungling of funds of the Smart City project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/cong-leader-alleges-100-cr-fraud-in-smart-city-projects-343347
27-11-2021||---||Now, tweet war erupts between Pargat, Sisodia||Jalandhar, November 26In the ongoing tweet war between Punjab and Delhi governments over the issue of the education model of the two states, even Delhi Deputy CM and Education Minister Manish Sisodia pitched in.Sisodia challenged Pargat Singh for a comparison between the two models taking 10 schools reformed in the last five years by both of them after which the Punjab minister took to his official Twitter handle to write: “I welcome Manish Sisodia’s challenge to compare the Punjab and Delhi government schools. We will take 250 schools of each Punjab and Delhi instead of 10 schools.”Pargat put out a series of seven tweets this afternoon. In the second, he said that the education model would be compared on the basis of National Performance Grading Index (NPGI). “We will have a debate on school infrastructure and number of smart classrooms. We will debate about the development of schools in rural and border areas of the state.”He made more proposals for drawing comparisons in the subsequent tweets. “We will compare data on newly recruited teachers and permanent teachers. We will take data of increased number of teachers in border schools. We will compare pupil to teacher ratio of the two states. We will compare challenges in managing seven times more schools in Punjab and that too in far flung areas.”He also said that a comparison would be drawn if funds had been used on more reasonable works adding that the economic conditions of the two states and discrimination by centre in distribution of grants too would be discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/now-tweet-war-erupts-between-pargat-sisodia-343348
27-11-2021||---||3 new Covid cases, one death reported in dist||Jalandhar, November 26Three new Covid cases were reported from Jalandhar on Friday. With this the district Covid tally in Jalandhar today reached 63,478 cases. One new Covid death was also reported today, taking the district deceased tally to 498. As many as 61,947 people have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 33. Of the 18,17,589 samples collected in the district, so far, 16,82,527 samples have tested negative. Results of as many as 1,287 samples is yet awaited.No case, death in K’thalaNo new case of Covid was reported positive from Kapurthala today as the Covid tally remained at 17,866. No death from Covid was also reported at Kapurthala today either.3 new cases in HoshiarpurOf the reports of 1,052 samples received on Friday, three people were tested positive for Covid-19. The total number of samples of Covid-19 taken so far in the district rose to 9,54,229. According to lab reports, 9,25,435 samples are negative while 1,782 reports are awaited. The death toll so far stands at 991 as no death was reported today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/3-new-covid-cases-one-death-reported-in-dist-343349
27-11-2021||---||Unsure of ticket, ex-MLA takes to shoe shining||Jalandhar, November 26Two-time MLA from reserved seat Banga, Mohan Lal Banga, who was seeking Congress ticket from the Assembly seat, has taken to a unique way of protest against his own party by choosing to sit down with a shoeshiner the day through and make an earning.Mohan Lal is angry with Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi ever since he visited the Banga constituency and projected his Principal Secretary Hussan Lal as the likely candidate from the seat.Mohan Lal said: “Since the CM is projecting his staff members and retired IAS officers from as many as four seats, the politicians have no work left to do. So, I will be sitting with the shoeshiner at the bus stand and helping him make more earning. Leather work is the only occupation that my family has been engaged in. So, I will carry it forward now”.Taking a jibe against Channi, he said: “We were happy to bring him in as the replacement of Capt Amarinder Singh. We were upset with the ex-CM for he trusted his official coterie more than us and always used to be surrounded by them. But the new CM is also doing exactly what his predecessor had been doing.”Mohan Lal said he would meet PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu and party in-charge Harish Chaudhary in this regard soon. On a serious note, he said: “I will definitely contest in the coming elections. There are many other platforms from which I can seek vote.”The 54-year-old politician has been MLA from 1997-2002 and from 2007-2012. Son of ex-BJP minister Swarna Ram, he has already had stints with the SAD, BJP and BSP, before joining the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/unsure-of-ticket-ex-mla-takes-to-shoe-shining-343354
27-11-2021||---||Youth killed in firing, 2 injured||Jalandhar, November 26A 19-year-old youth got killed in firing and his two accomplices got injured last evening in a brawl near the bus stand here.The deceased was identified as Aniket of Arjun Nagar on Ladowali Road, who was reportedly working in an immigration company. The incident happened when some youth were celebrating their birthday around his office. The youth entered into arguments with him and assaulted him. Two persons Pawan and Kaypee who too came in support of Aniket were beaten up by the youth.The party revellers fired gunshots and a bullet hit Aniket on his chest. He was immediately taken to Civil Hospital where he died an hour later. A case of murder has been lodged in the matter||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-killed-in-firing-2-injured-343356
27-11-2021||---||Competitions, celebrations mark Constitution Day in edu institutions||Jalandhar, November 26Constitution Day or ‘Samvidhan Diwas’ was celebrated in several campuses as a day to commemorate the adoption of the Constitution of India. The students were told about the history of the day. They were also apprised about the fundamental principals inscribed in it.IK Gujral Punjab Technical UniversityThe 72nd Constitution Day was celebrated with full devotion at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University on Friday. University Registrar Jaspreet Singh attended the function as the chief guest. Deputy Registrar Dr Sandeep Mehmi delivered the special speech of the day. During the event, all pay respect to the father and the architect of the Indian Constitution, Dr. BR Ambedkar. At the same time, making the copy of the Preamble of the Constitution in public in a big way, everyone was called to put it in their offices or work place. Deputy Registrar Dr Sandeep Mehmi, who was the speaker, said that every year 26 November is a very special day for every Indian citizen. This is the day when the Constituent Assembly of the country duly adopted the existing Constitution. It is the Constitution which makes us realise the feeling of a free citizen of a free country. While the Fundamental Rights given in the Constitution give us our rights by becoming our shield, we also remind us of our responsibilities in the Fundamental Duties given in it. He called upon all the students present from the stage to read the speech given by Dr Ambedkar, a day before the formal adoption of the Constitution. University Registrar Jaspreet Singh read out the Preamble of the Constitution. During this, everyone present in the meeting took an oath to abide by the Constitution. On behalf of University administration authorities, the Registrar congratulated everyone on the Constitution Day. University’s Associate Professor Dr. Satveer Singh, Deputy Controller Examinations Sandeep Kumar Kajal, Deputy Registrar Paramjit Singh Gill, Deputy Director Corporate Relations Navdeepak Sandhu, Assistant Prof Vivek Agarwal, Gazal Sharma and others were present on the occasion.KMV CollegeKanya Maha Vidyalaya celebrated Constitution Day with full zeal and enthusiasm. The celebration was organised by the Department of Political Science in collaboration with Jalandhar North constituency to commemorate the Constitution Day. During the celebrations, a poster making and slogan writing competition was organised in which students from all streams participated. Principal Prof. Dr Atima Sharma Dwivedi emphasised on the importance of Constitution and reminded the students that the Constitution only gives people the right to pursue but you have to catch it yourself, so we have to stand for our own rights. The Principal lauded the efforts of Dr Madhumeet, AshimaSahni, Dr Iqbal Singh and Zeenat for organising the celebrations of Constitution Day.Hindu Kanya College, KapurthalaHindu Kanya College, Kapurthala, organised an event on the occasion of National Constitution Day under the guidance of college Principal Dr Archna Garg. Prof Varinder Kaur, Head, Department of Political Science, addressed the students and threw light on the importance of National Constitution Day telling that Constitution of India was adopted on November 26, 1949. She told that Indian constitution is the largest constitution of the world. It was originally written in Hindi and English by hand. She further added that preamble of the constitution is the soul of the constitution. By reading the preamble, one comes to know about the principles and objectives of constitution. Students of the college participated in the events “Read Preamble” and “Quiz based on Constitutional democracy” organised by Government of India and won certificates. College Principal Dr Archna Garg and the college staff was present on the occasion.Lyallpur Khalsa College For WomenThe NSS Department of Lyallpur Khalsa College for Women celebrated the National Constitution Day as per the directions of Krishan Kumar, Secretary, Higher Education, Punjab. In these celebrations Dr Davinderpal Kherra, Head, Department of Political Science, congratulated the NSS volunteers and apprised them on the importance of the day. In this regards, various competitions were also organised by the Department of NSS as slogan writing, declamation and online quiz, in which the NSS volunteers participated actively and whole heartedly. The students and staff members also pledged that they will respect and obey the Constitution and would leave no stone unturned to fulfill their fundamental duties. Kanchan, Librarian, also told the students about the fundamental rights. Principal Dr. Navjot in her address said that it is the need of the hour to protect and respect our Constitution. Principal Dr Navjot appreciated the efforts of Dr Davinderpal Kherra, Head, Department of Political Science, and NSS Officers Manjeet Kaur and Aatma Singh and librarian Kanchan.Shiv Jyoti Public SchoolAs per CBSE guidelines received in a circular, Preamble Reading Activity Under 75th Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava was held in special morning assembly at Shiv Jyoti Public School to commemorate the Constitution day. Students of Classes VII and VIII and teachers participated in the activity with full enthusiasm. Principal Neeru Nayyar told the students about the importance of the Constitution of our country. Nalini Chopra, Sonia Sharma and Arti Tandon of Samridhi House took lead to read the Preamble. The students followed them to read the Preamble. Maximum number of students and staff members of the school participated in Preamble reading activity. Nalini Chopra made the students conversant with Constitutional values and fundamental principles of the Indian Constitution. The activity was performed under the supervision of incharge Simmi Grover and Parminder Vasran, House Master of Samridhi House. The management and school Principal Neeru Nayyar and Vice Principal Parveen Saili appreciated the efforts put in by the students and teachers and acknowledged the initiative taken by House master and concerned teachers of Samridhi House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/competitions-celebrations-mark-constitution-day-in-edu-institutions-343370
27-11-2021||Jalandhar||Sepak Takraw c’ship concludes||Inter-School Kathak Dance ContestA budding dancer of Mayor World School Drisha Jain of grade VIII -D participated in Jalandhar Sahodaya Inter-School Kathak Dance Competition at DRV DAV Centenary Public School. She won the first prize in the category of Grades VI-VIII and brought laurels to the school. Her graceful dance moves were more complex and influenced by musicality and lyrical relevance to express emotions. Stepping in time to the beats of the music and showing a clear repertoire of dance steps, she left the audience spellbound. Many Schools participated in the event. The participants were full of great zeal and enthusiasm and were thrilled to be a part of this colourful, vibrant and energising event.Creative Writing CompetitionA creative writing competition was held at PCM SD College for Women by Hindi Sahitya Dhara. Students of varied streams participated in the event. The topic of the competition was given on the spot. The event was held for the students to nurture their intrinsic and creative talents. They performed to the best of their abilities through poetry and prose. Members of the managing committee and Principal Dr Pooja Prashar felicitated the students for their avid participation. They also applauded the endeavours of Sunita Sharma and Neena Mittal for organising such activities that serve as outlet to the hidden ingenuity of the students.Industrial VisitThe Civil Engineering students of Mehr Chand Polytechnic College, Jalandhar, were taken for an industrial visit to Phagwara for briefing them the functioning of an automatic Hot Mix Plant and the materials used therein. The visit was arranged by Department of Civil Engineering in association with M/s RK Aggarwal & Co. Phagwara to make the students aware about the working of Hot Mix Plant and carpeting of flexible pavements. The students saw various operations and controls of automatic Hot Mix Plant and learnt about the materials. The students were accompanied by Kanav Mahajan and Amit Khanna, lecturers in the Department of Civil Engineering.Exhibition at Apeejay CollegeOn the occasion of 552nd birthday of Guru Nanak Dev, Apeejay College of Fine Arts participated in an exhibition organised at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. In the exhibition, Dr Gagan Gambhir, Dr Simkee Dev, Dr Harman Deep, Sandeep Singh, Dr Raman Dadra and Anuradha acted as representatives of college. They exhibited the art work related to the culture and inheritance of Punjab. Various paintings representing Punjab and the ancient utensils used in older times of Punjab were exhibited. With this, other homely stuff as Phulkari, Punjabi Jutti, Pakhiyan, Daria, brass utensils etc. were also displayed.Toppers in BA JournalismSanket Goyal of Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, has bagged 2nd position in the university exams of B.A. Journalism & Mass Communication Semester-II by getting 405 marks out of 450 whereas Ekta Pandey, Pallvi and Rajveer Kaur bagged 4th,6th and 9th position by getting 397, 386, 377 marks respectively in the same class. This information was given in a press release by the Principal of the College Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra. Dr Samra added that the college has a policy of providing all kinds of support to the meritorious students of the college who excel in academics sports and other co-curricular activities. The president of the college governing council Balbir Kaur congratulated the students and wished them success in life.AWS Cloud CertificationB.Tech, Computer Science and Engineering student; Raahat Varma of GNA University completed his third AWS Cloud Certification on Sysops Administrator Associate. Raahat commenced his Cloud journey last year in 2020 and learned about Amazon Web Services (AWS) at GNA University. Cloud offers mainly three roles, Cloud Engineer, Cloud Developer, Cloud Architect and all other roles revolve around these domains. Raahat initially cleared AWS Certified Cloud Practitioner in two weeks in August 2020. He cleared his second certification AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate, which took him a month to prepare. He also cleared Aviatrix Certified Engineer- Multicloud Network Associate Certification offered by Aviatrix.Annual Sports MeetJalandhar: St Soldier College of Education organised 17th athletic meet in which Dr Shweta Shenoy, Head of Department of Science and Medicine, Guru Nanak Dev University, was present as the chief guest. Chairman of St. Soldier Group Anil Chopra, Vice Chairperson Sangeeta Chopra, Sacred Heart School Chairman Sunil Chopra were specially present. They were welcomed by MD Prof Manhar Arora, College Director Dr Alka Gupta. Various types of games were organised in the meet. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sepak-takraw-cship-concludes-343372
27-11-2021||Our Correspondent||Webinar on cybersecurity||Hoshiarpur, November 26A webinar on “Cybersecurity and an insight to become an entrepreneur” was organised by EDC ( Entrepreneur Development Cell), PUSSGRC, Hoshiarpur, under the National Cybersecurity Awareness Programme at PUSSGRC, Hoshiarpur, on Friday.The event began with a formal welcome to the speaker of the event Lovejyot Chhabra by Prof HS Bains, Director, PUSSGRC, Hoshiarpur. In his address, the speaker of the day- Lovejyot Chhabra, Director, Cyber Defence Intelligence Consulting, Mohali shared the anecdotes and personal experiences from the early stages of his career. He also elucidated upon the need to remain vigilant and grab any opportunity that comes in the way to success. He also highlighted his experiences in several fields in the market and insisted that modern youth, especially the students, must keep themselves updated with the latest technologies and trends in the market so that they are able to gain a helpful insight while venturing into any startup. During the interaction session, Chhabra answered several queries of the students and encouraged them to look for gap area in the market. On the whole it was an enlightening experience for the students. Prof HS Bains, Director, PUSSGRC, Hoshiarpur, thanked the speaker for his enlightening words and congratulated Dr Vrajesh Sharma and the organising team (EDC cell members - Lieut. Rahul Jassal, Dr Brajesh Sharma, Savita Grover, Harkamalpreet Singh, Dharminder Singh) for organising an insightful event for the students.The session ended with a vote of thanks by Lieut. Rahul Jassal, Assistant Prof and member (EDC Cell) to the speaker.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/webinar-on-cybersecurity-343375
27-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Shots fired outside house in Bajwara||The Sadar police station have booked three persons, including two brothers, for firing gunshots outside a house in Bajwara last night due to old enmity. The incident was captured in the CCTV cameras. Anju Bala, wife of Puran Chand, a resident of Nishan Colony, Bajwara, told the police that last night, there was a noise of firing. A young woman living in her neighbourhood told her that Avtar and his brother Labhpreet alias Labha had come there along with one more youth and had fired. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/shots-fired-outside-house-in-bajwara-343376
