28-11-2021||---||Phagwara mill owners told to pay cane dues||Kapurthala, November 27Attempting to resolve the ongoing tussle between farmers and sugar mill owners over their pending dues, Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa on Saturday made both sides sit together during a meeting held here.As farmers demanded that their pending dues of Rs50 crore be paid to the owners quickly, after long deliberations it was finally decided that Rs25 crore would be paid by Sandhar Sugar Mills in three instalments by June 2022. The farmers said they would take a final decision on the proposal made by the mill owner in four days.Randhawa chaired a meeting of the representatives of farmer unions, sugar mills general managers, owners of private sugar mills on the issue of payment to farmer against the sugarcane at DAC Kapurthala.To represent the farming community in the meeting Satnam Singh, BKU Doaba general secretary, Kirpal Singh Musafir, AK Arora GM of Bhogpur sugar mill, GC Shergill GM Nawanshahar sugar mill, Jarnail Singh Wahid from Wahid Sandhar sugar mill Phagwara were also present.Earlier, on his maiden visit to the Kapurthala district after assuming office as Deputy Chief Minister of Punjab, a contingent of Punjab Police led by PPS Babandeep Singh presented the Guard of Honour to the Deputy CM. Deputy Commissioner Kapurthala Deepti Uppal, IG Jalandhar range GS Dhillon, SSP Kapurthala Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh welcomed the Deputy CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/phagwara-mill-owners-told-to-pay-cane-dues-343745
28-11-2021||---||Pargat Singh brings seven new sports parks to Jalandhar Cantt constituency||Jalandhar, November 27Elections on mind, Punjab Sports Minister Pargat Singh on Saturday laid the foundation stone of sports parks in seven villages of his Jalandhar Cantt constituency, besides giving away cheques for grants to different panchayats for the development works in villages.Laying foundation stone of the sports park in the Bambianwal village, Pargat Singh said the sports facility would be constructed at a cost of Rs 75.68 lakh, having facilities of changing room, agricultural sprinkler system, basketball ground with concrete flooring and volley court etc. The minister also went to Bhagwan Valmiki dharamshala where he announced a grant of Rs 2 lakh for the development of dharamshala. He also laid the foundation stone of sports parks in villages such as Dhanal and Bhode Saprai at a cost of Rs 66.01 lakh and Rs 49.68 lakh respectively, which would also boost the sports activities in the region.In Qadianwali village, Pargat Singh laid the foundation of the sports park to be built at a cost of Rs 65.67 lakh, besides giving away a cheque for Rs 10 lakh to the village panchayat for the development works. The minister also got the work of the Sports Park started in Dhina village, Daduwal and Udhopur, which would also be completed at a cost of Rs 17.86 lakh, 56.67 lakh and 53.56 lakh, respectively. The minister also handed over cheques for Rs 10 lakh and Rs 9 lakh to the panchayats of Dhanal Khurd and Dhanal Kalan villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/pargats-constituency-gets-seven-sports-parks-343746
28-11-2021||---||National theatre festival unfolds in Jalandhar||Jalandhar, November 27After a long hiatus due to Covid-19, which deeply affected the cultural and theatre scene in the city, Jalandhar is set for its 7th edition of the National Theatre Festival — YUVAA Rang Utsav (YRU), which will begin in Jalandhar from November 28 onwards.The theatre festival will feature plays brought in from across the country. While none of the annual theatre festivals could be hosted amid the pandemic, the upcoming theatre festival will be the first post-Covid theatre-only festival, featuring outings from veterans and varied talents from across India.The 7th edition of YRU will go on for five weeks and stage nine plays from different cities of India over the weekends. Starting on November 28, it will continue till December 26.While auditoriums and public places remained closed during the first year of the pandemic, the theatre scene had also been impacted by the same. After its first post-pandemic individual play outing on September 18, the theatre group is now playing host to plays brought in by theatre groups from West Bengal, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Punjab.Cities from where plays will be brought during the festival include Kolkata, Patiala, Mumbai, Jalandhar, Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Chandigarh.Creative Director, YUVAA, Ankur Sharma said: “We were unable to hold three of our scheduled theatre festivals due to the pandemic. We were ready with Punjabi Rang Utsav 2020 but it had to be cancelled due to Covid restrictions. YUVA Rang Utsav 2020 and Punjabi Rang Utsav 2021 could also not take place due to Covid. So, we are happy to finally host our post-Covid theatre festival. The idea is to give a regular treat of best quality theatre to residents in our region, so that watching good theatre becomes a habit. This is more important in the light of the fact that the post-corona world has become a largely online affair and people are moving awayfrom reality. Theatre, a live performance medium, can surely keep us connected to the real world.”The plays to be featured at the festival include Kusum Kusum (Kolkata); Mere Lok (Patiala); Shree and Blue (Mumbai); Chidiyaghar (Jalandhar); Darwin (Ahmedabad); Bhanwariya Kaalet (Jaipur); Agg di ik baat hai (Chandigarh); Shaheed Udham Singh (Chandigarh) and All My Sons (Jalandhar).Kusum Kusum will feature veteran theatre actors Sujan Mukhopadhyay and his wife Nivedita Mukhopadhyay. Among others, the festival will also feature Thin Line Theatre group from Mumbai; the Kalandar Group from Rajasthan, which will bring in their play regarding the plight of the Marasi community of Rajasthan; Panjab University Chandigarh’s Associate Professor, theatre, D. Navdeep Kaur will bring in her play ‘Agg Di Ik Baat Hai’ based on the life of Punjabi poetess Amrita Pritam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/and-the-drama-finally-unfolds-343747
28-11-2021||---||In a first, RCF Kapurthala rolls out 3 phase MEMU rake||Kapurthala, November 27Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala, today rolled out the first ever three-phase Mainline Electric Multiple Unit (MEMU) rake to Asansol MEMU Shed, Eastern Railways. The rake comprising 12 coaches was rolled out in the presence of Ashesh Agrawal, General Manager, RCF. These coaches will be put in service after the performance trial. The electrics in the coaches have been provided by M/s. BHEL.Explaining the modifications, the GM said, “The coaches have stainless steel body with better acceleration than conventional MEMU coaches. Ethernet-based Train Control and Management system (TCMS) has been provided which offers precise train control besides Rescue Drive Mode (RDM) feature which limits the train speed to 60 km/h in case of any failure in Train Network. The driver motor coach has aerodynamic nose front with air-conditioned driver’s cab and ergonomically designed driver desk. Low maintenance is the key feature of these coaches as compared to conventional MEMU coaches.”Talking about the additional features, he said, “The three-phase MEMUs not only excels technically but provides better passenger amenities too. Each coach has aesthetic interiors with FRP panelling, cushioned seats, wider windows, sliding doors, mobile charging sockets. Energy-efficient LED light fittings have been provided in each coach with 50 per cent emergency lights. GPS-based public address and Passenger Information System (PAPIS) comprising screen displays and loud speakers in each coach facilitates passengers regarding stations on way. For secure travel, CCTV surveillance system with networking features has also been incorporated. Two lavatories with bio-tank have also been provided in each trailer coach.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/in-a-first-rcf-kthala-rolls-out-3-phase-memu-rake-343748
28-11-2021||Ajay Joshi||Double delight for physical education lecturer in Mand||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 27A physical education lecturer, Regwinder Bhatia of Government Senior Secondary School, Mand, Jalandhar, brought laurels to the state by clinching gold and a silver medal in the 200-m and 100-m swimming events in the 17th National Master Championship 2021, organised by the Karnataka Swimming Association.The championship was sponsored by the Swimming Federation of India. The three-day championship for the sport persons and government employees is being held at Mangaluru, Karnataka.Representing Punjab, Regwinder Bhatia won the medals on the second day of the championship. Kicked off on November 26, the championship will conclude on November 28. People in the age group 25-84 years were allowed to participate in the athletics meet and around 600 swimmers, both men and women, from across the country participated in it.Elated, Regwinder Singh Bhatia (39), who first ran to victory in the 200m swimming event, said, he has now qualified to participate in the international championships.In the 200 metre race, Bhatia competed with, around eight participants in the age category of 35-39 years. In addition, he will participate in the two more events in the last day of the championship.Notably, Bhatia has remained a swimming coach in the Education Department and was titled as best water polo player of Punjab in 1997. Earlier he had registered a record by winning 15 medals in various swimming tournaments and remained the top most swimmers in the state.Apart from Regwinder, Sukhwinder Singh Bajwa, another retired government employee from the district got silver medal in 100 m back stroke event, organised for 60 above age group. Harvinder singh from Kapurthala participated in 45-plus age group.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/double-delight-for-physical-education-lecturer-in-mand-343749
28-11-2021||Jalandhar||Two new Covid cases  in Jalandhar district||No new case or death in K’thala: No new Covid case was reported in Kapurthala and the tally remained at 17866. No death from Covid was reported either. TNSPoll work reviewedNawanshahr: On the directions of the Election Commission of India (ECI), Divisional Commissioner Manvesh Singh Sidhu asked the Election Registration Officers (EROs) and Assistant Election Registration Officers (AEROs) to make dedicated efforts for ensuring that no eligible voter was left behind in the upcoming Assembly Elections -2022. Accompanied by DC Vishesh Sarangal, the Divisional Commissioner said special summary revision of photo voter list with eligibility date of January 1, 2022 is in progress. The Divisional Commissioner said to facilitate youth, the ECI has launched National Voter Services Portal (NVSP) and Voter Helpline App. The district has around 4,87,535 voters including 2,51,907 male, 2,35,608 women and 20 third genders as per latest records. TNSRs 30L awards for 117 researchersPhagwara: At an annual ‘faculty appreciation award ceremony’, LPU bestowed honours upon its top 117 researchers and faculty members. Cash awards worth Rs 30 lakh were given away to 117 recipients for their illustrious distinctions. Minister of State for Rural Development and Steel (Government of India) Faggan Singh Kulaste chaired the ceremony, where 27 research excellence awards for the 2019-20 session; 54 research excellence awards for 2020-21 session; 34 teaching appreciation awards; and two teaching appreciation awards in the name of Dr CB Gupta were awarded. TNSExtensive Covid sampling to stayNawanshahr: To keep the coronavirus at bay amid many parts of the country started reporting increase in the Covid cases, DC Vishesh Sarangal has directed the Health Department to conduct extensive Covid-19 sampling and surveillance in the district. The DC said the step was being taken to ensure aggressive testing for conquering the virus and asked the health officials to ensure random sampling of the people in markets, high-density areas and other places. He directed the health officials to organise special testing camps at those locations which witness the maximum footfall. Sarangal appealed the people to extend fulsome support to the sampling teams as it would help to keep the curve flattened besides ensuring safety of the people from the deadly disease. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/two-new-cases-in-jalandhar-district-343750
