29-11-2021||---||Kapurthala police crack surveyor's murder case; 2 nabbed||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 28The Kapurthala police today cracked the murder of a surveyor by arresting two members of a gang that shot him dead in Ibban village recently.Victim shot dead on November 20SSP Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said on November 20, the police received information that some assailants opened fire on Balwinder Singh of Kot Dharam Chand village, Tarn Taran. He was working as a surveyor with Land Mark Infra Company in Ibban. Afterwards, they took away his Mahindra Bolero vehicle (bearing registration no PB 46 AG 1777).The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh Sukha (25) and Lovepreet Singh of Ibban village. One of their accomplices, Harkrishan Singh, alias Monu, from Dhapai village, is still at large.Addressing a press conference, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said on November 20, the police received information that some assailants opened fire on the surveyor, Balwinder Singh, of Kot Dharam Chand village, Tarn Taran. He was working as a surveyor with Land Mark Infra Company in Ibban. Afterwards, they took away his Mahindra Bolero vehicle (bearing registration no PB 46 AG 1777).Balwinder (30) was carrying out a survey for the land to be acquired under the Delhi-Katra Expressway along with his team.Khakh said on the day of the ill-fated incident, the accused asked Balwinder to give the keys of his vehicle. On his refusal, the accused pumped three bullets into the victim and took away his vehicle from the spot.The SSP said in this regard, a case was registered against the accused under Sections 302, 379-B and 34 of the IPC at the Sadar police station, Kapurthala, on the statement of an eyewitness, Gurvinder Singh, brother of deceased Balwinder Singh.The SSP said police teams were formed under the supervision of the DSP, Kapurthala, Surinder Singh, and Sadar SHO Inspector Gurdial Singh to nab the accused and following a tip-off, the teams arrested accused Sukhwinder Singh Sukha from the Raajapur bus stand, who was trying to escape from the police as well as Lovepreet Singh.During the preliminary interrogation, Sukhwinder and Lovepreet confessed to the crime. They told the police that on November 20, at around 10 am, Monu called them to go to Bhetan village to settle score with some boys who had damaged his car. Both went to Monu’s house, parked their bike and headed towards Nathuchal Road in his car.Monu gave them a pistol in the car. When they reached the Dhandla village bridge, their vehicle collided with a Maruti Zen car, moving ahead of them. Later, Monu started a fight with the driver of the car but they left the spot when people began to gather on the spot, the accused said.He said the trio left their vehicle after it developed a technical fault. Later, they later forcibly took away a motorcycle from a boy near a sweetmeat shop at gunpoint and reached Ibban on the bike. At the village, Balwinder was standing near the Bolero vehicle. Monu asked him to give the keys of the car but he refused following which he opened fire on him and took away his vehicle. After the incident, he and Monu went to Amritsar in Bolero and Lovepreet went on the motorcycle.The SSP said due to high alert, the trio separated from each other. Monu took away the Bolero and weapons with him and Sukhwinder took the laptop and Lovepreet went away on the motorcycle, taken away forcibly from the victim.The SSP said the police had recovered a laptop from the spot as information given by the accused.He said the arrested accused would be produced before the Magistrate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/police-crack-surveyors-murder-case-2-nabbed-344098
29-11-2021||Aparna Banerji||Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan to begin from December 24||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 28The 146th Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan will be held from December 24 to 26 at Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar this year. Shehnai maestro Vikas Babu, dhrupad exponent Uday Bhawalkar and renowned flautist Pt Ronu Majumdar will be a part of the 146th Harivallabh Sangeet Sameelan.In a major break from a 145-year-old established tradition, the sammelan will be held at the Baba Harivallabh Bhawan, established on the premises of the mandir. Held on the sprawling pandals of the Shree Devi Talab Mandir since its inception, the historic sammelan’s melifluous strains have always been partook by music lovers under the open skies in the chill of December.While the saints’ congregation under Baba Harivallabh started holding it in 1875 on the then dry grounds of the current Devi talab (pond), in subsequent years it was shifted to the mandir grounds and then to huge pandals with a capacity to seat lakhs of people. With the pandals shrinking with dwindling audience in the past few years, the decision of hosting the sammelan in the hall has been taken by the committee this year. With the Covid pandemic and the live telecast of the event on TV and YouTube, there has been a marked decrease in visitors’ footfall. Committee members said all requisite arrangements and traditional seating pattern will be replicated in the hall to ensure there was no change in the ambience of the festival.The sammelan has religiously been held by the committee even during the Covid pandemic. President of the Shree Baba Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha, Purnima Beri, said: “For now, we have decided to host the event at the Shree Baba Harivallabh Bhawan. Sound proofing of the bhawan is being done and green rooms are also being made for artistes. Depending upon the success of the sammeelan and the footfall, a decision regarding the future will be taken. The bhawan is big in size and will have seating arrangements akin to those being made in the pandal. The audience will continue sitting on the floor.”A havan will be held on the samadhi of Baba Harivallabh on December 23 at 9.30 am and the sameelan itself will start on December 24. The decision regarding the same was taken at a recent meeting of the Harivallabh Sangeet Mahasabha, which was attended by president Purnima Beri, general secretary Deepak Bali, Arun Mishra, Beas Kalyan Singh, Nitin Kapoor, Jagmohan Singh Uppal, Gurmeet Singh, Ashu Singla, Ramesh Moudgil, Madan Rana, Kulwinder Deep Kaur, Neelam Seen, among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/harivallabh-sangeet-sammelan-to-begin-from-december-24-344099
29-11-2021||---||Woman killed in mishap||Our CorrespondentTalwara, November 28A woman died while her husband and two children were injured in a road accident involving a motorcycle and a tipper on Friday.Sanjeev Kumar told the police that he was going from Dhade Katwal village to attend the wedding of his maternal uncle in Heer Beh village with his wife and two children this afternoon. When he was passing from near Sarvahittkari School, a tipper coming from the rear side hit his motorcycle and they fell on the road.His wife Jyoti Rani died on the spot after being run over by the tipper while the children and he got injured.Talwara police station SHO Ajmer Singh Chahal and ASI Mahinder Singh said the body of the deceased had been kept in the mortuary of BBMB Hospital here. After the post-mortem on Saturday, the body will be handed over to her family. The truck driver was nabbed on the spot and handed over to the police by passers-by. He was identified as Basakha Singh, a resident of Biru Chakk village, under the Dasuya police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/woman-killed-in-mishap-344100
29-11-2021||Jalandhar||Teachers burn effigies of Punjab CM, minister||Members of the Democratic Teachers Front burnt an effigy of the state government at the local bus stand in Jalandhar on Sunday. The teachers burnt an effigy of the CM Charanjit Singh Channi and Education Minister Pargat Singh at the main bus stand. The main demands of the teachers included completion of recruitments of all teachers, resolving grievances of all government teachers and bringing computer teachers under the ambit of the Education Department. They also protested against the lathicharge and the police action against teachers at various places.They also participated in the morcha of TET Pass B.Ed unemployed teachers before starting their protest. Union member Vikram Dev Singh and General Secretary Mukesh Kumar said during the meeting of the Education Minister with the Sanjha Adhyapak Morcha, he had promised to provide better opportunities to teachers and cancellation of police cases against them.He had also assured the clearing the orders for the regularisation of two of the teachers of the 8,886 teachers union and due addressal of their grievances.The teachers issued a demand letter to the Education Minister and stated that if the state government fails to address their demands on a priority basis, they will soon hold a state-level protest rally in Jalandhar on December 8. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/teachers-burn-effigies-of-cm-minister-344101
29-11-2021||Jalandhar||Three test +ve for Covid in Jalandhar district||Three new Covid cases were reported in Jalandhar on Sunday. With this, the district Covid tally in Jalandhar reached 63,483 cases. No new Covid death was reported today. As many as 61,953 persons have recovered from Covid in the district while the number of active cases in Jalandhar is 32. Of the 18,22,794 samples collected, 16,87989 have tested negative. However, no new case of Covid or death due to the disease was reported in Kapurthala today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-test-ve-for-covid-in-district-344102
29-11-2021||Ajay Joshi||Deplorable condition of night shelters in Jalandhar keeping homeless at bay||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 28The deplorable condition of Rain Baseras (night shelters) in the city is keeping the homeless visitors at bay. Neither beds/ mattresses nor restrooms are in a usable state. Owing to the district administration and Municipal Corporation’s apathy, a few visitors are helpless as they have no option but to spend cold nights in these torn beddings. FACTFILE“This is my fourth day at the night shelter. The walls at the shelter saves us from the chill, but lack of blankets and mattresses serves no purpose. The washrooms also stink throughout the day,” said Kumar (45), who was sleeping inside a shabby quilt.Apart from the appalling condition of night shelters, caretakers have left reportedly because they were not being paid for months. A fast food vendor outside ROB near Lyallpur Khalsa College night shelter said it’s been months since the workers left the night shelter. Happy, a caretaker who worked here previously, said: “I was hired with the assurance of monthly salary. The contractor told me that it was a government job, however, I wasn’t paid salary for six months. Hence, to afford two-square meals, I had to take up another job. Now, I visit the night shelter as a visitor only.”Similarly, Ram Singh, who maintains the night shelter at Damoria underbridge, near the railway station, said, the contractor does not pay him. These days, only 2-3 homeless people are taking shelter here even though there was a capacity for 30 to 35 persons.A destitute camping near the railway lines under ROB Lyallpur Khalsa College said: “The temperature has started dipping, therefore, there is a need to ensure cleanliness and other required arrangements for visitors at these night shelters.”“Homeless people have nowhere else to go. The authorities should ensure the arrangement of clean beddings, blankets, drinking water, hot water and other facilities. There should be adequate number of toilets too. Hygienic conditions should prevail for prevention of diseases,” said a dhaba owner, who works outside the bus stand night shelter.Meanwhile, Harish Sabbarwal, an employee of Water and Sanitation Department, Municipal Corporation, who has been made the in-charge of the night shelters, had no knowledge about the unavailability of caretakers at these shelters. He said: “The new tenders for night shelters has not been floated by the MC yet. I will visit the night shelters tomorrow and make adequate arrangements.”Good Samaritans cometo rescueAfter the caretakers left, most of the night shelters are now at the mercy of Good Samaritans, who once in a while get the night shelters cleaned. Besides, warm blankets and quilts are also donated by NGOs only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/deplorable-condition-of-night-shelters-keeping-homeless-at-bay-344103
29-11-2021||Farmers should now welcome PM’S gesture||Open House:  Are farmers right in continuing with their protest?||The PM chose an auspicious occasion of Gurpurab to announce the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws against which the farmers had been agitating for the past more than a year. At present, there is no question of winning or losing any battle, nor any margin for playing politics over the issue. The farmers should welcome PM's gesture by reciprocating it with conditional withdrawal of agitation without further delay. The government must engage all stake holders to reach the consensus on all agricultural reforms before proceeding with any legislation. It needs to be understood that without making agriculture a profitable activity, no sustainable economic progress of any country is possible. To proceed further in this direction, legal sanctity to MSP of all agricultural produce is a major requirement. This further needs to be strongly linked with adequate marketing infrastructure to be supported by active government intervention to ensure that no produce is sold below MSP under any circumstances. Revolutionary steps are required to make agriculture a financially viable proposition and ecologically sustainable one with short term and long term strategic support from the government agencies. In this direction, farmers cooperatives need to be encouraged for promoting agro-based industry in specified areas and for optimum utilisation of the latest farm technology to carry over large-scale crop diversification and their commercialisationJagdish ChanderHard to rely on government nowIt's doubtful that the PM is honest about what he said regarding the repeal of three farm laws. What about bringing back all black money from foreign countries, particularly Swiss Banks. This is just one jumla. When he was the CM of Gujarat, he clearly talked about guarantee of MSP on wheat and paddy to the farmers. But when he became the PM, he just backtracked and repealed the MSP on these crops, much to the chagrin of farmers. He is totally an acolyte of Ambani and Adani, both Gujaratis. The farmers are absolutely right in continuing their protest about giving legal garb to the MSP and also other points. Why the minister of state, Ajay Mishra has not been sacked? His son crushed the peacefully agitating farmers under his vehicle. The police and the UP government tried to save him. Had it not been for the intervention of the Supreme Court, he would not have been arrested. When the three farm laws were implemented as ordinances, why not repeal them as ordinances and then getting passed in parliament. His decisions can't be relied upon. Farmers should not end their agitation till all their demands are met and they have got the repealing of laws signed by the President of India in their hands.Dr JS WadhwaFaremrs are fully justified in protestingThe Modi government’s announcement to repeal three contentious farm laws against which farmers have been peacefully protesting on the Delhi borders for the last one year is a welcome. Whether dictated by political compulsions ahead of the Assembly elections in UP and Punjab or public pressure, it has been seen as a triumph of democracy. It has not only allayed farmers' fears about corporatisation of agriculture but also marked a certain shift in the current dispensation's arrogant, egoistical and inflexible attitude. The farmers' unions have, however, refused to end their agitation and decided to stay put rather than vacate the protest sights till these laws are finally withdrawn through a proper parliamentary procedure and their other major demands, including statutory guarantee of MSP for all major agriculture produce, repeal of the amendments proposed to the electricity law, dismissal of MoS Ajay Mishra Teni for the Lakhimpur Kheri incidents and giving adequate compensation to the bereaved families of the victims, are met. Amid voices that these demands are totally unreasonable, farmers are fully justified in not compromising with their stand. It will be in the fitness of things that the Centre accepts these demands at the earliest. It has been seen that the government has not done anything meaningful for the welfare of the farming community despite launching various schemes and programmes. The government should formulate policies in consultation with the farmers' organisations and implement the Swaminathan Report to actually double farmers' income.DS KangGovt must accept healthy criticismIt is appreciable that the PM has announced to take back the three black agri laws. The undemocratic manner in which these laws were pushed through ignited peaceful protests by farmers' unions. The government maintains that these laws were passed to re-organise the agricultural sector in accordance with the principles of market economy but farmers were apprehensive about losing their lands to the corporate sector eventually. Due to the prevailing lack of trust and faith in the functioning of the government, farmers have rightly reiterated their stand to continue their one year-old tenacious agitation. What they want is that these laws should be formally withdrawn by following a proper parliamentary process. They have also been pressing the government to fulfil their other demands such as legal protection of MSP, not only on wheat and paddy but also on other major crops. If the Modi regime is really serious about ameliorating the plight of the toiling but distressed farmers by doubling their farm income, it should bring laws concerning farmers by taking them into confidence. Encouraging the farming community for diversification of crops, providing them quality seeds, fertilizers insecticides and pesticides, and ensuring that the market is not rigged should be the initial steps. It will make agriculture a viable profession and address the problems of fast depleting groundwater and environmental pollution. After the success of this sustained social movement that has the potential to impact the political landscape in Punjab and UP, the BJP should revisit its mindset about protest mobilisation and accept healthy criticism of its policies and programmes in future.Simran KangPublic faith in govt policies has erodedOur PM has announced the withdrawal of three laws but still all farmer unions have refused to end their agitation. Their justification about not ending the protest is that the government is not coming forward for talks. On one hand, farmers are rejoicing over their victory, on the other, the protest is still going on. Why are they distributing sweets and feeling happy over their victory, if they don't consider it a victory? For the time being, government should give a fair chance and end their agitation. The farmers wanted the laws to be repealed and the demand has been granted by the government. There is a major set-back in politics and policy. PM surrendered and rollback the three laws. It can be a political gimmick, the decision made ahead of UP and Punjab elections. The farmers refuse to vacate and continue with their protest is not justified. Trust in the government has been eroded.Shashi KiranNot wise to cease protest nowFarmers have striven long and hard against the three contentious farm laws. The protests at Singhu and Tikri border, the Lakhimpur Kheri violence will forever remain etched in their memories. It took several months and a lot of sacrifice to elicit a promise of repeal of the farm laws from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 19. Now, that the Cabinet has cleared the bill to repeal these three farm laws and the approval of the Parliament is yet awaited, it would not be wise to cease the protest prior to the fulfillment of their demands. Time has already proven the propensity of political promises to turn volatile if not pursued till their consummation. It’s the same with the farmers’ demands including the legal protection of MSP. Farmers should continue with their protests till all their demands are met.Shaheen P ParshadFarmers may lose credibility if stir is onNow, that the farmers have proved the power of protest, as Centre has agreed to repeal the three farm laws, this should be taken as their victory. Though BJP may have bought peace with the farmers by accepting their demand, farm union leaders should reciprocate by being responsible citizens and ending their agitation. But if farm unions’ leaders continue their protests on one after another or more demands they will not only lose their credibility but also the sympathy of the people who have stood with them all through their yearlong agitation and protests. Among farm unions’ demands, the most unreasonable, if not outrageous, is the one for the repeal of the amendments proposed to the electricity law, as farmers are bent upon preserving a status quo mainly defined by free or cheap power. Now the SKM, the joint platform of farm unions, is being quite unreasonable and asking for changes that can make India a basket case. And if we look closely at farm unions’ demand for minimum support price (MSP), it also needs a thorough debate on its being reasonable or not. MSP effectively works for paddy and wheat crops, as they form the foundation of government’s food security regime. But if farm unions continue to demand guaranteed minimum support prices for all their other crops and their entire procurement by the government, this will be clearly a non-starter. These demand’s fulfillment, should not be their condition before they withdraw their agitation. So, there is dire need to reform MSP and move India’s agrarian economy to a system where farmers respond to price signals in making their choice of crops, but SKM’s approach is in contrast to this. The government may be having the right intent in its agricultural reform package, but now that it has stepped back, there should be a redline on the clutches of some demands. And for the government, it is utmost necessary to build consensus for reforms but equally important is to stand firm in the face of unreasonableness, if any.PL SinghFarmers’ concerns are justifiedIndia is a democratic country but what’s happening since last year makes this statement hard to understand. It’s been one year that farmers have been protesting against three contentious farm laws at Singhu and Tikri Borders. After seeing their persistence towards making farm laws to be repealed, PM had to withdraw these laws few days back. Still farm unions don’t want to culminate their protest. Their concerns are justified as the protest they hold was not easy throughout the year, more than 700 farmers lost their lives.Sukhmeet KaurPass repealing law in ParliamentThe announcement by the PM regarding withdrawal of three farm laws is welcome, but how the aggrieved parties take this news is at their discretion. It can be considered an election gimmick of the ruling party. Secondly, this announcement made especially on Guru Nanak’s birthday seems more than anything, an act of exploiting religious sentiments of farmers because most of those leading the agitation are either Sikhs or are from Punjab.The announcement supported by legal and constitutional component can create faith among the aggrieved parties. Not only the farmers but all the stakeholders: the farmers, corporates and consumers should be taken into consideration. Till the farm laws are constitutionally repealed and farmers’ other demands are addressed, they have a right to fight.Madhu SharmaRepeal and restart in right earnestFarmers and the whole country, including industry, railways, roadways and business in general, heaved a sigh of relief when the Prime Minister announced on Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary that his government had decided to repeal the contentious agricultural laws. Most probably, the laws will be formally repealed, but the most unfortunate part of it all is the trust deficit between the farmers’ leadership and the Prime Minister of the country. Not that the farmers don’t want to make agriculture a powerhouse of economic growth. Their protest is against the laws because the proposed reforms are guaranteed to fail as they failed to improve the farmers’ lot wherever in the world they were introduced, whether in USA, Chile, Philippine, or elsewhere. The small farmers there were simply swallowed by capitalists. Moreover, the Prime Minister, though seemingly sincere in his announcement, was noticeably quiet on the issue of the legal guarantee of a minimum support price for all their crops, and their other pending demands. In fact, the farmers’ joy and jubilation is over having achieved a status quo, the situation that prevailed before these so called black laws were hurriedly passed without any discussion at any level. Everyone has welcomed Modi’s climb down, even though it was a tenaciously delayed decision that cost the country 700 or so precious lives, but the political exigencies that propelled him to break his year long silence are also too transparent. The forthcoming Assembly Elections in UP, Punjab and some other states are crucial for BJP and farmers and their supporters constitute a huge vote bank. On the other hand, farmers’ Mahapanchayat at Lucknow, last week, reiterated their resolve to continue their protest over pending demands. Whatever, after the laws are repealed, after legal guarantee of MSP is made public,( if that is ) governments at the state level as well as at the union level, must start working on how to make agriculture a truly profitable and environmentally sustainable profession. Right now, it is an impoverished occupation having a great potential for jobsMOHAN SINGH QUESTIONDespite the government reducing the sand price, the real problem of mining sand remains in the state. Various villagers continue to complain against riverbeds being ravaged. Are such populist declarations made by the government enough to address this age-old menace without putting the mafia responsible for these illegal activities behind the bars?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to jalandhardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (December 2)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/open-house-are-farmers-right-in-continuing-with-their-protest-344105
29-11-2021||Jalandhar||Students at their creative best during  science fest||Innovation Hub, Pushpa Gujral Science City, jointly with Grassroots Innovations Augmentation Network (GIAN) organised Science Fest 2021 to promote innovation and creativity among the school students through development of working models in the various fields of science and technology. More than 300 students from different schools of Punjab participated and showcased their interactive innovative models in online Science Fest 2021.Prof Anil K Gupta, Founder, Honey Bee Network, SRISTI, GIAN & NIF during his motivational address to budding scientists said creativity is a function of knowledge, curiosity, imagination and evaluation that leads to innovation. The greater is your knowledge base and level of curiosity, the more potential innovative ideas you can achieve. But simply having knowledge does not guarantee the formation of new ideas or creativity. One needs to be highly innovative and creative to shape his ideas. He stressed that we must give room to the young minds to think to get fruitful outcome for the welfare of society.Dr Neelima Jerath, Director General, Science City, said creativity and innovation have become a crucial source of a nation’s sustainable growth and competitiveness amidst globalisation. In the modern era, innovative and creative minds dominate since they bring desired results to make complex processes simple, easy and economical.Innovation Hub at PGSC Kapurthala has been setup with the objective to promote innovativeness and engage the youth towards creativity as well as provide them an appropriate platform to display their ingenuity and innovativeness in an informal and playful environment, she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/students-at-their-creative-best-during-science-fest-344106
29-11-2021||---||District officials told to expedite SVEEP activities||Tribune News ServiceNawanshahr, November 28In order to take stock of ongoing special summary revision of electoral rolls, Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, Dr S Karuna Raju visited Nawanshahr today.During this super checking visit, CEO Punjab examined four randomly selected forms and interacted with the Booth Level Officers of these areas. He said in case of deletion/shifting of voters, a proper procedure to be adopted before proceeding ahead. While holding a meeting with Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Electoral Officer, Karuna Raju said as the ECI had fixed November 30 as the deadline for receiving the claims and objections for the ongoing Special Summary Revision Process, they should try their best to enroll all eligible citizens attaining age of 18 or more as on January1, 2022. Raju further asked the district officials to expedite the SVEEP (Systematic Voter Education & Electoral Participation) activities across the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/district-officials-told-to-expedite-sveep-activities-344107
29-11-2021||Nawanshahr||'Ensure no voter is left behind'||On the directions of the Election Commission of India (ECI), Divisional Commissioner Manvesh Singh Sidhu asked the Election Registration Officers (EROs) and Assistant Election Registration Officers (AEROs) to make dedicated efforts to ensure that no eligible voter was left behind in the upcoming Assembly elections. Accompanied by DC Vishesh Sarangal, the Divisional Commissioner said special summary revision of photo voter list with eligibility date of January 1, 2022 is in progress.He said the forms for enrolment as new voters, deletion of dead voters and change of locations or others can be given by November 30. He asked the voters to register themselves online through National Voter Services Portal (NVSP). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/ensure-no-voter-is-left-behind-344108
29-11-2021||Nawanshahr||730 take part in quiz competition||Deputy Commissioner Vishesh Sarangal honoured winners of district-level National Election Quiz competition organised under the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) campaign in the district. The Deputy Commissioner said it was a matter of great pride and satisfaction that 421 school students and 309 college going youths participated in these competitions in the district.He also detailed the students about history of Constitution Day which also falls today. The winners included Jasvir Kaur, Jaspreet Singh, Sakshi Karwal, Manpreet Rai, Akashdeep, Paramjeet Kaur, Jatin, Jyoti, Kajal, Rohit, Jasmeen, Sameer, Harman, Komalpreet, Deepti, Nikhil, Muskan, Nidhi and others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/730-take-part-in-quiz-competition-344109
29-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Youth ends life, wife booked||one booked for snatching mobileHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have booked a person for snatching a mobile phone from a young woman by entering her house. According to information, Kulwinder Kaur, a resident of Argowal village, told the police that her daughter Sangeeta was in the courtyard of the house, when Gurpal Singh, a resident of Tiluwal, allegedly grabbed her and snatched the mobile phone from her and fled the spot. The police have registered a case. OCman held for illegal miningHoshiarpur: The Tanda police have seized a tractor-trailer filled with sand and arrested the driver on the charge of illegal mining. According to information, during a naka in the area, the police stopped a sand-laden ractor-trailer near Pul Pukhta for investigation. The driver could not produce any document regarding the same. The police have arrested him took possession of the vehicle. The accused has been identified as Rinku Singh, a resident of Abdulpur. A case has been registered. OCTwo arrested with intoxicantsHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers and recovered a huge quantity of intoxicants from different places. According to information, during a naka in the area, the Hariana police recovered 65 grams of intoxicating powder from Chotala village resident Akhilesh Kumar. While the Garhshankar police arrested Davinder Kumar, alias Ghoga, a resident of Boda, and recovered a large quantity of intoxicating pills from him. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against the accused under the NDPS Act. OCOne arrested for bettingHoshiarpur: The Chabbewal police have arrested an accused while betting and seizied cash and betting slips from him. The accused has been identified as Ram Kishan, a resident of Barian Kalan. He has been booked under the Gambling Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/youth-ends-life-wife-booked-344111
