30-11-2021||Jalandhar||Three new Covid cases surface in Jalandhar district||Intoxicants seized, two arrestedHoshiarpur: The district police have arrested two smugglers and seized intoxicants from them. The Garhdiwala police have arrested Prabhjot Singh alias Prabh, a resident of Argowal, and seized 56 grams of intoxicating powder from him. Meanwhile, the Dasuya police have arrested Baljit Singh alias Rinka and seized 25 grams of intoxicating powder. Separate cases under the NDPS Act have been registered against them. OCMobile seized from jail inmateHoshiarpur: During a search operation, the Central Jail administration recovered a mobile phone from an jail inmate. A case has been registered by the city police in this regard. Assistant Supdt of the District Jail, Satnam Singh, wrote in his complaint that a mobile phone was seized from an inmate, Prabhjot Singh alias Joti, a resident of Khurda, Garhdiwla, in the barrack No. 19. The phone was hidden in his bed, he added. OCTheft accused arrestedHoshiarpur: The city police have arrested a person on the charge of theft on Sunday. Balraj Singh, who works in Sainik Welfare Office, told the police that Gaurav Singh, a resident of Fatehgarh, allegedly stole valuables from his office. According to him, the accused had previously committed theft from an educational institution on the same premises. The police have registered a case and arrested the accused. OCGold, foreign currency stolenHoshiarpur: Unidentified thieves entered the house of Nishan Singh, a resident of Daburji village, on Sunday and decamped with gold and foreign currency. Nishan Singh told the police that he had gone, along with his family members, to buy some medicines. When he returned, he found that the locks were broken and all things were scattered. He added that thieves took away gold and foreign currency from his house. The Tanda police have registered a case. OCCountry-made pistol seizedHoshiarpur: The city police arrested a person and seized a country-made pistol and two live cartridges during patrolling in the area. The accused has been identified as Lakhan, a resident of Premgarh Mohalla, in the city. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against him. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/three-new-covid-cases-surface-in-jalandhar-district-344607
30-11-2021||Jalandhar||Annual athletics meet||Star cast visits HMVThe star cast of upcoming Punjabi Film “Kade Haan, Kade Naa” visited Hans Raj Mahila Maha Vidyalya for the promotion of film. The programme was organised under Dean Youth Welfare Navroop Kaur, Rama Sharma, Head of Mass Communication and Video Production Department, Dr Rakhi Mehta, Head of Design Department and Superintendent Ravi Maini. Principal Prof Ajay Sareen presented planters to hero of the film Singha, heroine Sanjana, Director Sunil Thakur and other artists Simran Sehaj, Prakash Gadhu and project designer Shubham Chandrachur.Legal awareness campDAV University celebrated the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, under which the School of Law and Legal Studies along with the District Legal Services Authority organised legal services awareness camps in various villages of the Jalandhar. This event was organised to provide legal assistance to the marginalised sections of the society and poor beneficiaries to resolve their long standing issues under the umbrella of Pan India Awareness and Outreach Programme. .Workshop on Securities MarketThe PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration of Kanya Maha Vidyalaya in association with National Institute of Securities Market (NISM) organised a five-day workshop on Practical Aspects of Securities Market titled ‘Securities Market Operations’ for the students of BCom (Hons.), BCom (Pass and Hons.) and MCom The workshop was attended by more than 200 students. The resource person of the workshop was Dr Sanjay Kumar Aggarwal. Dr Aggarwal highlighted the importance of investment in a very effective manner.Book exhibitionMGN College of Education celebrated Constitution Day on the college premises. On this day, an exhibition of books on Indian Constitutional provisions and laws was displayed. All faculty members and students got benefitted with that exhibition as it helped them to go through the highlights of Constitution. Acting Principal Neelu Jhanji along with all faculty members took an oath to abide by the Constitutional provisions for national integrity. NSS volunteer Rachita Garg made the students aware regarding major educational provisions of our Constitution.Story telling with grandparentsCambridge International School (Co-Ed) organised an activity ‘Legendary Tales’ for grade I to IV wherein, the grandparents narrated the stories of the bygone era. Daddi’s and Naani’s stories can enthrall the children like no other. They have power. They delight, enchant, touch, teach, recall, inspire, motivate and challenge. They not only help us to understand many life skills but also leave a long-lasting impression on our minds. A warm story telling session with grandparents before going off to sleep is a perfect end to a hectic day.Conference on HospitalityGNA University organised the 4th International Conference on Hospitality and Tourism under the aegis of ICOHOST 2021 on the theme ‘‘Hospitality & Technology: Collaborating for Synchronised Growth’’ in the hybrid mode. Many delegates and research scholars from across the country participated in the conference. Two technical sessions were organised wherein in 40 papers were presented by the delegates and research scholars came from across the world.Poster-Making CompetitionUnder the Buddy programme launched by the Punjab Government to curb the menace of drug abuse, PCM SD College for Women organised a poster making competition on ‘Say no to drugs’. The activity was organised by the Department of Student Welfare. The college has pledged to fight against this evil practice and under the first-of-its-kind mission the college has made nine groups of more than 45 students. In each group, there are five students and one of these 45 students is the senior buddy who leads her group members to participate in various activities concerning the prevention and awareness regarding drug abuse.Global Handwash DayShiv Jyoti Public School organised Global Handwash Day to motivate and mobilise people around the world to improve their handwashing habits. The theme of the day was ‘Let’s move forward together’. This day was also celebrated in. An activity was organised for classes 3rd, 4th and 7th in which students along with teachers of health and well-being club. Sarita Kapur and Parminder Vasran took part enthusiastically. Students were guided about eight steps of handwash. Around 490 students participated. Posters were also displayed near hand wash area. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/annual-athletics-meet-344583
30-11-2021||---||LED streetlight project takes off in Nawanshahr||Nawanshahr, November 29Member of Legislative Assembly Angad Singh on Monday kickstarted the work of LED streetlight project worth Rs 1.48 crore in the city. Under the project, street lights on all major roads passing through city would be replaced with energy-efficient LEDs.After starting the project in the presence of MC president Sachin Dewan, MLA said the new smart LED streetlights are more energy efficient and would help in saving electricity expenditure of the council.He said under the project, all prominent roads, including Chandigarh Road, Banga Road, Garhshankar Road and Rahon Road, would be covered and said that all existing street lights would be replaced with these energy-efficient LED based street lighting system.MLA further told the implementation of this ambitious project would illuminate the entire city but would also provide financial benefits to the civic body by reducing expenditure. He directed the officials to complete the entire installation process within next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/led-streetlight-project-takes-off-in-nawanshahr-344577
30-11-2021||Hoshiarpur||Kavi Darbar marks Punjabi Maah at college||The Department of Language, Punjab, organised a Punjabi ‘Kavi Darbar’ at Government College, Hoshiarpur, in association with Punjabi Sahit Sabha to mark Punjabi Maah.The function was inaugurated by Harbhajan Kaur and Kanwaljit Kaur, assistant directors of the department. The chief guest at the occasion was Dr KS Karamjit Singh, former HoD, Punjabi Department, Kurukshtra University. He shed light on the development of the Punjabi language. Prof. Yogesh, vice principal of the college was the special guest.Assistant Director Kanwaljit Kaur welcomed the guests. Presiding over the function, president of Punjabi Sahit Sabha, Madan Veera, emphasised on use of Punjabi in the life of the common man and encouraged students to read Punjabi literature. Prof Harwinder Singh, Prof Kultar Singh, Prof Navtej, Hardial Hoshiarpuri and Som Dutt presented their poems in the function. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kavi-darbar-marks-punjabi-maah-at-college-344575
30-11-2021||---||Voter registration camps for students held||Jalandhar, November 29DAVIET in association with SVEEP 36, North Jalandhar, organised a voter registration camp here on the college campus.The Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer, Jalandhar, gave the orders related to the special summary revision of the electoral rolls inclusion of young voters as per requirements of the Election Commission. The main slogan for the voter registration camp was that no voters to be left behind. All students aged 18 years and above as on January 1, 2022, were required to get themselves registered as voters online by filling Form No. 6. through the NVSP portal (voterportal.eci.gov.in or nvsp.in).They could also get themselves registered through the voter helpline app. The voter camp was organised under the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation Programme, better known as SVEEP. The institution joined hands with SVEEP 36, North Jalandhar, to organise the camp to register a maximum number of young voters as part of the electoral rolls.Additionally, it aimed at spreading electoral awareness among budding engineers to become responsible citizens of the nation.Dr Manoj Kumar, principal DAVIET, expressed his faith that the maximum number of eligible students would get registered as voters and participate in one of the most significant events of democracy in the world. He applauded the efforts being made by Election Commission representatives to spread electoral awareness. He highlighted the fact that every student above the age of 18 should cast his vote. He also encouraged them to be in touch with election ambassadors of the college to clarify any doubt about the registration process.Apeejay College of Fine Arts, Jalandhar also organised a two-day voter registration camp for students. Under Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra, the camp was organised for those students who were of 18 years old and had not visited themselves registered for the voter ID card yet.Meanwhile, Apeejay College of Fine Arts also organised a two-day voter registration camp for the students. Under the leadership of Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra, the camp was organised for those students who were of 18 years old and hadn’t visited themselves registered for the voter card yet.The camp was organised with the corporation of Election Commission Department which were represented by Rakesh Kumar, Manjit Saini, Assistant Nodal Officer and BLO Jarnail Singh and Gurpreet Singh. Nearly 200 students registered themselves in this camp. Principal Dr Neerja Dhingra thanked the members of Election Commission and Rohit Chawla, Nodal Officer of College, who had contributed his best to make the camp successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/voter-registration-camps-for-students-held-344573
30-11-2021||---||Identify vulnerable polling booths: DC||Nawanshahr, November 29To ensure free and fair polling in upcoming 2022 Assembly elections, Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Vishesh Sarangal directed the officials to start the vulnerability mapping of polling stations in three assembly constituencies of the district.Sarangal told the officials to give topmost priority to the preparation of vulnerability mapping and directed them to send the reports after completing field visits and identifying vulnerable polling booths.He asked the police department to prepare the lists of bad characters after holding the meetings with Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) and Station House Officers (SHOs).He also added that the reports about parole jumpers, history-sheeters, bail jumpers, trouble mongers and others should also be prepared so that close vigil can be kept on their activities. Further, details about arms/weapons which would be deposited before elections and others must be prepared, he added.He said that information regarding status of pendency of FIRs registered during the previous Assembly Elections 2017 and Lok Sabha Elections 2019 must also be prepared. The DC also told the police department to update the lists of the weapon holders in advance so that they can be immediately ordered to submit the weapons once the code comes into force.Sarangal ordered the officials to form the joint teams of various departments to keep a check in their areas during the elections. He told that only vaccinated staff would be deployed for election duty. Prominent among present on the occasion included Additional Deputy Commissioners Jasbir Singh and Amardeep Singh Bains and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/identify-vulnerable-polling-booths-dc-344570
30-11-2021||---||Role of biogas in current energy scenario discussed||Kapurthala, November 29Sardar Swaran Singh National Institute of Bio-Energy (SSS-NIBE), in collaboration with the Indian Biogas Association (IBA), organised a two-day national training programme on the ‘Biogas Technology and its Implementation’ which concluded on Friday.The event was inaugurated by Dinesh D Jagdale, Director General, SSS-NIBE, and Joint Secretary, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE). Jagdale shed light on the role of biogas in the Indian renewable energy scenario with a specific focus on its application as a cooking fuel across Indian households. He also spoke about the efforts taken by MNRE in association with MoPNG in the past decade to bring a new revolution in the past decade its effort to make the transition to greener energy from fossil fuel to solar and biogas based energy.Dr AR Shukla, president, IBA, spoke over the emergence of biogas in a time where there was no clean fuel even in the cities. He also spoke about the strength of biogas technology to efficiently convert waste to valuable biogas. The digestate produced from biogas also finds application as a bio-fertiliser. The programme was coordinated by Dr Sachin Kumar, Deputy Director, SSS-NIBE and Gaurav Kedia, IBA.The participants discussed various burning issues as they said: “India has a huge potential for conversion of biomass to energy and it provides an attractive investment opportunity because of the abundance of organic waste such as paddy straw, appropriate infrastructure and suitable climate. India is a farming nation where more than 500 million tonnes of agricultural waste is generated every year. It is estimated that about 200 MT of paddy straw is produced in India annually; therefore, which must be used for bio-energy production”.SSS-NIBE has been contributing to the bio-energy sector for the past 12 years with a key research focus on biogas production using diverse feedstocks. Here we aim at analysing the development and scope of conversion of biogas to Bio-CNG. R&D activities are undergoing for the management of biomass, production of biogas from animal excreta and agricultural wastes. Research is being conducted for the purification of the biogas, its bottling and commercial application of both carbon dioxide and methane.The participants from all over the country participated through online mode. The training programme is being organized in four modules: Biogas Process and Design; Biogas Operation & Maintenance; Biogas Upgradation; and Policy and Financing. During the next two days, the various experts including Prof. PMV Subbarao, IIT Delhi; Dr Shanmugham, CSIR-CLRI, Chennai; Dr Ram Chandra, IIT Delhi; Abhijeet Mukherjee, IBA; and SR Meena, MNRE delivered their lectures through online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/role-of-biogas-in-current-energy-scenario-discussed-344569
30-11-2021||---||Punjab mulls language commission, ropes in writers, literary personalities||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29Punjab Higher Education and Languages Minister Pargat Singh on Saturday said the government would soon set up Punjab State Language Commission and Library Act.Addressing an event organised by the Punjab Lok Manch and Punjab Jagriti Manch at Lyallpur Khalsa College here for the betterment of Punjabi language, the minister said the discussions had already been going on regarding the Library Act. On receiving draft of the said act from the office bearers of Punjab Lok Manch and Punjab Jagriti Manch, the minister apprised them that the state government was already taking suggestions from all stakeholders including writers, intellectuals, renowned literary personalities so that an effective act could be brought out besides incorporating significant views/suggestions from this draft.Describing ‘education as the real development’, Pargat Singh mentioned that the development of the society, state and country depended upon the level of education being imparted to the youngsters. He said unified efforts were needed to further boost our mother tongue, education system and cultural significance.Referring to the two crucial bills passed in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, the minister said ‘Punjabi and Other Languages Education (Amendment) Bill, 2021’ and ‘Punjab State Language (Amendment) Bill-2021’ would safeguard the Punjabi language. He said these bills would ensure Punjabi as a compulsory subject for all students from Class I to X in schools across the state besides making it mandatory for officers/employees to conduct all official business in the Punjabi language. In case of any violation of these bills at any stage, a stipulated fine would be imposed, he added.The organisers of the event also honoured the minister with the ‘Punjab Da Maan’ award for his exemplary steps to promote mother tongue. The minister also announced a grant of Rs 2 lakh for the Punjab Lok Manch-Punjab Jagriti Manch to carry forward the endeavours for Punjabi language. He also handed over cheque for Rs 1 lakh given to him by the organisers along with award and asked them to utilise this amount too for their ongoing initiatives.World renowned Punjabi writer Surjit Patar, president, Punjab Jagriti Manch Satnam Manak also spoke on the occasion. Surjit Patar was honoured with ‘Apni Awaz Puraskar-2021’ while poetess Surinder Gill Jaipal was awarded with ‘Kav Lok Puraskar-2020’. District Language Officers of different districts were given away ‘Mat Bhasha Sewa Puraskar’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/punjab-mulls-language-commission-ropes-in-writers-literary-personalities-344567
30-11-2021||Jalandhar||Kusum Kusum: Portraying a conflict between belief & reality||The 2021 edition of the Yuvaa Rang Utsav took off on Monday at the Saigal Memorial Hall with the staging of the Bengali play Kusum Kusum. The play has been brought to Jalandhar by Kolkata-based Chetnaa Theatre group.Adapted from Girish Karnad’s widely acclaimed play - ‘Flowers’, the Bengali version was marked with its own distinct flavour. The event was heavily attended by the Bengali community in the city.The key protagonist of the play, a chief priest, was played by veteran actor Sujan Mukhopadhyay (also known as Neel Mukherji) and the role of his consort was played by his wife and popular actor Nibedita Mukherji. The play was directed by Abantika Chakraborty.The play, a dramatic monologue, is about the conflict between belief and reality, portrays the conflicts in the mind of a priest pulled between his dharma (religion) and kama (desire). Abhay is the one and only devoted priest in the affluent royal temple of vibrant Goddess Abhaya. The priest is accused by the king for violating both his “dharma” and “bhakti” (devotion) for his lover Kusum, who is a courtesan.Abhay is absolutely torn between his devotion for the goddess and his duty towards the king as well as his wife on one hand and his love for Kusum on the other.With Neel being a household name owing to his iconic appearances on Bangla TV, the play was a treat for the city audience. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/kusum-kusum-portraying-a-conflict-between-belief-reality-344564
30-11-2021||Deepkamal Kaur||War of words on between Rana & Cheema||Tribune News ServiceKapurthala, November 29Post the recent move of Punjab minister and Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjeet Singh to promote his son Rana Inder Partap Singh from Sultanpur Lodhi, the constituency currently represented by Congress MLA Navtej Cheema, a war of words has ensued between the two.Rana Inder Partap Singh has been going from village to village since the past nearly two months and is now openly projecting himself as the ticket seeker from the party. His visits have been drawing him a good response, owing to which he has adopted a more aggressive posture and has intensified his campaign.Clearly, this has led to sharp division in the local Congress leadership with some siding with the minister’s son and others going with the two-time MLA Cheema. In all this, Akali candidate Capt Harminder Singh seems to be getting an edge.Notably, it is not just the local leadership, but also the senior party leaders who have begun taking sides. While CM Charanjit Singh Channi is reportedly more close to Rana, PPCC chief Navjot Sidhu and Deputy CM Sukhjinder Randhawa have been taking sides with Cheema.Sidhu upon his visit to Sultanpur Lodhi gurdwaras on Guru Nanak gurpurab had said in favour of Cheema: “I will visit the town next time when Cheema will win from here and be inducted as the minister.”Responding to Sidhu’s comments, Rana threw a challenge on him: “Sidhu can give ticket to Navtej Cheema because he has an authority being the party president, but he cannot make anyone win. In this case, if he gives ticket to Cheema then he must also guarantee his win. If Cheema wins, he can then make him minister or even Chief Minister. But Sidhu actually needs to get the ground report.”Cheema, too, could not control his angst as he too jumped in the controversy. He said: “Before attacking me, Rana must get a reality check done on his own seat for his position had got weakened in the 2019 Parliamentary poll as his margin of 28,000 votes in Assembly poll had come down to just 7,000. The Congress, however, had consolidated its position in 2019 as the margin had increased from 8,000 to 18,000.” He even blamed Rana for trying to weaken the party in his seat and interfering in other seats too.On Saturday, as Randhawa visited the town on an official visit, media quizzed him over the ongoing war and even the statements issued by Rana and Sidhu. In reply, he took sides with Cheema and said: “Rana should not ideally interfere in other constituencies.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/war-of-words-on-between-rana-cheema-344563
30-11-2021||---||Manish Sisodia vs Pargat SinghTwitter conflict on||Jalandhar, November 29The ongoing Twitter war between the Education Ministers of Punjab and Delhi on Monday escalated with Pargat Singh saying that he won’t let him get away like this.Delhi Deputy CM and Education Minister Manish Sisodia had yesterday released a list of his 250 government schools. This afternoon, he repeated his challenge saying that there is no response from Pargat Singh even after 24 hours and he seems to be quitting the ground.Soon after, Pargat retorted by tweeting, “You have released only list and locations of 250 schools. I think you were in such a hurry to respond that you didn’t even read what I had written. I had said that we would compare on the parameters of the National Performance Grading Index 2021.”In a series of tweets, the Punjab minister sought school-wise enrollment numbers, permanent teachers, vacancies, 10th results and the names of principals from 2013-14 to 2019-20.He said the same information was sought earlier too and added,”I wonder what you are hiding. But I will not let you get away like this.”His fourth tweet read, “When there is decline in number of students, what education reform are you doing? When there are no principals, who are you sending on training? When students are failing in Class 10th, who is going for higher education? Why to talk about infrastructure, when there are no new schools?”Since the Twitter war on the topic actually started between Pargat and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, he tagged him also along and wrote, “Since @msisodya ji might be reluctant to discuss these points, I will request @arvindkejriwal ji to give the complete list. Let us decide once for all who is real and who is fake.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/sisodia-vs-pargat-twitter-conflict-on-344560
30-11-2021||---||On his maiden tour to Jalandhar, Guv visits Jang-e-Azadi||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29Paying tributes to the freedom fighters and martyrs of Punjab, Punjab Governor Banwari Lal Purohit on Monday visited Jang-e-Azadi at Kartarpur here.On his maiden trip to the city since his appointment, the Governor’s first stopover of the day was at the memorial. Accompanied by officials, he laid a wreath in front of the Flame of Freedom set up inside the Minar-e-Shaheedan in the central part of the building. He spent over an hour at the memorial, where he took a round of the various galleries showcasing the freedom struggle and role played by Punjabis to get the country liberated from the British rule.He also keenly watched a short film displaying the hardships faced by the Indians, especially Punjabis in the freedom struggle. The Governor also described the memorial as one of the architectural monument, which would ever inspire the young generations towards the spirit of nationalism and patriotism besides emulating the message of freedom struggle amongst them. He said the memorial was a befitting tribute to the great freedom fighters and martyrs, who sacrificed their lives for the sake of country’s liberation from British colonialism.The Governor carefully read all descriptions about the portraits given on the screens at various places. The Governor was welcomed by Divisional Commissioner VK Meena, Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, who is also CEO of Jang-e-Azadi memorial, IG Jalandhar Range GS Dhillon, SSP Jalandhar (Rural) Satinder Singh and ADC (G) Jalandhar Amarjit Singh Bains.The Governor also paid obeisance at Shri Devi Talab Mandir, where he was welcomed by the management committee. He was also presented a siropa (robe of honour) by the members of management. Commissioner of Police Naunihal Singh, Principal Secretary J.R. Balamurgan, president of the management committee Shital Vij took him around the temple premises. Meanwhile, the members of the committee apprised the Governor about the historic significance of this place as it is one of the Shakti Peeths in north India.In Jalandhar, a contingent of Punjab Police and PAP band presented the guard of honour to the Governor. He took lunch at the complex and pushed off for IK Gujral Punjab Technical University campus in Kapurthala. Holding a meeting with the district administrative and police officials, he exhorted them to use the powers conferred on them by the Constitution by upholding the values of ethics.He also stressed on the best use of the existing resources of the Central and state governments. Apart from getting information about the economic, geographical and social aspects of the district, the Governor also took a review of the functioning of IKGPTU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/on-his-maiden-tour-to-jalandhar-guv-visits-jang-e-azadi-344553
30-11-2021||---||Omicron: New rules to ward off spread in NRI-rich Doaba||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, November 29While the Aviation Ministry has released new guidelines in view of the new variant of Covid-19, Omicron, the district authorities have also advised caution to citizens in the region.With the NRI-rich Doaba region susceptible to new variants of Covid due to the heavy traffic of NRIs coming in to the region on a regular basis, the district is relying on strict checking by the central and state governments to keep the new variant at bay in the region. Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Sunday appealed that there is no need to panic but all of us should be more vigilant.In instructions released today, from December 1, the Aviation Ministry has required all international travellers to submit 14 days’ travel history, negative RT-PCR report on the Air Suvidha portal as well as authenticity declaration for the Covid-19 test report.Meanwhile, as per state guidelines for international arrivals, if tested positive, the sample of the person tested positive is to be sent for genomic testing and they are to admitted at a separate isolation facility, where treatment will take place as per laid down standard protocol. If the genomic testing is found positive for the B.1.1.529 (Omicron) variant, then strict isolation and treatment protocol is to be followed till tested negative.Queries to the health authorities revealed that there was still basic screening of travellers and NRIs coming from abroad to Jalandhar. Also there were only few patients whose cases had been sent for genome sequencing. The administration at present, has been laying thrust on vaccinating.Notably, there has been a steady rise in Covid cases the month compared to previous months. However, with the mandatory 14-day quarantine norm having been relaxed months ago, all NRIs are free to mingle with populations upon arrival in the country.The DC urged people to complete both their doses of Covid-19 vaccine.Civil Surgeon Dr Ranjit Ghotra said, “All the checks and balances as per pre-established Covid protocol are in place. Screening of people coming from abroad is a matter under the district administration. However, RT-PCR and immunisation status of passengers coming from abroad is being checked on arrival as per norms. Genome sequencing of some patients from Jalandhar has also been conducted at Delhi or Patiala. One such case was also genome sequenced a month ago. These were all previous variants. No new variant or case has been genome sequenced so far after the Omicron variant was reported since no one has tested positive since then.”Instructions for international arrivalsMandatory filling up of self-declaration form (SDF) and uploading of negative RT-PCR test report for all international travellers. Airlines to ensure availability of negative RT-PCR report before allowing travellers to board. Travellers coming from countries ‘at risk’ will have to undergo RT-PCR test.Guidelines on testing on arrival||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/jalandhar/omicron-new-rules-to-ward-off-spread-in-nri-rich-doaba-344551
