01-09-2021||---||Catch-22 situation for India on Afghan front||WITH America leaving Afghanistan in free fall, India faces a catch-22 situation in more ways than one.First, political realism could prompt New Delhi to engage with the Taliban and offer the badly needed development aid to establish India’s good intentions. But would Indian talks with the Taliban suffice to counter the older and stronger influence of an unfriendly China and Pakistan?Second, India must strengthen security and economic ties with the democracies, especially the US, its main strategic partner, although America’s disastrous pullout from Afghanistan could exacerbate instability in South, West and Central Asia.At another level, India should broaden its regional horizons and enhance its regional profile in Iran, Russia and Central Asian countries. They share its aim of countering the Taliban-Pakistan-fomented terrorism.India was never a troop contributor to NATO, nor was it the strongest diplomatic and economic player in Afghanistan after the overthrow of the Taliban regime in 2001. India’s soft power did result in a mutually beneficial, though limited relationship, symbolised by the building of a parliament in Kabul, strategically important roads, irrigation and health projects, and the popularity of Bollywood films.It, therefore, wanted the US to stay the course, although it was clear after 2014 that the Obama, Biden and Trump administrations intended to withdraw US troops sooner rather than later.The absence of a shared border with Afghanistan does not explain India’s weak Afghan card. For instance, Russia lacks a common frontier with Afghanistan and outlawed the Taliban in 2003. Yet, Moscow was on speaking terms with them and advised India to follow suit. Russia’s longstanding diplomacy could now influence a Taliban government.A friendly Iran and hostile China and Pakistan share frontiers with Afghanistan. Like Russia, they excluded India from any parleys they initiated with the Taliban during the last decade. In contrast, India started talking to the Taliban only three years ago, when it became clear that they would play a part in a future political dispensation in Kabul.But with America determined to quit, India has found it difficult to gain ground after nearly 20 years.One problem is that India was inattentive to its place in the broader regional strategies of Russia and Iran while focusing mainly on bilateral ties with them. Apart from arms sales, Russia does not prioritise India as a strategic actor outside its immediate Indian Ocean neighbourhood.Additionally, the deficiencies in India’s economic and diplomatic strategies have resulted in China gaining ground in its vicinity by attracting India’s neighbours — all members of SAARC, of which India is the largest country — to its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI).Unsurprisingly, Russia views South Asia’s balance of power as unfavourable to the US-friendly India, while criticising it for ganging up with America in the Indo-Pacific against an expansionist China.Meanwhile, China has increased its political and economic influence in Tehran at India’s expense by disregarding US sanctions on Iran since 2006. Economically hurt by sanctions, Iran resents India’s growing closeness to America and has resumed oil supplies to ‘Taliban Afghanistan’. In July 2020, Iran cancelled an Indian rail project, aimed at connecting the Chabahar port to Zahedan on its Afghan border. And last May, Tehran showed India the door in the Farzad gas project. In both cases, Iran accused India of delaying the projects. India hardly seems to have had a strategy to counter China’s clout and increase its own in its not-too-distant broader regional neighbourhood.America’s retreat leaves a power vacuum which the Taliban and their terrorist friends could exploit. Mindful of the defeat of the three great powers —Britain, the USSR and the US — in Afghanistan, China and Russia will not intervene militarily.Indeed, the fears of India, Russia and China that the Taliban rule could facilitate terrorist activities are supported by the UN Security Council, which reported in April that the ISIS-Khorasan, al-Qaeda and the East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) were dispersed across Afghanistan and had Taliban links.Significantly, China wants the Taliban to cut ties with all extremist cohorts, especially ETIM, because it fears that the group could export terrorism and instigate secession in its northwestern Xinjiang province, which borders Afghanistan.Whether China can persuade its all-weather friend and extremist trainer Pakistan to stop terrorist exports is the big question. China could offer the Taliban economic carrots, but it gives both carrots and arms to Pakistan. It will not dispense with the military stick, given that it wants arms buyers. The US did not quash Pakistan’s terrorist training for two decades. Whether China will achieve that, even as extremists attack Chinese citizens working on BRI projects in Pakistan, is uncertain.Meanwhile, China could expand its economic influence, and Pakistan its military footprint in Afghanistan, where India had amicable ties with non-Taliban political leaders.On another plane, New Delhi must accelerate the economic pace. China’s progress, power and knowhow in promoting regional connectivity have given it a vantage point over the US and India in Afghanistan, Iran and Central Asia.Last but not the least, India must turn outwards regionally and strengthen its security engagement against cross-border terrorism with friendly countries. They include Iran, Russia and Afghanistan’s Central Asian neighbours — Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan — which share India’s concern that South-West and Central Asia could become terrorist arenas.India should build strategic and economic ties with them. By joining forces with friends to counter terrorism, it could improve its standing in its broader regional neighbourhood and help make it a safer place.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/catch-22-situation-for-india-on-afghan-front-304717
01-09-2021||---||More flexible policies needed to boost trade||MANY centuries ago, India used to be a major trading nation. The maritime fleets of the Chola rulers in south India travelled to distant parts of Asia and there was a flourishing trade with countries in the region.The heritage of being a trading country of note has diminished in modern times as the country’s share in world trade is barely 2 per cent right now.The Covid pandemic worsened the situation and the exports slumped by over 7 per cent in 2020-21 in tandem with the rest of the economy. The scenario is finally looking brighter as exports have perked up in the first quarter of the current fiscal and trade volumes are rising, owing to the growing demand linked to a resurgence in the global economy.While examining trade issues, it is worthwhile to remember that few economic powers have risen to prominence without becoming notable exporters.The rise of the post-war Japanese economy was accompanied by a huge export surge that propelled it into superpower status on the world stage.As for China, little needs to be said, given its enormous clout as the world’s supermarket and the leading supplier of goods to developed and developing regions.The tiger economies of Southeast Asia along with South Korea followed a similar route, becoming major exporters on their way to rapidly becoming more affluent.India’s failure to make a mark as an exporter has been due to many reasons, not the least of which has been the comfort of an enormous domestic market available for most manufacturers. Added to this has been the rigours of red-tape faced by exporters, including the rigidity of import-export policies.The scenario began to change after the 1991 reforms were launched and the then Commerce Minister P Chidambaram revamped the trade policy of the day.Yet, exports have failed to achieve their potential over the past three decades. There has been a definite upswing both in volume and value, but sustained high growth has eluded the country.One of the factors constraining trade expansion has been the failure of successive governments to finalise free trade agreements (FTA) in atime-bound manner. Many such FTAs have been languishing for years, including the one with the European Union. Besides, India has failed to participate in regional trade groupings that might have been beneficial to its interests, like the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).India declined to become a member of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RECP), even after several rounds of negotiations. The reasons cited have been concern over third country origin imports as well as the looming influence of China over the trade grouping.These may have been valid, but the fact is that India needs to become more proactive in entering into bilateral and regional trade pacts instead of relying on the beneficial effects of being a member of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The hesitancy in opening up domestic markets must be removed, otherwise the logjam in concluding trade agreements will never end.The nature of exports has also been a worrying issue. Despite the addition of numerous manufactured products to the mix, raw materials and intermediates continue to take a disproportionately large share of the export basket. Iron ore as well as iron and steel exports have risen significantly this year, with the bulk of supplies going to China.Besides, commodity prices have risen steeply recently, enabling petroleum products and iron ore to contribute largely to the rise in export svaluations. The focus on commodities needs to shift to finished products as these provide value and aid in the creation of jobs in the economy.The future outlook could be promising as more manufactured products are likely to move into the export basket after investments in the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme bear fruit. The results may be visible in the medium term after projects go on stream. The expected higher output in the auto, textiles, pharmaceuticals, telecom and solar sectors should lead to more exports in these sectors.The recent good news on the export front, thus needs to be viewed in the context of whether this will be sustained in the long run or remain a short-term phenomenon. Official data shows that exports have risen by 22 per cent in value terms during the four months from April to July this year, as compared to the similar period in the pre-Covid era of 2019.A record monthly high of $35.15 billion was recorded in July, a rise of 34 per cent over July 2019. With the annual target having been set at an ambitious $400 billion for the current fiscal, export growth so far is on track to achieving the goal.More ambitious plans are reported to be under way to achieve a quantum jump in exports to key markets like the UAE, the US and Singapore. Another goal is to raise the share of exports in the country’s GDP from 10.2 per cent currently to 15 per cent by 2030 for both merchandise and services.If these targets are to be achieved, it is clear the policy approach needs to be more innovative. For instance, the biggest potential for export growth is in the area of agriculture and allied goods like seafood. India is already the top rice exporter in the world and the fourth largest cotton exporter. It is also the fourth largest seafood exporter.This country is one of the biggest global producers of wheat, fruits and vegetables, but remains a minnow on the export front. Processing and value addition of agricultural products has been mentioned as a policy objective by many governments, but little action has been taken to give a push to these in any meaningful way.So, if India is to take its fair share of world trade in the coming years, the outlook must become more flexible. Entering into FTAs with major trading partners needs to be carried out with a greater sense of compromise rather than the existing protectionist approach.The agricultural sector also needs to be given enough facilities to ensure faster growth of processed food exports. Such policies could well ensure that India heads slowly but surely in the direction of becoming a leading trading nation yet again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/more-flexible-policies-needed-to-boost-trade-304714
01-09-2021||---||The show back on road||THE BJP has a long and contested legacy of using yatras or road shows as a disseminator of ideology wrapped in propaganda, a medium to assail its political adversaries and a means to connect with people. In his political career, LK Advani travelled across the country on seven yatras, starting with the spectacular Somnath-Ayodhya Ram Rath chariot ride in 1990 that was stopped midway and winding down with the tepid Jan Chetna yatra in 2011. The objectives of the peregrinations were different: the Ram Rath was designed to ‘liberate’ the Ram temple at Ayodhya and conflate this strand with the larger theme of Hindutva which underpins the BJP’s politics. The 2011 yatra was conceptualised to challenge the UPA government on ‘corruption’ and ‘bad governance’ but with two electoral losses behind him (2004 and 2009), Advani’s raison d’etre to pilot the BJP in the next election in 2014 was questioned by his party colleagues. The spectrum of yatras — also constructed around security and India’s freedom struggle (in which the BJP’s begetter, the RSS had no role) — brought mixed results: some succeeded in according pole position to the BJP, some were promising and others were washouts.The yatra was a test run for new ministers, mandated to visit their political turf and talk up the government’s record vaccination, among other ‘achievements’. The latest Jan Ashirwad Yatra — which kicked off on August 16 after a ‘motivational’ Independence Day address by PM Modi to lift the country and his party’s morale — moved on a different trajectory. It flagged security, just about the only issue the Modi government is a tad gung-ho about, hit out at the Opposition unconvincingly for not allowing the PM to introduce his new ministers in Parliament and was largely defensive over Modi’s administration. Modi’s second regime has been difficult to state the least. The pandemic was mismanaged. The first phase saw an economic order that is shored up by the semi-formal and informal sector virtually come apart as panic-stricken migrants in cities and towns headed home to escape the virus and an uncertain future. The second spell was an unmitigated disaster. The lethal mutant ran amok, infected at will, and challenged the health infrastructure to a degree that systems collapsed. Only now, after a catastrophic April and May, has a vaccination regimen been put somewhat in place but it could be the lull before the next strike. The economy is in distress, the threat of a drought looms over states like Gujarat which reported an indifferent monsoon and the protesting farmers on Delhi’s borders refuse to budge. The challenge in the neighbourhood goes way beyond the logistics of evacuating stranded Indians and accommodating Afghan asylum-seekers. It is hardly the backdrop for a politician to connect with people and infuse in them, a sense of well-being.The yatra was a test run for the new Cabinet ministers. These ministers were mandated to visit their political turf and talk up the government’s record in vaccine administration, among other ‘achievements’. Clearly, the participants did not get the macro picture. While Anurag Thakur waxed eloquent on the reading down of Article 370 in J&K, in Himachal Pradesh, his home state, Bhupender Yadav went big on transforming India into an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. The Gujarat ministers, Parshottam Rupala and Mansukh Mandaviya, focused on vaccination.The yatra hit its first big road bump in Maharashtra that was assigned to party hopper and new inductee Narayan Rane. Rane, who did a long spell in the Shiv Sena under Bal Thackeray’s tutelage and a short stint in the Congress, habitually courts controversies, gets into trouble and wriggles out. This time, Rane overrated his strength as a Maratha leader from the coastal Konkan region. A sworn hater of CM Uddhav Thackeray, Rane quit the Sena once Bal Thackeray declared Uddhav as his political heir. But he couldn’t shake off the Thackeray bequest. Rane started the yatra from the Bal Thackeray memorial at Mumbai’s Shivaji Park. The move riled the Sena so much that its activists ‘purified’ the place with a ‘shuddhikaran’ ritual. Then he made a highly provocative statement against the CM that drove the Sainiks, who are up for a brawl any time, to the streets and confront Rane’s men. Interestingly, the Maharashtra BJP kept itself away from the combat that saw Rane arrested and released on bail. Rane was ushered in the BJP in 2019 to bolster its prospects in the Konkan region where it was bereft of a leader. Rane was brought into the Congress for the same reason but he did not fetch for it the political heft it sought. The central BJP bestowed on him Cabinet rank for his purported political utility which he has to prove in the 2022 elections to the prestigious Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), currently Sena-controlled. Indeed, infelicitous as they are, Rane’s jibes on Thackeray are a prelude to sharpen and unsheathe the knives before the BMC battle next April. Rane was slated to exceed the allotted number of days on the yatra but the arrest aborted his plans.Another obstacle was encountered in Rajasthan. Bhupender Yadav, whose yatra spanned Haryana and Rajasthan, set the cat among the pigeons when he said the next state elections would be fought collectively by ‘Team Rajasthan’ under the stewardship of the local BJP president, Satish Poonia. The cheerleaders of Vasundhara Raje, the former CM, saw red because in January 2021, they had constituted a pressure group called the ‘Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Manch’ and demanded that she should be declared as the leader right away. Following Yadav’s assertion, Vasundhara’s followers took forward their campaign by opening a separate office for her to signal that she was not part of the ‘official’ BJP. Although Vasundhara spends her time mostly in Delhi, she apparently works the levers through her loyalists to ensure that the BJP is kept on tenterhooks regarding her plans.This is one yatra that is unlikely to be scripted in glory in the BJP’s chronicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-show-back-on-road-304711
