02-09-2021||---||Decoding hate-for-the-record phenomenon||THE spate of hate crimes across the Hindi belt, recorded on mobile phones and shared through social media, are being seen as the normalisation of barbarism in public life and a reflection of the growing majoritarian sentiment against minorities, particularly Muslims. The recorded hate crimes also show an intersection of technology and unemployment and the consequent drift among the youth. It’s a brutal age at multiple levels in which hate crimes have become all too frequent.There are several layers to this phenomenon. First, it is driven by new technology. By 2017, India had witnessed a telecom revolution of sorts as the price of mobile data came crashing down. By offering free data and calls at the time of its launch, a leading telecom company sent the industry into a tailspin; telecom majors subsequently began to offer the cheapest Internet data in the world. In the four years hence, mobile phones and cheap data have penetrated every part of the country and all sections of society now have access to smartphones. Indeed, in 2018 itself, Amitabh Kant, chief executive officer of NITI Aayog, had stated that India had become the world’s number one mobile data-consuming country with a higher consumption than the US and China put together.The hate-for-the-record phenomenon rides on this technology. One could argue that multiple crimes took place across the country but were not recorded for posterity in the age when everyone was not easily accessing video technology. Simultaneously, one must also note that the perpetrators of these crimes could be committing them partly because they can now record them and amplify the message to the entire world. This leads to the question whether the thrill of recording their acts is also driving public bullying, beating and humiliation of Muslims. In some instances, citizen onlookers may have recoded the violent incidents, but most often it is those committing the acts themselves who are proudly recording and sharing the video clips as they believe the targeting of minorities sums up their ideology and has popular sanction.Take the case of the priest of the Dasna temple in Ghaziabad district of Uttar Pradesh, Yati Narsinghanand, who first came to public notice after a Muslim boy was thrashed on the temple premises earlier this year. The Dasna priest has since become known for making vile remarks and threats against Muslims, and for insulting the Prophet. He recently ‘graduated’ to insulting Hindu women in the BJP as well for which FIRs have now been lodged against him. But he is entirely an emblem of hate who feeds off social media and recorded statements that are amplified because they are outrageous. The lifeline for persons such as him are recorded videos, now easily made with mobile technology.India has among the youngest population in an ageing world. By 2022, the median age in India will be 28 years compared to 37 in China and the US, 49 in Japan and 45 in Europe. A young population has been seen to be a demographic dividend driving economic growth historically, the reason why countries with an ageing population allow migrants in. But the Indian youth are currently confronted with the worst unemployment rate since the 1991 opening of the economy. The economy was already shrinking when the Covid lockdowns struck hard blows. In other words, masses of young people face hunger, joblessness and a bleak future. This is all the more so in the Hindi belt states that lag behind the south and western India on socio-economic and human indices.In such a dismal scenario, there is arguably an opportunity in belonging to a so-called Hindu vigilante group in large parts of the Hindi belt, where the political ecosystem is now dominated by the BJP/RSS. Although it is hard to quantify this with data, it’s worth noting that many of the targets of the recent crimes have been Muslim workers in the informal sector. It’s now easier to push Muslims off their land, their patch in the market, their employment.All this is happening in a country where brutality against sections of citizens on the basis of their social origin does have sanction. Ostracism, exclusion and public abuse have always taken place in a society that sanctifies caste hierarchies, although today the arithmetic and logic of politics creates an impetus away from old-fashioned caste atrocities. The SC & ST Prevention of Atrocities Act of 1989 has also been a deterrent as it invites long prison terms. Crimes against Dalits and Adivasis still take place, but there is no political narrative that endorses these offences.The imagery we once associated with caste atrocities in the Hindi hinterland is now part of the lived experience of those Muslims who end up coming in the path of hate mobs. A law as stringent as the SC/ST Act may be needed to tackle this shameful spectacle of crimes, but politics has shifted in a direction in the Hindi belt where most non-BJP political parties seek Muslim support while evading the issue of speaking for the rights and protection of the community.But finally, in an age of hopelessness and joblessness, the project of changing the idea of India has resources, manpower and energy devoted to it. These hate crimes are ultimately taking place under the umbrella of a shifting political consciousness in the states of the Hindi belt and the victims are the collateral damage of building a ‘Hindu first’ nation. There have been a few token arrests and FIRs, but these crimes are recorded on phone cameras by groups of radicalised young men who also believe that they enjoy immunity because they are foot soldiers of New India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/decoding-hate-for-the-record-phenomenon-305218
02-09-2021||---||India made its UNSC presidency count||INDIA held the month-long presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) during August. During the two-year term (2021-22), India will again have the opportunity to preside over the Security Council in December 2022.Three initiatives were taken during India’s presidency. These related to maritime security, UN peacekeeping and counter-terrorism. This set agenda was effectively presented by India, as these are critical to the country’s current policies.Maritime security is a major issue, especially in the Indo-Pacific. The aggressive moves by China have led to the evolution of Indo-Pacific policies by several countries and the consolidation of the Quad. Keeping a rule-based order and preventing a hegemonistic role for China are critical for India’s continuing rise. For this end, maritime security was indeed a wise move to focus the attention of the UNSC.This was effectively communicated by the unique manner of having the Prime Minister himself chair the Security Council at that session. Never before has an Indian Prime Minister undertaken this role. It showed the seriousness with which India treated this at the UNSC, and the lead it intended to take. Thanks to the Prime Minister’s participation, leaders like Russian President Putin, President Kenyatta of Kenya, the PM of Vietnam and the US Secretary of State, French Foreign Minister and the UK Defence Secretary also participated. It gave ‘Enhancing maritime security’ a much higher profile than it would have acquired otherwise.Undoubtedly, it was the pandemic-induced virtual mode that allowed the Prime Minister to participate in the session. It is unlikely that had the virtual opportunity not existed, the Prime Minister would have flown to New York to chair the session. It is significant that background diplomacy couched the presidential statement under “Maintenance of international peace and security”, which covered references to UNCLOS (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea) despite Chinese objections. The ASEAN countries, currently represented by Vietnam in the UNSC, must be grateful for keeping this reference as they deal with China over a code of conduct in the South China Sea. China is not fond of the UNCLOS. The USA has not ratified it yet.A second initiative related to peacekeeping. India’s credentials for a larger role in the world, and a permanent seat in the UNSC were initially buttressed by its superb role in peacekeeping since its inception. For many years, India was the leading troop-contributing country, and remains an important one. Now, India has been a member of the Peacebuilding Commission from its inception in 2005. The session to discuss peacekeeping operations (PKO) was chaired by the External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar, who specially flew to New York for this purpose.Prior to this, India announced a contribution of $1 million for supporting the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM). Many recall that in the 1990s, India was a major contributor to the UN Mission in Somalia. India contributed $150,000 to the Peacebuilding Fund (PBF) this year, bringing the total to about $6 million since its inception.India’s initiative on peacekeeping operations focused on ‘Protecting the protectors’. A resolution on ‘Accountability of crimes against UN peacekeepers’ and the first ever presidential statement on ‘Technology for peacekeeping’ were achieved.The third initiative related to counter-terrorism. There is no doubt about the validity of this issue. India has consistently been talking about it in bilateral and plurilateral meetings. India has endeavoured to focus the attention of the world community on countering terror effectively, the role of Pakistan, and the emerging situation in Afghanistan which are a deep cause of concern. They are not ameliorated by sufficient action by the international community. Hence, the focus on counter-terrorism by India was well thought out and constructive. The EAM spoke about the situation in Kabul, adding to the importance of the issue. Holding the Taliban accountable was the focus of the resolution but due to the changed situation in Kabul, the reference to Taliban was omitted. Russia and China abstained from the resolution but it shows that the other powers too are ready to accommodate the Taliban and that is what India is cautious about.The UNSC agenda is not solely decided by the president for the month. Therefore, if India could achieve its three major initiatives and put them on the agenda for discussion, it should be considered a sign of success for Indian diplomacy. A pat to the Permanent Mission of India in New York is recommended.Obtaining agenda approval in a period of dynamic flux in international politics is by itself an achievement. Separately, India had to grapple with issues concerning Myanmar, Ethiopia, Mali and Sudan and the sudden turn of events in Afghanistan, where a calibrated US withdrawal by August 31 would have brought Afghanistan on the agenda in September. But the sudden takeover of Kabul by the Taliban brought the Afghanistan issue into prominence earlier than expected. The UNSC session on Afghanistan was chaired by Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla on the last day of the Indian presidency.With Russia and China abstaining, a pattern emerged. Both were consistently voting together. India on occasion, say while discussing Africa, particularly Ethiopia, stood with Russia and China to avoid intrusive efforts by the UNSC. Ethiopia was very admiring of the balanced role of India.During August, four presidential statements were issued on PKO — peace consolidation in West Africa, maintenance of international peace and security, Sudan and South Sudan. In no month this year were so many issues raised by any presidency. Four resolutions were adopted on Somalia, Middle East, Mali and PKO. Some of the themes were also covered during India’s presidency of the UNSC in 2011-12 when Hardeep Puri was the Indian Permanent Representative to the UN. This shows that the UNSC is not successful in resolving issues. Its reform needs attention.During the two years in the UNSC, the presidency gives an opportunity for focusing on critical issues beyond the regular work of the Security Council. Such special efforts draw attention to India’s role and interests. India has grasped the opportunity well and brought public visibility to issues of importance.The themes set by India for its term on the UNSC included the 5S approach with Samman (respect), Samvad (dialogue), Sahyog (cooperation), Shanti (peace) and Samriddhi (prosperity). For this, India would stand with multilateralism, rule of law and a fair and equitable international system. Most of these objectives were highlighted through the month of the Indian presidency of the UNSC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-made-its-unsc-presidency-count-305217
02-09-2021||---||Take one step at a time||INDIA’S western neighbourhood has been marked by problems of terrorism and territorial conflicts since its independence. The conflict in Afghanistan has seen the emergence of another terrorist group called Islamic State (Khorasan). It is opposed to the Afghan Taliban, even though it has some shared views with the Taliban, on what is commonly referred to as ‘radical’ Islam. The IS (K) recently attracted international attention by using explosive devices at the Kabul airport to kill US soldiers and Afghan civilians, and disrupt the smooth withdrawal of US forces. Foreign nationals returning to their homes from Kabul, following the Taliban takeover, also became targets of the IS (K).New Delhi must make it clear to the Taliban that it would normalise ties only after assurance that Afghan soil will not be used for promoting terrorism against India.Despite these unexpected diversions, foreign nationals and Afghans have been leaving Afghanistan in large numbers. Afghan nationals are, however, now barred from leaving the country. Very rarely does one see local people rushing to run away from their homeland, as what one has witnessed happening across Afghanistan. The Taliban have adopted the strategy of compelling Afghans not to leave the country by placing barriers. Sadly, the people of Afghanistan, whose standard of living and personal freedoms had improved substantially during the past two decades, now fear what is going to follow. India acted swiftly, to have a substantial portion of its people airlifted to their homes, though a few are stuck in Afghanistan, where the regime suddenly debarred its nationals of Indian origin from leaving the country.The aid projects that India has undertaken in Afghanistan, like the Salma Dam, power transmission lines, bringing electricity to Kabul, and the impressive parliament building in the capital, have won India immense public goodwill. Afghanistan’s parliament, built at an estimated cost of $90 million, with marble quarried in Rajasthan, was inaugurated by PM Modi in 2015. The Taliban have stated that they would like Indian assistance to continue. Interestingly, they want all bilateral trade with India to be through Pakistan — a strange request, given the resources India has spent to promote trade with Afghanistan, through Chabahar in Iran. Nevertheless, these are issues which can be discussed with the Afghan government. The possibilities of cooperation in developing educational facilities, and issues like the supply of wheat and other agricultural products can be discussed. Moreover, appropriate industrial cooperation projects can also be considered and undertaken after Afghanistan’s needs and priorities are clearly understood.The serious challenge that India and others now face have arisen from the ignominious manner in which the Americans left Afghanistan. Contrary to the expectations of many, the Afghan army collapsed within days of the Taliban onslaught. The main threat India now faces is from the huge cache of American arms and equipment that has fallen into Taliban hands, thanks to the incompetence of the leadership of the Afghan army. These weapons will remain tools of the new Taliban-led government. It is essential that New Delhi makes it clear to the Taliban that it would move ahead in normalising relations only after it is persuaded that Afghan soil will not be used for promoting terrorism against India.The Taliban government is now nominally led by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who has spent eight years in Pakistani jails. He was always close to Mullah Omar, the founder of the Taliban. Hibatullah Akhundzada, the supreme commander of the Taliban, has not yet appeared on the scene. While Baradar is a skilful negotiator, Pakistan’s aim is to use him as a figurehead. Control of national security is dominated by Sirajuddin Haqqani, a protege of the Pakistan army. Haqqani and his family control the Haqqani Network, backing the Taliban. The Haqqani Network has participated in attacks on Indian diplomatic and consular missions in Afghanistan. Ironically, it was one of the most favoured Afghan armed groups of the CIA while operating across the Durand Line in the 1980s against the Soviet Union.Haqqani has been an ISI asset and has close links with jihadi groups like the LeT and JeM. The main target of the US is now the Islamic State, and not Taliban leaders like Haqqani, who has been designated by Washington as a terrorist. He owns large properties in Islamabad and North Waziristan.India will obviously examine the impact of the massive cache of arms, ammunition, helicopter gunships and other aircraft supplied by the US to Afghanistan, which are now in the possession of the Taliban. One should not be surprised if these weapons reach jihadis of the Haqqani Network operating against India.Afghanistan’s foreign exchange reserves in US banks have now been frozen. It is virtually bankrupt and would find it impossible to pay for its imports. It has, in the meantime, announced that its trade with India will be conducted through Pakistan, which is itself facing serious foreign exchange shortages, and running to the IMF and other financial institutions to augment its reserves. The problem becomes more serious because of payments that Pakistan has to make to China for work completed on the CPEC.In these circumstances, Prime Minister Modi’s long conversation with Russian President Vladimir Putin is very significant. Russia is providing weapons to Central Asian Republics, bordering Afghanistan, which have serious concerns about the Taliban. The visits of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Iran, which has serious concerns about the Taliban, are also important. The imprint of the ISI in Afghanistan is all too evident. India should certainly engage with the Taliban, which claims it wants a normalisation of relations with India. New Delhi should move ahead cautiously till it receives categorical and verifiable assurances that Afghan soil and weapons the Taliban have captured, will not be used to promote terrorism in India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/take-one-step-at-a-time-305216
