03-09-2021||---||Dedicated force required to protect judiciary||On August 6, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said that a special protection force was needed to protect judges “in the light of rising instances of attacks, threats and intimidation of members of the judiciary”. This was supported by the Bar Council of India (BCI) on August 25, saying that the Supreme Court should invoke its powers under Article 146 of the Constitution to form a specialised security force for the protection of judges and lawyers of the higher and subordinate courts.The BCI was joining with a PIL filed in 2019 on the frequent clashes at Tis Hazari courts in Delhi and the gunning down of the first woman chairperson of the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh on the Agra court premises. The BCI also alleged that the security agencies “are not cooperating with the courts in true sense”, hinting that outside influence prevented them from taking protective measures.The CJI’s remarks were during the Supreme Court’s suo motu hearing on the alleged mowing down of Additional Sessions Judge Uttam Anand on July 28 at Dhanbad. During this session, the CBI’s inadequate response to Andhra Pradesh High Court order on October 12, 2020, also came up. It was said that the CBI, even after registering an FIR on November 11, 2020, had not made any progress. The FIR (criminal defamation) was registered against some cadres of the ruling party (YSR Congress Party) for making offensive remarks against the judiciary.NV Ramana and Justice Surya Kant made scathing remarks against the Intelligence Bureau and the CBI for “not adequately responding to complaints regarding harassment and threatening of judges. In one or two places, courts ordered a CBI inquiry. It is sad to say that the CBI has done nothing.”As against this, it was distressing to find that the responses from our governments were lackadaisical and evasive. On August 17, the Centre told the SC that it was not advisable to form a Central security force and that this responsibility should be left to the States. On August 30, the Jharkhand government told the SC that all judges were given security. If so, there was no explanation how Additional Sessions Judge Uttam Anand was killed on July 28.This attitude of our governments, security and investigative machinery is disconcerting as they are failing to take prompt action on verbal and physical attacks on judiciary which is increasing. This compares very unfavourably with the alacrity they show in acting on orders from political level. They do not realise that the judiciary is the third pillar of our democracy along with the executive and the legislature.None feels secure with the state government provided security. Till October 1984, our PM was “protected” by the local police. This system was abolished when Delhi Police guards assassinated Indira Gandhi. We created a special force only because of this incident and also because the quality of security differs from state to state. For example, the Maharashtra special counter terrorist forces failed to resist 10 terrorists on November 26, 2008, for a long time till the NSG came.On August 10, 1986, General Arun S Vaidya, the decorated former Indian Army Chief, was gunned down in Pune while he was driving his private car with his lone police gunman in the rear seat. New York Times (August 9, 1986) quoted the then Pune police chief BJ Misar acknowledging that the security arrangements had failed despite serious threats to Vaidya’s life after Operation Blue Star.Similarly, the Justice JS Verma Commission had found that the withdrawal of Special Protection Group (SPG) security to former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was the reason how the suicide bomber got access to the VIP, bypassing the Tamil Nadu police security on May 21, 1991. Verma had stated that the then Cabinet Secretary had withdrawn the SPG security on January 30, 1990 “without provision for suitable alternative for his proximate security which was not as a result of fresh assessment of threat justifying reduction”. Parliamentary debates revealed that all states would not have access to sophisticated explosives detection equipment as the SPG had.The importance of judicial protection was realised by the US Congress as early as September 24, 1789, by passing the ‘Judiciary Act’, creating the posts of 13 US Marshals. In 1870, the Department of Justice was created when US Marshals became part of the department. From 1890 onwards, they started protecting the federal judges. In 2021, US Marshals provided security to 94 federal courts, 2,700 federal judges, 30,300 federal prosecutors and court officials and handled investigations in 4,261 “threats and inappropriate communications”.US Marshals, in turn, have a staff of 5,600 court security officers to assist them in 94 federal courts for security screening through 110 security projects. They provide security to the witnesses, jurors, the visiting public, and transport prisoners to courts and back.The ‘State Courts’ in 50 US states are protected by local sheriffs or others under the supervision of Court Security Committees or Judicial Councils. However, armed attacks on judges like the one in 2015 on Travis County District Judge in Texas have made the states to consult the National Center for State Courts for uniformity in protection arrangements.Like in the US, our Constituent Assembly was keen to ensure that the judiciary is independent of the executive. It is the basic structure of our Constitution. A consultation paper prepared by the “National Commission to review the working of the Constitution on financial autonomy of the Indian judiciary” in 2001 had quoted several Supreme Court judgments on this: SP Gupta vs Union of India & Another (1981); Union of India & Others vs Pratibha Bonnerjea & Another (1995).This cannot be achieved if the courts, including the higher courts, are forced to wait for the pleasure and mood of the executive, including the police to protect them and execute their decisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/dedicated-force-required-to-protect-judiciary-305663
03-09-2021||---||Time to engage, not get entangled, with Af||When the Najibullah government collapsed in April 1992, it appeared that India would find no friends left in Afghanistan. The impression was that New Delhi had burnt its finger by supporting the Soviet-backed regime in Kabul. But it didn’t take long before India bounced back as the first Afghan jihadi government (Mujahideen) within months reached out to New Delhi.In a replay of 1992, Mullah Mohammad Abbas Stanikzai now came to the Indian embassy in Doha, hours after the last US military aircraft left Kabul. This marked the first official contact that may be causing nightmares in Islamabad. Clearly, diplomacy has once again prevailed in moderating India’s statecraft.In May 1992, soon after Burhanuddin Rabbani informed an Indian TV team that Kabul will strengthen ties with India, the first interim President of Afghanistan, Sibghatullah Mujaddedi, expressed his desire to visit India, ostensibly to pay homage to his ancestors buried in Sirhind, Punjab. Mujaddedi was the head of Afghanistan’s mystical Naqshbandi Sufi order and a descendant of Sheikh Ahmad of Sirhind (1624) or Mujaddid Alf-e-Sani, who led the Naqshbandi movement in India during Jehangir’s rule. Sirhindi’s family shifted to Afghanistan in the 18th century at the behest of Ahmad Shah Abdali. The Sirhindis still have a strong support base among the Pakhtuns of Paktia, Logar and Ghazni.Mujaddedi’s visit marked the sign of an unavoidable yearning among the Afghan jihadis for the need to revive their lost contacts with New Delhi.Kabul’s rift with Islamabad began after the ISI’s duplicitous Afghan game soon got exposed. It started when Rabbani took over the presidential post from Mujaddedi on June 30, 1992. The ISI chief, Hamid Gul, resisted the idea of the Jamiat-i-Islami chief heading the Islamic state of Afghanistan. He was adamant on installing Hizb-i-Islami head Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, who among other things, promised to confederate Afghanistan with Pakistan by doing away with the Durand Line. He was also committed to ending Afghanistan’s ties with India, especially to ensuring India’s non-entry into any of the peace diplomacies.The ISI supported Hekmatyar to oust Rabbani militarily, but the latter was able to hold on to power with the military support of Tajik commander Ahmad Shah Masood.The ISI’s dubious plans set alarm bells ringing among Mujahideen leaders and when Benazir Bhutto, after returning to power in 1993, decided to revamp the Afghan policy by abandoning the Mujahideen networks in favour of creating a fresh militia — the Taliban. By 1994, Mujahideen leaders, including Hekmatyar, distanced themselves from Islamabad. Hekmatyar patched up with Rabbani and became PM under a power-sharing arrangement in 1996. The then Prime Minister Deve Gowda was quick to send his congratulatory message to Hekmatyar. Hekmatyar too responded by accepting India’s invitation to be at its Independence Day reception in 1996.In the current play of events, the ISI appeared to have helped the US a trouble-free evacuation from Kabul, but not without disabling the aviation equipment before leaving. We don’t know what the quid pro quo for Pakistan was. The Taliban would likely feel cheated by Pakistan and this would have serious consequences for the Taliban’s future ties with Pakistan.Stanikzai’s call for normalising ties with India needs to be viewed in this context. The game has just begun.We need to be aware that the basic points that infuse flexibility in India’s approach and ability to adjust quickly with the changing situation in Afghanistan are driven by the following:First, the historical ties and nostalgic analogues between India and Afghanistan, whether the Sufis, Wahabis, Deobandis, or the secular, crave for their roots and their ancestry in India couldn’t be wished away.Second, India’s upholding of Afghanistan’s territorial integrity is considered vital for Afghans, and vice-versa, any prospect of a part of Afghanistan falling into Pakistan’s control undermines the Indian state.Third, India’s policy of not taking sides in the internal Afghan conflict helped it. Notwithstanding functional ties with the Communist regime, New Delhi maintained discreet contacts with major Mujahideen factions. No Mujahideen leader, including Rabbani, Sibghatullah, Hekmatyar, Abdul Sayaf, Ahmad Shah Masood and Dostum, was a stranger to India. The Soviet withdrawal, in fact, helped India broaden its political manoeuvring space in Afghanistan.Fourth, India’s policy thrust of supporting progressive change and spurring modernity among the Afghan people worked in its favour in contrast with the regressive agenda pursued by PakistanFifth, India’s low-key presence, while providing economic and humanitarian assistance, for example, supplying medicines during the crisis period (1973-1992), worked to its advantage. Even till the Taliban took over Kabul, Indian doctors fitted 1,100 artificial legs within a month in 1996. It paid diplomatic dividends for New Delhi.Sixth, the decision to maintain its diplomatic mission in Kabul despite all odds worked in its favour. India was the only country, besides Iran, Turkey and Indonesia, to have a mission there when the Taliban took over Kabul.The underlying core point that invariably shapes India’s position is less by its own efforts and more by default of the Pak-Afghan contradictions.Pakistani intrusive approach always threatened Afghan room for manoeuvre. Pakistan’s India-centric policy obstructed Kabul’s desire to diversify its foreign relations. As a result, Kabul viewed New Delhi as an immediate window and gateway to reach to the world outside. Mujahideen even sought India’s help for training pilots of Afghan National Airlines, Ariana, which served as the lifeline for Afghanistan.In the process of constraining Indian influence, Pakistan often landed up generating more suspicion among the non-Pashtun Afghans. In 1992-93, as the situation evolved, India once reopened its mission in Kabul. Narasimha Rao’s meeting with Rabbani at the Jakarta Non-Aligned Summit in 1992 and the latter’s stopover in New Delhi, on his way back home, altered the situation. The Afghans loath being run by a puppet master, and detest Pakistanis.We need to be aware that Afghan irredentist claim in Pakistan’s Pashtun areas versus Pakistan’s revanchist ambitions in Afghanistan will continue to create mutual animosity. Whether it was Mujaddedi, Rabbani, Karzai or Ghazni in the past or Mullah Baradar tomorrow, they will never compromise on the Durand Line.Thus, Kabul can’t help but look towards Delhi for political legitimacy, and for protection against Pakistani threats. The fear of the Afghan Taliban escaping from the Pakistani cage would be causing nightmares in Rawalpindi. As New Delhi gets closer to Taliban, the ISI will start spreading disinformation and mischievous propaganda. In the past, Rabbani and Masood were accused of taking help of an Indian pilot to kill Hekmatyar. India, therefore, needs to stop viewing Afghanistan from the Pakistani prism and instead evolve a multi-dimensional policy approach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/time-to-engage-not-get-entangled-with-af-305658
03-09-2021||Last week the police in Maharashtra was tasked with arresting a union minister||Subversion of truth||The Central investigation agencies and the Maharashtra Police will be roped in to settle political scores and redraw political equations. Is this what they are paid and trained to do? People should ask pointed questions and insist on answers. Unleashing the CBI, the NIA and the ED on its political opponents at opportune times has become standard practice today. This trend has become particularly prominent since the past two years. Last week, Kripa Shankar Singh, a former minister in the Congress regime in Maharashtra, and the Congress face in Mumbai’s northern suburbs where North Indians live, joined the BJP. Kripa Shankar had several Central agency inquiries pending against him. It is commonly known that he will be absolved of his sins now and the MVA, which includes the Congress, may ferret out commissions and omissions that it had failed to notice when he adorned its ranks.The spectacle of leaders being arraigned for crimes when they are in the Opposition and getting let off when they cross over is making a mockery of the rule of law. Truth, which is, and should be, indivisible, simply does not matter. Police officers told to catch criminals now need a total revamp of what they are taught during their training. They have to simply know the political colourations of the accused to decide whether they are guilty or innocent. The truth is not relevant. The problem arises when the chameleon changes colour once too often. Rewriting papers is not easy. It is a crime in itself. Only the culprits now will be the law-keepers.Remember what the CBI did to the case against Suvendu Adhikari and the four other TMC ministers/legislators who were caught on camera accepting small-time bribes? Adhikari was accused of accepting Rs 5 lakh, his associates Rs 1 lakh each. But the CBI put up a charge sheet only against those who took Rs 1 lakh and left out Adhikari because he had joined the BJP. In West Bengal, the CBI and the state police have been searching for two different sets of culprits for the same offence. We will soon be saddled with policemen who know not the meaning of the word ‘truth’! The Delhi Police have approached the investigation of the Delhi riots with that mindset.Many years ago when I was a DCP and the eastern suburbs of Mumbai City were in my charge, there was a street gang called the Harya-Narya gang in the limits of Chembur Police Station. The gang was named after its two leaders, Hanmantrao and Narayan. It was only after I had retired from service and returned to the city that a retired junior official who had worked at Chembur Police Station during my DCP days phoned to tell me that ‘Narya’ of the Harya-Narya gang had become the chief minister of Maharashtra!Rane, who has survived in politics by changing parties every few years, is now in the BJP. After a patient wait, he finally got his opening. Modi made him a Cabinet minister in charge of micro, small and medium enterprises. And it was only when he attained this exalted position that he was finally taken into custody by the police of his parent state. Till then, as it now appears, he did not merit such attention.The present charge against him though is a trivial one from the public’s viewpoint, and mine. From the current CM’s viewpoint it is very serious! And the CM’s viewpoint is shared by his cronies in the Shiv Sena party, particularly the transport minister. For Narayan Rane had pointed out that Uddhav Thackeray had committed a gaffe, an unpardonable one, in his August 15 speech to the people of the state, where he referred to the 75th anniversary of Independence (Amrut) as the 60th (Hirak). Quickly realising his mistake, the CM turned to whisper to his aide standing behind him. Rane, during his ongoing Jan Ashirvad yatra that every newly-inducted NDA Minister was tasked to perform in his own constituency, referred to the gaffe and said if he was the aide or if he was present at the spot he would have administered Uddhav a tight slap.The CM, who was conducting his office very well till then, apparently felt the sting of the verbal slap. Why he blundered on this occasion is beyond comprehension. He had much to lose by losing his cool. Rane, on the other hand, was attempting to make a comeback after years in the wilderness.The BJP’s principal opponent in the state, the Shiv Sena, originally its partner and friend, has given it a break that it may not have anticipated. If the events are closely examined, the BJP’s top brass will realise that Rane’s street-fighting credentials have given them an unexpected, albeit significant, victory in what can only be called a street skirmish.Rane has suddenly come into reckoning as a person of interest. His yatra would have passed off unnoticed. But with Rane accused of something as banal as a virtual slap, it was unwise of Uddhav and his cronies to order the police to arrest Rane, thereby anointing him with an importance that he had not savoured for long.The BJP, with its control over agencies like the CBI, ED, NIA and NCB, routinely released them on the state in politically sensitive cases like the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide and the explosive-laden SUV outside the Ambani residence in an all-out bid to topple the MVA in Maharashtra. Success has evaded it till now. Rane’s arrest may give it a much-needed break.But in the race for power the competing politicians are destroying the very sanctity of truth on the basis of which alone justice has to be delivered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/subversion-of-truth-305650
