04-09-2021||---||District courts vital to tackle communal agenda||THE battle against hate speech, communal vandalism and mob lynching has to be won in the subordinate courts. The trend of politically guided police investigations in such cases can be bucked if the judicial magistrates and trial judges insist on a routine of stricter and speedier legal scrutiny as per constitutional norms. Here are two recent examples of the impact such actions can make.On August 8, participants at a rally held at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar had raised slogans calling for Muslims to be killed. On August 21, the court of Additional Sessions Judge Anil Antil rejected Hindu Raksha Dal chief Pinki Chaudhary’s anticipatory bail plea in view of the incriminating video evidence, asserting that India is not a Taliban state and the rule of law is the “sacrosanct governing principle” in the country’s multicultural society. Chaudhary’s plea was rejected by the Delhi High Court as well and he surrendered to the law enforcement agencies on August 31.Rajat Goyal, a Metropolitan Magistrate (MM) in Delhi has sought an action taken report (ATR) from the SHO, Jamia Nagar police station, on the two complaints filed against Karni Sena chief, Suraj Pal Amu and Dasna Devi temple's priest, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, over their alleged “communally provocative and divisive remarks” against the Muslim community. Amu had spit communal venom at two mahapanchayats organised in Haryana’s Pataudi town, whereas Narsinghanand had addressed most provocatively a widely reported press meet in Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh. No police action had been initiated so far against them in spite of clear-cut video evidence available. The Metropolitan Magistrate has directed filing of the ATR by September 27.Complicit policing is nothing new in the Indian scenario. The lure of money and political patronage has proved to be too tempting for an average police functionary, more so in the era of liberal economy. Being a yes man to individual politicians or display of allegiance towards the ruling dispensation had already become an acceptable administrative norm when the Modi government assumed office at the Centre in 2014. What has changed drastically, however, in recent years is that the stress on police loyalty now includes a further demand to accommodate a political party’s electoral politics as well. Thus, adjusting the FIRs, arrests and bails and pacing investigations and charge sheets in tune with the pursuit of sharpening the Islamophobic divide, is reflected in the day-to-day law and order policing.The 2006 Prakash Singh judgment of the apex court, an attempt to infuse administrative cut-outs to insulate policing from politicking, has primarily failed owing to stiff opposition from political quarters. The possible course of action on the resolve of the Chief Justice of India (CJI), Justice NV Ramana, to see police officers stick to the rule of law and not rule by law, would be to galvanise local magistrates and judges into ensuring procedural integrity during various stages of the investigation, as required under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). That is easier said than done but still falls within the CJI’s initiative.The politics of Islamophobia is currently directed to induce segregation of Hindu votes in the wake of the upcoming UP elections and to offset the impact of farmers’ unity that is transcending the agenda of communal divide. The resurgence of a rabid Taliban in Afghanistan provided the proponents of Islamophobia a tailor-made context to unleash their agenda of hatred and fear. All this indicates that the scenario might turn darker in the coming days. There is a real danger of law enforcement turning more and more Islamophobic with the electoral compulsions seeping into day-to-day policing.It will be worthwhile to recall how the CJI expressed himself on the issue of the police-politician nexus. While hearing a petition filed by a suspended police officer, he reportedly stated in the court, “This is a very sorry state of affairs in the country... When police officers are working and take the side of the particular party [in power], then nothing happens. But when another party comes into power and the government changes, the police officer faces such charges.” And on September 2, the SC observed on a plea in the Tablighi case that the news shown in sections of the media bears communal overtones which could bring a bad name to the country.A former judge of the apex court, Justice Madan Lokur, known for his steadfast advocacy of human rights, opined recently at a webinar on judicial accountability, “It’s not just a question of acquittal after many years, which could be for a variety of reasons. The entire criminal justice process has to be looked into — starting from arrest as in the case of Munawar Faruqui, until the framing of charges as in the case of Akhil Gogoi, until the trial and acquittal. This is very important. It’s nice to say that UAPA should go, and sedition should go — but I don’t think they are going anywhere, and probably the NSA is going to be used more frequently from now.”Admittedly, the constitutional fabric of society is hard hit by the much-publicised physical and mental Islamophobic assaults taking place without facing any effective legal retaliation. So much is debated publicly about the police-politician nexus, but within the present scheme of justice dispensation, the focus must shift to the role of the district courts. The law mandates that they must intervene decisively and speedily to curb the menace when FIRs are ignored or diluted, arrests are delayed or wrong arrests made, remands are sought and granted, bail matters debated and charges framed. The policing input at each stage must be insulated from Islamophobia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/district-courts-vital-to-tackle-communal-agenda-306113
04-09-2021||---||Covid has fuelled diabetes pandemic||BEFORE Covid-19 was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in March 2020, the world was already facing another pandemic — diabetes. According to the Global Burden of Disease Study 2017, published recently in the Scientific Report journal, the global incidence rate of diabetes in 2017 was 2.3 crore, while in the same year, a total of 47.6 crore people were suffering from diabetes worldwide, suggesting its pandemic-scale spread.The same study reported that India was at the second rank, with 6.8 crore diabetic patients, while China, with nearly nine crore diabetics, was at the top of the list. Every major country had a significant proportion of the population affected by diabetes.A year and a half after the outbreak of Covid-19, a significant number of recovered patients have reportedly developed diabetic symptoms, having high blood glucose, both fasting as well as post-meal. This problem is found even in those people who never had diabetes before contracting Covid.A clinical study was performed on a group of more than 550 hospitalised Covid patients in Italy to understand and document the glucose-related abnormalities in recovered patients, two months after the onset of Covid. The results, published recently in a reputed scientific journal, Nature Metabolism, show that nearly half of these patients were having steeply elevated blood glucose level while one-fourth had normal glucose level. The remaining one-fourth had either a history of diabetes or was recently diagnosed with diabetes.In a subgroup of the recovered patients, the researchers found that the patients had altered control of glucose metabolism, developed resistance to insulin and had abnormal level of cytokines. Some of these abnormalities were present even in those recovered patients who had normal glucose level and the symptoms lasted for at least two months.Many recovered Covid patients also showed what is labelled as ‘long Covid’ in which some of the symptoms, including high glucose level, persist longer than expected. The study cautioned that these glycemic abnormalities could be associated with the ‘long Covid’ and needed intervention and medical care.On an average, these recovered patients have reported a steep rise in their sugar level. Many of them required diabetic medicines or even insulin injections to control their precipitously elevated blood sugar level. Although in some patients, the level of glucose reverted to the average level with medication after a few weeks or months, in many others, elevated glucose persisted for a longer time. For the others, glucose would remain controlled with medicines, but as soon as the medication was discontinued, the higher glucose level returned.In the beginning of the pandemic, Covid-19 was reported to be more severe in those people who had pre-existing diabetes and during the course of the disease, the sugar level could increase dangerously to over 400-500 mg per deciliter, nearly four-five times more than the normal sugar in blood.This surge would jeopardise the immune system and weaken the body’s fight against the virus. In such patients, the recovery from Covid was delayed, and at times, became fatal.The increase in diabetes incidence in Covid-recovered patients was attributed to steroids, such as dexamethasone which was given to Covid patients rampantly to control the inflammation, especially during the second wave of Covid this year.Patients with mild Covid symptoms, who did not require dexamethasone, took it anyway and, at times, even without the advice of a doctor.The steroids are known to elevate the blood glucose and their higher dose for a longer duration could cause the blood sugar level to surge and remain elevated.The study mentioned above also pinpoints that the Covid-related increase in diabetes may be associated with the damaging effect of the virus on the insulin-secreting beta cells in the pancreas. The researchers observed an aberrant functioning of beta cells in Covid patients, which may eventually get exhausted, leading to their death.The notorious ‘cytokine storm’ that occurs during severe Covid is related to the highly increased level of certain chemicals secreted by our own immune cells. These chemicals, including interleukin-6 and TNF-alpha, are also known to kill the insulin-secreting beta cells.Insulin is necessary to control the glucose level by directing the body cells to open the gates and take up the glucose from blood. But if insulin is not secreted, or, if secreted but not effective, as in the case of Type 2 diabetes, the glucose that we absorb from the food remains in the blood and accumulates. The cells and tissues bathe in this high glucose and get adversely affected as high glucose is toxic and detrimental to the organs, including the arteries, heart, nerves, kidneys and eyes.Once the patients recover from Covid, the leftover beta cells may regenerate slowly and with proper management and care under a doctor, the Covid-acquired diabetes may be ‘cured’.However, if the high blood glucose persists for even a few months in the recovered patients, it may be likely that they were either genetically predisposed to developing diabetes or they had diabetes prior to contracting Covid but did not know about it.To control the elevated glucose level in the Covid-recovered patients, it is important that they check their blood sugar levels regularly, maintain a healthy body weight, and consume a balanced and low-sugar diet.In addition, sugar-controlling medicines, as advised by the doctor, should be helpful in diminishing the glucose level as well as the damage caused by its surge during this period. Frequent checking of the blood glucose level and adjusting the medication accordingly is also crucial to recovering faster and progressing towards normalcy.The International Diabetes Federation has predicted that the global prevalence of diabetes would increase to 69.3 crore by 2045 in the absence of effective prevention methods.Covid has fuelled another pre-existing pandemic, going by the recent surge in the number of diabetes patients. More effective preventive and curative measures will be required to contain this double whammy for people’s health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-has-fuelled-diabetes-pandemic-306108
04-09-2021||---||Farming going to seed||FARMERS are in trouble once again, even though they have produced more crops and their produce is fetching better prices. But to understand this, we will have to take a detour into basic national income accounting. Every three months, India’s ‘sarkari’ statisticians release data on the state of our economy. One key metric is Gross Value Added. It tells us how much additional value has been generated in those three months in the major sectors of our economy. This is calculated by adding up the market value of all goods and services produced in the economy and subtracting the value of all inputs and raw materials, so that there is no double counting.ICMR’s sero-survey and various estimates of ‘excess’ deaths suggest that there was a hidden Covid crisis in rural India this summer.The trouble is that this does not immediately tell us whether our economy is growing in terms of the actual goods and services produced. That is because it is possible for the total output in the country to fall, but its money value to rise because of high inflation. To get a ‘real’ comparison of economic growth, the market value of output has to be ‘deflated’ by the average price prevailing in each sector.A quick example will explain this. Suppose your company produced 10,000 batteries and sold them at Rs 10 each in 2019. The market value of your output was Rs 1 lakh. In 2020, you could only produce 8,000 batteries, but you managed to sell them for Rs 15 each. The market value of your output is now Rs 1.20 lakh. In money terms, you have earned 20 per cent more than the previous year, but your actual output has dropped by 20 per cent. If the market value of your output is deflated by the 50 per cent rise in the price of batteries, we will realise that the actual output fell, instead of rising.We need both the numbers to understand the economy’s current state. The ‘nominal’ or the value of output in current prices gives us a sense of the money going into the hands of people, while the ‘real’ or the inflation-adjusted value of output tells us what they can buy with their current income. These two numbers also give us a sense of how income is getting distributed across sectors. And, the latest data shows us that India’s farmers are in deep distress, even though on the face of it, things look better.In the first quarter (Q1) of this fiscal year (FY), which is the three-month period between April and June 2021, the farm sector added about Rs 8.8 lakh crore of value in current market prices. In other words, we can say that as a whole, all those who are involved in the various parts of the agricultural chain, made an equivalent amount as income in Q1.Since farming is a seasonal occupation, the right way to gauge growth is to compare it with Q1 of last year. That gives us a growth of roughly 11 per cent. So, if farmers earned Rs 200 last year, their income has risen to Rs 222 this year. Let us assume that they consumed all of the Rs 200 they earned in Q1 of 2020. Let us also assume that this year their consumption remained exactly at the same level. We can estimate how much they had to spend by looking at the inflation that rural India faced in this period. Rural retail inflation was about 5.5 per cent in Q1, so we can say that the farming community spent Rs 211 this year to simply stay at the same level of consumption.But note what has happened here. Last year, farmers spent everything they earned. This year, they actually saved money. They earned Rs 222 but spent only Rs 211, ending up saving Rs 11. In fact, we can argue that farmers, as a whole, had the opportunity to consume more goods and services and save at the same time. In other words, the data suggests there was a significant improvement in ‘real’ income of farmers.However, this ignores one fundamental change that has taken place in rural India over the past two years — reverse migration. The number of people who are engaged in farming has increased steadily since early 2019. So, to gauge how the average farmer has been affected by the rising output and higher prices, we also need to compare how many more people are working in the farm sector.The Centre for Monitoring India’s Economy employment data shows that the number of people working in agriculture has risen from 138.6 million in Q1 of 2020 to 149.1 million in Q1 this year. If we take the market value of agricultural output and divide it by these numbers, we can get a proxy for average ‘nominal’ income per agricultural worker in these periods. That has risen from Rs 57,071 to Rs 58,939, or just 3.3 per cent.So, if an average farmer earned Rs 200 last year, their income this year has increased to a little less than Rs 207. Just as in the previous example, we assume that the farmer spent everything they earned last year. This year to retain the same level of consumption, the farmer would have had to spend Rs 211, because the average retail inflation in rural India was 5.5 per cent. In other words, farmers would have had to borrow Rs 4 to stay at their same level of consumption. Their other option would have been to cut back on consumption.In fact, it is most likely that farmers had to spend much more in Q1 this year because of increased medical costs during the second wave of Covid. Official infection and fatality figures might not show it, but ICMR’s latest sero-survey and the various estimates of ‘excess’ deaths clearly suggest that there was a hidden Covid crisis in rural India this summer. That means, farmers would have spent more at a time when their average real incomes fell. These are clear signs of farmer distress which our official numbers have kept hidden away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farming-going-to-seed-306102
