05-09-2021||He was our hero||101 Squadron: All in the family||In the summer of 1971, the squadron was converting from Hunters to Sukhoi-7s. Vijay qualified to fly the latest MiG-21, too, but his heart lay with the 101 Squadron. Sukhoi-7 was a slower and older aircraft compared to MiG-21, but he wanted to stay with his friends and the squadron.That summer, Ajay had qualified for NDA’s 46th course and was in Delhi undergoing the medical examination. Vijay drove down to Delhi from Adampur in his car. They were staying in the defence officers’ flats at Dhaula Kuan. Their cousins had also come over and it was a family carnival time at home.101 Squadron was a very close-knit unit. They had a senior officer, a Squadron Leader, who was married to a beautiful lady. They were blessed with two daughters but somehow implacable differences emerged between the couple. They separated and the lady left with her children.Somewhere around this time, Ajay was at home and Vijay was out when the doorbell rang twice before he realised. When he got up and went to open the door, there stood a lady of exquisite beauty.“Does Flight Lieutenant Vijay Wahi live here?” she asked. Ajay froze in a thrall, before he could murmur that Vijay had gone out, and whether she would like to come inside and wait for him.“No, thank you,” she replied, “I have an autorickshaw waiting downstairs. I’d rather go.”Ajay somehow concluded that she must be Vijay Bhai’s girlfriend, and as the elder brother entered, he started teasing him.Vijay rebuked him immediately as he described her and a tight slap followed: “Stop being a clown, Ajay, and shut up. Do you even know who you are talking about? She is a brother officer’s wife.”“I didn’t know that,” he said apologetically.Contrition rose like a sap in his blood. He had read everything so wrongly. “She would have had two little girls waiting for her in that auto. She is a senior officer’s wife and they are separated. There are four of us Flight Lieutenants who pool our flying bounty every month and send her the money to support her,” he said.In that cataclysmic year, 1971, the war came. On December 6, Vijay made the supreme sacrifice in the aerial battles over Chhamb. He was awarded the Vir Chakra. Ajay did not join NDA, becoming a doctor in the Army instead and pledging his life to saving the lives of fellow humans.The sands of time blew over old sorrows.In 1994, Ajay caught a hopping flight to Jorhat from Calcutta. On the seat next to him, a pretty young girl came and sat down.“Beta, where are you travelling to?” he asked her.“Uncle, I am going to Tezpur. My father is Air Officer Commanding there,” she said, as she gave his name with a tang of pride.“Is he ex-101 Fighter Squadron?”“Indeed he is. But uncle, how do you know that?”“That’s a long-winding old tale better left alone, but tell me, is your mother with your father?” he asked her.“Of course, uncle, where else would she be?”Ajay could only smile, “Beta, do tell your mother that you had met Flight Lieutenant Vijay Wahi’s younger brother Ajay Wahi. Pay my sincerest regards.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/101-squadron-all-in-the-family-306854
05-09-2021||AS I watched the Biblical deluge from my window this week||Living with ‘women’s issues’ in a men’s world||Public health and hygiene have always been topics that make us squirm; no one likes to speak openly about menstrual health or safe toilets for the women in our low-income urban and village areas. The stench of the open common dumping grounds where bands of women were forced to go to relieve themselves has hit the nostrils of every visitor to such a settlement, yet no one did anything about it. Today, in my little neighbourhood alone, there are clean, free public conveniences that have made life easier for the poor vendors and shop assistants who work on the road or in the shops that service our colonies. Why does no pollster take this into account when detailing how many houses were built or roads extended?More than 30 years ago, three eminent women activists were chosen by the National Commission for Women to study women’s public health problems and the state of our maternity and primary health care centres across the country. Later, the McArthur Foundation gave Mrinal Pande, one of the three panelists, a grant to write a book from her diary notes and encounters with individual doctors and patients on her travels through the country. First published in English as ‘Stepping Out’, it was later translated by her and published in Hindi as ‘O Obbiri’.Naturally, the book was not noticed as the subject was not sexy enough to draw readers, nor did it feature the travails of our well-off women characters whose personal and domestic problems would titillate readers of magazines that catered to ‘women’s issues’. The books are a chilling account of personal stories of women who have no agency over their reproductive rights and worse, who are doomed to hold back their tears as well as their bodily waste until the male-mandated hour is reached. Any gynaecologist will tell you that the majority of women’s health problems have their genesis in this social taboo.Recurring urinary tract infections, unclean practices to deal with menstrual cycles and post-natal neglect account for nearly all health problems that women face later in life. Co-morbidity is not related only to lifestyle diseases such as diabetes or high blood pressure, but to the inner plumbing of women.Going further, have you ever reflected on the fact that there are no socially acceptable words to describe female genitalia? We have either highly Sanskritised terminology (yoni, for example) or the filthy gutter-level slur words (that I cannot write down here) where women are described in the language of the whorehouses where it probably evolved from. Faced with such formidable barriers, can you understand now why women — particularly uneducated and poor women — are unable to even articulate their health issues? There were few maternity clinics manned by women at the time the McArthur Foundation report was written. Given the veiled life of women in large parts of North India, how could a young girl (who had five children by the time she was 19 years old) muster up the courage to confess that she had a serious urinary or bleeding problem?Some stories in her book trace a common problem that a female doctor recounted when she had to negotiate a set of clues given in shy whispers by a young girl in the presence of her husband or older female in-law. Decoding the ailment was like an exercise in solving a crossword puzzle that had just cryptic clues to it.This brings me to the question of why Modi’s popularity remains unshaken even though recent opinion polls point to a significant erosion of his voting base. He has the uncanny ability to translate the secret longings and aspirations of our common folk in ways that earlier do-gooders failed to do. The Right to Education, Food and Information were laudable but did their authors ever go down to see how they could be translated into actions that mattered on the ground? If our social conscience is unable to cross the municipal limits of our safe and well-settled urban spaces, how can we even begin to dream of an India that is equitable? Where all women enjoy the same conveniences that we in our posh colonies demand of our representatives.Sadly, even those politicians who arose from slums and backward villages soon forgot the land that they once stood on. Today, there are few voters who will support those so-called champions of social justice who ask for more privileges in the name of equality. Is this simple truth not visible to those who have accumulated huge wealth and property in the name of social justice?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/living-with-womens-issues-in-a-mens-world-306851
05-09-2021||“WHO will invest in a wrinkled||Takeaways from Tokyo Paralympics and the reality back home||First, a word about the Paralympics. The idea first took form in 1948 among British veterans of World War II, probably among those who had been maimed from injuries suffered during the war. Then it grew exponentially, and in 1960, there were 400 competitors from 23 countries. In 1988, the Paralympics took place immediately after the Seoul Olympics, which has been the format ever since. Now, there are thousands of competitors from over 100 countries, making it one of the biggest international sporting events.For a long time, the word “handicapped” was used for what is now called “disabled”, or “physically or mentally challenged”. If you want to be very politically correct, you say “differently-abled”. Personally, I find nothing wrong with “handicapped”, because that is what a person with “disability” actually is. Getting down to statistics, according to the 2011 census, there were 2.7 crore handicapped persons in our country. One in every 12 Indian families has a handicapped child. So, almost every Indian is impacted in some way with the handicapped, either directly in the extended family, or having friends with disabled children.I have two close friends and a cousin who have children with varying degrees of impairment. One of them, who is also my neighbour, has a daughter who was born with her umbilical cord around the neck, which had cut off part of the blood supply to her brain. It resulted in a degree of paralysis and speech impairment. But otherwise, her brain function was normal, and she went on to get a university degree. On account of having a spastic child, her mother decided to become the founder of the Indian Spastics Society, which now has thousands of members. I have learnt a great deal about the many degrees of disability and the lack of adequate facilities for the disabled in India, from her. Sadly, my cousin’s child was born much more severely impaired, with no movement in his limbs and hardly any cognitive powers. He has spent his entire life in bed or on a wheelchair. But he has been cared for by loving parents for more than three decades.Another friend had a son who was physically quite normal when he was born, but as he became older, it became evident that he was mentally retarded. Though he is now well into his thirties, he is still like a child, needing constant care and attention. This can be extremely trying, especially for a single mother, and sometimes leads to depression, even a nervous breakdown. Fortunately, his mother, though an Indian, became an American citizen when she married her American husband. So, she gets the kind of financial and other benefits that she could never have got had she been an Indian citizen living in India.Returning to sports for the handicapped, with so many different forms and stages of disability, to organise and run a Paralympics must be an extremely complex job. The organisers have to determine the degree of disability, so that one competitor does not get an unfair advantage over the others. I noticed in the races in which blind, or almost blind — “visually impaired”, if you like — athletes took part, they were accompanied by “guides” to run alongside them, so that they would not veer off the track.However, I believe the Paralympics have highlighted as never before the shameful lack of infrastructure in India for the handicapped. In most advanced countries, it is relatively easy for a person in a wheelchair to use public transport. Buses have a mechanism that lowers the entrance so that a wheelchair can easily be manouevred into the bus. Shopping malls have ramps. There are specially trained “guide dogs” for the blind. France is considered the most “disabled friendly” country in the world. However, it is not just a question of infrastructure; it is also the general attitude towards the handicapped. At one time, Indian films would raise a laugh by making callous fun of a cripple, or somebody who stammered. We lack empathy and compassion, virtues which should be taught at home and in schools.Let me end on a more positive note. I had begun with the comment of an insensitive businessman. Fortunately, we also have a few enlightened ones. Immediately after our successes, Anand Mahindra announced that he would gift vehicles to the gold medal winners, especially designed to be disabled friendly. Rajeev Chadha, head of MG Motors, made a similar announcement, as did Vikram Kirloskar. Atta way to go!— The writer is a veteran journalist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/takeaways-from-tokyo-paralympics-and-the-reality-back-home-306845
05-09-2021||“This is the year which people will talk about.||Sidharth Shukla: When a young star dies||This is the year which people will be silent about.The old see the young die.The foolish see the wise die.The earth no longer produces,it devours.The sky hurls down no rain, only iron.”— Bertolt BrechtTHE world of stardom, with its larger-than-life persona, is not all tinsel and glitz. Dark, subterranean forces rear their monstrous heads, making us recognise that ‘all that glitters is not gold’. Heath Ledger, whose tragic death in 2008 shocked the world, along with Jim Morrison, Jimmy Hendrix, Guru Dutt, Smita Patil, Meena Kumari, Divya Bharati, Sushant Singh Rajput and many others, became part of this tragic fraternity of stars who died young.The death of the young is mourned intensely, as it is unnatural, unexpected and disturbs the natural laws of life. When a star dies, it ceases to be mere personal loss, it becomes a public tragedy. The star, though unreachable, enters our lives either through a cinema screen or television. They become familiar, accessible as their screen stories become our stories and we become participants in their fictionalised journeys.Sidharth Shukla as a swirling meteor blazed with hope and endless possibilities. Despite most of us having no personal equation with him, his presence in the popular serial ‘Balika Vadhu’, as the vulnerable and handsome Shiv, captured the imagination of television viewers. This combined with his spectacular win in the reality show ‘Bigg Boss 13’ catapulted him to the highest echelons of success.I don’t want to play pop psychologist and attribute emotional and psychological reasons for Sidharth Shukla’s unexpected death. He was young, handsome, with his days of struggle behind him. Being a star is difficult business. To look good, to be fit, no ruffled hair or morning puffiness is allowed as the watchful gaze of the paparazzi is like giant eyes that follow constantly.Along with the competition and the uncertainty, the transitory nature of fame should make this tragedy a ‘wake-up call’ for the film fraternity. To reflect, introspect and recognise that show business is like living in a pressure cooker that can combust anytime. I strongly feel that film units should make it mandatory to hire counsellors and psychologists as stress and illness have a complex relationship. For some performers, competition is the adrenaline that motivates them, for some it’s a source of anxiety and collapse.In this world of hyper reality, we can factor in many nodes, lifestyle choices, eating habits, genetic vulnerability, coping mechanism. Forty is no age to go, and many questions will roll in one’s head which will have no answers. An actor with oodles of talent, whose escalation was unstoppable, was dealt a heavy sledgehammer by destiny.The death of an actor can also serve as a reminder of the vulnerability of success and how a good teacher can circumvent by instilling values of confidence, and by teaching life skills that can help deal with the vicissitudes of life.Today, as we celebrate ‘Teachers’ Day’, we must also inquire, what are the values of being a teacher? Is a teacher a rhetorical adviser, speaking from a pulpit, doling out clichés, or is the teacher a surveillance service, with a litany of dos and don’ts? A teacher should ideally be a guiding light who doesn’t only impart information, but assures students of their uniqueness, and gives them the confidence to forge ahead without fear.If I had to choregraph my life and flag the milestones, I can say with absolute conviction that it were the teachers who touched my life by showing alternative ways of ‘seeing’ and ‘being’ that formed me. A teacher is a lodestone that awakens your critical faculty, to analyse, dissect, interrogate and debate not only the text, but also life.A teacher should not expect a blind following, but give the students the power to combine, edit all that they have learnt and through that create something new.The teachers that came into my life, empowered me. The erudite and magical Dr BN Goswamy, the charismatic Ebrahim Alkazi and the nomadic and anarchist BV Karanth made me aware that art is hard, and there are no shortcuts to learning, a prerequisite being curiosity and a sense of wonderment. They also made me alert to the fact that acquisition of knowledge is not education. We need to be receptibles, that nurture and chisel. These teachers challenged me to nuance my perceptions, refine my sensibilities and hammer my mind into comprehending that knowledge is not linear but interpretative, subjective and complex.Having been a teacher most of my life, I see the role of the teacher as an emancipatory figure, who can help the students through text and dramatic analysis, question sexism, gender prejudices, racism, casteism and meaningless consumerism.I always tell my students, ‘I may not always know what you should do, but I definitely know what you should not do.’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sidharth-shukla-when-a-young-star-dies-306840
