06-09-2021||---||Anti-conversion laws violate right to equality||Currently, four states — Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh — have enacted anti-conversion laws that include provisions that prevent ‘conversion’ for the purpose of marriage. While all states have banned conversion by force, fraud or allurement and inducement of money, only these four states have placed a ban on conversion through marriage.In the media, these have been commonly referred to as ‘love jihad’ laws, although this term does not feature in the law enacted. This is despite the fact that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had publicly stated his intention to make a law to curb “love jihad”. The media, however, always refers to it as the ‘love jihad law’. Haryana, Karnataka, Gujarat and Assam have also announced proposals to introduce a similar legislation. The Chief Minister of Haryana stated that such a law is necessary in view of the several incidents of marriage and forcible conversion that had been reported in his state. Laws in all these four states are generally similar in terms of structure and have common features but differ in respect to severity of the imposed fine and punishment, which goes up to 10 years.The state-level legislation took place when all attempts to enact these laws at the Central level failed. As a national legislation, it received a setback from the Ministry of Law and Justice, which stated that it was ‘purely a state subject’ — i.e., a matter that lies under the constitutional domain of the states only. Historically, laws restricting religious conversions were originally introduced by princely states headed by Hindu royal families during the colonial period — particularly during the latter half of the 1930s and 1940s. These states enacted the laws in order to preserve Hindu religious identity in the face of British missionaries.Following Independence, the country’s Constitution, which aspired toward tolerance of all religions, guaranteed that each person was “equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion” (Article 25). This formulation did not come without dispute; the word “propagate” was one of the most contested in the whole of Indian Constitution. However, in favour of the Christians, the word ‘propagate’ was retained despite its disputed nature.The Indian subcontinent is home to a diversity of religious beliefs and practices. According to the 2011 Census, Hindus in India are 79.80 per cent of the population, Muslims 14.23 per cent, Christians 2.30 per cent, Sikhs 1.72 per cent, Buddhists 0.70 per cent, Jains 0.37 per cent, and others 0.90 per cent.The Constitution of India grants freedom of religion as a fundamental right. Yet despite this, over the years, there have been several incidents of religious intolerance which resulted in riots and violence, notably, the 1984 anti-Sikh riots in Delhi, the 1990 anti-Hindu riots in Kashmir, the 2002 Gujarat riots and the 2008 anti-Christian riots. Consequently, human rights organisations and institutions have been deeply concerned about the anti-conversion laws in Indian states. According to the US Commission on International Religious Freedom, these laws, based on concerns about unethical conversion tactics, generally require government officials to assess the legality of conversions only from Hinduism, and penalise the people concerned, leading to fines and a prison term for anyone who uses force, fraud or ‘inducement’ to convert Hindus. It has found this concentration on Hindus as deeply troubling and motivated.The anti-conversion laws have not been without legal challenges in India. They have been challenged on the ground that innocent persons were being booked under these Acts. It has been stated that the laws relate not only to inter-faith marriages but all religious conversions and lay down elaborate procedures for those who wish to convert to another religion. In particular, it is stated that the law refers to the conversion of Hindu women to Islam when they marry Muslim men. Also, the fact that it is widely presumed that such conversions involve ‘coercion’ or ‘deceit’, and hence, Hindu women ought to be ‘protected’ from the danger of conversion. Although the government officials have defended these laws on the basis that their ‘aim’ is to protect young women, critics have emphasised that these laws target Muslims and quoted instances of such inter-faith couples having been harassed by militant activists and state government authorities. Women, it is clear, are being treated in a paternalistic way which assumes that they need protection at the cost of their right to make reasoned decisions about changing faith or choosing a friend or life partner.India also has the Special Marriage Act, 1954, which can be used by inter-faith/inter-community couples to get married. The Act, however, requires an advance notice of 30 days to the magistrate before a couple is able to register their marriage. When the parties are from different faiths, communities or castes, such a public notice can be, and has been, a great source of danger and harm from their family/community members and those who object to their alliance.Consequently, the only option exercised by the inter-faith couples is for one of them to convert to the religion of the other and get married. Curiously, therefore, most Indian personal laws make it far easier to convert and get married. This requirement of a 30-day public notice under the Special Marriage Act has been challenged in multiple petitions before the state high courts and the Supreme Court. Despite this, even more onerous requirements of an application to the district magistrate with a 60-day public notice (instead of 30) and a police inquiry before conversion for marriage is mandated under the Uttar Pradesh law. This ensures that neither conversion nor marriage will take place.Clearly, anti-conversion laws amount to discrimination and a violation of the right to equality. Instead of pursuing this disastrous course, the government could work towards removing impediments to inter-faith marriages and eradicating the social stigma attached to such marriages, so that the couples who wish to enter into inter-faith alliance are enabled and protected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/anti-conversion-laws-violate-right-to-equality-307214
06-09-2021||---||Focus on extremism beyond Pashtun belt||One of the central tenets of the 2020 Doha Agreement is that the Taliban will prevent the use of the soil of Afghanistan by any group or individual against the US and its allies. A similar assurance had been made by the Taliban to India in the first formal public contact between the two in Qatar recently.Notionally, the promise is anchored in the Westphalian model which emphasis the principle of non-interference in another country’s domestic affairs. In the context of the fact that the Taliban’s past political behaviour is more in line with that of a non-state actor, its promises need to be evaluated with a different lens from that of a state actor.There is a distinct similarity in terms of the Taliban’s leadership roots in 1996 and in 2021. Like Mullah Omar who studied in the Deobandi Haqqaniya seminary near Peshawar, the present Taliban chief Hibatullah Akhundzada is a product of the Deobandi seminary in Pakistan’s Balochistan province, where the Pashtuns are the second largest ethnic group after Balochs. Both come from Kandahar province. The Taliban leadership had been a witness and participant to the enmeshed and fluid relationship among the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and other extremist groups across the Durand line that only fortified in the last twenty years.In this connection, the post-2001Al-Qaeda’s connections with the Taliban’s Haqqani group, which has a presence in parts of eastern Afghanistan or across the Durand line in North Waziristan, has been studied and debated thoroughly. At the same time, it is the Taliban and its allies’ past direct or indirect relationship with extremist groups in Pakistani Punjab and by implication, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), which in cultural terms is an extension of a particular portion of Punjab, that requires similar in-depth study and follow-up. This is because of greater integration of Punjab, Pakistan’s most populous and politically significant province with nearly three times that of Afghanistan’s population, and PoK with the rest of the international community, including through diaspora. Actually, it is the cadre of Pak Punjab-based extremist groups that have in the past demonstrated greater flexibility, in terms of operational associations with groups based in Afghanistan. Because of various reasons, including the situation in Afghanistan, Pakistani Punjab in the last two decades has become the cauldron of violent extremism unleashed by twisted and distorted versions of various conservative South Asian schools of Islam.Ilyas Kashmiri, a resident of Bhimber area of PoK, bordering Sialkot district of Pakistani Punjab and an area that has a large diaspora in the Middle East and West, is a case in point. Sialkot town now has an international airport with direct connectivity to the Middle East. Kashmiri was active in Afghanistan, the Indian side of J&K and North Waziristan, the place where he was finally killed on June 3, 2011. One of the documents recovered from Bin Laden’s Abbottabad hideout, as reported by Washington Post columnist David Ignatius, who had studied the translated documents, recorded that he had asked his top lieutenant, Atiyah Abd al-Rahman, to find out from Ilyas Kashmiri “the steps he has taken” toward assassinating Obama and the top American General in the region. Kashmiri’s organisational affiliations remained quite fluid till his death as he was initially with Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, a pan South Asian group with ideological leanings toward extremist version of Deobandi Islam.Then he joined the Al-Qaeda, and as per reports, had even helped American citizen David Headley, who was working for Lashkar-e-Taiba, which is Ahl-i-Hadith inspired, by providing him with contacts in Europe for a possible attack in Denmark.There is also the case of Mohammad Jamil, a 23-year-old operative of Pak Punjab-based Jaish-e-Mohammad, inspired by the extremist version of Deobandi Islam. A resident of Rawalakot area of PoK, Jamil rammed an explosives-laden car into the President’s motorcade and killed 14 persons in the high-security zone of the Rawalpindi cantonment. In his autobiography, In the Line of Fire, Pervez Musharraf records that “Jamil had received training from a terrorist organisation in the Kotli area of Azad Kashmir and had gone to Afghanistan to participate in the jehad outside the American-led invasion in 2001. There he was arrested and imprisoned for nearly two years, until his father paid money to obtain his release.” “When he came back to Pakistan, he was very bitter about the outcome of the war there. He was not the only one to take an oath to avenge the United States attack on Afghanistan by assassinating me.”With the US exit, the context may have changed but the landscape of violent extremism in Pakistani Punjab has become even more convoluted. Apart from the recent public support of Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan to the Taliban takeover, there is a discreet or visible jubilation in vast swaths of Pakistani Punjab’s society. A part of Pakistani Punjab’s largest community of Barelvi Muslims, which was earlier considered more immune to violent extremism because of its syncretic practices, are no longer bystanders. The assassination of Punjab’s Governor Salman Taseer by his bodyguard, who was a Barelvi, had shocked everyone in 2011. A decade later, there is Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan, an extremist political party mainly comprising Barelvis, which contested the recent PoK assembly elections even after being banned by the federal government.Meanwhile, in contrast to its English version, the substance of Taliban’s official Twitter account in Urdu is customised for the audience. A profile page reads: Aur America ran away (and America ran away) and the posts include glorification of soldiers and its claimed “victory over the US” within the context of Islamic symbolism and imagery. In 2014-15, the ISIS takeover of Mosul and some parts of Syria revealed that a territorial control is catalytic for online radicalisation leading to the inflow of foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) and also a rise in lone wolf attacks. The ISIS and Taliban are sworn enemies in Afghanistan but the online projection by the Taliban for the local audience of the subcontinent in Urdu is similar to the ISIS.The international community will have to factor in the landscape of violent extremism, beyond the Pashtun belt, and the recent online patterns of radicalisation in its calibrated engagement with the Taliban, whose present and future actions can or avoid being a force multiplier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/focus-on-extremism-beyond-pashtun-belt-307213
06-09-2021||---||On course in Afghanistan||Last week witnessed India’s first ‘formal’ contact with the Taliban leadership. The Taliban side sought the meeting, which took place in the Indian compound in Doha, while the announcement of the event came from Delhi — a political message in itself. The Taliban is casting its net wide in the East and West. It is manifestly eager to have diverse relationships based on mutual interests. The government’s decision to engage with the Taliban signifies a return to India’s traditional Afghan policy with accent on the southern Pashtun region. Whereas, the non-Pashtun tribes have begun looking for ‘strategic depth’ in the neighbouring regions to the north and west of Afghanistan.Nothing brings this home more poignantly than the decree signed by Tajikistan President Emomali Rahmon to posthumously honour two of the tallest political figures of Northern Afghanistan — Ahmad Shah Massoud and Burhanuddin Rabbani — with the country's highest distinction, the Order of Ismoili Somoni. They are being recognised for their contribution to ending the brutal Tajik civil war (1993-1997), which was a cataclysmic event that ended in Moscow-backed Rahmon subduing an armed Islamist opposition. Tajiks act with subtlety native to Persian culture and Rahmon’s decree invokes memories of Dushanbe’s commitment to ethnic Tajiks in Afghanistan in the 1990s whom Moscow regarded as buffer between the CIS borders and advancing Taliban.Rahmon most certainly consulted the Kremlin. The Iranian media last week cited reports of arms and ammunition from Tajikistan reaching Panjshir. Russia’s stance is shifting and is one of strategic ambivalence toward current events in Afghanistan. On Friday, President Putin introduced caveats to Taliban’s behaviour as conditions for Moscow according recognition of their government. Putin said all ethnic groups must be represented in the government; Taliban should join ‘the family of civilised peoples’ and must observe ‘civilised rules’; the transition must be legal. A certain distancing from the Taliban is discernible.Significantly, in an interview with Kommersant newspaper, Nikolay Bordyuzha, Secretary General of the Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO), has spoken about the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan posing a threat to Russia. He said the CSTO might get involved in the event of a threat of armed conflict with a member state (eg Tajikistan). He underscored that Russia should not hurry to recognise the Taliban government and would see how the situation develops. The general speaks for the Kremlin.Significantly, Putin also spoke about the spectre of Afghanistan’s disintegration. Could that be an implicit warning? On Friday, foreign minister Lavrov also waded into the sensitive nationality question, saying that any ‘political settlement should inevitably include a compromise between the Pashtuns that are mostly represented by the Taliban and also other Pashtuns, as well as Tajiks, Uzbeks and Khazareans (Hazaras) who should also participate in this process.’Lavrov claimed Moscow is making ‘the most active efforts’ to facilitate dialogue between the Afghan ‘ethno-confessional groups.’ The Russian interference follows the aggressive stance taken by the US that it will continue to intervene militarily in Afghanistan in terms of its counter-terrorism strategy. Suffice to say, outside interference is escalating and a new dialectics is developing. Indeed, the British foreign secretary travelled to Islamabad. The intensifying contacts between the West and the Taliban will alienate Moscow whose conciliatory ‘Troika Plus’ initiative (Russia-US-China plus Pakistan) lies moribund.Delhi must make a careful note of these strong geopolitical undercurrents. A convergence between the Indian position and of the US or Russia is difficult to achieve. What US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said last Monday should hold good for Delhi, too — ‘Going forward, any engagement with a Taliban-led government in Kabul will be driven by one thing only: our vital national interests.’Meanwhile, the European Union is conjuring up an innovative idea of having an ‘operational engagement’ with the Taliban government. The EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said ‘operational engagement will increase depending on the behaviour of this government.’ He listed five ‘benchmarks’ as basis for the EU engagement — new authorities’ fight against terrorism, human rights observance (especially women’s), creation of transitional government, humanitarian access and guarantees for those wishing to leave Afghanistan.Notably, Borrell said the EU could bring back its diplomatic mission to Kabul to engage in dialogue and track the implementation of these benchmarks if there were suitable security conditions. India would have broad empathy and even find common ground with the EU approach. We have specific interests in Afghanistan — principally, to thwart the use of Afghan territory by inimical forces to stage terrorist activities directed against India. In the late 1990s, the Taliban reacted to our alliance with the Northern Alliance. But such anti-Taliban tilt is unrealistic and unnecessary on India’s part today.Our conversation with top Taliban leadership must be carried forward and we should inject transparency into it with a sense of urgency so as to understand each other’s intentions and expectations and a matrix evolves thereof. In immediate terms, humanitarian concerns are acute and India must send relief supplies as soon as Kabul Airport becomes operational.The leap of faith to engage with the Taliban will stand out in the chronicle of India’s diplomatic history as one of our finest hours. PM Modi has taken a bold decision. The prospects are hopeful for India to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat in Afghanistan. Thanks to the regime change in Kabul, the bitterly fought turf war with Pakistan has met with sudden death. An existential discord may have resolved itself — gratuitous remains of the day! But it remains an inchoate outcome.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/on-course-in-afghanistan-307212
