07-09-2021||---||In firefighting mode, Congress awaits revamp||THE longest-serving president in the history of the 136-year-old Congress, Sonia Gandhi has requisitioned the services of the old guard — Ambika Soni, Digvijaya Singh, Veerappa Moily, AK Antony, Mukul Wasnik and a few others. Digvijaya has been asked to lead a panel to organise country-wide agitations against the Narendra Modi government, Moily is heading the AICC panel on the vexed issue of the caste-based census.Soni, Antony and Wasnik were part of a six-member panel that was formed in August 2020 when a group of 23 leaders had written a letter critical of the central leadership. The G-23 had asked for internal elections and organisational overhaul.The panel, originally comprising Ahmed Patel, Soni, Antony, Wasnik, KC Venugopal and Randeep Singh Surjewala had met many party leaders. Sonia had subsequently reconstituted the Congress Working Committee (accommodating some G-23 dissidents in the apex body) and met the G-23 leaders at her residence in December 2020. While Patel died in November 2020, the remaining members of the panel had reportedly briefed Sonia that the G-23 had agreed to discontinue its activities. Clearly, this has not been the case as the dissident leaders have upped the ante, demanding sweeping reforms in the party.Sonia’s choice of crisis managers is interesting. Both Moily and Wasnik were reportedly signatories to the G-23 missive. Soni had reportedly written an email to Sonia in August 2019, expressing her wish to retire from active politics. Sonia seems to have not only junked Soni’s retirement plan but requisitioned her to tame the dissidents. Antony is a widely respected figure in the Congress parivar, having authored numerous reports on revamping the Congress organisation.Soni and Antony are tight-lipped about the contents of a report they have routed through Venugopal, who is the AICC general secretary in charge of the organisation. Significantly, Soni and Antony have given inputs on the induction of ace poll strategist Prashant Kishor on the basis of their interaction with the party leaders. The Congress seems eager to embrace Kishor, but wants Sonia to clearly spell out his role and position in the AICC secretariat.In this scheme of things, a major organisational overhaul should be the top priority, followed by institutionalisation of the ticket distribution system, poll alliances, fund-raising etc. instead of Kishor’s designation or its nomenclature. Clearly, there seems to be a bit of a logjam or difference in perception on Kishor’s imminent induction.There is a view that both sides should deliberate more on this issue. If this school of thought gains momentum, Kishor may join the Congress after the verdict of the Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, i.e. early next year.A recent poll survey conducted by CVoter has presented a dismal picture of the Congress in all election-bound states — Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. The survey findings are in sharp contrast to the Congress’ internal assessment that predicted a victory in Punjab and Uttarakhand and a fighting chance in Manipur. What is more disturbing for the Congress is the CVoter-ABP News finding that the voters’ perception of infighting in the poll-bound state of Punjab and the leadership crisis at the top (Rahul Gandhi’s apparent reluctance to return as president of the AICC) is hurting the party the most.Punjab’s battle of one-upmanship between PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is beginning to affect the Congress’ prospects in Uttarakhand too. The Congress’informal chief ministerial candidate Harish Rawat is looking after the party’s affairs in Punjab. His preoccupation with Punjab is leaving little time and energy for the 73-year-old Rawat for his home state of Uttarakhand. Moreover, the Sidhu and Amarinder camps seem dissatisfied with Rawat, weakening his stature in Uttarakhand. Rawat has been pleading with the Gandhi trio — Sonia, Rahul and Priyanka — to relieve him of the Punjab assignment, but the Gandhis are unable to find a successor.Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh is making a comeback of sorts, tasked to plan nationwide protests and stirs. Digvijaya or Diggy Raja, as he is popularly called, was the AICC general secretary till 2017 when he was removed. Party insiders said his future role is going to be that of a ‘peace-maker’ on the lines of Mallikarjun Kharge and Kamal Nath. At an informal level, Nath is trying to broker peace between Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and state minister TS Singhdeo, who is staking a claim to the CM’s chair, claiming that there was an agreement to share the office on a ‘rotational basis’ for two-and-a- half years each. The Congress government had come to power in Chhattisgarh in December 2018.There appears to be a clear pattern in the Congress happenings. On the one hand, the old guard is firefighting; on the other, the G-23, consisting mostly of another section of the old guard, is stoking dissent. Rahul and his team don’t seem to be in the thick of things, except for institutional posts occupied by Venugopal and Surjewala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/in-firefighting-mode-congress-awaits-revamp-307741
07-09-2021||---||India must be wary of Taliban’s signals||AN old story about hordes of surplus Taliban invading J&K which periodically repeats itself is moving full circle. This time though, the government has issued an alert, warning all states and Central armed paramilitary forces that armed terrorists from Afghanistan could attempt to aggressively infiltrate into India, especially J&K. Threats to Kashmir oscillate, either due to adverse developments in Afghanistan or a steep dip in India-Pakistan relations. In 1996, when the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan was first established, fears of such a contingency were re-kindled when insurgency in J&K was on the boil. But the Army commanders were confident of combating fresh incursions. The terrorist population then had peaked at 3,500, compared to less than 200 insurgents active today. India has nearly 75 years’ experience in battling cross-border terrorism in J&K, making it the longest active insurgency of our times.Fast forward to August 15, 2021: No one honestly forecast the catastrophic collapse of the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) because as late as in June, the ANSF fought and won multiple battles, losing 157 soldiers. The 3333 and 4444 Special Force units trained and created by the British SAS were feared by the Taliban. So, the ANSF was not defeated but reasons other than military prowess were responsible for its melting. With the Panjshir resistance over-powered, the Taliban territorial control of Afghanistan is complete unlike in 1996. Now, hundreds if not thousands of Taliban will become surplus to Pakistan’s Afghanistan project: acquisition of strategic depth in the west, neutralising the second front and transferring military assets to the east, ending collusion between R&AW and Afghanistan's National Directorate of Security, and reviving the Kashmir Intifada.What do the Taliban leaders, severely divided about power-sharing and who consider Pakistan as their second home, say about India? They are equivocal: some are saying they want friendly relations with India and would like it to complete the pending projects. They are prepared to forget that India helped the old regime of Ashraf Ghani and gave shelter to some of them, but they do not want India to play any military role, suggesting that any assistance to the residual Resistance Forces will not go unpunished.In a surprising turn of events, Anas Haqqani, youngest son of the founder of the anti-India Haqqani network, Jalaludin Haqqani, told a news channel that Kashmir was beyond its jurisdiction. But Taliban spokesperson Suhail Shaheen said they had the right to raise their voice for Muslims in Kashmir. Most major attacks against the Indian assets in Afghanistan have been executed by the Haqqanis, who were described by former US Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen, as a veritable arm of the ISI. Some Taliban statements are in sync with Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s (also called Taliban Khan) who has described the Taliban victory as breaking the shackles of slavery. He has used a similar language to incite revolt in Kashmir. Neelam Irshad Sheikh, a leader from Khan’s Tehreek-e-Insaf party, has even said she hoped the Taliban will help us in Kashmir. Will Pakistan allow good relations to materialise between India and the Taliban as such a development would increase the Taliban’s strategic autonomy? India must be wary of the Taliban’s mixed signalling.Verify and trust and be guided by deeds, not words, should be the Indian mantra for now. GoC, 15 Corps, in Kashmir valley, Lt Gen DP Pandey said last month after the fall of Kabul that India has no problem dealing with the new threat emanating from the surplus in Afghanistan. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in his lectures last month at the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, and to a public gathering in Chandigarh, has said that India was re-wiring its Afghanistan policy. Like several of Pandey’s predecessors (they change in 14 months now), he is quoting the party line without elaborating the new threat. On its surface, Kashmir has been pacified: terrorists reduced to less than 200 from a high of 3,500 insurgents in 2001. But the horrors of lockdown post-revocation of Article 370 coupled with the trauma of Covid-19 have emotionally and physically pulverised the people. In the absence of a political process, the Kashmiri awam is also alienated and anguished. They call the reading down of Article 370 as a betrayal of Kashmir. Mark the word ‘betrayal’!China and Pakistan have created a potential two-front situation with Kashmir as an add-on. More likely, if there is a concerted cross-LoC assault — replicating the 1965 Operation Gibraltar or its abridged version, the new threat will be driven by skilled and an experienced Taliban, adept in suicide missions and fortified with American weapons, though bereft of the Afghanistan level of motivation. The Taliban are known to have employed multiple human bombers, a deadly technique also used by the ISIS. According to the Long War Journal, the Afghanistan-Pakistan area holds the world record in suicide bombings using innovative techniques. Though no numbers are given, it is estimated that upwards of 1,000 suicide missions have been carried out. The Indian security forces have dealt with explosives-laden car bombs, the latest at Pulwama, or the less potent, improvised explosive device (IED) or fidayeen, but never a terrorist wired as a human bomber. Add to this, the crucial factor of local support, which in 1965 was absent, will be decisive.It took Israel five years (2005-2010) to end the Intifada II and III (spearheaded by human bombers) through human intelligence to intercept and defuse the bomber before he could reach his target. Are our security forces prepared for this ultimate terrorist challenge?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-must-be-wary-of-talibans-signals-307740
07-09-2021||---||A reminder of our vulnerabilities||EVERY death is a reminder: we live amid uncertainty, and the phenomenal world we take for granted—our power and glory, or our material possessions and success stories—can crumble any time without a prior notice. Yet, even though intellectually we cognise this fundamental truth of our fragile existence, we love to forget it, and carry on our normal activities—participating in the rat race, giving our consent to the doctrine of the survival of the fittest, nurturing our inflated egos, and assuming that life can go on like this. However, when a celebrity dies—and that too at the peak of his/her career, it becomes ‘news’. It becomes difficult to believe that a star with such aura, glamour and wealth can die: the way you and I die every day.Sidharth Shukla’s demise has shown that death can knock at your door any time, even if you are a star, a billionaire.No wonder, Sidharth Shukla’s sudden death shatters us. He was young and healthy. He was glamorous; his body used to radiate the fragrance of his fitness; he looked pleasant on the screen; and above all, he was loved by his innumerable fans. Yet, he too could not escape it. In a way, his sudden death makes all of us uncomfortable because at a deeper level it shatters the worldview that many of us accept, adore and normalise: Be ambitious and glamorous, be visible and popular, and be wealthy and eternally young! The fact is that the truth of our fragile existence does not discriminate; and death can knock at your door any time, even if you are a star, a billionaire.Yes, we loved Sidharth; and we are shocked. And this pain has its own depth and intensity. Whenever there is death—be it the death of our loved ones, or the death of a neighbour, a political figure, an artist, we pass through psychic bewilderment and a sense of loss. And this is also the time for us to send our prayers to his mother. But then, the moot question is: Will it ever be possible for us to live with the full awareness of death, and yet make this very moment—when you and I are alive—meaningful? Or will we continue to censor the idea of death, and assume that life is the way we live with our egos, ambitions, fear, violence and insecurity? Newspapers, television channels and social media will soon forget Sidharth; his fans too will come back to the world—office, career, money, shopping, boozing….If we live with the full awareness of death, does it necessarily make us pessimistic, ‘other worldly’ and life-negating? Or does it enable us to redefine life, and make it tender, meaningful and soft? It is important to reflect on what we have done with our everyday existence in a world that valourises material success, glamourises egotistic achievements, equates living with ceaseless war, and abhors the idea of ‘slowness’, calmness and tranquility. We are running and running, and adoring the ‘successful’ achievers—billionaires, sports/film celebrities and narcissistic political personalities. Be it our family or our school—we are constantly instructed to be ambitious, competitive and achievement-oriented. Do we really live deeply and gracefully? Or is it that amid this rat race and striving for the mythical ‘success’, we miss the glimpses of the divine in the ‘ordinary’—a sunset, a river flowing, a cup of tea with the whisper of trees, and the art of discovering the ocean in the beloved’s eyes? Is it that we are living with anger and stress, broken relationships and psychiatric drugs, and the chronic fear of losing what we possess—fame, glamour and money? This is the pathology of what we regard as ‘life’.If we acquire the courage and wisdom to see the entire absurdity of this rat race and accept that the blind attachment to these temporal victories is proved to be meaningless amid death, we need not commit suicide, or promote the cultof nihilistic meaninglessness. Instead, we can live—and live mindfully and intensely—at this very moment as we walk, read a book, work in the kitchen, or play a guitar. And this very moment becomes eternal and divine; at this moment of intense living, there is no separation: the dancer becomes the dance, the singer becomes the song. There is no mythical success that will make us immortal tomorrow. This tomorrow is uncertain; none can predict it. It is only at this very moment we can transform the mode of living as a celebration filled with love and wonder, humility and creativity. We are not immortal ‘stars’; we are like tiny flowers blooming, and then withering away: the way the floating clouds transform their form, and bless us as monsoon showers.Generally, we are trained to bribe what organised religions regard as God; we urge Him to arrange a bridegroom for our daughter, a lucrative job for our son, or to perform some miracle to control the blood sugar of our nearest ones. These prayers do not elevate us; nor do these prayers give us the strength to realise that there is no God except the nuanced art of living and dying, and there is no tomorrow when we will become happy. To love is to live at this very moment, and realise the death of ego, or the death of the burden of fame and success.Can we reimagine our prayers as a kind of preparedness for the merger of life and death, and form and formlessness?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-reminder-of-our-vulnerabilities-307739
