08-09-2021||---||Why herd immunity is elusive despite vax||India has been witnessing a decline in Covid-19 cases after the second wave peaked in May this year. There has been a gradual relaxation of restrictions. Though scientists have been warning about a third wave, most people are ignoring the Covid norms. There has been a spurt in tourism. We are approaching the festive season, with Dasehra and Diwali being potential super-spreader events. The poll-bound states will witness hectic campaigning in the coming months. All this could herald a surge in cases.According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), herd immunity is the indirect protection from an infectious disease that happens either through vaccination or exposure to the previous infection. As per the ICMR’s fourth sero-survey, conducted in 70 districts in the last week of June and first week of July this year, the prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 was 62 per cent in the unvaccinated people, 81 per cent in those with one dose of vaccine and 90 per cent in those with both doses. Madhya Pradesh reported the highest seroprevalence of 79 per cent followed by Rajasthan and Bihar. The lowest seroprevalence was reported from Kerala (44.4 per cent). The survey looked at antibodies against Covid among the general population.While at the face of it, the data suggests India is heading towards herd immunity, there are a number of caveats. The survey was conducted in less than 10 per cent districts and enrolled less than 30,000 individuals. Different states are seeing different trajectories of Covid-19 cases, hence data will vary from state to state. Even the vaccination coverage is different. Till the beginning of September, around half of the 18-year plus population has received at least one dose, with Himachal Pradesh having over 95 per cent of its population covered, and UP and Bihar only 36 per cent.Earlier, it was believed that herd immunity in Covid-19 could be achieved when over 70 per cent of the population has antibodies due to natural infection or following vaccination. Now, the cut-off has been raised to 85 per cent, and even then, some experts wonder if reaching such a target can really be the end point. The issue is compounded by the emergence of mutations like those resulting in the Delta variant which reduce the immune response after vaccination. Moreover, the duration of protection provided by the antibodies is also uncertain. Some countries have started giving a booster dose, keeping in view the waning protection after full vaccination.Israel is the first country to vaccinate a majority of its citizens, with 78 per cent of the eligible population over 12 years having had both shots. Thus, about 60 per cent of its population is fully vaccinated. But that has not helped it avoid a third wave. Israel today has one of the world’s highest daily infection rates: nearly one in every 150 people has the virus. Similar is the case in the USA which is seeing nearly 50,000 new cases per day, despite over 50 per cent of its population having received both the shots and 61 per cent the first dose.Israel’s daily average number of infections has nearly doubled in the past few weeks and increased around tenfold since mid-July. Recent data shows that the rate of serious cases among the unvaccinated people over 60 years was nine times more than the rate among the fully vaccinated, while the rate of similar cases among the unvaccinated under-60 years was double the rate among the vaccinated in that age bracket. Worrisomely, half of Israel’s currently hospitalised seriously ill patients were fully vaccinated at least five months ago. Most of them are over 60 years old and have comorbidities. The seriously ill patients who are unvaccinated are mostly young, healthy people. This raises questions about the durability of protection provided by full vaccination.To prevent breakthrough infections (infection in fully vaccinated individuals), Israel has started administering the third (booster) dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. More than a million people have received the Pfizer booster shot. They are being watched around the world. The third dose is given to those who received their second shot at least five months ago.The US has also announced a booster shot campaign, beginning in late September for anyone eight months after their second shot. The UK and some other European countries have also promised boosters soon. In India, too, experts have suggested a serious look at the booster shot to keep up the antibody levels. At the PGI, a study is under way to see the durability of protection provided by vaccination.Recently, a committee constituted under the National Institute of Disaster Management warned of an imminent third wave that could peak in the next two months. It also called for augmenting the health infrastructure for children as it feared they may be equally infected. The report has called for priority vaccination of children with comorbidities and disability. It also pointed out the shortage of health paediatricians and infrastructure for children.However, some experts have said that a third wave can affect us only if new variants with more virulence develop. As the number of active new cases falls and the hosts available for the virus to multiply and, thus, develop mutations, decreases, we may avoid another wave.The view suggesting an impending third wave is based on the waning immunity after vaccination or natural infection, and the fact that we are a long way from achieving the vaccination targets. The situation is made worse by many people dropping out after the first dose. As many as 1.6 crore people have not received the second dose of the Covishield vaccine even four months after the first one. These include the elderly, hospital workers and frontline workers, groups which are vulnerable. These numbers may be an underestimate as the recipients of Covaxin are not included.In the US, one of the causes of the recent spurt in cases is vaccine hesitancy, with a sizeable proportion of people dropping out after the first dose or refusing vaccination.The falling number of Covid cases in the last few weeks should not lead to complacency. The next few months are crucial. The way forward is to encourage vaccination and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/why-herd-immunity-is-elusive-despite-vax-308075
08-09-2021||---||Opposition unity still has a long way to go||One thing that can be said with certainty today is that the Opposition is in a state of flux. There is another thing that can be said with an equal degree of certainty — that the Congress continues to be in decline.There are two groups in the Opposition which are showing signs of growth, and they seem to have a plan on how they are going to go about spreading their wings. These parties are the Trinamool Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Both are one-state entities as of now.The TMC is consolidating its hold over West Bengal. After its stupendous victory in May, there is a rush for ghar wapsi by those who had deserted the party in favour of the BJP. Those who had joined the BJP thinking the grass was greener on the other side are coming back, and four such MLAs are already back. It started with the return of Mamata Banerjee’s one-time lieutenant Mukul Roy.Mamata can cock a snook at the BJP today by saying that it need not waste its money on fighting Bhabanipur, her traditional seat from where she’s going to contest again. For some time, the EC made Mamata sweat by not announcing the dates for the bypoll immediately. Having lost in Nandigram, Mamata needs to be elected within six months of taking over to remain the Chief Minister.Both the TMC and the AAP are eyeing other states today. Mamata will want to increase her footprints in the north-east of India, where there is a sizeable population of Bengalis. These states account for 25 Lok Sabha seats, equal to a mid-sized state. She has already knuckled down to work in Tripura which goes to polls in 2023.Mamata Banerjee has sent a strong message with the induction of Sushmita Dev in the TMC. Sushmita may add value to the Trinamool’s fight in Tripura, Her father Santosh Mohan Dev contested from Tripura twice, though the family is from Cachar district in Assam. Sushmita Dev was a prize catch, having been part of Rahul Gandhi’s core team. But she had become disillusioned in the Congress and was sidelined in the 2021 Assembly elections in Assam.Sushmita’s entry in the Trinamool Congress has projected the TMC as an alternative pole that other disillusioned Congress leaders can gravitate to, if they don’t want to defect to the BJP. Recently, 500 Congress workers in Assam joined the TMC.Former Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha has already gone to the TMC and become its vice-president. There was a buzz that Shatrughan Sinha may quit the Congress and go to the TMC.Former Prime Minister VP Singh used to say that it is “courage which creates charisma”. As Mamata continues to take on Narendra Modi frontally, her appeal is growing beyond Bengal among those becoming disenchanted with the BJP. That she was able to defeat the saffron party soundly, without being cowed down by money, muscle or brute power, has added to her appeal.It is early days to decide on how the Mamata story will pan out beyond the shores of Bengal. But many in the country are looking at her with renewed interest.Come now to the Aam Aadmi Party which is confined to “little” Delhi, not even a state. Arvind Kejriwal has declared that his party will fight the forthcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Punjab. If he wins one more state, he too will become a player to watch. At one stage, AAP was exploring the possibility of tying up with the Samajwadi Party and its allies in UP.According to latest surveys — though they are not always reliable but often indicate the broad trends — AAP is apparently outpacing the Congress in Punjab, which may throw up a hung Assembly in the elections due early next year. AAP had underperformed in Punjab in 2017. The BJP is said to have stymied it, and as Arun Jaitley had once disclosed, “we transferred our vote to Captain (Amarinder Singh) to prevent AAP from coming to power.” AAP’s problem in Punjab is the absence of an acceptable face to lead the party.While the TMC is looking at enticing leaders from the established parties, AAP is for generating new political energies. Recently, it brought in its ambit, actor Sonu Sood, who is acclaimed widely for his work during the pandemic. For the moment, Sood will lead a programme to “mentor” young people. But he may well help AAP in Punjab in the future.Mamata’s politics has been to the Left, and her success in 2012 was to ‘outleft’ the Left parties, when she ousted the Left Front, that had been in power for 34 years.Kejriwal is positioning himself to capture some of the space occupied by the BJP. The AAP leaders have flagged off patriotism as a theme, and their deshbhakti curriculum for schools, the 500 tirangas all over Delhi, is part of celebrations of 75 years of India’s Independence. They say their nationalism is “inclusive”, to create love for the country and a responsible citizenry with a civic sense, but it is a tightrope walk for AAP. For the BJP will try and trip them at every step.Going by the way the Congress has brought on a crisis in Punjab and Chhattisgarh, where none existed, the ‘high command’ (the Gandhi family) seems to have decided that they will not relinquish control of the party and make way for someone else, whether they head a one-state party or a ten-state one. If nothing else works, they will wait for the day when public opinion turns to them by default.Otherwise, it is very difficult to comprehend why Captain Amarinder Singh was weakened by the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as the PPCC chief. Even if a transition had to be made from Captain to Sidhu, there were better ways of doing it, unless the intention was to put Captain in his place. The way Punjab has been handled has done nothing for Captain nor for Sidhu, or for that matter for the poll prospects of the Congress.What does it all add up to in terms of Opposition unity without which the non-Congress parties cannot mount a challenge to the BJP in 2024?The shape of a united Opposition will depend on what happens in the coming months. There are a dozen Assembly elections due between now and 2024. The situation will begin to get clear only by the end of 2023 or early 2024. But there is nothing to prevent the Opposition parties from building their narrative, hitting the road, working at the grassroots, strengthening their vote base, and fashioning alliances which could provide an alternative to the BJP in the states. At least for the time being till the larger picture becomes clear.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/opposition-unity-still-has-a-long-way-to-go-308074
08-09-2021||---||Trust deficit in Taliban||It has been three weeks since the Taliban swept across Afghanistan and brought the entire country under their control except for the remote valley of Panjshir. Latest reports indicate that the resistance in the valley may also have crumbled. While the country is under the control of well-armed Taliban fighters, there is still no government in place in Kabul. Such administration as exists is ad hoc in nature under interim Taliban leaders. This suggests that there are internal tensions among the various factions of the Taliban which have not been resolved. The visit of the Pakistan ISI chief to Kabul points to a Pakistani role in promoting a compromise among the factions and ensuring that groups most closely associated with Pakistan, such as the Haqqani group, obtain the lion’s share of the political spoils. Pakistan is keen that the Haqqani group gets the governorship of the key Afghan provinces adjacent to Pakistan. This may be critical to preventing the Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) from continuing to launch cross-border attacks against targets in Pakistan. The recent suicide bombing by a TTP fighter in Balochistan points to the continuing threat from this quarter. The other reason for Pakistan’s interest in an influential role for the Haqqani group in a Taliban government is on account of its anti-Indian agenda. Pakistan does not want any Indian presence in Afghanistan, including the continuance of its substantial aid programme. It would prefer that Afghan trade with India is not resumed. This may not be in accord with some factions of Taliban, in particular the Doha faction led by Mullah Baradar. But the Haqqani group may be counted upon to support the Pakistan agenda. In case Indian presence in Kabul is restored, a serious terrorist attack against the embassy or on its personnel will compel India to undertake a hasty withdrawal. Given the history of the Haqqani group’s attacks on Indian diplomatic missions in the past, at the behest of the ISI, the distribution of political power and posts in a Taliban government is of special interest to India. In case of an oversize role for the Haqqani group, India’s interests would be better served by not rushing to restore its diplomatic presence in Kabul, despite assurances from the Taliban government. There may be merit in remaining engaged and even in extending humanitarian assistance to the people of the country, but not going beyond that for the time being.India’s situation is different from countries of Europe and the US. While concerns are being voiced about violation of human rights and attacks against women under Taliban rule, the main concern is preventing the flow of Afghan refugees to their countries. This is why leaders like Angela Merkel of Germany keep repeating that the West must engage with the Taliban. A few cosmetic gestures from the Taliban will be enough to fully legitimise their rule over Afghanistan, so that there is justification for not opening the doors to the hapless Afghans left to the mercy of the new rulers. The western commentary these days is about accepting ground reality, of ‘holding your nose’ and talking to a ruthless and obscurantist group, of seeking their help in keeping jihadi terrorists at bay. The irony is that the Taliban themselves are one of the most successful jihadi groups and see their success as vindication of jihad everywhere. They are being presented as a ‘nationalist’ entity interested only in ruling Afghanistan. It is not nationalism that drives the Taliban. Their Islamic brand is an instrument to subsume nationalist and tribal identities within the larger rubric of Islam. This is particularly important to Pakistan as its great apprehension is over Pashtun irredentism spanning the Durand Line. This is also why China and Russia continue to be concerned. The Russians have maintained their embassy in Kabul, but at the same time, are busy carrying out joint military exercises with Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kirgizstan to forestall cross-border terrorist attacks by jihadi elements from Afghanistan. The Chinese seem to want daily assurances that the ETIM, the Uyghur militant group, will not be allowed to threaten China’s Xinjiang from Afghan soil. No one attaches credibility to Taliban assurances. Neither should India.The victory of the Taliban is being interpreted across the entire Islamic jihadi universe not as success of a nationalist movement, but of a certain violent and fundamentalist brand of Islam against the West and all others who are seen as anti-Muslim. One of their kind has now gained a state, a territory and a base. There will be exaggerated expectations from this success which may lead to renewed indulgence in violent extremism. This is a huge psychological boost to these forces and the implications of this are neither clear nor fully understood. In India, the fallout will certainly be felt in Jammu and Kashmir.The debate in India has been narrowly focused on whether we should engage with the Taliban or not, whether we should recognise a Taliban-led government once it is installed and whether we should accept Taliban assurances and revive our diplomatic and welfare presence in the country. That there should be engagement and dialogue with the Taliban has already been conceded by the government. This is different from according formal recognition. India could join a broad international consensus on this at the UN Security Council conditional upon Taliban assurances, both with respect to their observance of human rights norms within the country and in not permitting terrorist groups to use Afghan soil against other countries. The key decision thereafter will be on restoring our diplomatic presence in Kabul and resuming our development cooperation and welfare assistance. This will require a very careful weighing of attendant risks and benefits, particularly since not much credibility may be attached to Taliban assurances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/trust-deficit-in-taliban-308035
