09-09-2021||---||Afghanistan struggling to handle its diversity||The Taliban takeover of Kabul shows us once again the problem with presuming religion as a bond to hold people together. If anything, religion has most often been the source of a lot of evil. The large number of persons fleeing Afghanistan shows that people at large too realise this. The absence of a modern, liberal state makes them most fearful. As of now, they feel helpless and run to get out of the way of the religion-driven zealots.The makers of the civilised world in which we live today had no doubt about it. After all, they had emerged out of the communal religious wars that had killed millions in Europe. Yet, when confronted with anti-Semitism in Europe, and pan-Islamism in India, they had little hesitation in deciding that both the Zionists as well as the Islamists needed to be given a nation of their own. The two nations that were thus created in the 20th century have been characterised by tremendous violence. India remains a major sufferer at the hands of religious separatism.Unfortunately, the cruelty inflicted on others by collectivities rooted in religion is still tolerated. Many who normally stand by liberty and freedom of the individual, frequently act coy when confronted by the need to condemn religious zealots. Worse, every now and then, thinkers of contemporary times imagine that primordial loyalties, whether of ethnicity, language or creed, should be nurtured and respected even while those driven by such loyalties only inflict pain on others.Many also argue that these primordial loyalties knit people into nations. In countries like India where such loyalties either do not exist or are extremely weak, the modernist thinker imagines the absence of a nation. The idea that there could be civilisational unity which harbours within itself a tremendous diversity of religion, language and ethnicity was, and remains, incomprehensible to the modernists. That India is only a geographical entity was a myth which the British created for the people of India. That India is a nation in the making, was a variation of this myth which underpinned the efforts of the leaders of the nationalist movement. It even managed to find a place in the textbooks of history circulated by the Government of India.The fact remains that nation-states based on primordial loyalties are very different from those like India where such loyalties are weak or absent. In nations based on primordial loyalties, whether of kinship, religion or ethnicity, everyone else is fair game. In contrast, in countries like India, where the interaction between citizens, and between the people and the state is mediated by a formal Constitution, there is a lot of effort to create institutional structures to provide services to their citizens irrespective of their primordial identity. In the process, primordial loyalties remain weak while a new identity, based on a collective commitment to the Constitution, grows stronger. India’s greatest success is seen in the public at large having an intuitive commitment of this variety. The experience of history of the past 300 years too suggests that successful states are those which are based on the idea of a rule-based government which refuses to pander to primordial identities.The simple fact is that all modern nations are artificial constructs. All of them are made up of people who speak different languages, have different religions, practice different social and ethical behaviour patterns. The important thing is that successful nations find a way in which people with such diversity manage to live together, work together, and feel at one. Most importantly, in electoral democracy, they have found a way to peacefully elect a government which represents the people and whom the people trust.This particular idea of a nation found its fruition in the West and since then has been successful in many other parts of the world. India, of course, remains one of the examples of a most successful nation where people who speak different languages are able to come together to live peaceably. A recent examination of the Census data of 2011 by Shamika Ravi indicates that speakers of as many as 100 languages live in the cities of Bengaluru (Karnataka), Dimapur (Nagaland) and Sonitpur (Assam). More than 90 languages are spoken in Jalpaiguri (Bengal), southwest Delhi, East Khasi Hills (Meghalaya), Karbi Anglong (Assam), Pune (Maharashtra) and Darjeeling (Bengal). These people manage to live together without inter-personal conflicts escalating into violence all the time mostly because they trust each other and their government, and the trust is based on living in a society that is under-pinned by laws that are transparent and whose meaning is accepted by all.The lifescape of Afghanistan is just as diverse as that of India. But, there is a difference too. The people who live in Bengaluru and Sonitpur have become used to having an anonymous state structure take care of them. After that, negotiating diversity is easy and one can marvel at it without resorting to strategies to dominate each other. This is not the case in Afghanistan where the various tribes that live in that region have yet to work out the basics of government formation, let alone the routinisation that comes after that.One of the most interesting parts of the history of modern Afghanistan is that it was the only country which formally objected to the creation of Pakistan when the British left India. It was their contention that the Durand Line, which divided Pashtun tribal areas and incorporated the eastern regions into Pakistan, was merely an artificial line arbitrarily drawn by the British. Pashtuns were the people who lived in the eastern slopes and foothills of the Hindu Kush mountain ranges up to the plains of the Indus. It was these people who launched depredatory raids into northern and western India since 1100 CE (Common Era). Many of them stayed back in India to rule over the indigenes. It was only after 700 years, in the 1870s, that the ‘Army of the Indus’, officered by the servants of the British East India Company, occupied the lower reaches of the Hindu Kush and incorporated these into British India. Little doubt then that after independence, the Pashtuns dreamt of an independent Pakhtunistan. In the early years of the 21st century, the military of Pakistan sought to crush this dream by killing almost half a million Pashtuns and displacing over three million, all in the name of the myth that religion breeds brotherhood and unity.There is a lesson in this for India too. The idea that a religious/ethnic group must aspire either to independence or to dominating all others is one that takes us down a path where the end results could be horrific.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/afghanistan-struggling-to-handle-its-diversity-308579
09-09-2021||---||Growing audacity of pseudoscience forces||The Allahabad High Court last week gave a judgment in a bail case that has made national headlines not for its legal luminance, but its staunch promotion of pseudoscience. The judgment liberally quoted unnamed scientists to say that “scientists believed that cow is the only animal which inhales and exhales oxygen.”It also declared that panchgavya — a concoction of cow milk, curd, ghee, cow urine and dung — helps in the treatment of several incurable diseases.The widely held religious belief that using ghee made of cow milk in performing a yagya is beneficial to humans also got judicial approval in the same order. Burning cow ghee “gives special energy to sunrays which ultimately causes rains,” the judge reasoned.All this was stated as ‘scientific’ in the course of citing the plethora of cultural, religious, political and legal justifications for cow protection.What the judgment has stated is not new. It has only reinforced such claims which have been doing the rounds on WhatsApp groups and several digital portals for some years now. Many politicians and those holding high offices have endorsed such claims from time to time. Rajasthan’s Education Minister Vasudev Devnani, in January 2017, claimed that “the cow is the only animal that can inhale and exhale oxygen.” The claim was repeated on the floor of the Uttarakhand Assembly by Animal Husbandry Minister Rekha Arya in September 2018. The then Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat supported her, while adding his two cents — “Breathing problems can be cured by massaging a cow” — in July 2019.The HC judgment has now given such claims judicial respectability. Unless set aside or struck down by the apex court, it will remain a part of judicial annals and may come in handy in cow-related cases in other courts. Besides becoming legal precedence, the judgment comes as a shot in the arm for the growing strength of anti-science forces in India.These tendencies started with some stray claims about the Pushpak airplane and plastic surgery in ancient times being made at events like the Indian Science Congress. Nobody in mainstream science bothered about them, saying such fringe elements were not worth any attention.This emboldened a few attention-seeking legislators and ministers to go public with similar statements. Satyapal Singh, who was Minister of State for Higher Education in 2018, rejected Darwin’s theory of evolution, saying that it was “unscientific.” It was the ‘earth-is-flat’ moment for India and marked the beginning of sharper attacks on modern science and scientific methods.In the next phase of the anti-science bandwagon, some self-styled gurus (who are also social media influencers) and Padma-awardee motivational speakers started attacking allopathic medicine, particle physics, immunology and so on.Journals of dubious quality are also publishing pseudoscience. In one such instance, cardiologist BM Hegde explained auto-immune diseases this way: “Whereas every cell in the human body, of which there are more than one hundred trillion in all, love one another and also the cells of others in the world, our hostility toward our fellow human beings confuses our cells. If that mental attitude deepens further into a trait, a time will come when our own cells start hating our other cells, an auto-immune disease. I call this as the you-me concept.” This is no different from the “me in me talking to me” mumbo-jumbo propagated by Swami Nithyananda.The growing anti-science chatter is not a harmless social media storm or trend. People engaging in such talk are influencing public policies and also people's attitudes. As a follow-up to his Darwin statement, Satyapal Singh vowed to remove the theory from school and college curricula. Sadhguru’s ‘river rejuvenation’ plan has been adopted by the NITI Aayog and several state governments, while Ramdev’s Patanjali is part of certain education boards of the government. Hegde has been a member of several expert panels and policy-making initiatives in Karnataka and elsewhere. The Central Government’s Department of Science and Technology (DST) has funded a research scheme which goes by a quirky acronym of SUTRA-PIC (Scientific Utilisation Through Research Augmentation Prime Products from Indigenous Cows).Many instances were reported during the second wave of the pandemic this year, showing how pseudoscience talk influences people’s behaviour and attitudes. In many places, those who had breathing difficulties and were unable to get a hospital bed, flocked to peepal trees, believing WhatsApp messages that told them that peepal emits more oxygen than other trees.Much of vaccine hesitancy also has something to do with similar messages. During the pandemic, leading consumer companies have also leaned on pseudoscience to market health and wellness products.The only way to prevent anti-science from taking deeper roots and pseudoscience getting mainstreamed is to promote scientific temper. Civil society organisations like the All India People’s Science Movement and Breakthrough Science Society as well as science activists like Pranav Radhakrishnan are vocal about pseudoscience. We need more such voices.However, scientific agencies like the DST and CSIR remain silent, and at times, are complicit. They spend huge sums of money on the publicity of events and ministers, but not on people’s engagement in science. Scientists who engage with people and media on scientific issues are being punished under the garb of official conduct rules. There are government-funded bodies for science popularisation which are mandated to debunk superstitions and anti-science tendencies. But they are collaborating with dubious organisations whose record on pseudoscience is not above board.Science academies and scientific departments can at least debunk pseudoscience through proactive fact-checking and educate people about the method of science. Scientific temper is a way of life based on critical thinking and the ability to question.The present state of affairs has a lot to do with our education system, particularly, the teaching of science. The scientific community should come forward to remedy the situation. Science academies took a stand on certain issues such as Satyapal Singh’s statement, but they should develop a long-term blueprint to improve science education at the school level and promote rational thinking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/growing-audacity-of-pseudoscience-forces-308576
09-09-2021||---||Balanced asset monetisation||The government has announced its plan to create a national monetisation pipeline to generate Rs 6 lakh crore over a four-year period (2022-25) through the leasing of brownfield assets (those already on the ground) in sectors like the railways, airports and coal mining. This will help fund the government’s national infrastructure pipeline which envisages spending Rs 100 lakh crore to build social and economic infrastructure.The logic is simple enough. As there is no sale, the government cannot be accused by its political opponents of selling the family (nation’s) silver through privatisation. But these assets which have put behind themselves the risk involved in setting up very large projects (they often face multiple hurdles and are hugely delayed) under government hands are not generating the potential revenue that they can.To appropriately monetise these assets, the aim is to put them under efficient private sector operators. They will be able to extract a larger surplus than is available at present which will be shared between the government through its lease income and the operator’s takeaway.The World Bank is strongly in favour of the public sector going in for ‘asset recycling’ which has been engaged in by countries as diverse as the US, UK, Japan, Indonesia, Mexico and Uruguay. It describes the process as receiving upfront capital from the private sector in lieu of future income from those assets. This enables governments to transfer long-term risk and simultaneously benefit from efficient private sector management of risk.But all these positives have not prevented controversies from coming up. Perhaps the problem lies with the difference between outright sale of assets which the World Bank is happy to live with and long-term leasing which the government has embarked upon with an eye on national politics.Kaushik Basu, former chief economist of the World Bank and chief economic adviser during UPA rule, feels that broadly the idea of putting to better use underutilised assets is a good one. Ideally, the State should itself be able to run things efficiently as is the case with South Korea and the Nordic Scandinavian countries. But that does not seem to be possible in India.However, Basu is categorical that leasing for 25 years, instead of selling, is the worst possible option. Through this process, you effectively sell at a much lower price than what you would get if you sold outright. Lease is an effective sale at a price which will capture less than the value, with the rest going to those who get the lease. Thus for the State, it is better to sell outright.Plus, there is going to be wear and tear in the asset which will be greater because the lessee knows that the asset does not belong to him. As a user, he does not have a vested interest in retaining the long-term quality and value of the asset. Thus there is likely to be a good deal of asset stripping as a result of which the government is likely to get back highly depreciated assets, more than what would happen in the normal course.Additionally, there is the risk that by leasing assets which can be cornered by powerful business interests, monopoly-like situations can be created, with the government unable to get rid of the demons that it has spawned. This happened in Russia under Boris Yeltsin in the nineties when the oligarchs created a stranglehold on the economy.There is also controversy over the figure of Rs 6 lakh crore. This is the likely current value of the assets but what will come in will probably be around half that figure. Besides, even at Rs 6 lakh crore there is little sense in juxtaposing the figure against Rs 100 lakh crore, the value which it has put on the national infrastructure pipeline. A better way to raise money for the infrastructure is to create a sovereign wealth fund from the foreign exchange reserves.The way out is to go for limited sale by carefully designing auctions.We all want fewer government regulations which gives the private sector room to operate efficiently but regulation is needed to ensure that the operators of leased assets do not overcharge customers and there is also no collusion between two powerful operators in the same field creating a duopoly in which situation the consumer suffers. Regulation is also needed to ensure that the operator of an infrastructure asset which serves a unique purpose and only one or two can operate in the space like an airport or a lone railway line serving a particular area does not overcharge customers. So, at the end of the day, leasing, instead of creating freedom from overregulation, can end up in a lot of regulation surviving out of necessity.Those opposed to the leasing idea point to the effect that it is likely to have on the employment situation. They say that those leasing assets will not create jobs as the private sector players will use the latest technology to run operations efficiently with as few workers as possible.Under present conditions, with very high unemployment, it is not the time to be lean while trying to be efficient. The private sector needs space to run things efficiently but there is also a need for a welfare state during a period of low consumption in the wake of the pandemic, when all, except the rich, have suffered a loss in income and many poor people have lost their jobs.Under leasing, monopoly or duopoly can be created in the hands of the big corporations. Capitalism is good if under it a competitive private sector operates. The best way to ensure competition may be to split infrastructure assets into small parcels and sell them through carefully designed auctions and not lease them in large chunks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/balanced-asset-monetisation-308574
