10-09-2021||---||Reducing income gap a populist move by Xi||China’s mercurial President Xi Jinping has unleashed a major shift in the country’s development paradigm by announcing a new concept of “common prosperity” which means more equal income distribution among various sections of the Chinese society. Since Deng Xiaoping’s opening up of the Chinese economy in 1979, the high-income inequalities have been a persistent feature of the Chinese society with its Gini coefficient widening to 70.4 in 2020 (figure above 50 denotes high level of income inequality).The income redistribution is to be achieved by coercing private technological, educational, gaming and other industries to cough up huge sums of money to state regulators to “serve the country”. Alibaba’s Jack Ma has donated about $500 million, Evergrande group $470 million, Tencent $400 million and other companies in tech, education, real estate and other fields varying sums. Rich individuals are also being asked to make these transfer payments. Zhang Yiming, founder of Tik Tok, is giving about $77 million of his own money to establish an education fund; Lei Jun, the maker of Xiaomi smartphones, has provided about $2 billion to eradicate poverty.Xi and his team have designated specific provinces and cities, which will be made “models of common prosperity” with greater earnings and social welfare entitlements for the middle and underprivileged classes by gradually raising their annual income to about $11,580 by 2025. Common prosperity has been acclaimed by Xi and party ideologues as the “original quintessence” of socialism. Additional arguments have been preferred to justify that this “cross-cyclical adjustment” is necessary for pursuit of a stronger manufacturing sector, reduce the debt, bubbles in the real estate sector and income inequalities against a declining working population.In the past, China’s economic growth has relied considerably on investment in infrastructure and property sectors, raising high debt levels. The contribution of manufacturing to China’s GDP has declined over the past four years from 30% in 2015 to 27.7% in 2019. Xi’s state planners believe that higher contribution of manufacturing is integral for China to become a “moderately prosperous” society and a modern socialist country.The private entrepreneurs are a worried lot and wondering whether Xi has abandoned Deng Xiaoping’s another policy dictum to favour efficiency over equality. Concerns are being raised that the tech sector, which created thousands of new well-paid jobs, may not be able to do so, worsening the urban employment situation. The education sector has already been banned from raising fresh capital or going public which will impact its profits. The regulators have launched investigations into the monopolistic and anti-competitive behaviour of big tech players to check data security in view of their listings in foreign stock exchanges. The share price of many of these tech companies has plummeted, causing huge losses to foreign investors, many of whom are now discarding Chinese stocks altogether.New restrictions have been imposed on the real estate sector by banning private equity funds from raising money to invest in residential development, halting land auctions in major cities and raising mortgage rates. Policymakers are now recalling Xi’s old slogan that “houses are built for living and not speculation”. According to industry watchers, the output of construction sector is expected to decline by 4% in 2021.There are growing concerns that this state meddling will sap the vitality of China’s vibrant private sector. According to certain Chinese historians, the idea of common prosperity is purely utopian and may lead to another ‘Great Leap Forward’, referring to the 1958-62 Maoist campaign, which engineered widespread economic collapse and millions of deaths. Zhou Qiming, a professor at Zhongnan University told reporters that “depending on the rich to donate to the poor is not sustainable” and a better approach would be for Beijing to expand the economic pie so that workers can find more jobs and bargain for higher wages.China’s economic growth is already facing headwinds due to fresh outbreaks of Covid. The declining strength of China’s workforce due to the country’s faulty one-child policy adopted in 1980 is adding new pressures against raising its economic growth. China is getting old at a time when the world is facing a backlash against globalisation and is becoming more protectionist; it means that China will have to work much harder than others to achieve higher income levels.Concerns have also been raised about who would supervise the vast sums collected from the business conglomerates. Given the lack of robust judicial or civil society oversight, contributions are often routed through government-controlled organisations whose track record for transparency and efficient resource utilisation is often doubtful. Some critics have stated that contributions from the rich may not necessarily be used for the benefit of the poor.The private sector in China contributes more than 50% of total tax revenue, more than 60% of its GDP and more than 80% of urban employment. President Xi’s top economic adviser, Liu He has tried to underplay the adverse impact of these regulatory crackdowns by saying that there are no changes in the “principles and policies for supporting the development of the private economy”. But his boss, President Xi Jinping has made it clear that the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) must do more to “guide and supervise” the country’s businesses with clear rules, effective regulations and greater policy transparency.Xi is trying to rebrand the CCP’s image domestically by reducing income gaps and shifting to higher quality development. His critics say Xi is trying to squeeze the rich to punish his rivals who are backing rich private conglomerates. They argue that he is seeking popular support like a “second Mao” in the run-up to the 20th party Congress in 2022 where he is expected to seek a third term as the President. Given the huge miseries that Mao caused, many are wondering if these measures would have a similar destabilising impact on the Chinese society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reducing-income-gap-a-populist-move-by-xi-308949
10-09-2021||---||Farmers’ stir challenges sectarian politics||The historic farmers’ rally in Muzaffarnagar on September 5, organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agrarian stir, was like no other. More than 500,000 farmers attended the rally, according to the local police. All of Muzaffarnagar town was flooded with farmers, according to some social media posts which called it a sailab (flood). This was the biggest rally yet, and perhaps one of the biggest ever, in the ten month long farmers’ struggle to press the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government to repeal the three controversial agricultural laws.Farm leaders raised a battle cry at this rally against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and called for Hindu-Muslim unity to counter it. Several leaders condemned the BJP for fuelling the politics of hate and division between castes and communities and appealed to the farmers to inflict vote ki chot (electoral defeat) on them. The resurrection of communal amity in the context of the sectarian divide in this region caused by mass violence in Muzaffarnagar was the most important highlight of the rally. This town was the site of a major communal conflagration in 2013. The rift it created between the Jats and Muslims had helped the BJP to sweep the 2014 Lok Sabha and 2017 Vidhan Sabha elections. There was no protest movement in these parts after the outbreak of communal violence that drove a wedge in farmers’ unity which battered their movement in the region. However, political equations have undergone a radical change since then. Many Muslims joined the rally which was earlier predominantly a Jat affair. They organised langars and other forms of sewa for the farmers arriving in Muzaffarnagar and made arrangements for their stay in mosques etc. The public idiom of social peace was noteworthy as revivification of communal amity dents the politics of hate which is central to the political success of communal forces.The principal demands of the protesting farmers remain the same — they are against the three contentious laws passed by the Central Government. They want the government to ensure a minimum support price (MSP) on farming produce. The slogan of faslon ke daam nahin, toh vote nahin (no fair price for crops, no votes) was a recurrent theme. However, it is worth noting that farm leaders went far beyond these issues. They raised issues of sectors beyond agriculture. Importantly, the government agenda of wholesale privatisation came in for sharp criticism in several speeches at the rally. More generally, they spoke about issues concerning workers, withdrawal of pensions and the need to preserve and protect the Constitution. They expressed strong disapproval of the new labour codes, sale of public sector units, roads, railways, electricity and so on. They even lashed out at the Centre over its National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP). The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader and its chief spokesman Rakesh Tikait elaborated on how everything is on sale. He said: “We have to stop the country from getting sold. The banks are being sold like the Food Corporation of India (FCI) land is being given to Adani. The ‘Sale of India’ boards have been put up and the purchasers are Ambani and Adani.” He also claimed that the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) are in ‘danger’ and the SKM will take steps to activate resistance against ‘India’s sale’ by building solidarities to save these national assets.In brief, the farmers threw down a new challenge to the ruling party — the protest would no longer be only about the repeal of the farm laws which had triggered anger in the first place. Several speeches mentioned this signalling as a widening of the farmers’ discourse to key national issues that matter in Indian politics today. This was a clear attempt at reaching out to a bigger constituency beyond farmers.The mainstream media ignored the farmers’ rally or underplayed it which actually underscores its political significance. Some television channels reported that hundreds of farmers attended the Muzaffarnagar rally when in fact lakhs of them participated in it, while most others mentioned it in passing, moving on quickly to Taliban and Afghanistan. Newspapers have been equally reticent in their coverage of the rally, despite the impressive turnout at the event and the shifting ground of politics it represented. The farmers’ protest had already been moved out of the front pages of newspapers much before this mega rally even as farmers persisted with their agitation on the borders of Delhi. But the massive rally indicates that the farmers’ protest is alive and will not go away even if the media pretends that it does not exist. This rally showed that the anger against the government over the three farm laws has not abated and may well dent the BJP’s electoral prospects in over 120 seats of western Uttar Pradesh in the 2022 Assembly elections.Thanks to this rally, the political battleground has moved from Punjab and Haryana to the Hindi heartland. The long protest against the Centre is likely to resound as a major Opposition issue in the coming Assembly elections. The farm leaders sounded the bugle of ‘Mission UP’, giving a direct call for the removal of the BJP from Uttar Pradesh and from the country too. They also said that they will campaign against the ruling party in all districts and villages of Uttar Pradesh, including Varanasi, Lucknow and Gorakhpur. The message is very clear — either repeal the laws or face defeat in the state election.What impact this will have on the Uttar Pradesh polls is hard to tell at this point, especially as this protest is yet to reach the central and eastern parts of the state. Even so, one thing is clear: it has shaken the ruling party as these ongoing protests have complicated political equations in the region. The farmers’ agitation has given a new hope for the revival of political and social alliances in the state which can challenge the cynical politics of polarisation. This has triggered unease within the BJP as it must win the crucial 2022 Vidhan Sabha elections of Uttar Pradesh, which sends 80 MPs to the Lok Sabha and will be the pathway to power at the Centre in 2024.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/farmers-stir-challenges-sectarian-politics-308948
10-09-2021||The girl who stays on the floor above mine is going to be a renowned writer. Her talent has been revealed in a book I have just read and thoroughly enjoyed. She is the daughter of a respected junior colleague who moved into his proprietary flat soon after he retired some years ago.||A mountain of trash||Saumya Roy is the elder of Anami Roy’s two daughters, both delightful girls, highly intelligent and focused on whatever commands their interest. After a stint in journalism, Saumya took to social entrepreneurship, with her father as a partner, in a non-profit company that gives micro loans to individuals living on the fringes of poverty, doing small businesses, like running private taxis, hawking vegetables and fruit on handcarts, picking rags or selling Mumbai’s popular street food, the ‘vada-pav’.Father and daughter set out every morning for their place of work, from where Saumya ventures out to visit clients at work. Her book ‘Castaway Mountain’ is the story of Mumbai’s best-kept secret, the disposal of the city’s solid waste, picked up every morning by the municipal trucks and then dumped on a mountain of trash in Mumbai’s eastern suburb of Deonar.As Commissioner of Police of the city from 1982 to 1985, I had accompanied my friend, Datta Sukhtankar, then the Municipal Commissioner, for a massive demolition drive of illegal hutments that had come up alongside those waste dumps. The huts were hampering the movement of trucks hired to deposit waste, and more importantly, exposing the dwellers to all forms of diseases, chiefly tuberculosis. Little did I know that entire families of ragpickers had returned to that occupation for lack of any other sustainable means of making a living! She has brought it out in her book. The fancies and desires of the well heeled who live in luxury in high-rise buildings, finally find their way to the Waste Mountain in Deonar, where an army of ragpickers wait from dawn to dusk and beyond to pick plastic, glass and metal, which they sell to middlemen, who, in turn, sell to those who recycle the castoffs.Sometimes, on rare occasions, the pickers find something valuable which fetches more money than usual. They live for the day of such finds. The finder’s luck is the ‘breaking news’ in the small township. The finder becomes a celebrity for that day, or if the find is something extraordinary, like a wallet thrown away carelessly without checking its contents, which included some high-denomination rupee notes, the finder is feted for days together.The great bulk of these pickers are Muslims of the lowest economic bracket. Since the women are illiterate or early school dropouts, the average size of families is very large. Saumya writes about one such family with compassion and understanding. Their struggles for existence are described in minute detail and their stories interwoven with the municipality’s losing battle to compress solid waste to meet the Bombay High Court’s directions to eliminate the putrid air released through untreated waste. The respiratory health of the residents for miles around was being threatened by the smoke belched continuously by the fires emanating from the natural combustion sparked in the innards of the dumped waste.Justice Abhay Oka, who presided over the High Court Bench hearing the PIL for almost a decade, is now a judge of the Supreme Court. One of the court’s most competent and fair-minded judges, this matter hung like an albatross over his head, defying a quick solution.Saumya’s tale moved me for another reason. Farzana Shaikh, the central character in this true story, had an accident while she was out picking from the waste on the mountain. She had been the object of unrequited love of another rag-picker, not much older than her. He kept her company in the municipal hospital right through her stay there of several months and the series of surgeries she had to undergo to mend her broken bones. After her ordeal, he married her and they have two children. A true love story if ever there was one!Another book I recently read was ‘Operation Trojan Horse’, a fictionalised account of how five young volunteers, two from Kerala, one from Chennai and two from Mumbai were infiltrated by our intelligence agencies into Pakistan’s Lashkar-e-Toiba, thereby foiling a few suicide bombings by jihadis. The book is co-authored by DP Sinha, an IPS officer of the 1979 batch, who has spent the major part of his active service in anti-terrorist operations. He has done so with great diligence and panache. Such work is not usually spoken about. And that is how it should be.But as a personal beneficiary of such selfless work by a few unheralded colleagues, I salute Sinha and many others like him of whose identity I know not a thing. I would have liked to personally thank the operatives who planted a Trojan Horse in the Khalistani unit that operated out of Zurich and was sent out on a mission to Bucharest in 1991 to assassinate me.If vital information about the assassins had not been communicated to me days before the attempt on my life, I would certainly have turned up a dead duck!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-mountain-of-trash-308947
