11-09-2021||---||The resilience of New York soars sky-high||EDWARD Glaeser, eminent Harvard professor, in his 2011 seminal book Triumph of the City, serenaded New York and other global cities as “engines of growth” that propelled global economies. He argued that they brought together hugely talented people in close proximity and that generated greater productivity, innovation and enterprise. The glitz of closely-knit skyscrapers, denoting symbols of “strength” and “power of modern times” seduced high achievers.However, this September 11, marking two decades of the 9/11 terror attacks in the heart of New York that killed nearly 3,000 people, will be a grim reminder of the fragility of such certainties of sky-soaring urbanism and dizzying assumptions of success.Twenty years ago on this day, its legendary Twin Towers of the World Trade Center were reduced to rubble, leaving a gaping hole, ‘Ground Zero’, at the site. To rebuild and resurrect the demolished American spirit, New York resolved to build an even taller and grander World Trade Center, putting in the best of hallmark American might and entrepreneurial spirit.The new and more ambitious programme for the site included not only the new World Trade Center, called WTC-1, but also five skyscrapers (1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 WTC), the National September 11 Memorial & Museum, a transportation hub and a performing arts centre.With most of these key components now completed and inaugurated, the project symbolises a unique and unprecedented teamwork of international architects, artists and urban developers, their common objective being “the creation of a grand, inspiring new urban centre for 21st century New York.”But clearly, the key defining project of this ensemble is the 104-storey WTC-1 — originally called the Freedom Tower — designed by architect David M Childs. It stands at a symbolic 1,776 feet, signifying the year America signed the Declaration of Independence. Amidst New York’s awesome skyline of iconic buildings, like the Empire State, Chrysler Building and many more in such eclectic classical, neo-classical styles, the newly erected glossy facade fills the void of the original World Trade Center reassuringly.Notwithstanding such resilience and American muscle, the post-pandemic world, buffeted by climate change-induced devastating hurricanes, begs the question: are dense, vertical mega cities like New York relevant anymore? The pandemic saw many big corporate houses letting go of their huge expensive office spaces, with work-from-home models working reasonably well. Similarly, many upper crust executives moved from their high rental apartments in crowded Manhattan to greener and larger homes in the satellite towns. Even with the pandemic abating, the hybrid model of partial work from home is here to stay. It saves offices’ expensive real estate and, for employees, assures better quality of family life.Not surprisingly, therefore, notwithstanding the recent catastrophes, the ‘Big Apple’ is gradually regaining its economic and cultural pulse. Its enigmatic laissez faire skyline is filling up yet again, with a warm, intimate and vibrant life on the streets.Manhattan is the financial and cultural centre of the US and one of top financial capitals of the world, with an estimated GDP of over $1.2 trillion before the pandemic. It is home to the famous Wall Street, inspiring many blockbuster Hollywood films and international cinema. With the recent trend of businesses opening up, its famous adrenaline-charged bankers, stock brokers and investment experts will once again strut about briskly in their dark suits. Amidst this human carnival of racing, hurried people —eating, texting, chatting on their cellphones — one would still be hearing gentle peals of church bells from some old stone cathedral nearby, sandwiched between towering blocks, thankfully saved by New York’s heritage laws.The Manhattan model of verticality has always evoked strong views, both admiration and scathing criticism.Lewis Mumford, 20th century’s critic, historian and city planner, has said, “New York is the perfect model of city, not the model of a perfect city.” Le Corbusier, Chandigarh’s iconic architect-planner, when he first arrived in New York in 1935, awed by the dreamy spires of the high-rises soaring up in the sky, famously described it as “the Grand Canyon of concrete and steel.” However, his views changed after rejections from American tycoons as they turned down his proposal for restructuring the Manhattan grid with his own ideal of a vertical green. And, many may not be aware of his role in the designing of the UN building, albeit full of disappointing recriminations, too. Iconic contemporary architect and urbanist Rem Kool has countered, saying that the grid’s two-dimensional form created an “undreamed of freedom for three-dimensional anarchy.”Whatever be the opinions about New York, it is reassuring to see its vertical skyline delineated by WTC-1 after 9/11. Along with it have come more additions, forming a grander and bigger vision. New York epitomises the land of opportunities, fortunes, enterprise and talent to reach for the sky. For millions of escapees of repression — as the recent Afghan crisis has shown — it is the promised land, emblematic of the free world.The words at the base of the Statue of Liberty by Emma Lazarus, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free...,” still ring true for all immigrants seeking refuge and shelter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-resilience-of-new-york-soars-sky-high-309382
11-09-2021||---||America reacted with fury, not wisdom||THE 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks is a stark reminder of the uncertainties of individual and collective human endeavours, of unintended consequences, of enduring features and of change and transformation. Much of the drama which brought forth these elements played over two decades on the Afghan stage.It began with the al-Qaeda’s devastating terrorist attacks in America. Its final act ended with the easy collapse of the American-inspired Afghan Republic on August 15 this year: the strategic defeat of the world’s pre-eminent power and the return of the Taliban’s Islamic Emirate.But a new Afghan drama will now begin. It will have a cast of old and new characters and directors and will be richly complex, possibly bloody.America’s first objective after 9/11 was to eliminate its perpetrator, the al- Qaeda. Significantly, it did not seek to oust the Taliban from Afghanistan. It only demanded that the group severe its connection with the al-Qaeda and hand over Osama bin Laden and his companions to face justice. The Taliban leader, Mullah Omar, refused to do so.Hence, America launched military operations to capture the al-Qaeda leaders and cadres based in Afghanistan, as well as the Taliban leadership. In this process, it succeeded in destroying the Taliban regime, but failed to get its leaders as well as those of the al-Qaeda; both escaped to Pakistan.Once these military operations ended, America focussed on the al-Qaeda. It gave Pakistan a free pass to rebuild the Taliban as long as it kept handing over the al-Qaeda operatives. Pakistan utilised the space given to it to convert the Taliban into a formidable insurgent force which continued to rely on terror. It operated from secure bases in Pakistan to attack both the US and Afghan Republic forces.To effectively combat the Taliban, the theatre of war had necessarily now to extend to Pakistan. However, the Americans decided not to doso and, thus, ensured their forces militarily could not defeat the Taliban insurgency.Nor, of course, could the Afghan Republic, which compounded its military incapacity with continuing political disunity and ineptitude.Having failed to control the insurgency, America decided to fall back on its first priority. That was the elimination of the al-Qaeda and the prevention of the use of Afghan territory by any international terrorist group to attack American interests.Faced with the criticism of the hasty and messy withdrawal, President Joe Biden has sought to remind his people of this core objective of the Afghan war. He has also said that with the killing of Osama bin Laden in Abbottabad in May 2011, the principal American aim was achieved.While the Taliban has given assurances that it will not allow the Afghan territory to be used by terrorist groups against America, the Chairman of the US Joints Chiefs of Staff recently said: “I think there’s at least a good probability of a broader civil war and that will, in turn, lead to conditions that could, in fact, lead to a reconstitution of al Qaeda or a growth of ISIS or …other terrorist groups.”Should that happen, then, for America, the futility of the Afghan war, of over 2,400 American soldiers killed and at least a trillion dollars spent, will be cemented in stone.In 2001, the action in Afghanistan was touted by the Bush administration as part of a grand global war on terror. Two decades later, global terrorism continues unabated with deadly groups such as the ISIS, initially an offshoot of the al-Qaeda, coming up. Terrorism has morphed.In his address to his people on August 31, Biden confirmed this, even if inadvertently. Justifying the pullout from Afghanistan, he said, “The terror threat has metastasised across the world, well beyond Afghanistan.”If this is so — and it is — then the global war on terrorism has failed. One reason for such a situation lies in the continuing selective approaches of the international community to terrorism. This is illustrated by the continuing global failure to even define terrorism. What is needed to end it is a genuine global cooperation. The major powers also need to rein in countries like Pakistan that use terror as an instrument of state policy.Despite American protestations that nation-building was not its aim in Afghanistan, it embarked on such an endeavour from the beginning. The Afghan Republic created in 2004 is now part of history.The Islamic Emirate is back, representing the conservative, and in many respects, regressive traditions of Afghanistan’s Pashtun-dominated south and east.In the past 20 years, Afghanistan has evolved, with sections of its urban youth more aware and committed to modern values. Nation-building, though, does not take place in urban centres alone.In a fundamental way, the return of the Emirate represents the failure of foreign-imposed nation-building exercises. This does not mean that the Taliban must be allowed to turn the clock back. At the same time, there is a need to understand that societies and polities evolve organically.The current one-size-fits-all international approach and the emphasis on quickfixes in post-conflict situations does not work. The past 20 years in Afghanistan establishes the veracity of this assertion.In the 1990s, America was a hyperpower. It had emerged victorious in the Cold War and the Soviet Union had disintegrated. China was acquiring power rapidly, but keeping a low profile. Though America faced challenges, it was moving with the assurance of its centrality in the world order, marked by Pax Americana. 9/11 was a shattering blow to its ego and it reacted with fury, but not with wisdom.Not surprisingly, the Afghan debacle will only intensify questions about its power and standing, though it remains, by far, the world’s most powerful country. It continues to possess the world’s strongest technological base at a time when digitisation is changing human life in fundamental ways.History does not move in a linear fashion; this is the enduring lesson of all that has happened since that fateful morning 20 years ago in America.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/america-reacted-with-fury-not-wisdom-309381
11-09-2021||ZED Tarar||Through the lens darkly||The best bet for the West is to have a UN Peacekeeping Force with Indian boots firmly on the ground in Afghanistan.The worrisome part of the spokesperson’s comment was the qualitative differentiation he made between the US partnership with India and Pakistan. While the US is partnering with India on vaccination and climate change, it is collaborating with Pakistan on Afghanistan and counter-terrorism. Such clarity of vision and articulation points towards a Pak-first policy for the US towards Afghanistan — that is, if it is not looking at the troubled country exclusively through the Pak lens. For, the nature of this partnership was underscored after Pak spy agency chief Faiz Hameed flew down to install ISI’s puppet regime in Kabul, with global terrorist Sirajuddin Haqqani as its pivotal interior minister. And this goes well with Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s insistence that Pakistan has a vital role to play in dealing with the Taliban, as he told an Indian newspaper in end-July, much before Ashraf Ghani fled Kabul in mid-August.The sequence of events leading to the Taliban takeover (or US handover), the ISI chief brokering a deal to install a government in Kabul and the US reiteration of a Pak-centric policy towards Afghanistan — when read along with Thursday’s Taliban accusation that the US has violated the Doha agreement on keeping Haqqani out of the terror list — would seem like a script getting enacted, one in which India doesn’t have many lines. India still can go on doing vaccine maitri at the cost of its own citizens and cut down its carbon emissions at the cost of its meagre industry, but the US is offering Pakistan a seat at the high table where global terrorism is being discussed. So, only the perpetrators get to discuss the impact of their actions and not the victims. The irony in this is not lost on anyone.The transformation of Afghanistan into an emirate and a rabid Islamist society for the second time in the last thirty years can also be viewed as a continuation of the colonial policy of identity politics, which created Pakistan in the first place. The British attempt to turn the oil-rich Muslim world into its playground and a piggy bank after the fall of the Ottoman Empire and later the successful US policies to keep the former Soviet Union out of the Persian Gulf seem to have influenced the creation and re-creation of Islamist identity projects all along West and Central Asia, with their reverberations felt in the entire continent. The closest allies of the US in West Asia have been among the biggest exporters and funders of a pan-Islamist ideology.Now, the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan will not just have an impact in Jammu and Kashmir in terms of heightened militant activities or a psychological push for Islamist secessionism, it would even have a pan-Indian influence over those already radicalised by Maududism. For instance, a newspaper in Kerala run by Jamaat-e-Islami headlined the fall of Kabul as “Occupation over: free Afghanistan”. So, there are Indian newspapers and organisations outside J&K that have celebrated the victory of the Taliban and look forward to a Sharia society.Interestingly, even in a Marxist-dominated state, it is not ideologically fashionable or politically attractive to attack the regressive Islamists, as it is to take on Hindutva forces. While the ruling dispensation there had invited purdah-clad women to protest against Sabarimala’s regressive rituals, there are no similar attempts yet to condemn the negation of women’s rights in Islamist societies — and in families closer home — that a Taliban era would herald. Instead the two prominent minorities — Muslims and Christians — are clashing over the fertility rate of Muslims and the conversion of non-Muslims through marriage. The impact of the Taliban takeover could be gauged from the anti-Muslim sentiments it has triggered among Christians in Kerala. A bishop of the Catholic Church has unleashed an extremely hate-filled tirade of “narcotics jihad” against Muslim youngsters — with no reference to the Afghan situation, though — consciously or unconsciously timed after the formation of the new Taliban regime. The domestic climate of Hindutva aggression and the Muslim hurt over the fear of loss of citizenship is fertile for radicalisation.In this context, for peace in the region and to ensure that radical Islam does not get exported to Xinjiang, Russian enclaves with Muslim populations, the Central Asian Republics, J&K or Kerala, the United Nations should have a peacekeeping force in Kabul. The Haqqanis had earlier been accused of the 2008 attack on the Indian embassy in Kabul that killed 58 people, including senior Indian officials. Such an attack can happen any time against any embassy. The latest Kabul attack left 13 US troops and over 150 Afghans dead just outside the airport. And there is no guarantee that any country’s mission or interest will not get targeted in Afghanistan. Hence it is important for the world community to insist on a UN Peacekeeping Force to be stationed in the country if the Taliban want their leaders to be struck off the UN list of wanted criminals.Afghanistan will not look rosy through the Pak lens or the colonial prism of identity politics any longer, however much the US officials try — for the Russians and the Chinese have firmly entrenched themselves there, with the latter announcing a $31 million aid package to the Taliban. The best bet for the West is to have a UN Peacekeeping Force with Indian boots firmly on the ground in Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/through-the-lens-darkly-309380
