12-09-2021||OUR youngest daughter and I had gone to south Delhi last week and on our way back home||The great views and vantage point of our middle years||As my father saw us off, he held me tenderly and said, “You take care of yourself. Don’t be sick.” My mother put her arm around his waist and repeated the same words to him. “You also take care. Don’t be sick.”“Me?” he said. “I’m good. I’m fine. She is the one who needs care.”My parents are elderly. I am middle-aged. But the script we replay is as if I am still the child they need to look out for. They are invincible. I need protection.A small incident recorded in my diary comes back to me. On the family scripts that sustain us and others that we need to stop re-enacting.I had returned from a day of work in the city and gone straight to school in our suburb to pick up our children. I had slept very little the night before to meet a writing deadline. As soon as the children and I reached home, Kanta, the woman who works in our home, left for the day. She had been alone the whole day and had scrubbed and cleaned the house really well. It was the four of us and our evening together now. My husband must have been travelling.One child had forgotten to have her medicine in school and was in a bad mood about it. She hated the Tibetan medicines we had started for her but tried to be conscientious about it. The second child had to pay attention to her medicine schedule and wait to take it on time instead of eating anything else. Naseem, the youngest, wanted something but was unable to say exactly what.After trying to manage our parallel needs simultaneously for some time, I climbed up a few steps on the stairs in the middle of our living room and sat down. I didn’t realise it but my own exhaustion defeated me. I raised my voice and delivered a spiel on how everybody was only going to get as good a deal as they deserved and I expected discipline and order, and I wasn’t going to waste my time... blah blah blah.Naseem started looking down at her hands with a very sad face at some point during my tirade. There was complete stillness in the room when I finished. Then Naseem looked up and said, “Aapko pata hai, school mein sab mujhko very good girl kehte hain (Do you know that in school, everyone calls me a very good girl),” she said.A trailer of 15 years of my childhood replayed before me in surround sound. My harried parents scolding us for one thing or another and in my head, I would be repeating, “You have no idea what a good child I am, Papa.”As it is often said, children may not be very good at listening to their elders, but they never fail to imitate them. Unless we resolve to make personal interventions in family and social scripts, we repeat them without realising how banal we are being. Harsh words that flow effortlessly and seem to be effective in asserting our power and authority in the moment are in fact just microaggressions that hurt our children’s sense of self. They hurt us.Years later when I look back at the scene, I can see that our children had returned from a day of being performative in a school environment that never quite allows them to be comfortable in their skin. Now they had returned to a home where a parent was overwhelmed by her own situation and was demanding something from them that confused them. The youngest was articulating what each one’s inner child was feeling. “I’m not being bad deliberately. I’m trying my best. Don’t be upset with me.”Our middle years offer us the promise of a unique view. On one side, the younger generations reminding us of all the vulnerabilities we experienced in our own growing-up years. On the other side, our parents and elders showing us how much more there is to life, love and relationships. I watch my children and let them remind me of what I used to know, where all I was meant to go and how I can reach there.Being still is a great way of witnessing scenes from both distances. This is the moment when we can be the change we had promised ourselves we would be. The moment to revive love like it is an ancient well which can be a renewed source of life again.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-great-views-and-vantage-point-of-our-middle-years-309865
12-09-2021||CONTENDING with separatism has been the bane of India almost since Independence. It started in the then Naga Hills district of Assam||An unsolved paradox, even after 5 decades||The intensity of insurgency in Nagaland has had its highs and lows. When I first went to Nagaland in 1970, insurgency was highly active. I was commanding a company post. About a kilometre away across a thickly forested hill was a Naga village.There was an insurgent from this village known to be holding the rank of a self-styled Major in the underground army. That he used to visit his family was well known; his wife was visibly pregnant. He proved elusive and it was very difficult apprehending him since no one would give any information. One had to adopt innovative methods.One night I decided to search his house. There was no information, not even a whiff of his being there, but we just took a speculative chance.Customarily, if parents and adult children reside in the same premises, the former occupy the front portion. Having surrounded the house, we pushed open the front door. His widowed mother was there. While two men had their weapons ready, I moved the torchlight around. She recognised me from my frequent attendance of church service. She also knew why we had come. She lit a dry plant root from the burning coals and used it for lighting. Having shown us around, she volunteered to lead us to the inner room.A pig was tethered near the intervening door. The animal was snorting menacingly, as if understanding the situation. Explaining through bodily gestures, she made it clear that the pig was ferocious and would break the shin of anyone that came near. Then she walked up to the animal, pulled him aside by holding him firmly by the gruff and signalled us to go in.We searched all possible hiding places. Only the wife was there. I wanted to apologise for the inconvenience but language was a problem. I doffed my cap but was unsure if she understood. Her face showed no emotion. The mother repeated the drill of securing the pig while we exited.On the way back, a strange thought occurred to me. Throughout the search, the older lady wore not a trace of resentment. After all, we had gone to apprehend her son, even kill him if he resisted. She had every reason to be bitter. At one level, her cooperation could be explained. Since she knew that her son was not present in the house, she had nothing to fear or be tense about. But she could cooperate grudgingly, of which there was not even a remote hint.What was inexplicable was the fact that she went out of her way to ensure that we were not attacked by the pig. She was not obliged to. If the angry animal had attacked and broken my shin, she had no liability. In every sense, we were the intruders and our protection was not her responsibility. She obviously had no reason to fear. In fact, if the animal had indeed attacked, it would have been a sweet revenge.Then a sudden idea came. Is it possible, that apart from being the mother of an insurgent, she could have been thinking simply as a mother? I would be the same age as her son and maybe the matronly side of her came to the fore that I was also someone’s son and should not get hurt. The nagging thought kept me awake. In fact, my mentation became more muddled as the night wore on.Five decades later, I can think more detachedly. But I still do not have an answer to the paradox. What went through the mind of that Naga woman that night? What does a woman think when her son joins militancy, which sooner or later would mean his death? Can there be a cause or motivation stronger than her filial love? Does the mother of every militant send her son to face danger willingly? Or is she a reluctant reconciler to reality?I wish there was a way to find out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/an-unsolved-paradox-even-after-5-decades-309843
12-09-2021||SHOULD women be allowed to play sport? Is it necessary that women should play sport? In the civilised world||Taliban & Afghan women in sport||But not too long back, such retrograde attitudes were mainstream even in the western world. Due to their perceived fragility, for a long time women were not allowed to compete in supposedly hardy sports — women got into the Olympic Games boxing only nine years ago and ran the Olympics marathon for the first time only 37 years ago. In 1896, when women were completely barred from the inaugural Olympics in Athens, a Greek woman, Stamata Revithi, was determined to run — a day after the men’s marathon, for which she was ineligible, she ran the marathon on her own. The reward for her effort was that she was not allowed to enter the Panathinaiko Stadium, an ancient sporting site refurbished for the Olympics.It took 88 more years for women to be allowed to run the marathon in the Olympics. In between, European nations gave freedom to their colonies, the human rights movement gained ground, the American Civil Liberties Act was passed, and women were beginning to be regarded as autonomous beings. Incrementally, across the world, they were given the right to vote, Switzerland granting them this right at the federal level only in 1971, seven years after Afghanistan!But women couldn’t run the marathon. At the Boston Marathon of 1967, a woman called Kathrine Switzer registered as KW Switzer and completed the race, despite an official making an attempt to eject her physically as she ran — luckily, Kathrine’s boyfriend managed to shove the official out.The New York Marathon welcomed women from the inaugural race in 1970. The European Championships included the women’s marathon in its programme for the first time in 1982, and two years later the Olympics did the same, at Los Angeles 1984. Women cyclists also debuted at the Olympics that year. Before that, at 1952 Helsinki, women were allowed to compete in equestrian for the first time at the Olympics; they were allowed to compete in shooting for the first time at Mexico City in 1968, and in 1976 Montreal, women’s basketball and handball made their debuts. Inch by inch, sport by sport, women were ‘allowed’ to compete by committees that comprised mostly men.This year’s Tokyo Olympics were the first gender-equal Olympics in history, with nearly 49 per cent of contestants being women. The percentage was 45.6 at Rio de Janeiro 2016 and 44.2 at London 2012. Leading sporting nations such as China, United States, Australia, Britain and Canada had more women than men in their contingents.Backward stepIn the same year as the Tokyo Olympics, thus, a country deciding to altogether ban women’s sport seems nothing short of madness. Unsurprisingly, Afghanistan is that country — the same country whose women in 1964 were involved in the drafting of a new Constitution that gave them the right to vote and seek election to public office. Their right to vote — and to run and laugh, sing and dance, and go out with their face uncovered — was taken away when Taliban ruled the country from 1996 to 2001. The relief lasted barely two decades. Women who loved playing cricket or football now must retreat into the confines of their home, and stir out only with a male guardian.A Taliban official recently said: “I don’t think women will be allowed to play cricket because it is not necessary that women should play cricket.”Imagine a woman from Australia — probably the world’s most sporty nation — not being allowed to play sport because it was not necessary; being forced to withdraw from sport and society. It’s no surprise, then, that Cricket Australia (CA) is the first sporting entity to express outrage at Taliban’s proposal to ban women from cricket — CA has said it won’t host Afghanistan’s men’s team for a Test match scheduled later this year.Men, using scripture and religion and tradition, try to curtail women’s autonomy and liberty. They cite divine sanction to suppress women — Shahid Afridi, for instance, has said he won’t allow his daughters to play cricket or other outdoor sports due to ‘social and religious reasons’.Eventually, secular ideas, free from dogma, will beat primitive notions regarding gender inequality in sport. Until then, sadly, far too many women would have endured far too much suffering.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/taliban-afghan-women-in-sport-309836
12-09-2021||INDIA’S Partition is an important reminder of the curious relationship between a historical phenomenon and how it is subsequently remembered. The Partition||1947 was uniquely tragic||Curiously, the vantage point was provided by London, of all the places, in the 1960s. A conference was organised on the Partition of India to which they invited scholars and journalists from the three countries. Bangladesh till then was still a part of Pakistan. The conference was also attended by some politicians who had been active during the movement for Pakistan.Some young Indian historians such as BR Nanda and SR Mehrotra represented the Indian viewpoint. They looked upon Partition as a self-evident catastrophe which should not have occurred. Their enquiry focused on the question whether Partition could somehow have been averted. To their amazement, the Indian historians found that the Pakistani historians looked at Partition from an entirely different vantage point. For them, the making of Pakistan was not a tragic avoidable moment, but one of glory and fulfilment. It was their ‘tryst with destiny’. The question, whether Partition could have been prevented, obviously did not figure for them and had no meaning. It was not an important question. All the violence and bloodshed that accompanied Partition was indeed unfortunate. But this was a price that had to be paid for the achievement of Pakistan. Big transformative moments and revolutionary breakthroughs can hardly be achieved without some bloodshed!The approach of the Pakistani historians should not have surprised Indian historians. The birth of a new nation-state was certainly a moment of reckoning in Pakistan’s history. It was not a tragic partition, but the successful culmination of what they saw as a ‘national movement’ for the achievement of Pakistan. One man’s partition was another man’s freedom struggle.The Pakistani historians were surprised at the response of their Indian counterparts and may well have wondered why their historical imagination did not extend beyond the Indian boundaries to include the Pakistani point of view. Why did physical national boundaries determine the conceptual boundaries of historians’ imagination? Their puzzle was answered, not by Indian historians, but by the historical events of subsequent years. Within a few years’ time, the people of East Pakistan launched their own freedom struggle against the rulers of Pakistan, eventually culminating in the creation of Bangladesh. The Pakistani establishment, media and the scholars looked upon the making of Bangladesh as a tragic avoidable partition. But for the people of Bangladesh, it was a moment of triumph. A new nation-state was created on the map of the world. Once again one man’s partition became another man’s freedom struggle. One country’s villain was another country’s martyr.Was the Indian Partition unique, as claimed by the Indian historians? On the face of it, it does not appear to be even remotely so. The 20th century has been replete with partitions of all kinds. Ireland, Cyprus and Palestine are only some examples. Partition (and later unification) of Germany, separation of Kuwait from Iraq, the making of Israel, and partitions of former Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia would suggest that if anything, partitions appear to be the norm in the 20th century. From this perspective, it is possible to designate the 20th century as the century of partitions. The number of actual partition struggles would be even higher. For one partition that happened, there were easily 10 that wanted to happen but could not. What then is so unique about India’s Partition?For one, India’s Partition was uniquely tragic, no matter from which side of the border one looked at it. Consider the following facts. It is estimated that anything between two lakh and 20 lakh people were killed in Partition violence. Those who participated in the orgy of violence were often not professional killers but ordinary people. Sometimes they killed simply to save their own lives, and not out of any passion or hatred. They killed because in their perception, the only alternative to killing was getting killed. Between killing and getting killed, they preferred to kill. In many instances, the killers were not outside enemies, but family members. Patriarchs killed the women of their families to save them from ‘dishonour’. Killing the women of their own families appeared to be the only ‘honourable’ option before them.Around 70,000 women were captured, abducted and raped. Abducting a woman from the other religion became the standard way of taking revenge on the other religious community. Often these women were ‘married’ to their abductors. When these women had settled down in their new homes and surroundings, the governments of the two countries decided to take back their women through exchange. This exchange of abducted women was very similar to the exchange of prisoners of war. Thus, these women were uprooted twice over, once from their original homes, and then again from their adopted surroundings. With the stigma of having been abducted and raped, many such women found it difficult to adjust to their original homes. In many cases, they were not accepted. Several such stories are still unknown. It is unlikely that we will ever know the full extent of the human tragedy that was involved in India’s Partition.This was not all. Over 1.2 crore people migrated from one country to the other. This is perhaps the largest migration in the entire human history around a single event and in a short span of time. The important thing about this migration was that unlike many other migrations in human history, it was not driven by opportunity, but by despair and desperation. Those who migrated did so not in search of new opportunities, but merely to save their lives. Often they left behind a life of comfort to settle for a life of deprivation.All this indeed makes India’s Partition very unique. It was uniquely tragic. It was also irrational. If one were to examine all the justifications — social, political, moral, legal, economic — that were provided by the leaders of the Pakistan movement, the absurdity of Partition emerges in all its starkness. Its absurdity — defiance of logic and experience — was quite evident before Pakistan was made. The last seven decades of the history of South Asia have also served as a grim reminder of the absurdity of India’s Partition.— The writer is Professor of History at Ambedkar University, Delhi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/1947-was-uniquely-tragic-309835
