13-09-2021||Vice-chancellor||Criminal-politician nexus ingrained in our polity||The nation is losing its patience with regard to criminalisation of politics, said the Supreme Court in the recent Brajesh Singh v Sunil Arora case. I find the nation is inevitably growing tolerant to criminalisation of politics. Despite multiple SC judgments, numerous committee and commission reports, and voluminous academic writings on the issue, our polity appears to be dragging its feet. Criminals are pitched as candidates and people elect them, and therefore, criminalisation of politics seems to have become the destiny of the nation. Criminally-enabled persons are the first choice of political parties.A great many matters of national importance have been drafted and legislated upon with much less judicial pronouncements, consultations and recommendations than has already been recorded with respect to criminalisation of politics. The SC has commented and ruled on the issue in multiple cases such as in UOI v ADR (2002), PUCL v UOI (2003), Lily Thomas v UOI (2013) and PUCL v UOI (2013). Notwithstanding these and other cases, which have been recounted in multiple opinion pieces, several commissions and committees have also examined the issue and proposed several amendments. In 1999, the 170th Law Commission Report (LCR) recommended that the Representation of the Peoples Act (RPA) be amended to require the declaration of pending criminal cases in which charges have been framed by contestants.In 2001, the National Commission on the Working of the Constitution, identified the criminalisation of electoral processes as a major problem in the electoral process. In 2004 and in 2017, the Election Commission of India proposed that the RPA be amended to disqualify candidates accused of a serious crime and against whom charges have been framed from contesting election. In 2010, the Ministry of Law and Justice released a background paper lamenting the increased number of elected representatives against whom criminal charges were pending. In 2014, the LCR observed that criminalisation of politics had a negative effect on democracy and recommended a revised legal framework for disqualification of candidates. In 2015, the LCR noted that measures to decriminalise politics must precede the attempts to reform other aspects of electoral processes.The problem of criminalisation of politics is a perfect example of law in books versus law in action and how the political will or the lack thereof influence the law-making processes. The ruling in Brajesh Singh’s contempt petition is testament to a spectacular failure of the executive and the legislature to comply with the earlier decisions of the SC. The court seems to be puzzled as to why its normative rulings are not finding an application in practice. The enquiry to answer also leads us to an explanation as to why a criminalised form of politics is here to stay with us, at least for the foreseeable future.The Vohra Committee Report (1993) offers a detailed explanation. It observes that criminals enjoy the patronage of local politicians; politicians become leaders of gangs and get elected to local bodies; exorbitant costs of contesting elections encourage a criminal-political nexus; and the functioning of investigating officers is impaired due to political pressure. This fact is also captured by Milan Vaishnav, who observes that while criminals were always involved in electoral processes as the muscle power of political parties, they moved to the core of politics after realising its benefits. He also notes that candidates with criminal antecedents have the financial prowess which increases their capacity to mount effective poll campaigns.This somewhat explains why political parties field candidates with criminal antecedents. The same, however, still doesn’t explain why we — the voters — would elect such candidates as our representatives, in the first place. Literature points towards our open acceptance of politicians with criminal reputations. Reports by the Association of Democratic Rights consistently note that candidates with deep pockets and a criminal background are more likely to win elections than their non-rich and law-abiding counterparts. Bhaskar and Poonam (2014) found that while voters do penalise candidates with criminal antecedents, there is a decreased magnitude of penalty when other candidates with criminal charges against them contest from the same constituency. Incidentally, they also found that candidates with criminal charges pending against them had greater wealth.An explanation for the embrace of such politicians can be found in the ‘cycle of dependency’ speech (2014) by Raghuram Rajan. He proffers that the ‘crooked but savvy’ and ‘street smart’ politician is better at making the wheels of bureaucracy creak and helps make the poor constituent’s life just a little more tolerable. The voter is aware that one ‘idealist’ person willing to reform the system cannot change the system alone and therefore is ready to vote for someone who can ‘fix’ their problems.The reason for partial or non-implementation of successive Supreme Court orders is therefore clear. Criminalisation of politics has been packaged in such a manner as to appear beneficial for not only the political parties and criminals, but also for the constituencies that they seek to represent. The SC orders in this regard can at best have little effect on the ground. The poor constituent in whose favour the SC has passed the order, is more likely to know his MP, MLA, ward member or sarpanch than the judge who passed the order. The representative is definitely more approachable to a constituent from rural Bihar than the SC based in New Delhi.Even if an ideal representative would work towards resolving the voter’s problem in the long term, the constituent himself is satisfied with the ‘quick fix’ to his problem in the short term. The criminal-politician nexus is so well ingrained in our polity that the same will require gargantuan efforts to dislodge. The objective, while laudable, necessitates a concerted effort on the part of not only the executive, legislature and judiciary, but also the Election Commission of India, political parties and most importantly us — the voters. In any case, it appears that the voters have certainly not lost their patience, at least yet. Perhaps, we need to wait very long before the nation really loses its patience.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/criminal-politician-nexus-ingrained-in-our-polity-310311
13-09-2021||Commentator and Author||India must not jump the gun on Taliban||India must not be in any hurry to recognise the Taliban as the legitimate sovereign ruler of Afghanistan. Extend diplomatic courtesy and hospitality, walk the talk off or on the table, or at venues beyond the geographical boundary to ensure rescue and rehabilitation of the garrisoned people, or address humanitarian causes to reduce the suffering of those in distress. Also, include the supply of food, clothing, medicine, life-saving devices in consonance with the traditional dignity, honour, humanism and duty for which India is known, but no recognition!Nevertheless, there are bound to be contrary views too, especially owing to the Communist Party of China (CPC) and its “all-weather friend”, the Pakistani army-ISI duo whose unholy alliance is always making plans to harm India.As the proverbial short public memory is proved correct in India’s case, one needs to rekindle a few salient features of the Taliban who today purportedly hold the Afghan flag (traditional or terror, one’s yet to see) as self-proclaimed torch-bearers of a landlocked geography of 33 million. Ironically, the Taliban still don’t appear to be in full control of Afghanistan as reportedly fierce internal fight continues. The fact of the matter for India, therefore, is simple. Delhi has suffered enough damage despite being one of the most trusted friends of the people of Afghanistan.Now, over to the Afghan Taliban. Taliban is the plural of ‘talib’ (student). Having run a de facto government in Afghanistan (1996-2001) as the “Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan”, they have a horrendous record of misgovernance, massacre and mayhem under the criminal command and control of Pakistan.The world saw live broadcast of the Taliban’s inhuman conduct in the December 1999 hijacking of Indian Airlines flight 814 to Kandahar. One vividly remembers the cold-blooded killing of a newly married Indian in front of his wife inside the parked aircraft on the tarmac, the payment of huge ransom, the release of convicted terrorists charged with mass murder in India, and the utter helplessness of the Government of India's Cabinet and high officials in front of the Afghan Taliban-Pakistani Army-ISI state criminals.What was India’s fault? Did India ever invade Afghanistan? Did Delhi ever conspire to conduct an Afghan civil war? Did Indian forces ever support the desperate Soviets (1979-1989) or the brazen US-led International Security Assistance Force (2001-2021)? No, never! On the contrary, when the combined forces of 48 nations were on Afghan soil with guns and bombs, the Indians were constructing roads, buildings, hospitals, logistics facilities and Parliament House. Even at the risk of their lives owing to scandalously venomous Pakistani Army-ISI provocation and behind-the-scene Afghan-Taliban shield.Should India today forget the price paid by her people in helping the Afghans build their nation? Should the Taliban have allowed its uneducated and wild cadre of suicide bombers to target Indians after taking poisonous injections from Pakistan’s state-sponsored Army-ISI duo?Shouldn’t the “forgotten” crimes of Pakistan-sponsored Taliban terror against India be revisited?On January 3, 2008, seven Indians (included in which was an engineer) were killed by a Taliban suicide bomber in Nimruz province. On April 12, 2008, two Indian engineers were killed and four workers seriously wounded in a Taliban suicide attack on an Indian road construction company vehicle.On June 5, 2008, an Indian security official was killed and four road-building team members were injured by a Taliban bomber in Nimruz province.However, the most dastardly and cowardly of all Taliban terror acts came on July 7, 2008, when a suicide car bomber killed 41 people and grievously hurt 141, targeting a diplomatic convoy entering the Indian embassy in Kabul. Among the dead was Indian defence attache Brigadier R. Mehta.Most casualties, however, were unarmed civilians on duty. The Indian Ambassador to Kabul, Jayant Prasad, had a miraculous escape as the intention of the Taliban bomber to detonate explosives after following the diplomatic convoy into the embassy couldn’t materialise owing to the alertness of the mission guard who managed to timely close the gate.So, have the Taliban changed? Will the Taliban, seeking political recognition and a place under the sun, have the basic courtesy to say “sorry” or express “deep regret” for their criminal acts against India which under no stretch of imagination could be considered as one of the sharks trying to tear Afghanistan into pieces? Can the Taliban recognise India’s positive role and decipher the “ultimate goal” and “hidden agenda” of the CPC and the Pakistani Army-ISI?Call it the Taliban inexperience or ignorance, they showed lamentable lack of knowledge and wisdom to govern two decades ago. They still prove themselves to be the master of murderous trampling of territory through any or all means, and reveal the basic deficiency in the art of consolidation and governance; thereby exposing themselves to widespread distrust in the comity of nations pertaining to recognition as the legitimate rulers of the Afghan land.The Taliban would do better if their intellectual cell resorts to an extensive study for administering the state, and advises the political leadership to try and control its soldiers’ propensity to “shoot first, think later”. Also, the Taliban should try to develop the ability to distinguish between a friend and a foe.It’s not that if the CPC comes forward with wads of dollars with an “Afghan development” alibi, it’s going to fructify instantly. The Taliban may note from the pages of history that from the time of the British in 19th century to the Soviets in the 20th century and the Americans in the 21st century, it’s always either “empire building” or “geopolitics to curtail and contain the rival”. In this context, the fighting Taliban mustn’t lose sight of the reality that they are very much on the radar of all belligerents, past or present. And the way things are unfolding, it may not be too far to see the reappearance of neo-imperialism and neo-colonialists in landlocked Kabul to dig deep into the “Great Game” which is going on for more than 150 years.There still are many hostile actors and kinetic factors over the Kabul sky. Therefore, unless the Taliban ensure the restoration of rule of law, peace, harmony and stability under their claimed jurisdiction, it is unlikely that political recognition from the civilised world would be granted any time soon. Barring a few exceptions like an expansionist CPC, the Pakistani Army-ISI and a few small nations connected to Kabul more with the ideology of theocracy and less with accepted norms of diplomacy, polity, decency and harmonious co-existence with one’s own people, recognition may be a long haul for the Taliban.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-must-not-jump-the-gun-on-taliban-310331
13-09-2021||Strategic Analyst||Revisiting ‘war on terror’||Two days from now, Indians in North America will observe the 20th anniversary of the most impactful hate crime that they have faced since 376 passengers, mostly Sikhs from Punjab, who arrived in Vancouver in 1914 on a ship, Komagata Maru, were inhumanly treated under anti-Asian exclusion laws then practised by Canada and the US.Years after 9/11, the US media has self-corrected its stance on Islamophobia. Will we follow?Because the murder of Sikh petrol station owner Balbir Singh Sodhi, the first hate crime in the US in the aftermath of 9/11, occurred even before Indian Americans had time to fully digest the import of the most serious terrorist attack on American soil, it was a double whammy for them. If it is any consolation 20 years after the tragedy, Sodhi did not die in vain. His death unleashed in its wake a campaign in the US — and to a lesser measure in Canada — as a result of which, American federal law enforcement agencies now record and act on hate crimes against Sikhs.Progress towards such a turning point six years ago in race relations affecting the Sikh community in the US was not easy. Several more Sikhs like Sodhi had to die, the most heinous hate crime having been committed in Wisconsin nine years ago. Seven Sikhs among worshippers at a gurdwara in Oak Creek were shot by a white supremacist. In the US, the anniversary of the Wisconsin shooting has now become national commemoration. Last month, President Joe Biden recalled the horror and spoke up on the need ‘to stand up to hate and bigotry and ensure that all are able to practice their faith without fear.’There are no perfect remedies against the occurrence of hate crimes. Hostility and discrimination based on colour, race or beliefs in superiority is the result of a mindset and can only be partly offset by legal means. So, there will always be room for allegations of antagonism in societies like the US or Europe towards ‘others’ like South Asians, Arabs or East Asians. But on the 20th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, when fears of terrorism are central once again because of events in Afghanistan, it is essential to acknowledge that significant progress has been made in creating greater awareness about Sikh Americans, who faced the worst hostility in the US immediately after 9/11. More needs to be done and there is optimism among Asian Americans that it will be done based on the experience of the last two decades.When 9/11 happened, most people were willing to condone many excesses which followed in its wake. Both within the US and outside. Twenty years later that has changed and the licence to do anything and everything in the name of fighting terror has lapsed in America. This goes beyond hate crimes or discrimination based on ethnicity, religion or appearances. It was inconceivable in the years soon after the fall of New York’s World Trade Center that the Reuters Handbook of Journalism would advise the global news network’s reporters to avoid using the phrase ‘war on terror’ in their reports. Now the handbook reads: ‘Do not use this phrase unless in a quote. It is poor English and part of the propaganda battle around militant violence.’Like in India now, sections of the American media, especially viewership-chasing and poorly-informed sections of the visual media, played a role in promoting Islamophobia after 9/11. It hurt non-Muslims too because many Americans could not distinguish between Sikhs and Afghans, both turban-wearing or between stubble-sporting Iranian faces.Until the 9/11 attacks, my beard had never been an issue in America. In the months after the attacks, I recall walking into bars in New York and Washington and being asked if I was a Hindu. Nobody ever asked if I was a Muslim because what other customers seated on bar stools near mine wanted was reassurance. Besides, overt avoidance of Islamophobia in high-end surroundings prevented such a question. That was not true in vast swathes of middle America where ignorance is rife and exposure to the external world is almost zero. Sodhi paid with his life for such ignorance in the US heartland of Arizona.Wiser by the bitter experiences of two decades ago, like Reuters, several media associations in the US issued detailed guidelines on covering the 20th anniversary of 9/11. African Americans have more experience of discrimination soaked in blood and tears than recent immigrants to the US like Indians or Arabs. It was not surprising, therefore, that the National Association of Black Journalists (NABJ) joined several other such professional bodies in issuing ‘guidance to help journalists and newsrooms more accurately and critically cover the commemoration, impacted communities, and policies that resulted from 9/11.’ The most important words here are ‘impacted communities.’ They are the ones, like Sodhi’s family and friends in Arizona, who were victims of media excesses then.Chief Justice NV Ramana’s comments against sections of the Indian media which give communal colour to news would have been relevant and remedial in the US 20 years ago. Unfortunately, the US Supreme Court, which then had several forceful conservatives on the bench failed to stand up for civil liberties and freedom for victims of xenophobia. The liberals on the bench were too timid to speak up in the toxic environment. However, they are now wiser from experience. Although the US Supreme Court presently has more conservative judges than two decades prior, their judgments affecting immigrant communities are now more balanced and fair.More than any other institution in the US, its Fourth Estate has self-corrected. The sentinels of American print media integrity, who willingly published planted, false stories during the 2003 Iraq invasion by President George W Bush — which was a continuation of the war on terror — have apologised. There is an effort now to ensure that the language they use does not become the society’s commonly accepted policy. So-called counter-terrorism is no longer an unquestioned solution in the American media that it was after 9/11. It is worth pondering on this landmark anniversary whether Chief Justice Ramana’s words of caution will make Indians introspect, like Americans did, to their advantage as a society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/revisiting-war-on-terror-310332
