14-09-2021||---||Role of communities integral to health reforms||TWO contrasting scenarios have characterised the Covid-19 pandemic ever since its outbreak. On the one hand, it has presented a gargantuan public health challenge, which even the best of healthcare systems have failed to tackle. On the other hand, it mostly presents itself as a simple medical condition, scarcely requiring esoteric and complex medical interventions. Treatment still remains largely supportive, rarely ever drawing upon a medical super-specialist’s arsenal. And its public health antidote remains the all-too-conventional general healthcare system, rather than any of the plethora of targeted national health programmes.The fact that Covid-19 is a simple medical condition has permitted the greater battle against it to be fought within the community and outside the hospital, requiring diligence and a modicum of technical expertise. The biggest testament to this has been the ubiquitous role of practitioners of alternative medical systems who have manned nearly every level of Covid-19 care. Covid-19 has reminded the medical community of the fundamental lesson that healthcare is much more than just about prescribing the right drug, and that there is enormous potential to mainstream the legions of alternative medical practitioners who have been perpetually exiled in the name of science. To our dismay, however, this stark lesson has yet again gone unregistered, despite the pandemic.Over the years, the experience of multiple grassroots NGOs has provided some invaluable insights into community-based healthcare. They underscore that communities are capable of dealing with four-fifths of their healthcare needs by themselves, via health personnel selected by and from within their respective communities. Also, such community-based care demands less in the way of higher-order technical expertise in medicine and more in the way of community participation, health communication, and primary healthcare. Alternative medical practitioners, much more congenial to the rural folks than allopathic doctors, find ready acceptance by these communities. Why then is it so that the medical ecosystem remains largely refractory to measures seeking to formalise them?Transforming healthcare in the interest of communities entails that communities stand in the vanguard of health reform. On the contrary, all our measures to mainstream alternative practitioners have perpetually been top-down -- aimed first at the highest echelons of the medical ecosystem which remain obsessed with technical expertise in medicine. Each successive political attempt to formalise alternative medical practitioners has tried to gain legitimacy from this medical elite -- whose fussy benchmarks of healthcare delivery have stymied every such attempt. Going top-down about such reforms, through instruments like medical curricular reforms and changes in laws and regulations, therefore invariably ends up aborting the process in its infancy.For reforms directed at mainstreaming alternative medical practitioners to be successful, they have to derive their legitimacy from the community and a consensus has to be built from bottom-up. This in turn would require expanding the scope of decentralisation in healthcare planning and delivery, which would allow the faith reposed by communities on alternative medical practitioners to manifest on the national picture. And there cannot be a better window for pushing this than the pandemic's immediate aftermath.Another unfortunate aspect of healthcare reform in India has been our subscription to a passive paradigm of healthcare coverage expansion, which believes that simply increasing the availability of free healthcare services would automatically show in the way of improved health outcomes. There has been little recognition of the importance of ‘acceptability’ of healthcare services — the fact that health services, even if delivered at the doorstep, would do little if they are not accepted and assimilated by the community. Part of the explanation for this can be traced to the fact that these nuances are mainly the domain of social sciences and public health, which have been scandalously under-represented in healthcare in favour of technocratic modern medicine. However, much of it is also owing to a belief that communities should, and will, unquestioningly accept everything that is backed by modern science and evidence, and that whatever lacks hard conventional evidence today should not be permitted even if it is highly acceptable. This has greatly doomed alternative medical systems.It is impossible to contend the significance of evidence-based medicine today. However, it is also necessary to consider how communities perceive and understand evidence, and also how much do communities value conventional scientific evidence in making healthcare choices at a reasonable level of understanding. Imposing a paradigm of evidence-based medicine conceived by an urban scientific elite upon culturally disparate communities is paternalistic behaviour unbefitting for a democracy. While evidence is imperative, no other evidence than that of safety can be held sacrosanct, and all other kinds of evidence should form part of an array of different considerations that includes community acceptance. Again, decentralised healthcare and a bottom-up approach would be the key to building this renewed paradigm.Reforms always tend to take the path of least resistance. It is very likely that the entire corpus of healthcare reform that this pandemic begets never embraces anything beyond a few more hospitals and laboratories. There is a need to dig deeper to keep this opportunity called Covid-19 from being frittered away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/role-of-communities-integral-to-health-reforms-310706
14-09-2021||---||How America got the war on terror wrong||THE American invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 was in retaliation for the 9/11 attacks carried out by a bunch of Arabs — mostly from Saudi Arabia with affiliation to the al-Qaeda led by Osama bin Laden — who went to the United States and learned to fly planes before some of them crashed hijacked planes into the World Trade Center towers in New York.The Taliban, then in power in Afghanistan, were not involved in the terror attack in America. It was known that Osama bin Laden was in Afghanistan. Americans wanted the Taliban to hand over bin Laden to them. Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) interlocutors tried to persuade the Taliban leaders to hand over bin Laden. They refused. And it was used by the Americans as the casus belli to invade Afghanistan. In the beginning, the Americans did not propose to deploy troops on a large scale. They said this first war of the 21st century will be fought by the Special Forces, the well-trained compact group of commandos who will kill the enemy and come back. This was to avoid the American fate in Vietnam, where the troops got caught in a full-scale war. The operation, codenamed “Infinite Justice”, was then renamed “Operation Enduring Freedom” because it was felt that the first one would hurt the sentiments of the world’s Muslims because of the Quranic echoes. The war did not last long. The Taliban melted away in November, and the Americans were left scouring the Tora Bora mountains in search of Osama bin Laden for months. It is only 10 years later, in 2011 that the US Navy Seals stormed the hideout in Abbotabad in Pakistan where bin Laden was found with his wife and children, and killed instantly, and the body thrown into the sea because the Americans feared that his burial site could become an attraction for the Islamic terrorists.The Americans had, however, stayed back in Afghanistan to establish democracy and guard the country against the return of the Taliban. The people of Afghanistan welcomed the move. The Americans were followed by their North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) allies — and it is the first time that NATO, formed at the beginning of the Cold War, participated in a theatre of war, far from its designated sphere of action — parking itself in the country, beating off the sporadic guerrilla attacks of the Taliban. The international forces were called International Security Assistance Force (ISAF). So, the war against the Taliban was never complete.The Americans then committed the greatest breach of international law. They rounded up hundreds of Taliban recruits, put them in prison in Afghanistan, and then whisked them away to America and placed them in the Guantanamo Bay camp, off the mainland of America to escape American judicial scrutiny. These prisoners were not treated as prisoners of war as they should have been, and should have been treated in accordance with the Geneva Conventions. They were not. It became known later that many of those who were rounded up in Afghanistan were also kept in secret Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) prisons in Europe, to be interrogated and tortured without a check. The device of water boarding, among other “enhanced interrogation” methods, which was later condemned and withdrawn, was used to extract information about Islamic terrorist networks, and was claimed that it had been instrumental in preventing terror attacks in America. But more than a decade later, every one of those imprisoned in the Guantanamo Bay camp was released because there was no evidence. The exception was Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the Pakistani militant, who is considered the mastermind. It was the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) that insisted that the prisoners be tried in ordinary American courts and stood up for the rights of the prisoners. It needed extraordinary moral courage on the part of ACLU to defend the rights of Guantanamo Bay prisoners who were considered Islamic terrorists.The Americans and their allies failed in their war objectives. They failed to nab Osama bin Laden in 2001 in Afghanistan, the reason the war was waged. They failed to prove that the Taliban and other recruits arrested immediately after the short war in November 2001 and were whisked away in breach of international law and conventions, were terrorists who waged war against America. And finally, they could not keep Afghanistan free of Taliban, which was the rhetoric in 2001.The Americans knew from the beginning that the Taliban were not responsible for the terror attack in America on 9/11, and that the Taliban were not thinking of unleashing global jihad. Even during the 1996-2001 period, the Americans were dealing with the Taliban. The Taliban representatives were in Washington, engaged in negotiations with Unocal, the American oil company. The Americans then never considered the Taliban as jihadi terrorists. They were not grouped with the al-Qaeda. So, it is not surprising that the Americans did not hesitate to negotiate with the Taliban at Doha. It would be wrong to think that the Taliban moved from being Islamic terrorists to Islamic radicals.The question whether Afghanistan under the Taliban was the epicentre of global jihadi terrorism will remain a moot point. The attacks on the American embassies at Nairobi in Kenya and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in August 1998, provoked President Bill Clinton to fire missiles from American ships in the Indian Ocean at unspecified targets in Afghanistan because the presence of Osama bin Laden will remain part of the lore of ridiculous military retaliation. The 2001 American war in Afghanistan was no less vague and no less ridiculous because it did not result in the decimation of the al-Qaeda, nor in the elimination of the Taliban as a militant and political force in Afghanistan. Americans waged a war against global jihadi terrorism in Afghanistan. It has been a costly, tragic, useless, self-defeating war. All the strategy and security pundits who have spilt endless ink on analysing the threat of global jihad should go into a huddle once again and ponder on their follies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-america-got-the-war-on-terror-wrong-310705
14-09-2021||---||US, China dig in their heels||THE Biden-Xi call on September 9 was the first in seven months, and only the second since the former took office in January. Amidst growing tensions between the US and China over Taiwan and the South China Sea, the breakdown of their high-level communications has been worrying. A look at the readouts of the two sides reveals that both sides are hanging tough and waiting for the other side to blink.Both sides worry that compromise would make them look weak. In 2022, Biden faces a crucial off-year election and Xi a key party congress where he is pushing for an unprecedented third term.For the record, though, the American readout said the discussion was motivated by an effort to ‘responsibly manage the competition’ between the US and China, even as the Chinese readout squarely blamed the US for the deteriorated relationship.Recent high-level interactions between American and Chinese officials have not been particularly inspiring. This is evident from the blowup in Alaska in March at the outset of the first meeting of their top officials dealing with foreign affairs. This has been followed by a continuing Chinese refusal to allow US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin to speak to Gen Xu Qiliang, the vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission. In their view, the American official should follow protocol and interact with his counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe. Alarmingly, according to the US Indo-Pacific coordinator, Kurt Campbell, the US-China estrangement had led to the Chinese refusing to service the crisis hotline between the two countries.The most recent snub was to John Kerry, the American climate czar who was received by a junior-level officer when he landed at Tianjin for a meeting earlier this month. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and Vice-Premier Han Zheng only agreed to meet through Zoom. In response to Kerry’s point that climate change should be decoupled from other geostrategic issues, Wang said while climate change cooperation remained an oasis of sorts in US-China relations, ‘it could be desertified soon’ the way Sino-US relations were going. In short, there was no question of separating the issue from the wider environment of their relationship.No specific issue was discussed in the 90-minute Xi-Biden conversation last Thursday. It was seen as a broad and strategic conversation that could, hopefully, reset the lines of communication. The American readout said the conversation discussed areas ‘where our interests converge, and areas where our interests, values and perspectives diverge.’ Biden made it clear that the discussion was part of his effort to manage the competition between the US and China and with the aim of ensuring that ‘competition does not veer into conflict.’According to the Chinese readout, Xi told Biden ‘that for some time, due to US policy on China, the China-US relationship had run into serious difficulty’. In what is being seen as a snub to Biden, he concluded that ‘on the basis of respecting each other’s core concerns and properly managing differences, the relevant department of the two countries may continue their dialogue’ on a range of issues from Covid-19 to international and regional issues.An all-round dialogue between the two countries would be dependent on the US paying heed to Chinese core concerns—usually translated to mean Taiwan, Xinjiang, Tibet, and the acceptance of the primacy of the Communist Party of China (CPC).Under the Trump administration, the US instituted wide ranging tariffs on Chinese products, placed sanctions on several officials dealing with Xinjiang, passed a Tibet policy support act to upgrade their support to Tibetans, shed its neutrality and supported the UNCLOS tribunal award in the South China Sea and eased restrictions on meeting Taiwan officials. Trump’s Secretary of State Mike Pompeo also went out of his way to directly attack the role of the CPC in ruling China.Seven months down the line, the Biden administration is yet to formally unveil its China policy. Officials have been saying that they are reviewing the policy, but no one seems to have a date as to when the review will be completed.In the meantime, little has changed with regard to the tariffs, South China Sea and Xinjiang. Biden has come out strongly in support of Taiwan and there was even a minor kerfuffle in August when he suggested that the US could defend the island if it were attacked, instead of maintaining the existing policy of ‘strategic ambiguity’. There is, of course, the important factor of Biden working with US allies, instead of belittling them as Trump did.In July, the US stepped up pressure on China when it accused Beijing of cyber attacks and got a coalition of nations, including the EU, to condemn China. Wall Street Journal reports that the US is now considering investigating Chinese subsidies under Section 301 of their trade law which could result in additional tariffs. The US plans to rope in the EU, Japan and other allies in Asia to take on the Chinese in the WTO. Despite pressure from the business community to ease off on China, the Biden team appears wanting to refine the strategy of pushing back at China, rather than ending it.As of now, neither side is willing to back off, both think they are in control of the situation and have the leverage to push their point of view. On both sides, there seems to be a worry that compromise would make them look weak before domestic audiences. In 2022, Biden faces a crucial off-year election and Xi a key party congress where he is pushing for an unprecedented third term. And the Chinese must also take into account the possibility that 2025 may see Trump return to the White House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-china-dig-in-their-heels-310704
