15-09-2021||---||Privatisation should be nuanced, well-thought-out||PUBLIC sector disinvestment has remained a low-key affair for the past two decades. Coalition pressures have prevented successive governments from continuing with the privatisation process that had begun in right earnest during the Vajpayee era. The allegation that the jewels in the nation’s crown were being sold off was levelled every time efforts were made to revive privatisation schemes. This government thus crossed the Rubicon, in a sense, by dispensing with the term ‘disinvestment’ and boldly referring to privatisation in the 2021-22 Budget. It went ahead to outline ambitious plans and laid out a virtual laundry list of public sector undertakings that needed to be sold outright.The reasons for going ahead right now with this long-awaited economic reform are clearly two-fold. One is the urgent need to garner resources at a time when the Covid pandemic has created a serious resource crunch for the exchequer. The target of 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal, if achieved, could provide the much-needed cushion at a time of crisis. Two, the focus on the pandemic has meant that it is the ideal time to push through a much-needed reform that has been kept on hold for too long and is bound to unleash productive capacities in the long run. The timing has improved further as the disinvestment process has been pushed into the background with the focus of debate now being the asset monetisation policy that has evoked considerable controversy.The privatisation or disinvestment process, as it is euphemistically described, has been proceeding in many cases without too much of fanfare. In fact, reports indicate that progress has been made in the case of relatively smaller companies. These include Balmer Lawrie, the Container Corporation of India and the Shipping Corporation of India which look set to be sold off by the end of the current fiscal.On the other hand, doubts remain over whether the two giants selected for privatisation — Air India and Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited — will actually be sold this year. Efforts are being made to sweeten the deal repeatedly for buyers of the national carrier, the latest being the transfer of its capital assets to a holding company along with tax relief. The tax authorities are also allowing public sector companies slated for disinvestment to carry forward losses. The need to make the deal more attractive has arisen as prospective buyers for the airline are scarce, many scared away by the company’s huge debt overhang. This is despite the fact that a major chunk of the debt burden has been shifted to an SPV (special purpose vehicle). Even so, this remains a concern for the few players interested in taking on the airline.The BPCL privatisation process is in a different category, being a profit-making oil refining and marketing company for which there are multiple bidders. Initial estimates indicate the company may yield Rs 52,000 crore, but the process of disinvestment is slower than expected as it was meant to be finalised by the end of the July-September quarter. Clearly, the issue of tardy action on disinvestment continues in the current fiscal as in the past few years.As for the banking and insurance sector, voices of doubt are emerging on the need for privatisation. The former Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan has suggested improving governance instead and privatising through public issues as was done for the ICICI Bank. He has argued there is enough competition for the private sector in banking while there is also need for the public sector, provided it is not handicapped or given privilege.Others have also pointed to the history of banking in this country prior to nationalisation when there was a spate of bank failures. It is undoubtedly true that it is only public sector banks that have gone to rural areas and spread the banking networks in remote regions. They have also made it possible for the poorest to open bank accounts with minimum balance in accounts. While inefficiencies in government banks are legion, they have been hamstrung by the weight of social obligations that private banks do not have to bear.Given the renewed debate on this issue, bank privatisation may move more slowly than in other areas. But even Rajan concedes indirectly, that the government needs to move out from many areas of the public sector. For instance, there is no need for it to be in the business of making watches, that is, HMT.The fact that the government should not be in the business of business is a concept that has been debated and discussed literally for decades. Even when Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister in the mid-80s, it had been accepted that many public sector companies were simply a drag on resources and needed to be sold off. A list was made then of loss-making companies that needed to be divested from government control. Political compulsions, however, led to these ideas remaining on the shelf by successive governments. It was finally the United Front government that decided to appoint a Disinvestment Commission headed by the late GV Ramakrishna. It submitted a series of reports that set the stage for the strategic sales carried out by the Vajpayee-led NDA. Subsequently, the UPA brought such sales to a halt.The success of this particular initiative thus depends largely on the ruling dispensation’s ability to shed its political inhibitions in the area of disinvestment. For a government that has had a commanding majority in the legislature, both in its first and second term, it has taken a long time to actually go ahead with the challenging task of privatisation. It must not waver in implementing most of the plans outlined for partial sale of government shareholding as well as outright privatisation of companies. At the same time, it should listen to cautionary advice before proceeding to sell public sector banks as the need for better governance in these institutions is undeniable. Public sector disinvestment is a worthy goal, but needs to be carried out in a thoughtful and nuanced way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/privatisation-should-be-nuanced-well-thought-out-311200
15-09-2021||---||Reforms an arduous process for Afghans||IT may take quite a while to understand the import of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s remarks on American Afghan policy at the September 9 BRICS Summit chaired by our Prime Minister. According to the Kremlin text, he said that the present crisis was “a direct consequence of irresponsible extraneous attempts to impose someone else’s values on the country and to build ‘democratic structures’ using socio-political engineering techniques, ignoring the historical and national specifics of other nations and the traditions by which they live”.Was Putin supporting Wang Yi, Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister, who told the US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on August 17 that “mechanically applied foreign models don’t work in another country?” Or was he agreeing with Andrew Chua of the Australian National University who had drawn a parallel between the situation in 2013 and 1919-1929 when King Amanullah had failed in his “modernisation programme”? In 2013, Andrew had explained why the US had only limited success in Afghan “nation-building effort”.Like America in 2001, Amanullah too had the classic template of a “strong leader” by winning the Third Anglo-Afghan War (1919) and wresting his country’s independence from Britain. Then on, he embarked on an ambitious reforms spree by establishing a legislature and Cabinet and even a Constitution (Basic Codes) with Turkish help. He sought a centralised rule in Afghanistan in place of the tradition of leaving the rural areas largely autonomous under tribal control.Next, he described his rule as a constitutional monarchy where the legitimacy of the king was on popular consent. He annoyed the “Ulema” by setting up secular courts and secular education. He also envisaged an inclusive society, introduced Western dress in place of local attire and propagated that secular governance could coexist with Islam.The most radical reforms were on women’s social rights, including the right to vote. Women were granted freedom of choice in marriage, equal rights to inheritance, a minimum age for marriage and legal protection against abuse. They were empowered to vote in 1919, much before England and Wales conceded the reform in 1928. In 1977, even amidst upheavals, women constituted 15% in the Afghan Parliament. As many as 70% of schoolteachers, 50% of government workers and university students, and 40% of doctors in Kabul were women.Amanullah changed the recruitment mode to the army, which till then was based on nominations by the tribes, and hence, more loyal to them. He recruited a professional army on the advice of his Turkish experts and admitted Hindus and Sikhs to military schools. He also punished senior army cadres owing allegiance to the tribes by reducing their salary.However, such large doses of “top-down and western-centric” reforms within a short time failed to convince his nation, especially tribal males, about the real benefits. This was also because he did not set up an effective bureaucratic machinery to convey the message to the primitive society he was ruling. As a result, his rule by “decrees” failed to reach the public who were alienated, being more influenced by rumours. Pashtuns, for example, considered women as the protected “property” under “Pashtunwali” (tribal code). They were “horrified by the supposed government bans on the veiling of women, when no such policy existed”.Like in 1919-20, wild rumours regarding the real reasons for the US withdrawal gained currency in August 2021. A strong rumour circulating even now suggested that the US, by hastily withdrawing from Afghanistan, wanted China which supported Taliban, to get into that whirlpool and suffer the consequences. Another rumour suggested the opposite: that a prominent relative of a top US politician who owned shares in a Chinese lithium-ion battery company had influenced to enable China to tap into the entire Afghan lithium mineral reserves worth over $3 trillion. Yet a third rumour beamed by an Indian TV channel catering to foreign audience said that the US expenditure of $2 trillion did not benefit the Afghan people due to corruption as it went back to the US contractors.These rumours fly in the face of data released by the UNDP,UNESCO and the World Bank on the US coalition’s achievements in Afghanistan. Compared to the Soviet rule (1979-89) and the dark Taliban era (1996-2001), improvement in human development index was perceptible during 2001-2021. Life expectancy grew from 40 years in 2001 to 65.17 in 2020; malnourishment reduced to 40% from 70% in 2001; access to clean water improved to 67% from 13%; child mortality reduced to 6.8% from 26% in 2001 and literacy improved to 43% from 36% in 2001.In addition, women’s status was restored. The Wolesi Jirga (Lower House) of 250 members had 68 seats for women while the Meshrano Jirga (Upper House) of 102 members had 17 women. In fact, the Canadian Women for Women in Afghanistan,an organisation working to advance education and human rights, had said the Afghan legislature was recognised as one of the most “heavily female law-making bodies in Asia”. All this was lost when the Afghan Parliament was disbanded on August 15, 2021, reverting women to an uncertain future.As regards corruption, I find it strange that not one media report in India had mentioned about the transparent system set up since 2002 through the Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction (SIGAR), a statutory body, to audit the US government spending. In the US system, such Inspectors General do not work under the executive, but report directly to the Congress. They investigate and launch prosecutions against wastage and corruption. Their latest quarterly report dated July 30, 2021, is available online.India, after investing over $3 billion in Afghanistan’s infrastructure, is now left with few options except through Doha or possibly Moscow arising out of America’s hasty withdrawal, which according to Ryan Crocker, two-term US Ambassador to Afghanistan, was due to lack of “strategic patience” (The New York Times, August 21).However, Pakistan now feels that it has finally achieved its former army chief (1988-91) General Mirza Aslam Beg’s dream of “Islamic depth” to counter “Hindu India” (Bellum-A Project of Stanford Review, May 17, 2010).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/reforms-an-arduous-process-for-afghans-311198
15-09-2021||---||All pain, no gain for farmers||A FEW years after the World Trade Organisation (WTO) came into existence in 1995, I was invited by The Ecologist, London, to write an essay comparing the Indian farmer with a European one. The idea was to see how the Indian farmer, considering the relatively low cost of production in India, had gained economically after the opening up of international trade.Increasing pace of urbanisation will lead to faster economic growth, keeping agriculture impoverished and forcing farmers to abandon farming and move out.This was the general impression that mainline economists had created to justify the need to join the trade agreement, despite the growing farmers’ opposition, with one of them going to the extent of terming the immense opportunities that WTO Agreement on Agriculture will provide for farmers as a ‘big bang’ opening. With agricultural exports expected to boom, farm incomes were slated to increase thereby transforming the face of Indian agriculture. With no such evidence available, and not finding any merit in the correlation, I actually ended up comparing an Indian farmer with a European cow.Almost 26 years after the WTO was launched, the latest report of the National Statistical Organisation (NSO) on agricultural households and incomes in rural India, released last week, paints a rather gloomy picture. This Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) was conducted in 2018-19. While the survey report hasn’t drawn any correlation between a farmer and a cow, what it has brought out is no less frightening — an average Indian farmer fares much worse than a labourer. If 75 years after Independence, farmers are earning more from wages than from crop cultivation, it only shows that the overarching economic design of keeping farm incomes deliberately low so as to accelerate rural to urban migration, because cities need cheap labour, is on track.In 2012-13, when the last SAS was conducted, an agricultural household earned 48% of the income from crop cultivation; which declined to 38% under the 2018-19 survey. During the same period, the share of farm income from wages alone rose from 32% to 40%. Wages have begun to form a larger chunk of an average agricultural household income, a trend that will hopefully continue in the years to come. Calculated on the basis of ‘paid out expenses’ the total monthly income has been computed at Rs 10, 218 for an agricultural household. Compared to Rs 6,426 per month in 2012-13, and adjusted for inflation, it represents a nominal increase of 16%. Using the ‘paid out expenses and imputed expenses’ approach, average income per agricultural household has been shown as Rs 8,337 in 2018-19. For this, the imputed expenses mean the input coming from home, unpaid labour, own machinery, own seed etc.Nevertheless, as far as crop cultivation is concerned, an average agricultural household earned Rs 3,798 in 2018-19. In real terms, when adjusted for inflation, the earnings from cultivation declined by 8.9% between 2012-13 and 2018-19. Further, broken on a per day basis, a newspaper has, in an interesting analysis, worked out the income from crop cultivation at Rs 27 per day. Even a MGNREGA worker earns more. It only establishes what I have been saying for long — farmers are in reality being penalised to grow food. And in any case, income from cultivation is certainly less than the earnings from an average lactating cow on a per day basis, given the farm gate price of approximately Rs 30 per litre.The lesser the farm income, the more is the effort to draw credit, sometimes from multiple sources. The average farm debt increased to Rs 74,100 in 2018-19 from Rs 47,000 in 2012-13. About half of the agricultural households, 50.2% to be exact, carried outstanding loans. Strangely, Mizoram sees a whopping increase of 709% in outstanding farm loans, followed by Assam and Tripura in the Northeast.More recently, Parliament was informed that by the end of March 2021, total outstanding farm loans totalled Rs 16.8-lakh crore, with Tamil Nadu topping the chart.Considering that nearly 77% of the agricultural households are self-employed, what is worrying is that 70.8% of the landholdings are less than 1 hectare. Only 9.9% of the landholdings are between one to two hectares. An agricultural household has been defined as a household receiving more than Rs 4,000 as value of produce from agriculture and allied activities, with at least one member engaged primarily in farm activities in a year.With only 0.2% of the rural households having more than 10 hectares of land, it belies the narrative being drummed up accusing the farm protests to be the work of big farmers.Big or small, the denial of rightful income to farmers goes well with the policy thrust being exercised by successive governments over the past few decades to push people out of agriculture. Following the World Bank/IMF emphasis on shifting population from rural areas, also resonating with the dominant economic thinking that increasing urbanisation pace will lead to faster economic growth, keeping agriculture deliberately impoverished creates conditions for farmers to abandon farming and move out. I will not be surprised if the findings of the SAS 2018-19 are used by mainline economists to call for policy changes to hasten the process of urban migration.This has to be reversed. While India’s foodgrain production has hit a record 308.65 million tonnes in 2020-21, with production increasing year after year, farm incomes have been on a downward spiral. Take a look at the Producer Subsidy Estimate prepared by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) for the 20-year period, from 2000-02. It tells us that India along with Vietnam and Argentina, are the three countries that are negatively taxing their farmers. In terms of percentage of gross farm receipts, India is taxing its farmers approximately to the tune of minus 5%.Farmers are aware that the central laws the government is promising will further exacerbate the agrarian crisis. What they are asking for is a rethinking in farm income policies, whereby farming, without non-farm wages to supplement farm income, becomes an economically viable enterprise on its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/all-pain-no-gain-for-farmers-311197
