16-09-2021||---||Biting the SCO bullet to re-enter Afghan game||A tectonic shift in regional geopolitics took place last week and India, still recovering from getting blindsided in Afghanistan, will need to quickly swing with it.For a US ally whose each and every past transgression was paternalistically condoned, Saudi Arabia appears to be caught in Washington’s crosshairs. There is increasing chatter in the Arab Street that Saudi Arabia will be the next ‘enemy of the nation’ in the eyes of the American media and the ruling Democrats.Ever since King Abdul Aziz secretly met US President Franklin Roosevelt in the middle of Lakse Bitter on the Suez Canal 75 years ago, Washington has sometimes harrumphed at Saudi repression or external transgression. But the kind of framing underway of the Saudi State for its involvement in the 9/11 attacks suggests India should quickly start firming up plans for alternate sources of oil and gas imports in case the situation does become hot. The monarchy is not going to be of much assistance to India as it seeks to rebuild its influence in Afghanistan.The first hint of a breach with Riyadh started with the US removing its anti-missile batteries in Saudi Arabia. The tip-off to an American news agency about the development would have come from inside the US system. It is not plausible for a reporter to keep comparing satellite pictures over specific US bases over a period of time to conclude that the Pentagon had emptied Saudi Arabia of missile batteries just when the Houthi threat of drone attacks on Aramco’s oil installations was high.Next came the declassification of an FBI report which seeks to implicate several Saudi government officials in a multi-nation support group for two of the 9/11 hijackers who could neither read nor write English when they arrived in the US.Sure enough, a group of American families of 9/11 victims issued a statement stating that the ‘evidence’ confirmed that officials of the Saudi Arabian Ministry of Islamic Affairs, “the cradle of Wahabi extremism”, helped the hijackers. The next part of the script still remains to be played out.But as India remains locked out of Afghanistan and as the Gulf monarchies come under the American Deep State’s lens, South Block may have smelt the smoke. The dependence on oil from the Gulf monarchies is slowly but surely coming down. India’s enthusiastic hat-tips to the Quad notwithstanding, PM Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar by the year-end would have as frequently touched base with Tehran and Moscow as their interactions with Washington, Canberra and Tokyo.The next corner that India will need to turn is fast approaching. At the next meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), New Delhi will have to take a call on upgrading Iran from an observer nation to a full member. India, and possibly Russia, have kept the US sentiment in mind while stalling Iran’s application for full member status for the past couple of years.After a lull over Iran during the first months of the Biden presidency, the external signs are again not propitious. Iran is earning the ire of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for truancy over the past two years. This is the sliver of opportunity needed for Iran baiters in Washington and Tel Aviv to ensure that the US sanctions continue to stay and that other countries remain wary of economic transactions for fear of secondary sanctions.But India’s self-sufficiency in strategic autonomy, though hampered currently by the tensions with China, will need to assert itself. For all the gloss that is put on the visits to India by Russian, British and American security chiefs to discuss Afghanistan, India has been left holding the bag. The roads to Kabul and beyond have been left wide open for the Pakistan-China duo.The SCO also has Afghan neighbours like Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kazakhstan, which, along with Russia and Iran, share the fear of nurseries of Sunni radicalisation taking root in the Taliban ecosphere, with its attendant implications for their security. Each of these countries has reasons to feel wary, for they have all felt the heat of terror training camps during Taliban-1. If the ISI could outsource the training of anti-India terror groups in the 1990s, how long would it resist the temptation, now that its proxy has untrammeled sway over Afghanistan yet again?In this situation, Afghanistan’s neighbours will score over the US-Qatar-UAE channels that India has explored in the past to get closer to the Taliban. After all, unlike this pro-West group, India shares its existential fears with the SCO countries of having to be the first to cope with the fallout of radicalism if it again foams out of Afghanistan.And in case the Taliban do feel empowered enough to disregard Pakistan’s tutorials on nation-building, it will have to smoke the peace pipe with the ethnic minorities who make up half of Afghanistan. A representation of less than 10 per cent for them in the new Taliban Cabinet has portents of disaffection rearing up again. Again, each of these ethnic communities spill over to the neighbouring countries, making them important counsellors, players and participants in the new Great Game that is set to begin after the US withdrawal.India’s close identification with the US-led Quad has come to stay. So has its elite’s close identification with the Anglosphere for upward mobility.But India must also build bulwarks from the fallout of the developing American animus to Saudi Arabia and the manner in which the power vacuum has been filled in Afghanistan. The voices in the corridors of power, who had earlier urged circumspection in dealing with Iran, or with Russia for that matter, need to be told that catering to national self-interest is not being minatory.India cannot wait indefinitely for the US political system to develop a consensus on dealing with Iran. For the sake of its energy and national security, India can ill-afford to dawdle on the sidelines as a new power balance takes shape in the region. That moment of reckoning will come with the SCO Summit in Dushanbe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/biting-the-sco-bullet-to-re-enter-afghan-game-311793
16-09-2021||---||Doubling of farm income a bridge too far||One of the most popular slogans of the current farmers’ movement is that we are fighting for our nasal aur fasal — our progenies and produce. The latest official survey on the condition of farmers shows how true this is. The findings of this major government report released on September 10 should be a wake-up call, not just for policymakers and politicians, but for farmers and farmers’ movements as well.So far, the response to this much-awaited 77th Round of the National Sample Survey (NSS) on ‘Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019’ has focused on the newsy finding of an increase in the amount of loan due for an average farming family — a jump from Rs 47,000 to over Rs 74,000. This is worrisome, especially because of the underlying trend — the ‘better off’ the state or the farmer, the higher the pending loan. Yet, it is a symptom, not the disease. The real issue is farmers’ income or lack of it.Some reports have noted what this survey says about farmers’ income. An average farm family makes about Rs 10,000 per month, less than what a domestic worker would earn in big cities. They also mention that in the six years since a similar survey in 2013, this figure has gone up from Rs 6,442 to Rs 10,218.These figures leave you with the impression that farming gives more than Rs 10,000 a month, and while the base is rather low, it is growing at a reasonable pace. Nothing can be more misleading than this.First, the income is misleading because it is an average. This average includes big farmers with more than 10 acres of land who earn nearly Rs 30,000 a month (not more than a Class-IV employee of the government). The average family income of a median farmer who cultivates between 1 and 2.5 acres is much lower at Rs 8,571 per month.Second, this amount is not farming income; it is the income of a farming family. Not everyone in a farming family is a farmer. And not everything that a farmer earns is through farming. This survey operates with a broad definition of what it calls an ‘agricultural household’: any rural family that earns some minimal amount from the cultivation of crops or from animal husbandry. So, a family where the father looks after the fields, the mother tends to buffalos, the daughter teaches in a local school and the son runs a shop is an agricultural household. All these four forms of income will be added up and counted as the income of a farming family. The income from crop cultivation could be a small part of the family income.The latest survey shows that the income from agriculture is a little above one-third of the income of an agrarian family. In a month, this average family makes just Rs 3,798 from growing crops of various kinds, Rs 1,582 from rearing animals, Rs 641 from business and Rs 4,063 from wages and salaries. In other words, a farmers’ family earns more from selling its labour elsewhere than by working in its own fields. So, the figure to remember is Rs 3,798, the monthly income of a farmer from farming. That tells you why there is such a rush towards the cities, why everyone clamours for a government job.Third, even this meagre figure is bloated, as it takes an overgenerous view of what is a farmer’s income. This calculation looks at all the money received by the farmer from selling all the agricultural produce, minus all the costs directly paid out by him towards growing the crops. The gap is assumed to be the farmer’s profit. The family’s own labour and other inputs are not counted towards the cost and thus inflate the profit. If you impute the value of these inputs, not paid out in cash, then the overall cost of crop and animal farming goes up and profit comes down. If you follow this correct method, the average monthly income from crop cultivation comes down to just Rs 3,058 and from animal farming to just Rs 441. The overall income of a farmer family in that case is just Rs 8,337 per month.Four, the impression of healthy growth in a farmer’s income is false because it is based on nominal figures that do not take inflation into account. Between 2013 and 2019, farmers’ nominal income increased by 59 per cent. But if you adjust these figures for inflation (Consumer Price Index for rural India for June 2019, the base year 2012), the increase is just 22 per cent. That includes all forms of income for the entire family. If we focus only on income from crop production, a farmer’s income has actually shrunk in these six years. In 2013, a farmer earned Rs 3,081 from farming. That was equivalent to Rs 2,770 on the price of 2012, the base year. If we retain the same base year, the latest monthly income of farmers from farming (Rs 3,798) is equivalent to Rs 2,645. This amounts to a 5 per cent in six years.So, the real headline for the survey should have been: ‘the historic doubling of farmer’s income mission leads to a historic slideback.’This NSS survey is the first report card on the famous six-year project on Doubling of Farmers’ Income (DFI), announced with fanfare in February 2016. The six years covered by this report (2013-19) are different from the six years of the DFI (2016-22). But it is fair to conclude that the outcome is unlikely to be different, since the years following 2019 saw the pandemic and the lockdowns. The increase in the real, inflation-accounted income of farming households would not be much higher than 22 per cent, this survey shows. This is not just a far cry from the boast of a 100 per cent increase; this increase would be lower than that achieved in the previous 10 years of normal agricultural growth. A real historic feet indeed!Even if we see this survey as a mid-term report card, as it covers the first three years of DFI, the performance is nowhere close to the 35 per cent increase in real income projected by the Narendra Modi government’s committee on DFI for this period. The contribution of farm income to the farmer’s overall household income is decreasing, and not increasing as projected by the DFI Committee. The mid-term report card has ‘fail’ written all over it.It would be a pity, however, if we use this survey for merely busting the fake claims of the government. The deeper trends and patterns revealed by this survey point to a structural crisis of modern agriculture: smaller farm size, a greater proportion of landless labourers, failure of farm insurance, non-functioning of the MSP system, and disconnect of the sarkari farming promotion from the farmers.The much-celebrated Green Revolution farming model has reached a dead end. Indian agriculture needs subsidies and massive public sector investment. And it needs much more. If we are serious about saving nasal aur fasal, we need to rethink the present model of agriculture: how do we stem the tide of farmers turning into agricultural labourers? How do we make small farms remunerative? That is what the farmers’ historic movement must turn its attention to, once it is done with the immediate task of getting rid of unwanted farm laws and securing better prices. This survey of the farmers’ conditions reminds us that the farmers’ movement has not arrived a day too soon.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/doubling-of-farm-income-a-bridge-too-far-311792
16-09-2021||---||The Afghanistan quandary||The Buddhas of Bamiyan were amongst the most classical monuments, embodying the beauty and majesty of the Great Silk Route, linking India and Central Asia through the ages. The two statues were of Vairocana Buddha and Gautama Buddha. They were carved into the side of a cliff. It was through this route that Chinese traveller Hiuen Tsang visited India during the rule of emperor Harshvardhan. The Buddhas of Bamiyan were also a site for pilgrimage for Buddhists. The statues were surrounded by numerous caves, decorated with paintings. These historical works were considered as an artistic synthesis of Gupta and Buddhist art which originated in India. It was these precious historical monuments, whose destruction was ordered by Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar in 2001. There are indications that the destruction was backed by his guest and friend, Osama bin Laden.It is in this context that one has to analyse the recent political developments in Afghanistan. August 31 was determined by the Biden administration for completing the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan. The final departure was marked by bomb explosions, triggered by the Islamic State of Khorasan, which is made up of jihadis from Pakistan, Afghanistan and the Arab world. The present plans of the Islamic State, of jihad across the Islamic world, included the attack on the Kabul airport, on the date set for full American withdrawal. Chaos prevailed, as dozens died on that day. In the days preceding these developments, the Taliban routed the American trained, armed and equipped Afghan army, which fled from the battlefield. Thousands of deadly American weapons, armoured vehicles and ammunition fell into the hands of the Taliban. What accompanied these events was even more dramatic and bizarre.The US withdrawal was accompanied by the appointment of a new Taliban-led government, headed by Mohammed Hassan Akhund as PM. Strangely, nobody has yet seen the supreme commander of the Taliban armed forces, Hibatullah Akhundzada. According to reports, he is still in Kandahar, the spiritual capital of the Taliban, and indeed, of most Pashtuns. This is because the founder of modern Afghanistan, Amir Ahmad Shah Durrani, brought back a shawl purported to have been worn by the Prophet, to Kandahar, as a gift from the ruler of Bukhara during the 18th century. Mullah Omar established his legitimacy, as the founder of the Taliban, by appearing publicly with the shawl. The new Taliban government was initially headed by Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, who had been jailed in Pakistan for eight years at American behest. Baradar and some members of his team had been reasonably well-disposed towards India.The situation changed dramatically in Afghanistan, immediately after the visit by the ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, to Kabul, when Baradar was still the de facto chief of the Taliban government. What followed immediately was the appointment of Mohammad Hassan Akhund as acting PM. Like Baradar, he too was close to Mullah Omar. But, he also has a record of being a hard-core fundamentalist. He had supervised the destruction of the Bamiyan Buddhas, and has been declared an international terrorist by the UNSC. He will now, as PM, also be handling military affairs. The real threat to India’s national security, however, comes from the appointment of the head of the Haqqani Network, Sirajuddin Haqqani, as the interior (home) minister. Haqqani is on the Most Wanted List of the FBI, with a $5 million reward. He has close ties with Pakistan-based terrorist groups like the LeT and the JeM.The Haqqani Network and its members were responsible for the attacks on India’s embassy and consulates across Afghanistan. Moreover, Haqqani now has the power to appoint governors in areas along the Durand Line, enabling him to arrange for jihadis trained in Afghanistan to be infiltrated into J&K. One of the results of the shocking mass surrender of the Afghan army was that the huge cache of arms, explosives and ammunition the Americans had provided to the Afghan army are now in the hands of the Taliban. One should not be surprised if the summer of 2022 is marked by confrontations with jihadis trained by Haqqani’s supporters and smuggled into J&K through new routes.Russia has taken objection to and dealt with some crude Pakistani proposals which appear designed to show the world that the only route to Afghanistan lies through Pakistan. India has, however, used other routes to Afghanistan, through Iran and Central Asian countries like Tajikistan, which have all taken strong exception to such Pakistani initiatives, aimed at making Rawalpindi the epicentre of access to Afghanistan. The external intelligence chiefs of Russia, the US and UK recently visited New Delhi for discussions on Afghanistan. While one can predict the reactions of Russia and the US, one wonders what the British, who drew up the infamous Durand Line separating Afghanistan from the subcontinent, are up to. We, however, have a friendly Conservative Party government now calling the shots in London.India should not be in a hurry to re-establish a large diplomatic presence in Kabul. We should not forget that India remained the home of some very distinguished personalities from Afghanistan throughout the first spell of Taliban rule. The Taliban have openly displayed their religious bigotry. By all accounts, the downslide in Afghanistan’s economy is continuing. It is inevitable that in the not too distant future, the Taliban will face problems of serious shortages of wheat and other essential items, which India can best supply. India can also use the Chabahar Port in Iran and the territories of other Central Asian countries, like Tajikistan, for access to Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-afghanistan-quandary-311791
