17-09-2021||Yogi Adityanath is presently in his element. He is busy needling the voters who address their fathers as ‘abba jaan’! Often in the past||Polarisation at work in UP||Tackling Covid, and now dengue, is not what interests him. These are unnecessary interferences in his ‘divine’ task of ridding his state of what he considers to be pests, criminals, beef eaters, cow killers and, above all, jihadi terrorists.In my city Mumbai, I know many Muslims, some at the top end of society and many more at the low end residing in slums. The latter I got acquainted with more intimately when I returned home from Romania where the only Muslims I met were either diplomats or locals who waited at diplomatic dinner tables, including my own. They were in great demand, despite their penchant for sampling the wines, fortunately after the guests had departed.My friends, largely from the Race Course, do not seem to be too concerned with religion. I am not sure if they prayed, even when their horses were in the race! My humbler friends, who formed the nucleus of the mohalla committees, formed after the 1993-94 riots to foster communal harmony and peace, were busy during most days eking out a living! They could spare no time on hate, like the Yogi seems to have, particularly at election time.Speaking of elections, due in UP in the next six months, I thought he had spread enough vitriol that appealed to listeners who had no difficulty in blindly accepting the words that emerged from his mouth. Unfortunately, the farmers and Covid-19 have combined to deny him the walk-over he had banked upon.The resulting uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the 2022 Assembly elections had forced him to fall back on hate and communal division to recover lost ground. Will the ploy succeed? No one can tell at the present moment. But, God forbid if it does, it will not be good for the country. A divided country is a sure recipe for disaster. If the minorities, who constitute 20 per cent of the population, are reduced to second-class status the country will have a sizeable chunk of permanently alienated citizens. And to these the ones in power will have to add a constantly floating number of the temporarily alienated, like farmers of Punjab, Haryana and western UP and castes aspiring to be downgraded in official rankings in order to corner jobs, besides the political power that comes with sheer numbers.A communal divide has existed in UP, as it did in Mumbai, for centuries. It was dormant till elections were held and political parties vying for power appeared on the horizon. The accusation against the Congress of appeasement of minorities has found traction with the voting public.I have often tried to analyse this accusation. The Muslims are one of the three groupings (the two others being the SCs and STs) in our society that are economically and educationally backward. If the Congress or any government of the day had pampered them in the sphere of education or health, I would support that ‘appeasement’ with my eyes shut. But the Congress party only gave in to demands of concessions to religious beliefs that no secular democratic government should concern itself with.Religion is a personal belief. It concerns only the believer and his or her understanding of creation and the afterlife. Why should the State get involved? Rajiv Gandhi made his biggest political blunder when he conceded the maulvis’ demand to undo the mischief of the Shah Bano judgment. The State should govern justly and fairly without getting involved in religious matters. It should make it a pillar of State policy to keep ‘miri’ and ‘piri’ separate.Yogi Adityanath has stretched credibility by alleging that those who address their fathers as ‘abba jaan’, the Muslims, were the only community that was provided with rations before 2017, the year he became the CM! Rations from fair-price shops are available to the poor at reduced rates. Since Muslims, SCs and Adivasis are the poorest, community-wise, it may be that Yogi saw more Muslims and Dalits in ration queues before 2017 when he was out on the streets fighting for power. That position would hold firm today also, but Yogi is confined most of the time to his chair in the ‘mantralaya’ and may not have noticed this. But the damage has been done. People are gullible. They believe what the ‘great leaders’ tell them!My friends in UP and my associates in Mumbai who hail from UP tell me that Yogi has a large following in the state. As CM, he has performed creditably in curbing ministerial corruption and keeping senior bureaucrats on their toes. Of course, he has not been able to control low-level corruption in the revenue, police and other departments, but that has not been achieved in any state of India. Yogi created a flutter at the start of his reign by ordering the police to shoot criminals on sight. He has mellowed somewhat as wiser men have counselled him of its dangers.He has floundered in the fight against Covid. He has been inattentive to the inroads made by dengue. He has obviously not given health infrastructure the attention it needs. This may not affect his fortunes at the hustings because the BJP’s counter-propaganda machinery has been tested and proved more than worthy. It can make black into white and vice versa!What could mar his prospects, though, is the farmers’ agitation. The farmers were with him in 2017. They will not oblige this time round unless he mollifies them to an extent he may find impossible to do. And then, there are also the bodies that floated down the Ganga and landed on the banks of Bihar!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/polarisation-at-work-in-up-312148
17-09-2021||President||China wary of intervention in Afghanistan||While the reasons for pulling out of Afghanistan will assuage American domestic opinion and release more resources for containing China, the messy US withdrawal has severely damaged US credibility globally. Even the European allies, like Britain, have expressed doubts about its dependability and suggested they will re-examine their relationship. The composition of the new Taliban cabinet, 50 per cent of who are on the UN blacklist, also thumbs its nose at the United Nations and the international community. Unless the US takes substantive measures to show that its capabilities remain like assisting the resistance in Panjshir or destroying a terrorist base, doubts about its credibility will linger.While Pakistan has made no secret of its success, Beijing and Moscow also view the US withdrawal as a geopolitical opportunity. Moscow will try to consolidate its position in the Central Asian Republics and advance influence in Europe. Beijing, which has big ambitions, is projecting the withdrawal as a debacle and confirmation that the US is in irreparable terminal decline. Recent US initiatives for contact with China, the Biden administration’s approval on August 25 of licence applications for Huawei to buy chips for its auto component business, video screens and sensors, and Biden’s 90-minute conversation with Chinese President Xi Jinping on September 9, are seen in Beijing as signs of weakness. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s recent ‘lectures’ to US Special Climate Envoy John Kerry and US Secretary of State Blinken show that. China’s nationalistic media, like the Global Times, is using this opportunity to portray China as a rising power with a better system of governance.Xi Jinping, who has made no secret of his expansive ambitions, has accelerated China’s push for influence from Japan to the Middle East and already moved to bolster influence in Thailand, Myanmar and Vietnam. In 2010, Beijing had offered landlocked Afghanistan road and rail links from the mineral deposits at Aynak to Kabul and the CPEC onward to Gwadar. Increased activity by the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN) in the South China Sea and pressure on Taiwan can be expected. Beijing, however, runs the serious risk of miscalculating the US strength and resolve as it becomes more aggressive and if it initiates rash military adventures against neighbours like Taiwan.Chinese experts are, however, advising the leadership to adopt a cautious approach. Acknowledging that another country needs to fill the vacuum left by the US, they have said China should not be that country. Recent statement by the Taliban describing China as their “most important partner”, on the other hand, underscores its expectations of China.An important article was published on August 18, by Mei Xinyu, a reputed expert in world geopolitics in the Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation (CAITEC), a think tank of China’s Ministry of Commerce. The ministry is an important player in leadership discussions and formulation of foreign and national security policies. It is included in the Central Small Leading Group on Foreign Affairs.Mei Xinyu stated that the US military is leaving in “defeat, but China must not indulge in a delusional dream-like carnival”. Saying it is uncertain whether the Taliban can establish itself in Afghanistan which has been in turmoil for two centuries, he advised that expectations of “unlimited business opportunities and the BRI should be tempered”. Mei Xinyu advanced four arguments for caution. He highlighted the UN World Food Programme report listing Afghanistan as among the world’s top ten countries that will face severe food shortages by the end of 2021. He assessed there is no hope for a solution in the near future. China itself is preparing for the global food crisis anticipated in 2030 and unable to meet Afghanistan’s demands on its own. Next, pointing out that Afghanistan is heavily dependent on international financial aid, he said the US, Europe and India — whose aid has totalled $3 billion — are unlikely to resume aid in the foreseeable future. This implies the onus will be on China, the only country among the Taliban’s three supporters capable of assisting it. Mei Xinyu’s assessment of the Afghan economy and revenues was equally pessimistic. He assessed that developing the required infrastructure for exploiting Afghanistan’s mineral resources will require at least ten years of security and order. He also expressed doubts about the quantum and value of the proven reserves of minerals, fossil fuels etc, mentioning iron ore as an exception. Mei Xinyu expressed serious doubts about Afghanistan’s value to the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), calling it “economically insignificant”. He unequivocally recommended non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs and suggested that, at most, China sends limited supplies of consumer goods for civilian use.Other Chinese strategists echoed the suggestion for caution and non-interference in Afghanistan’s internal affairs. They have insisted that China obtain adequate and substantive guarantees from the Taliban before investing in Afghanistan. There was consensus that terrorism, particularly the East Turkestan Independence Movement (ETIM), must be eliminated as it poses a threat not only to China, but also to Pakistan and the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Recognising China’s limitations, Chinese analysts like Fu Xiaoqiang urged the international community to support Afghanistan. Significant is that China, Russia and Pakistan, have all delayed recognition of the Taliban government because of uncertainties about the Taliban regime.Chinese President Xi Jinping views the US withdrawal from Afghanistan and the installation of the Taliban regime, backed by its client Pakistan, as a major strategic gain. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s recent announcement of $31 million in aid points to Xi Jinping leaning towards Chinese involvement in Afghanistan, though he may defer sending Chinese personnel just yet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-wary-of-intervention-in-afghanistan-312149
17-09-2021||Former Union Minister||SAD is proud of its sacrifices for farmers||FOR almost a year now, the beleaguered farmers of the country have been agitating against the three black laws which we feel put the big corporate houses in charge of the farmers’ destiny. Even as the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has stood by the patriotic farmers in their just struggle, attempts are being made, chiefly by the Congress and AAP, to negate the SAD’s role in this struggle. Interestingly, these are the parties that had run away from opposing these laws in Parliament. Incidentally, the basic draft of these Acts is based on recommendations made by a high-powered committee of which nine Chief Ministers, including Capt Amarinder Singh, were members. Capt Amarinder had deputed his Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal to represent him, who went along with the recommendations to make these laws.Earlier, a committee of experts, including Congress’ economic ideologue Montek Singh Ahluwalia, had recommended the same structure of agricultural marketing as contained in these laws. Thus, the system which these laws bring into force is actually co-authored by the Congress and the BJP. That is why Capt Amarinder, through his nominee, endorsed these ideas in the committee comprising CMs or their representatives. Besides, both AAP and the Congress have already implemented many operative portions of these laws in Delhi and Punjab, respectively.Before the Narendra Modi government introduced these Bills, it had promulgated an ordinance to the same effect. I was then a member of the Union Cabinet. When I raised concerns and asked that the stakeholders in these laws — the farmers — be taken on board, I was assured that since the ordinance was only a temporary measure, the concerns of the farmers would be addressed before making laws on the subject. I have stated this several times in my public utterances. To this day, no one in the government has contradicted my claim. But those who have no way of knowing what transpired between me and the rest of the government in closed-door meetings seem to know better! They keep parroting preposterous lies that the Bills wouldn’t have been a reality if I had not supported these in the Cabinet.Even if, for argument’s sake, someone were to accept their allegations, these still don’t make any sense to anyone familiar with how Bills are passed and laws enacted in the country. First of all, the Cabinet has no power to make laws. It is not a legislative body. Thus, the Bills are not passed by the Cabinet. They are presented, debated, voted, passed and made in Parliament in the most transparent process possible. No one can support a Bill and not be found out. It was in Parliament where I and my party stood up and fought till the very end to oppose the Bills. No one else and no other party even entered the ring. History will reveal that only two MPs in the country opposed and voted against these Bills: Sukhbir Singh Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal.History will also reveal that this was the first time ever in independent India that a Union Minister quit the Cabinet to stand by the farmers. Unfortunately, those who never tire of venting their spleen against us shirked their responsibility and played the hypocrites — running with the hare and hunting with the hounds. Both the Congress and AAP openly defied a formal “people’s whip” issued by kisan organisations which said that no political party should either boycott or abstain from voting against these Bills in Parliament. I leave it to farmers and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to see who defied their ‘whip’ and why.Isn’t it bizarre that instead of acknowledging our broad-daylight fight against these black laws, those who ran away from standing by the farmers are questioning us on our role, asking us why did we justify the Bills in public before voting against these?What we did was this: we said that both sides sit across the table and find a solution through talks. Simultaneously, SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal kept publicly asking the Prime Minister to bring the real stakeholders in the Bills, the farmers, on board and talk to them. He also held a meeting with the farmers’ unions, and while he advocated negotiations, he assured them that when a line would finally be drawn, the SAD would stand right beside the farmers. “You ask me to lead the fight, and I will lead the fight. You ask me to follow you, and I will follow you. SAD will do exactly what you tell us to do on the democratic path. But don’t give our opponents the opportunity to say that farmers don’t believe in talks,” he told the representatives of farmers’ bodies. This was in full public view and is on record.And even while suggesting negotiations to break the deadlock, Sukhbir Badal categorically assured them that finally, if the government didn’t accept the farmers’ demands, the SAD would quit the Cabinet and oppose and vote against the Bills in Parliament. That’s exactly what we did.Actually, even our opponents know all this. The Congress and AAP are making noises just to divert attention from their own betrayal of farmers during the passage of these laws. We did what we had promised: I resigned from the Cabinet and the SAD broke its alliance with the BJP — all to stand by the suffering farmers. What does any other political party have to show for its sacrifices for the farmers?In the final analysis, we as a party are very, very proud that we quit the Cabinet to stand by our brethren farmers. That my resignation doesn’t suit either the Congress or AAP narratives is immaterial to me: what matters is that it promoted the farmers’ narrative. It demonstrated in actual deed that a fully responsible, democratic party, having full faith in constitutional norms, is fighting alongside the farmers and deems their cause just and important for the entire country.In retrospect, I believe this was the hour for which God had put me in the Cabinet in the first place. I see my role as predestined by God to re-emphasise the long history of SAD’s sacrifices for Punjabis in general and farmers in particular.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/sad-is-proud-of-its-sacrifices-for-farmers-312150
