18-09-2021||---||Air strikes on terror sites at the core of US strategy||THE American withdrawal from Afghanistan, this time albeit in a much hastier fashion than the one carried out by it earlier during the Soviet era, is bound to have a remarkable politico-military impact globally.It is unthinkable that the US establishment would not have thought through the implications of its withdrawal from Afghanistan on the war on terror, generally, and counter-terror missions against the likes of the al-Qaeda and ISIS cadres, specifically. The other terror groups operating in the area, including the Pakistani Taliban and the Uighur ETIM (East Turkestan Islamic Movement), LeT and JeM, are all bound to be emboldened after the Taliban success in Afghanistan.The 40-odd erstwhile Afghan Air Force aircraft that were flown into Uzbekistan just prior to the Taliban overrun and, more importantly, their American-trained pilots are sought to be returned to Afghanistan by the new Afghan regime, though it is believed that they would pay with their lives in that event, thanks to what the extremists see as people who caused them considerable damage through air attacks in the intervening period.Much as the Taliban have been pressurising the Uzbek government to return their planes and pilots, it does appear, for now, that the US has turned the screws to have its way in rehabilitating these pilots and restreaming them for other purposes.These pilots and their families are reportedly on way to US air bases in the UAE and elsewhere, initially mainly to ensure their security. Down the line, it is foreseeable that these assets would be employed by the US to continue the air operations against the terrorist entities, possibly in concert with the ongoing resistance movement in the Panjshir valley.Now, where can air attacks against the Taliban be ideally orchestrated from? Clearly, bases in the UAE, Qatar or Kuwait, traditional allies of the US, are too far away to prosecute an air campaign. Pakistan and Uzbekistan may not be considered suitable by the Americans on account of their professed sympathy with the Taliban.It is in this light that one sees a role for India, however unpalatable the Modi government may find the proposal. Addressing the US media recently, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken hinted at a possible understanding to use north and north-west Indian territories to carry out air operations during the air war on terror expected to ensue in Afghanistan.The Biden administration and its spokespersons have been hesitant to divulge details on their strategy for the air war on terror. The latest concept being articulated by the US is the option for an “over the horizon” air targeting. Having decided not to have any “boots on the ground”, clearly they would spend their energy on getting a basing option with a suitable ally.How the Indian establishment tackles this request is another matter. Possibly, the specifics could revolve around air attacks out of Indian bases such as Leh and Thoise or even Srinagar and Awantipur to timely target terrorists across the Wakhan Corridor into Afghanistan. A suitable understanding with Pakistan would, of course, be called for to use the airspace over Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK).Even if India decides in favour of acceding to the American request for basing in its north, suitable diplomatic recourse will have to be thought through by the South Block mandarins, especially should any unfortunate collateral damage be caused, as indeed, did happen in the last American drone strike against the ISIS-K elements in Afghanistan.As for the US, such operations are bound to be carried out under the aegis of a deniable CIA cover. India would be well advised to adopt a similar ambit for playing along with such covert air operations, should they become inevitable.Should the American option be to indeed use India’s northern air bases, they are mostly likely to undertake Predator and Reaper drones for the counter-terror missions, if only to provide a non-embarrassing situation to the Indian establishment. Basing of regular USAF fighter aircraft on Indian soil is bound to be politically inadmissible to India. But even to achieve Pakistan’s Jacobabad type of arrangement (the then President Pervez Musharraf had, after George W Bush’s remark — ‘you are either with us or against us’ — agreed to the US use of airfields such as Shamsi and Jacobabad in Balochistan for Predator strikes against al-Qaeda leaders) would call for a quantum upgrade of Indo-US defence cooperation. Perhaps, treaties such as the SOFA (Status of Forces Agreement) would have to be perforce reworked for any such understanding between the two allies to become effective.The Quad face-to-face between PM Modi and Biden next week could be a crucial event in this regard, wherein a direct pitch may well be made for anti-terror ops under the Quad umbrella.One way India could make the exercise politically amenable is if the US goes along with including some terror groups directly threatening India, such as the JeM and LeT. And that is where the US-Pak closeness will end, as is once again being indicated by Secretary Blinken when he said that they would soon re-evaluate Pakistan’s role in collaborating with the Afghan Taliban.For India, it would mark a quantum change in government policy from that practised since time immemorial to permit US air operations against terror targets. The only plausible condition in its favour would be the possible targeting of figures such as Hafiz Saeed, who, in any case, feature on the CIA’s hit list.The entire “war on terror” launched after the 9/11 attacks would now assume an altogether different hue, what with terrorist havens in the Middle East and South Asia inimical to American interests being fair game.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/air-strikes-on-terror-sites-at-the-core-of-us-strategy-312653
18-09-2021||---||BJP on a communal trajectory in UP||YOGI Adityanath never speaks off the cuff. Every statement he utters, however outrageous and bigoted, is thought through, keeping a long-term political objective in mind. With the Assembly elections looming closer in Uttar Pradesh, what can its Chief Minister’s intention possibly be when his words trigger a controversy but to address the polity in the language he thinks UP best comprehends and relates to, and antagonise and alienate the political opponents? The constituents whose votes he does not care for?On September 12, at a public meeting in Kushinagar, a town bordering Nepal in east UP and peopled predominantly by backward castes and Dalits, Adityanath gave full play to his extraordinary ability at stoking communal sentiments under the guise of speaking on welfare and development. He claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ‘radically’ altered the vikas agenda by stripping it bare of the ‘past maladies’, such as riots, terrorism, corruption and injustice, and enabling it to live up to Modi’s ‘ideal’ of ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas’.But rhetoric requires the imagery of the click-bait genre, imagery that could jog the listeners’ recall potential and situate the verbal representations in a larger context that draws from the Sangh’s ideology. Adityanath gave it all.He alleged that before 2017, before he was anointed to rule UP, the rations targeted towards the poor never reached the beneficiaries because the “food was digested by those who use the term ‘abba jaan’ (Urdu for father)”.The crowds reportedly cheered the CM. He singled out Muslims as the primary and principal recipients of the state’s ‘appeasement’ policies and, in this case, food supplies at controlled prices were used to make a point that was easily fathomable.The usage tied in neatly with a sentence that the BJP had plucked out of a speech made by former PM Manmohan Singh on his government’s fiscal priorities in a National Development Council meeting on December 10, 2006. Singh had listed agriculture, irrigation and water resources, health, education, critical investment in rural infrastructure, and the essential public needs of the general infrastructure as his government’s priorities with programmes to uplift Dalits and Adivasis, other backward classes, minorities and women and children.His submission on the minorities was, “We will have to devise innovative plans to ensure that minorities, particularly the Muslim minority, are empowered to share equitably in the fruits of development.” The next sentence, twisted and de-contextualised, formed the kernel of the BJP’s campaign against the Congress for time to come. Singh said, “They must have the first claim on resources.”The BJP restricted the use of ‘they’ to mean only Muslims while the government later clarified that the collective noun referred to the groupings, including Dalits and tribes, who Singh had lined up for the government’s special attention and focus.The damage was done. The BJP’s discourse over Muslims allegedly cornering the UPA dispensation’s largesse was swallowed by a larger constituency that rejected the official explanation.Coupled with the Sachar panel report on the status of minorities since Independence — its recommendations were never acted upon — the BJP's appeasement trope was a hit in the 2014 elections. The Congress was helpless in countering the BJP's cannonade. In 2019, Adityanath dredged it up. In serial election meetings, he asked that if Muslims had the “first right over resources”, what was left for the Jats, Gujjars and Dalits?The backlash on social media, under the rubric hashtag #AbbaJaan, served Adityanath’s purpose. The non-Muslims, who offered solidarity, posted pictures of their fathers, and, importantly, declared their social provenance as upper class/caste children of bureaucrats and army officers, denoting a social status far removed from the crowds that applauded Adityanath at Kushinagar. The ‘unwashed masses’, as the fashionable label them.With the championing of Hindi on Hindi Day, Amit Shah's fervent advocacy to use Hindi with the first languages (has the BJP given up on the South?) and the thematic use of ‘Lutyens’ Delhi’ to signify an English-speaking elite feathering its nest from the Nehruvian period, polarisation works on two levels for the BJP: faith as the primary divider and class as the other differentiator.Akhilesh Yadav and his Samajwadi Party have tiptoed around communally polarising issues, fearing that their Hindu votes might again move to the BJP. Akhilesh’s only response was that since the BJP government was on its way out, the CM’s “language has changed”, but he added that the people wanted a return to the SP regime and the kind of work it had done. There lies the nub of the problem.Akhilesh may wax eloquent on the highways he commissioned and managed to raise, and the hospitals and health centres that purportedly came in handy during the Covid-19 pandemic, but anybody who has covered the 2017 Assembly polls closely would testify that apart from the Modi ‘wave’ and a consolidation of the Hindu votes, Akhilesh was rebuffed because the perception that he had not delivered on the myriad pre-poll promises had rapidly gained currency.Development has rarely, if ever, worked as an electoral cement in UP. It has become more irrelevant since the 1990s. Adityanath and the BJP have recognised the reality and are, therefore, pandering to the only strength they have in their armoury: accentuating the communal divide. The Opposition, especially the SP, is on test. How long will it prevaricate over the issues the BJP has flagged?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bjp-on-a-communal-trajectory-in-up-312650
18-09-2021||---||‘Bad bank’ for big business||PINK-PAPER pundits who want BSNL, MTNL, SBI, PNB and every other public sector company to be shut down or sold, are actually closet socialists. They love socialism, as long as it is reserved for Big Business. After all, what is socialism? It is the social ownership of capital and resources. And when we say ‘social’, we inevitably mean ‘state’ ownership.Pvt companies make bad investments and business decisions, and the taxpayer must pay for it.Traditionally, state ownership of companies and assets is frowned upon by mainstream economists. They say, the state has no business in the economy; leave the business of doing business to businessmen. But what if these very businessmen mess up their investment decisions and incur big losses? Mainstream economists will find some economic logic to ask the state to take over their companies and let them off the hook. In effect, this is socialism for capitalists.We are seeing this happen right now. The first is being sold to us as telecom ‘reforms’. What are these reforms? Private players got into a race to get more users, investing huge amounts on buying spectrum and selling airwaves at super cheap prices. Even before Reliance Jio came and changed the game, incumbents like Airtel, Vodafone and Idea were offering discounted packs to hook people to using multiple GBs of data and making long phone calls. Jio pulled the rug from beneath their feet by offering free data for a limited period of time. From the time it launched, in September 2016, Jio managed to increase India’s total telecom subscriber base by 11.5% in just four months.As Jio began to expand rapidly, the other big players had to try and offer similar lollipops to stop their subscribers from jumping ship. The Average Revenue per User (ARPU) crashed, while usage increased sharply. Airtel, Vodafone and Idea went through several quarters of heavy losses. And when Vodafone and Idea merged as a direct counter to Jio, it was touted as India’s most valuable telecom company.The problem was that Jio had a different business model, a beneficial policy environment, and a parent company with one of the deepest pockets in the world. Vodafone-Idea, or Vi as it came to be rebranded later, had no option but to bleed. It now sits on a massive debt of nearly Rs 1.9 lakh crore. That is why Kumarmangalam Birla offered to hand over his shares to the government, if it deferred Vi’s obligations to pay the Rs 62,180 crore in back-taxes and Rs 1.06 lakh crore in spectrum charges. Now, thanks to these ‘reforms’ announced by FM Nirmala Sitharaman, Birla has got what he wanted.Interestingly, the government has also said if telecom companies are unable to pay their dues after the four-year moratorium period, they could ‘pay’ it off in equity. Some brokerage reports have started envisaging scenarios where Vi becomes a government company. Even before these reforms were announced, one prominent international bank backed the idea of the government taking over Vodafone-Idea and merging it with BSNL.Imagine the irony here. All this while, we have been hearing that the public sector is bad, and the private sector is extremely efficient. Now, we are told that in ‘public interest’, Vodafone-Idea cannot be allowed to die. It has too many subscribers who need to be protected. Throwing all talk of the efficiency of impersonal market forces into the sea, the government is being asked to bailout a private company, using taxpayers’ money, supposedly for public good. Remember, this is a government which apparently doesn’t have enough money to spend on public investment, and has actually reduced its expenditure in the first three months of this fiscal compared to last year.So, private telecom companies make bad investments and business decisions, and the public, in the form of the taxpayer, has to pay for it. This is broadly the same idea behind another ‘bold’ reform — the ‘bad bank’ that was announced on Thursday. This bank will take over some Rs 2 lakh crore of bad loans that are sitting on the books of regular commercial banks, and try to recover them over a period of time.How will this work? Let’s assume that a group of banks has lent Rs 500 crore to a company whose business has failed. The banks have very little hope of getting back the money they lent, so they decide to ‘sell’ this loan to the bad bank for Rs 300 crore. The banks take a one-time hit of Rs 200 crore, but get 60 per cent of their money back. The bad bank takes over the assets of the company and tries to sell them, hoping to get more than it paid to the banks. The banks write-off a part of the loan and clean up their books.Considering that the bad bank is supposed to take over bad loans of about Rs 90,000 crore in the first phase, it will need to have a significant amount of cash. Banks who will ‘sell’ their bad loans will have to be given at least 15 per cent in cash, and the remaining amount in ‘security receipts’. These receipts will be backed by a sovereign guarantee by the government of India: If the bad bank fails to pay up what it has promised, the government will fill in.But who gains from this? On the face of it, it is public sector banks that hold an overwhelming majority of bad loans. In reality, the biggest beneficiaries will be big corporates. Public sector banks had become careful about lending, because of the large share of bad loans on their books. Once those are taken off the books, these banks can go back to freely lending to corporates who can once again gamble on sectors without any proper viability assessment. And these are going to be the very same big companies which are responsible for India’s bad loan crisis in the first place.In other words, these banking and telecom reforms are nothing but a new form of ‘socialism’. But this time, it is reserved exclusively for capitalists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/bad-bank-for-big-business-312648
