20-09-2021||---||Opposition bets on Hindutva to counter BJP||Rahul Gandhi said recently in Jammu that he identified with the pain of Kashmiri pandits as he came from the same community. This was not the first time he had declared his Hindu and Brahminical antecedents: during the 2017 Gujarat elections, Rahul and the party stressed that he was a janeo-dhari Brahmin which means he wears the sacred thread. Clearly, the scion of the Nehru-Gandhi family occasionally feels pressured by the prevailing socio-political ecosystem. It sounds lame for anyone to say that I too am a Hindu and/or a Brahmin but many Opposition figures are doing so. It’s not in keeping with Nehruvian secularism but a reflection of the times.Indeed, the RSS can today sit back rather pleased that almost all the parties that operate in the Hindi belt now go some distance to prove their so-called Hindu-ness. Take the case of what is happening in the tiny election-bound state of Uttarakhand to understand this phenomenon. The ruling BJP is of course the WWF heavyweight champion of being Hindu as a political strategy. But the AAP too has entered the arena highlighting its Hindu credentials with party chief Arvind Kejriwal promising that if voted to power, they would make Uttarakhand the global spiritual capital of the Hindus. Not to be left behind, the Congress that is taking out parivartan yatras in the state is emphatically stating that Hindutva does not belong to the BJP and if they say Ram, we will say Bholenath.In India today, one could argue that it is only two parties in the deep south that seem to feel no pressure at any point about proving credentials as Hindus. The Left that rules Kerala and the DMK in Tamil Nadu that just passed a resolution in the assembly against the CAA. Meanwhile, one could explore the Hindutva lite of AAP. First, it must be stated that the architect of the party, Arvind Kejriwal, was always comfortable with Hindu symbolism that he used freely in the 2011 Anna movement, that came before the formation of a political party and in which the RSS and VHP also participated. The motifs, idioms and language of the Anna movement that began under an image of Bharat Mata were a mish-mash of hyper patriotism with notions of public service and rooting out corruption.It’s been a journey since the party was founded in November 2012, less than nine years ago. Having defeated the BJP in two tough elections in Delhi in an era of a shift in national consciousness, the AAP now apparently believes that they can survive and expand in politics only by beating the national party at their own game which involves playing the Hindu card. This also extends to evading Muslim issues, not stepping out to defend the minorities, but not attacking them as the BJP does.Hence, just as they ducked the anti-CAA protests issue during the charged Delhi election in February 2020 that they won, the AAP intends to go on evading issues that they believe are a trap in an era where binaries constitute a debate and the BJP grabs every chance to present the rivals as anti-Hindu. Therefore, its not just in Uttarakhand that Hindu credentials are being stressed (along with the template rhetoric about rooting out corruption and offering free electricity). The AAP has also begun an extraordinary campaign in Uttar Pradesh, kicking it off symbolically with Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Azad Singh (UP in-charge), offering special prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanuman Garhi temples at Ayodhya. The AAP is not a big player in UP and would have possibly liked an alliance with the SP that does not seem to have materialised. In the meantime, they are trying to make a mark on their own and certainly got attention for beginning the campaign at Ayodhya. The AAP likes to believe that it annoys the BJP when they say they are Hindus too.Howsoever we may interpret the AAP’s position, they aren’t coy about making a display of Hindu-ness today just as the Congress also increasingly does so. The difference perhaps is that the AAP has with clarity decided to go down this path in all states where they have ambitions with the exception of Punjab that has a different demographics. The Congress by contrast does so almost defensively, zoning in and out of soft Hindutva symbolism and statements, struggling at being all things to all people. Indeed, one must note that confronted with a pitched BJP campaign earlier this year, even Mamata Banerjee had declared before the voting day in Nandigram that “I am a Hindu” and went on to recite the Chandipath and said she does so daily, before leaving her home. She had added with her typical feistiness that “the BJP better not play a Hindu card with me”.All these parties are struggling to survive in the face of mighty campaigns that the BJP unleashes. Even the SP, now the principal opposition to the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, uses Hindu symbolism that has up to a point been par for the course. But what is somewhat tragic is the dilution and co-option of the BSP that once spoke so strongly for Dalit and subaltern rights. Today, the BSP rarely speaks for anything and is accused of playing a supportive role to the BJP in UP. It is now seeking to create a coalition of extremes, combining Dalit support with that of Brahmins. Satish Chandra Mishra, the right hand of party chief Mayawati, has said that the BSP will expedite the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya if voted to power, as if the BJP were not doing enough for the mandir to begin with.It’s a strange agenda for a party rooted in social justice that could have talked of economic and social justice, unemployment, hunger and despair. But clearly, the BSP has travelled some distance from the ideas of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and the principles of the Constitution that lays out a clear separation of religion and state. Mass politics is now moving in a direction where several non-BJP parties seem to believe they must be part of the Hindutva discourse to fight their battles.The RSS should have no complaints as the larger goal is the transformation of India. The BJP may have a quibble over being more-Hindu-than-thou but it must know that imitation is the best form of flattery. Either way, Opposition parties now strategically use the language of Hindutva in their politics although it’s unclear whether this works or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/opposition-bets-on-hindutva-to-counter-bjp-313446
20-09-2021||---||China’s gain could prove to be India’s loss||Initially, it was the military coup in Myanmar in February. Six months later, Kabul fell to the Taliban, aided by Pakistan. A fait accompli was presented in both cases to the international community as the UN watched helplessly, legitimate governments yield to military force in violation of international law and tenets of democracy. These illegal and violent impositions will have far-reaching impact on India’s security and polity. First, these events have played out along India’s strategic frontiers — eastern and western flanks. These have the potential to open a Pandora’s box for resurgence of insurgency in the east and spurring cross-border terrorism in the west. Red alerts have been issued over new threats to J&K. Challenges in the west are more strategic than the ones from the east.Second, India’s key adversary China is the principal beneficiary from these developments. China has penetrated South Asia to challenge India in its own backyard. Coupled with its aggression in east Ladakh and assertions in Myanmar and Afghanistan, it will undermine India’s image and clout. Last month, China’s special envoy to Myanmar spent a week there meeting military leaders. It has recognised the military government with Senior General Min Aung Hlaing becoming the self-styled prime minister of a new caretaker government. The envoy opened a new rail line from Chengdu to Lincaing as part of the China-Myanmar Economic Corridor to the Indian Ocean overcoming its Malacca dilemma. China is helping the ‘usurpers’ to obtain a seat at the UN realising their quest for recognition. Both China and Russia (Moscow is now the main arms supplier and the only foreign country Hlaing has visited after the coup) will provide it cover in the UN through its veto. Although there is considerable anti-China sentiment in Myanmar — people believe China was behind the coup — and the military genuinely wanting to keep Beijing at a safe distance, its post-coup influence is rising. China has discreetly kept a back channel open with Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy (NLD). India will play ‘third fiddle’ in Myanmar, not for want of trying but for want of succeeding.China was the first mover inviting the Taliban leaders even before their take-over, declaring them important political players and responsible stakeholders in Afghanistan. It has donated $31 million as humanitarian aid with its envoy in Kabul being the first to contact the new regime. It eyes the exaggerated mineral resources of Afghanistan, wants to connect it with the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and secure a vital flank of its China-Pakistan Economic Corridor to the Indian Ocean. It is early days in Afghanistan but China has big plans to co-opt the Taliban in its design to securitise the Badakshan border insulating it from ETIM which the Taliban say has exited from Afghanistan. This is the same China which was free-riding in Afghanistan, making pious statements on aid and development investments in that country but doing precious little. China will have two strategic corridors to the Indian Ocean, one through Af-Pak and other via Myanmar, ironically both astride India’s flanks. It is not inconceivable that it could have a third avenue, this to the Indo-Gangetic heartland through the proposed China-Nepal Economic Corridor. So on India’s strategic flanks, China will be the key partner with local governments.Third, Pakistan is the real victor in Afghanistan. It has made India quit Kabul for the third time, secure strategic depth, neutralise Afghanistan-India’s combined subversive threats and is poised to relocate military assets deployed in the west towards the border with India. But the Taliban may not be easy meat given the legacy of the Durand Line, issue of Pashtunistan and its thirst for strategic autonomy. The Pashtuns in Afghanistan and Khyber Pakhtunhwa in Pakistan dislike the Punjabi army and elite. A free run to Pakistan Taliban from Afghanistan is a real fear for Rawalpindi. But the ultimate fear of the West is Pakistan’s nuclear weapons falling into hands of the Taliban or the al-Qaeda or any of its affiliates. Pakistan’s ISI must be credited with Taliban’s re-conquest of Afghanistan. Its aim is to prove that the Taliban are a better bet for Afghanistan than corrupt Afghan regimes propped up by the US. The most powerful military in the world could not make Pakistan do its bidding on the Taliban even after US threats to reduce it to Stone Age. It must be said — as Lt Gen Hamid Khan used to say openly during our Track-II India-Pakistan dialogue — that Pakistan will use its nuclear weapons against the US if required — that the US was deterred by Pakistan’s nuclear capability in its failed attempt to change Pakistani army behaviour in Afghanistan.Fourth, the nine-member UN Credentials Committee is meeting shortly to decide on the eligibility and legitimacy of Myanmar and Afghanistan to the seat in the UN. Myanmar has sought to replace Kyaw Moe Tun with Army veteran Aung Thurien after allegedly failed attempts to have Tun assassinated. The resistance National Unity Government of NLD not controlling any territory is a big disadvantage. Ghulam M Isckzai is holding the Afghan seat at the UN and the Taliban will send the name of its own nominee shortly. Recognition of a regime which has come to power through illegitimate means is key leverage the UN possesses to civilise such regimes.Fifth, India will need to re-craft its Afghan policy, jettisoning the wait-and-watch approach, for converting the goodwill of Afghans into strategic clout. For this selective engagement of the new regime is essential as also creative support for any likely resistance. Additionally, India’s red lines require to be enunciated: Chinese crossing the Irrawady river in Myanmar and Pakistan held for attack on India/Kashmir from Af-Pak. India has to mind its flanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chinas-gain-could-prove-to-be-indias-loss-313441
20-09-2021||---||Quad gets a stepbrother||The leak by the Financial Times that Chinese president Xi Jinping parried an invite to a summit from US President Joe Biden has produced an ugly reaction by the White House. Coincidence or not, a week later, the US has announced a ‘new trilateral security partnership’ in the Indo-Pacific against China with two ‘maritime democracies’ Britain and Australia, called AUKUS.Quad is getting a stepbrother nearly 15 years younger. It already has an Asian half-brother who is hardly talked about, born out of an improbable relationship between the US, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan — the quadrilateral diplomatic platform to energise regional connectivity to counter China. But that was just before the Taliban came and spoiled the party. Thus, Uncle Sam now has a menagerie of three Asian children, albeit by different mothers. While Quad is an unemployed youth looking for business opportunities, Quad. 2 was conceived with dreams of competing with China’s Silk Road ambitions in Inner Asia, whilst the AUKUS plans to equip Australia with nuclear-powered submarines that can be used as platform for second strike capability in the event of a nuclear war.The triad’s similarities in DNA are no secret. Obviously, Beijing isn’t amused. Late at night on Thursday, Beijing announced that it has officially applied to join the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), the revised version of a regional trade pact originally initiated by President Obama aimed at containing China’s rise. China is taking a giant step after the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). While the RCEP is an Asia-centric pact, the CPTPP is geographically more far-reaching and a high-standard trade deal that would cement China’s pivotal role in regional and global trade integration. It will further hollow out the US domestic industries and erode economic strength.The geopolitics of Asia-Pacific is becoming zestful. Something fundamentally changed in the co-relation of forces following the US’ defeat and exit from Afghanistan. The domestic mood in America has radically changed in favour of withdrawal from foreign entanglements. Americans no longer accept spending blood and treasure on distant missions when the home front is beset with acute problems.We are at the threshold of a new era where the textbook definition of war becomes archaic, as vindictive geopolitical partners turn to trade, finance, migration, pandemics, climate change, and the Internet. This is not war as we knew it nor is it the peace we long for. Alas, the world has entered an age of perpetual competition among powerful states.How far India is equipped to navigate this tempestuous era becomes the moot point. Europeans seem to be adjusting to the reality that America cannot reclaim its leading role on the world stage until it heals its internal wounds. But in India, an influential section of opinion is still full of nostalgia for the ‘unipolar moment’. They refuse to see the bold writing on the wall that the Biden administration is pursuing a ‘foreign policy for the middle class’, firmly anchored in a deeply divided domestic sphere — and the ranks advocating increased international engagement are depleting rapidly.Of course, the end of the ‘forever war’ in Afghanistan will not mean that the US intervention in that unhappy land has concluded. The US is retooling in order to re-establish its say over Afghanistan. This time around, it will be by manipulating frozen funds, aid flows and access to the dollar. Surely, the confrontation between the great powers is going to be the main point of US policies.The two speeches by Biden — on August 16, where he commented on the circumstances surrounding the completion of the US mission in Afghanistan, and his statement on September 1 justifying the rationale behind his decision to end the ‘forever war’ — have presented new markers in the US foreign policy. Delhi should prepare for the upcoming Quad summit by rigorously applying these guiding principles that Biden outlined, and by eschewing any false notions of a ‘defining partnership’.This summit should be a sobering moment. Fundamentally, Indians must come to terms with the reality that the ‘unipolar moment’ has become history. The toolkit of military-political instruments used in that bygone era for achieving foreign policy goals (from armed intervention to ‘colour revolutions’) are being put away in the attic. Superficially, this may appear to be a positive shift. But what is about to follow is a brutal geopolitical competition. The US is resorting to artificial insemination of an unyielding world order with an ideological content — democracy versus autocracy — in order to ease the formation of blocs and the restructuring of international politics. India should steer clear of the US’ rites of passage.Biden basically announced that America would focus on itself and its problems to ensure its own security and fight strategic rivals (China and Russia), and has no more use for a transformational approach to change the world on a global scale. Indian policymakers and strategic community must understand that the US is switching to openly selfish policies geared exclusively to itself with rules being pushed aside.Thus, AUKUS enables the US to steal France’s whopping $90 billion submarine deal with Australia. France is livid. Foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian condemned Australia’s passive acquiescence to America’s pitiless break-in and the burglary as a ‘stab in the back.’ He said, ‘This brutal, unilateral and unpredictable decision reminds me a lot of what Mr Trump used to do. I am angry and bitter. This isn’t done between allies.’ Indeed, if this can be done to allies, what awaits ‘partners’ like India shouldn’t be hard to divine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quad-gets-a-stepbrother-313439
