21-09-2021||Sociologist||The obsession with ranking||IT is obvious that a hyper-competitive world cannot imagine itself without the practice of ranking, grading, measuring and hierarchising. It abhors the idea that something can be immeasurable; instead, it seeks to measure everything, be it beauty, intelligence and development. This fascination with numbers and measurable scales does not spare even the domain of education. No wonder, we rank different streams of knowledge; we quantify the level of ‘productivity’— the statistics of publications, citation index, awards and prizes, or the employability of students; we rank schools, colleges and universities. Nothing can be unique with its qualitatively distinctive character, struggles, contradictions and possibilities. Everything has to be seen as just a number to be measured through a uniform scale. Mathematics triumphs; and nuanced ways of seeing the specificity of a learning community disappear. For instance, as the scale developed by the National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF) in 2021 suggests, whereas the score of IIT-Madras is 86.76, the score of Banaras Hindu University is 63.10. Is there something abnormal in this certainty of numbers?Move around the campuses of Jamia Millia Islamia, Visva Bharati or JNU. An environment of fear, doubt and suspicion is palpable.It is important to debunk the absurdity of this practice of ranking. Is it possible to say that the score of Walt Whitman is 9.4 and that of Rabindranath Tagore is 8.8? Is it possible to evaluate the impact of a professor of philosophy and a professor of bio-technology through the same scale? Are the Indian Institute of Science and JNU supposed to serve the same function? And if placement agencies do not show much interest in liberal arts and humanities, should it mean that the relevance of academic pursuits has to be evaluated through the eyes of the corporate empire? And if a teacher, instead of working on his CV, has dedicated his life to teaching and nurturing generations of students, can this absurd scale measure his relevance? Let us be bold enough to accept it: you cannot measure and rank the pursuit of knowledge and wisdom. Yet, this obsession with ranking goes on because it stimulates our egos, activates our war instinct, encourages brand consciousness, and promotes the rapidly growing publication industry (and any honest insider would admit that barring exceptions, these publications have become mere routinised and dull exercises—almost like mass produced factory products). It is by no means for nurturing ethically sensitive and compassionate seekers of knowledge and wisdom, and transforming universities into ideal sites that show the light of truth to the larger society.Amid this obsession with ranking, what we tend to overlook is the real challenge confronting our universities including the ones which, as far as the NIRF scale is concerned, have scored pretty well. Are we courageous enough to accept that some of our public universities have been severely wounded in recent times? Move around the campuses of Jamia Millia Islamia, Visva Bharati or JNU. You would feel every wall is crying; you would feel intense pain, a sense of loss, and an environment of fear, doubt and suspicion. It is possible that professors publish their papers and attend international conferences; and students write exams and attend convocation ceremonies. However, a university ought to have a soul, or a spirit that nurtures the joy of learning and unlearning, encourages experiments with truth, celebrates academic and cultural pluralism, and above all, loves reflexive/critical/emancipatory thinking. It seems this spirit has been killed. Possibly, the academic bureaucracy has been instructed to see that the discourse of militant nationalism is by no means challenged or debated. As political, cultural and philosophical dissent is criminalised, our public universities are seeing more and more police barricades, and expulsions and suspensions of students and teachers who refuse to follow the ’line’. For instance, even if the NIRF scale certifies JNU as one of the ‘top ranking’ universities, the fact is that it is a wounded place. Is there any scale for measuring this wound?Think of yet another crisis that emanates from the discourse of neoliberalism. The instrumental logic of market-driven profit is colonising the domain of education. As a result, it is thought that universities have to be ‘productive’ and ‘useful’; young students must be provided with the kind of skills that can transform them into potential employees the corporate empire is looking for. It causes two damages. First, it kills the idea of a university that embraces diverse and multiple knowledge traditions—say, philosophy, theology, music, physics, mathematics, history, literature, or creative arts; and sees beyond the techno-corporate notion of ‘utility’. Second, it makes a fundamental mistake by confusing the purpose of education with just skill learning; in a way, it dismisses critical pedagogy—a practice of teaching/learning that makes us reflect on the discourse of power and the aberrations of the status quo, and inspires us to imagine and strive for alternatives. It is sad that the onslaught of neoliberal discourse has begun to affect the nature of curriculum, culture of learning and interpersonal relationships in our universities—particularly, in fancy private universities and institutes of technology and management.See the world we are living in. Here is a grossly uneven world brutalised by all sorts of violence, be it the violence of global capitalism or the violence of Talibanisation of consciousness. Here is a ‘risk society’ with massive ecological crisis, and constant threats of war, terrorism, emission from nuclear reactors and all sorts of health hazards. Under these circumstances, is it possible to imagine a new idea of a university—ecological, holistic, egalitarian and meaningfully cosmopolitan?Are the experts of the NIRF capable of celebrating this imagination?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-obsession-with-ranking-313933
21-09-2021||Former Regional Officer||Himalayan crisis looms large in Lahaul valley||In October last year, the Lahaul valley of Himachal Pradesh was thrown open to the rest of India. The Prime Minister inaugurated the Atal Tunnel at Rohtang, thereby opening the valley which until then had remained cut off from the outside world for nearly six months every year. It was a game-changer and a moment of celebration for the local population. The joie de vivre was, however, short-lived. The residents are now concerned about their survival.The disquiet originates from the recent approval for the construction of many hydropower projects in the valley. There are fears that the fate of Lahaul will be similar to that of Uttarakhand and Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, given the similar terrain, fragile strata and ecology.These fears are not entirely unfounded as the tragedies due to disasters are increasingly occurring in the Himalayan states, claiming lives and causing hardships. The warning bells are ringing loud and clear in the Lahaul valley and the future looks uncertain and ominous.Who can forget the Kedarnath floods of 2013 that reportedly killed at least 5,000 people? In the aftermath of the Kedarnath disaster, the Supreme Court halted the development of hydroelectric projects in Uttarakhand, pending a review by the Ministry of Environment. The Chopra Committee set up by the ministry later concluded that 23 of the 24 projects proposed would have an ‘irreversible impact’ on the ecology of the region. Similar events, albeit with variable impacts, have been a regular occurrence in Uttarakhand, including Chamoli district, where a massive ice and rock avalanche killed over 70 people in February this year.On August 11, a landslide occurred at Nugalsari in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, killing at least 28 people, all buried under the debris, including passengers travelling in a state transport bus and a couple of cars. A similar accident in Batseri, also in Kinnaur, happened when big boulders fell on a tourist bus killing nine people, including eight tourists.Such events are both unprecedented and highly dangerous. A fallout of human activity, they are taking place without any warning, and in greater frequency. Tragically, these events not only kill people indiscriminately but also bring untold misery and economic disaster for the simple and hardworking people living in peace and harmony with nature.Why are these happening so regularly and what are the root causes? Can these be warning signals for the Lahaul valley? The major reasons include the construction of hydroelectric power projects and unscientific road expansion. According to the Geological Survey of India, indiscriminate blasting of mountains to build infrastructure and highways has, by destabilising the earth’s soft strata, rendered the fragile areas more susceptible to landslides and floods.The construction of these projects in the Lahaul valley has become lucrative to the private sector as transporting of heavy machinery has now become easier thanks to the opening of the Atal Tunnel. There is widespread concern among people in the valley that these hydropower projects if implemented will adversely disturb the fragile and pristine ecosystem with grave consequences for the local population.Clearly, these are man-made tragedies and have similarities in their root causes. Experts identify them as insufficient risk management when commissioning the developmental projects and undervaluation of environmental costs in decision-making, as well as climate change.Considering the gravity of the situation, the Himachal High Court had appointed the one-man Shukla Committee over a decade ago to study the issue at the ground level. The committee, in its report, recommended an immediate moratorium on the construction of new hydroelectric projects in Himachal Pradesh, in particular Lahaul-Spiti. Despite this, there has not been any follow up on the Commission’s recommendations and the hydropower projects continue to be approved and commissioned.What is the way forward? The first step is to realise that these hydropower projects are a threat to ecology and humans. Therefore, disasters and tragedies, including in places such as the newly opened Lahaul-Spiti district, having a similar topography and vulnerabilities, must be prevented at all costs.While renewable energy remains a high priority for India, as articulated by the Prime Minister recently, sources such as solar, wind and hydrogen should be exploited rather than hydroelectric power. The governments must ensure that the people are placed ahead of profit.Moreover, Lahaul-Spiti is blessed with abundant sun and wind energy sources spread across an area of 11,000 sq km. As a global leader in solar energy, India should make maximum use of these enormous renewable energy sources. It’s high time the state government too recognises this potential and revisits its over-dependence on hydropower projects which, evidence clearly shows, are detrimental to human lives in the hilly terrains. In view of all this, various hydroelectric power projects should be halted immediately.Secondly, the construction of roads and highways should be designed and carried out using modern technology that is eco-friendly and not based on blasting, which destabilises the earth’s strata in the Himalayas.Thirdly, applied research is needed to assess the risks and the population’s vulnerability to development projects; monitor ecological changes going forward; and identify appropriate local and policy-based mitigation measures, The role of social institutions and communities is critical in this regard.Finally, in the interconnected and interdependent world that we live in today, the quality of our lives and our survival depend entirely on water, air, food etc. Any destruction of our environment in the name of development will only be at the expense of our ecology and human welfare. We should adopt development models that put people’s health and well-being before economic progress and profit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/himalayan-crisis-looms-large-in-lahaul-valley-313931
21-09-2021||Journalist and Author||US-Pak ties at the crossroads after Afghanistan pullout||With the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, the future scope and substance of the US-Pakistan relationship, an important consequential past engagement from the regional perspective, is again at the crossroads and a subject of wider discussion.In the recent testimony before the Congress on the Taliban victory in Afghanistan, US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said, “Pakistan has a 'multiplicity of interests, [with] some that are in conflict with ours. It is one that is involved hedging its bets constantly about the future of Afghanistan, it’s one that’s involved harbouring members of the Taliban...It is one that's also involved in different points [of] cooperation with us on counterterrorism’.”Even before Blinken’s recent testimony, there had been much speculation within Pakistan on the US sidelining the country in the midst of important developments in Afghanistan, including the Taliban takeover of the country. The US’ cold-shouldering has left the Pakistani national security apparatus perplexed.President Biden has had no direct communication with Pakistan PM Imran Khan, as of now. In a much-reported interview, which was considered as a veiled threat, National Security Adviser (NSA) Moeed Yusuf had told the Financial Times that Pakistan had other options if US President Joe Biden continued to ignore the country’s leadership.On September 19, Imran Khan reportedly moderated the criticism by saying that Biden was being unfairly criticised for withdrawing troops from Afghanistan, though he added that he wasn’t sure whether the US had any coherent policy on what it was going to do in the war-ravaged country. He also informed that the security chiefs of the US and Pakistan keep exchanging views about Afghanistan.Much of the Pakistani military prowess owes to the US military support. Even though Pakistan has started importing Chinese weaponry in a big way, its US-bought weaponry is, by all expert accounts, of superior quality and often determining.In the India-Pakistan military confrontation after the February 14, 2019, Pulwama attack, Pakistan had deployed the US-made F-16s during the aerial dogfight against the Indian Air Force, which put to use the Russian-made MiG-21 Bison. It was a Pakistani F-16 that had brought down the MiG-21 being flown by Indian pilot Abhinandan Varthaman on February 27, 2019.The first stock of F-16s reached Pakistan in 1981. The year almost coincides with the start of the Afghan jihad that involved massive US financial and military supply to the mujahideen through Pakistan to evict the Soviet Union.In the 1980s, the scale of the US attention on Pakistan can be gauged from the fact that Pakistan Television (PTV) had become the geopolitical manifestation of this alliance as the air waves broadcast a heavy dose of US entertainment along with programmes in Urdu, along with the government-sponsored Islamisation drive in Pakistan, which were watched by mass audiences.Every evening, PTV News, which was watched by the Indian audience along the border areas because of the high-quality Urdu plays, displayed shots of the mujahideen fighting the Soviets in Afghanistan. PTV also had some of the best US programming, such as Sesame Street, aired in Pakistan in English in the late 1980s and early 1990s, the televised version of the famous novel of Alex Haley, Roots: The Saga of an American Family, which gave viewers an interesting and vivid exposure to the brutal history of the slave trade and struggles of the African-American community in the US from the 18th-century until the present.This heavy dose of US entertainment was going on simultaneously with and at the end of the then dictator Gen Zia ul-Haq’s government-sponsored Islamisation drive in Pakistan, which ended with Zia's mysterious death in 1988. In fact, his Islamisation drive and US entertainment often had their own followers even within the same family, as it was mostly the urban, English-knowing families who could understand shows like Full House (which went on air at the tail-end of the Islamisation drive).There was no contradiction between the two parallel trends at the time because of the political alignment between America and Pakistan and even with the Muslim world at large.The Soviet Union’s withdrawal from Afghanistan, which was completed on February 15, 1989, brought an end to the US financial and military support to Pakistan. By the second half of the 1990s, India, with dividends of Manmohan Singh's 1991 economic reforms clearly visible, became the prime focus of the US in South Asia.In the 1990s, Pakistan got re-engulfed in the perennial battle of supremacy between the civilian side and military establishment, with the continuing proliferation of J&K-centric radical groups and support to the same taking place in the background. The 9/11 attacks brought back Pakistan on the US radar as military assistance from the US re-started, including the supply of new F-16s in 2005 and huge military aid in different phases, as Pakistan became an important multi-purpose US base in its war against terror in neighbouring Afghanistan.Now with the Afghanistan mission over and the far-from-satisfactory experience of cooperating with Pakistani military in the last 20 years, there is not much left for the US in the relationship. Because of some issues, Pakistan may remain on the US radar.First, the US counter-terrorism abilities in Afghanistan mainly hinge on drone capability, though the information has often proved to be faulty. Previously, the bases for drone attacks in Afghanistan were in Pakistan’s Balochistan province. Imran Khan has stated that it will never provide the US the bases as the Pakistani public is against such a move. For now, the US may maintain some channels with the Pakistani army to exploit it in the future.Second, the Pakistan State’s continuing obsession with Kashmir is catalytic for radicalising a section of its youth and this trend is now seen as a source of threat to the western assets. In the recent past, a number of cells of J&K-centric militant outfits have been on the radar of the western world, a prime reason for the Paris-based Financial Action Task Force (FATF) retaining Pakistan on its ‘grey list’. While China, Pakistan’s main regional partner, can ignore the reality to some extent because of its controlled political system and limited inflow of civilians from Pakistan, this luxury is not enjoyed by the relatively freer western countries.Therefore, as the US and Pakistan make a new start by factoring in the past lessons, regional ramifications require proactive attention and follow-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/us-pak-ties-at-the-crossroads-after-afghanistan-pullout-313932
