22-09-2021||---||Perception gap plagues crime control in UP||THE common perception of justice at the police station level seems vastly different from what is examined by the constitutional courts in India. One is guided by local expediency, while the other favours strict adherence to a regimen of colonial-origin laws, interpreted in accordance with our Constitution.Chief Justice of India NV Ramana recently emphasised that Indianisation of our legal system was the need of the hour, “When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and localise our justice delivery systems.” He cited language barriers and lengthy judgments to highlight his point.Be that as it may, the sum and substance would be that certain hardened elements impeding consensus at the two ends are such as if there were two alternative texts while applying the same legal provisions.Illustrating the dilemma are the often-repeated claims of the UP Chief Minister of running the best policed state in the country. This is going to be the key argument during the forthcoming campaign for the Assembly elections, as was noticed in the speeches delivered at an event in Aligarh recently. The Prime Minister started where the CM had left off, devoting a substantial part of his speech at the foundation stone-laying ceremony of a university to praising the robustness of Yogi’s crime-control methods.It has been claimed that in the four years of Yogi’s rule, the UP police have been relentless against bad elements, with the number of police encounters shooting up to touch the unprecedented figure of 3,300.The claim belies simple crime-control logic — in a better-policed regime, there would be fewer retaliations against law and order agencies and, hence, fewer encounters. Worse is that the UP encounters mostly seemed to follow a standard script named ‘langra encounter’: the target ending up with a bullet wound around his knee.Uttar Pradesh tops in murders, kidnappings, caste atrocities and cyber crimes and ranks second in rapes in the country, according to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report.The state also gained notoriety when it withdrew Muzaffarnagar communal riot cases during trial and enacted communally sensitive laws, ostensibly to curb deceitful religious conversion and love jihad. Muslims periodically face a coercive enforcement of such laws by Hindutva vigilante groups.Can there be a balancing act around some of the contentious issues in everyday law and order policing affecting citizens, such as arrests, complicity, inaction, insensitivity, harassment, brutality, encounters, which have given rise to the most glaring controversies in recent times?To be fair to the perspective of the common people, the idea of justice usually falters or succeeds at the police station level itself, having been put to the test on the parameters of accessibility and momentum. The rest of the legal journey for them becomes an expensive and exhausting wait.Within a couple of weeks, the UP police have twice received harsh directions from the Allahabad High Court to run training courses for correcting the serious fault lines of their investigating officers. Several aspects related to the application of law, collection and evaluation of evidence and presentation of the police report under Section 173 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) were adversely noticed, with senior officers being in collusion. The high court even noted that weapons were not recovered by the UP Police, but planted.On September 15, a Bench headed by the acting Chief Justice of the court addressed the UP DGP face to face on the two-year-old matter of death by hanging of a 15-year-old girl student in a Mainpuri school. “Despite the seriousness shown by the Court to the case and the manner of investigation, coupled with direction against the defaulting police officer, no follow-up action has been taken. Rather, the matter is not being briefed to the Director-General of Police, Uttar Pradesh, to know the sensitivity of the case,” the order said.Earlier, on August 29, another Bench of the high court had directed the DGP to issue a circular/order informing all investigating officers through their respective superintendents of police and ensure that they were given periodic training on the manner in which investigations were to be carried out in view of the Supreme Court's Prakash Singh ruling.But why such a training would not make any difference should not be a great puzzle. If you are repeatedly exposed to the same redundant traditions, you are only cementing those beliefs.The booming ‘encounter’ culture in UP is presented, qualifying both as accessible and momentous justice, with a substantial amount of social support. Amidst the boastful administrative claims, there seems to be an impregnable social balance with this routine that mocks the rule of law. The Vikas Dube case came closest to judicial scrutiny and the enquiry committee ended up supporting the official version. It was hard to bypass the common sense working against a desperate cop killer.The 2014 landmark case on safeguards against automatic arrests and remands, Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar, was recently re-visited by the apex court to rule that it would be applicable even if no crime was registered. “As a matter of fact, summoning the person without there being any crime registered against him and detaining him would itself be violative of basic principles,” the court observed.How will this doctrine fare in terms of the popular notion of accessibility and momentum? In other words, will it be adapted in the process of Indianisation of the legal system at the police station level? UP, because of its polarised plurality and dubious counter-claims of crime control, could be a churning pot for acknowledging and bridging the perception gap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/perception-gap-plagues-crime-control-in-up-314334
22-09-2021||---||To succeed, the bad bank must itself be good||NOW that the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL), popularly known as the bad bank, is getting off the mark with a government guarantee for the bonds it floats to pay banks, attention will focus on how it can be well constituted and run so that it can do the job for which it has been created. It has been conjured up to take over the large bad debts of banks so that they can, in a way, start with a clean slate and henceforth stick to sound lending.A bad bank is a misnomer. It is a good financial institution floated for the purpose of taking over bad loans and extracting some juice out of them which the original lender will not have the expertise or application to deliver.It is effectively a government-floated asset reconstruction company meant primarily to take over the already written down NPAs of banks. (The existing ARCs are doing the same job for all lending institutions). It will pay for those discounted assets partly in cash and partly in security deposits for which a secondary market will be created. Once a bank gets rid of a good chunk of its non-performing loans, it will be able to go ahead with a far cleaner slate and concentrate on making fresh loans.The NARCL will be judged on the basis of how quickly and how well it can get resolved the assets (impaired bank loans) that it takes over. That will depend on what kind of terms it is able to offer to the banks whose non-performing loans it is acquiring.As an economic recovery is under way and banks again have customers before them seeking accommodation, banks must be able to garner the necessary resources to go in for fresh lending. One way of doing this will be to pass on bad loans to asset reconstruction companies (those that buy up bad loans) at a discount and who will then seek to get the best value for those loans out of the resolution process.Now that a bad bank is on the way, the primary task before the government has to be to ensure that it meets with a fair degree of success in performing the task assigned. If a bad bank becomes a troubled institution which is unable to maintain a balance between its assets and liabilities, then that will be highly unfortunate.For a bad bank to succeed, the government must take steps to ensure that the regulatory environment allows it to discharge its functions with some speed and a bearable cost to itself.The government has taken the first step towards this by putting in place the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code which seeks to speed up the resolution of non-performing assets so that the creditors get, in reasonable time, something out of the loans they had made after taking haircuts.The IBC has so far done better than earlier institutional arrangements created for the same purpose but there is still a long way to go. The resolution processes need to be shortened, it has to be ensured that appeals to higher levels are not routinely used as a delaying tactic by the erstwhile promoters of the companies gone bust, and these promoters do not seek to stage a comeback via proxy bids.The least the government should do is to promptly fill the many vacancies on the tribunals that are the forum for the resolution process to be played out. Vacancies in many tribunals, over which the Supreme Court has lately been greatly exercised, have become a glaring shortcoming of the government.It also goes without saying that the personnel who man the bad bank have to be above par so that they can do a better job of finding takers for troubled loans with some speed and not at throwaway prices. The first chief executive of the bad bank is a former senior official of a leading public sector bank.It is to be earnestly hoped that the bad bank does not become a case of old wine in new bottle. It is also necessary to realise that the bank must be able to access the services of good resolution professionals who are already assisting the IBC process.The government has to be very clear that a bad bank, once created, should not go on forever. The international experience is that a bad bank is created after a financial system becomes burdened with an overload of non-performing assets owing to some exceptional macroeconomic developments, then it does its job with some success and thereafter it is wound up.A bad bank was created in the US by Melon Bank in the late eighties. The same institutional setup was brought into play in Sweden after its banking crisis of 1992. And again in the US, Citigroup and the Bank of America went in for such a setup after the sub-prime mortgage collapse of 2008. Ireland did the same in 2009.The hallmark of a successful bad bank is that it is able to dispose of at a profit within a limited period of time the troubled assets that it had accumulated and thereafter winds itself up while giving its promoters a profit.The final point that needs to be made is that the government must change the way it runs the financial institutions it owns. If large loans are made on the basis of phone calls from senior politicians and civil servants whose signals senior managers follow for the good of their careers, then there is no hope.One set of bad loans will give birth to one bad bank which will do its job and get wound up. Then, come the next financial crisis, the whole process will have to be repeated.That is why it is probably sensible for the present government to want to privatise or merge most of the public sector financial institutions and retain control over just a few which can perform the role needed during a situation when national security considerations must be allowed play.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/to-succeed-the-bad-bank-must-itself-be-good-314333
22-09-2021||---||Anxious over AUKUS||ON September 15, Australia, the US and the UK announced a historic trilateral alliance which has the potential to significantly impact the geopolitical landscape in the Indo-Pacific theatre. The new alliance among three Anglo-Saxon partners commits the US and the UK to enable Australia to join just a handful of countries that deploy nuclear submarines and the only one which is not a nuclear weapon power. Australia’s initial fleet of eight nuclear submarines will greatly enhance its force projection capabilities, strengthen its deterrence against a major threat and, together with the associated advanced missile, cyber and aerospace capabilities included in the agreement, give the country an overtly offensive strike capability. While this does not make Australia a nuclear weapon state, it makes the acquisition of such capability in the future potentially easier. Other nuclear capable states such as Japan and South Korea will be less inhibited after this to go in for nuclear propulsion systems for their submarine fleets. The US has broken a long held nuclear taboo and this will have consequences.Questions will be raised about the relationship between AUKUS and Quad — one is built on legal commitments and the other is a loosely structured partnership. The US and Australia are already military allies in the Australia, New Zealand and US Security Treaty (ANZUS). The Triple Alliance brings the UK back into the Indo-Pacific but its role is to contribute to Australia’s nuclear submarine capability. Along with the US, UK’s inclusion is driven more by its post-Brexit effort to project a ‘global Britain’. It will not be a significant military partner. France has island territories in the Indo-Pacific and has deployed its naval forces in the region. It has a much better claim to be an Indo-Pacific power than the UK but for the present, its anger at having lost a deal worth $100 billion for the supply of diesel submarines to Australia makes it unlikely that it will become part of the new security arrangement in the foreseeable future. But its inclusion in the arrangement would be logical and would add to the credibility of the alliance.The target of the alliance is China which has been adding to its naval capabilities at an unprecedented rate in the past two decades. It has acquired a substantial nuclear submarine fleet armed with long-range nuclear missiles. It has a true second strike capability. This is China’s home fleet unlike the US naval forces deployed in the Indo-Pacific. Australia’s much augmented naval capability will also be in the nature of a home fleet and that is an important advantage.China must shoulder the blame for driving Australia into undertaking this historic shift in its national security strategy. For the past few years, China has treated Australia with contempt and inflicting significant commercial damage on it. Just a few years back, Australia projected itself as one of the most reliable partners of China in the region, with an expanding and complementary economic and commercial relationship. Several members of Australia’s strategic community and leading political figures advised a certain distancing from the US as a corollary of the growing partnership with China. Today, there are few takers for this line. There is no serious opposition to the latest initiative, despite the important departure it represents in Australia’s national security strategy. The country has signed on to the American containment strategy against China. The US has been able to sweeten the deal by a major upgradation of Australia’s security profile in the region. It is now the pre-eminent US ally in the Indo-Pacific. This marks the first serious setback to Chinese ambitions in this region. It will raise the risks of any Chinese invasion of Taiwan and make its plans to dominate the regional maritime space more contested than it has been so far.Until the announcement of the alliance, it is Quad, among India, Australia, Japan and the US, which was crystallising as the core of a countervailing coalition to China in the Indo-Pacific. Quad will have its first face-to-face summit in Washington on September 24 and this reflects its continuing upgradation and formalisation. But the alliance having been announced less than 10 days before the summit, there is little doubt that questions will be raised about the relationship between the two security arrangements, one that is built on a set of dense and legal commitments and another which continues to be a loosely structured partnership. Commentary in the US and Australia suggest that they see Quad and the alliance as running on parallel and complementary tracks. Both India and Japan have been muted in their formal response but have informally conveyed their positive assessment of the initiative. The main reason for this is the belief that this is the first serious and substantive push-back to China’s aggressive expansion in the Indo-Pacific. Instead of being the core, Quad is now on the periphery of the countervailing coalition. The forthcoming summit will try to camouflage this through rhetorical flourishes but the reality is compelling.For the US, the alliance seeks to deflect attention from the disastrous withdrawal from Afghanistan and to reinforce the credibility of its ‘pivot to Asia’. Its current preoccupation is to dissuade China from using force to invade Taiwan which would be a major setback to the security interests of US allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific and conversely a huge gain for China. The alliance raises the risk level for China but may precipitate Chinese moves against Taiwan. In Beijing, there may be arguments in favour of an early move precisely because the alliance may, in a decade or less, pose a much bigger challenge to China than it is in its early phase when building blocks are still being put in place. It will take time for the new submarines to be built and an elaborate infrastructure and command and control system to be put in place. There could be a period of enhanced vulnerability in the meantime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/anxious-over-aukus-314332
