23-09-2021||---||Congress keen to snap at BJP’s heels in UP, Gujarat||IN a slow and steady manner, Rahul Gandhi is putting in place a game plan of sorts for the revival of the Congress and a strategy for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. It is, however, jarring that Rahul seems in no hurry to settle the Congress leadership issue.Like a chess player, Rahul is trying to match the BJP strategy square by square. If the Narendra Modi-led BJP is betting on caste aspirations, Rahul sprang a surprise by appointing a Scheduled Caste leader as the CM in Punjab. The media narrative of a potential post-poll tussle between Punjab Congress unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is not only highly speculative but also misses the vital point of an incumbent Congress government returning to power. Also, the political dividends of empowering leaders from socially weaker sections outside Punjab — Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh — are sought to be underplayed. Most psephologists feel the Congress’ move to appoint an SC chief minister has a pan-India appeal.However, the manner in which Rahul and Modi recently replaced chief ministers in Punjab and Gujarat, respectively, has raised several issues about how parliamentary democracy is practised. While it is true that during the rule of Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi, chief ministers were often toppled and changed without consulting the ruling party’s MLAs, Modi and Rahul avoided making even a pretence of it. Events in Gandhinagar were not only unfair to Nitin Patel but also to 22 others who had been elected twice, thrice or four times to the Gujarat Assembly to make a legitimate claim to ministerial berths. Theoretically speaking, why should voters be re-electing their MLAs if they cannot make it to the council of ministers?In Punjab, the proceedings were more haphazard. In August, Sidhu had repeatedly flaunted the support of 60-odd Congress MLAs when Capt Amarinder Singh was the CM. But less than a month later, Sidhu’s show of strength was nowhere to be acknowledged. The Congress central observers and party leadership struggled to find Capt Amarinder’s successor as the outgoing chief minister had a singular demand of denying Sidhu the top post.Caste as a crucial factor in politics is nothing new. But when a popular prime minister looks for caste-based consolidation in his home state, it makes a telling commentary on the tall talk of development, ideology and organisational effectiveness. Gujarat is seen as Modi’s turf, an RSS laboratory which lacks an effective Opposition. Therefore, the prospects of Modi opting for a weak and pliable chief minister in other BJP-ruled states are bleak because of caste considerations. Take Madhya Pradesh, for instance, where three-time CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan is at the helm of affairs. Hailing from the OBC (other backward classes) community, Chouhan has remained a low-key, performing chief minister. There are a number of BJP leaders eyeing Chouhan’s chair, but invariably most contenders -- Narottam Mishra, VD Sharma, Rakesh Singh, Narendra Singh Tomar and Kailash Vijayvargiya -- hail from the upper castes of Brahmin-Rajput-Bania castes.In Rahul’s assessment, all is not well for the BJP in Gujarat. The former Congress president who is the de facto head of the party wishes to play a high-stakes, winner-takes-all game in Modi-Shah’s home state. The rationale is that once the BJP is humbled in Gujarat, it would signal its downfall across the country. Behind the scenes, Rahul and his core team are eyeing the young voters. Hardik Patel, working president of Gujarat Congress, is a key figure, while Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani is set to join the Congress along with Kanhaiya Kumar, a firebrand student leader. Rahul, party insiders say, continues to be unabashed about promoting left-of-centre leaders and ideology, an uncomfortable turf for the old guard, the G-23 dissenters, and others in the grand old party.Rahul’s strategy for Gujarat has a possible solution to the impasse in Rajasthan, where CM Ashok Gehlot is at loggerheads with Sachin Pilot. Recently, Rahul had a long meeting with Pilot, though much of the conversation focused on Gujarat rather than Rajasthan. Apparently, Rahul has promised to address Pilot’s demands in Rajasthan, such as an expansion of the Gehlot cabinet (to accommodate Pilot’s supporters), if Pilot takes charge of the party for the Gujarat polls. The post of AICC general secretary in charge of Gujarat has been lying vacant since the death of Rajiv Satav in May 2021. Rahul is also keen to resolve the ongoing tussle between Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and state Health Minister TS Singhdeo. Baghel belongs to the OBC caste, a factor which is perhaps helping him cling on the CM’s chair.In Rahul’s scheme of things, winning Punjab and Uttarakhand is top priority. In Uttar Pradesh, the Congress plans to focus on 100-odd seats (out of 403) and somehow deny Yogi Adityanath a chance to retain power. This may appear to be a mirage as of now, but Congress leaders are counting on the Akhilesh Yadav-Jayant Chaudhury combine in western UP. The Congress is unlikely to have any alliance, but could work on a tacit understanding with the Samajwadi Party, the Rashtriya Lok Dal and a few smaller parties.Overall, the Congress strategy is to somehow tame the BJP in Uttar Pradesh or Gujarat or both, accentuate the caste factor, and keep raising issues that hurt Modi the most. The Congress organisational revamp can wait till the end of the Gujarat polls, when a formal, full five-year term of the 88th president of the AICC will be up for grabs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/congress-keen-to-snap-at-bjps-heels-in-up-gujarat-314868
23-09-2021||---||Shift in the vaccination policy is apparent||TWO closely watched indices that boomed in India last week were the Sensex and the Covid-19 vaccination charts. Both breached their respective records and brought some cheer to the people. While the stock market rally may have been a result of a multitude of external and internal stimuli, the peaking of vaccination records was planned to coincide with the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Nearly 2.5 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered across the country, surpassing the past peaks of 1 crore doses given on a single day.The number is impressive, given the issues relating to supplies from the two vaccine manufacturers since the vaccination drive began in January this year and the challenge of ensuring that every adult Indian gets two doses each. India's is one of the largest adult vaccination drives, and the achievement recorded on September 17 was the biggest such effort, barring China which reported a similar vaccination peak in recent months. It is a notable public health success during the pandemic, considering that the process of vaccine development began barely 18 months ago.The vaccination peak, however, has got politicised like everything else during the pandemic. A giant cake shaped like a vaccine syringe was cut in Bhopal, while sweets were distributed in many vaccination centres during the day. The opposition Congress party sarcastically wished that the Prime Minister celebrated his birthday more often so that India could reach its vaccination target fast. In return, the Prime Minister took a jibe, saying his opponents caught fever due to the vaccination achievement recorded on his birthday. In this political diatribe, serious issues relating to the vaccination got buried.Any rise in the vaccination numbers should be welcomed as a step towards the goal of achieving population-level immunity against Covid-19. The task at hand is so immense that peaks and troughs are going to be a part of the process. Normally, any peak in vaccination numbers should be a function of supplies and other factors like the preparedness of the health system.The vaccine supply has been improving, so it should reflect a corresponding rise in the vaccination numbers. But the rise can't be so sudden. In the case of some states, the number on September 17 rose as much as by 15 times. The peak appears to be orchestrated and managed because there was no unexpected increase in the supply. The states that reported great numbers of September 17 had vaccinated much lower numbers on preceding days and also on days that followed the peak.Either there was a mysterious jump in vaccine production which got converted into massive supplies only on September 17 or some states were told to stock up for the big day for the sake of record-making.Another reason that raises suspicion is the sharp division between the states’ party lines. Most BJP-ruled states reported impressive numbers, while the Opposition-ruled states lagged. Since the Union Ministry of Health is tasked with the allocation of vaccines to the states, it needs to explain if it is being partisan towards the states ruled by a particular party.The Health Ministry has neither revealed the rationale behind the epidemiological reasons for making the peak happen on September 17 nor has it made public if there will be more such planned peaks in future.The Prime Minister, however, hinted on September 18 that the vaccination drive was linked to the economic stimulus for the tourism sector. This explains why Himachal Pradesh and Goa have completed the first dose vaccination of all eligible adults, and are opening up their tourist spots. Other destinations like Sikkim, Andaman & Nicobar, Kerala, Ladakh and Uttarakhand were not far behind, the Prime Minister said, while announcing other economic measures like loans to tourist guides. According to him, such prioritisation was not talked about earlier because ‘there would have been politics on it’.The statement shows that the government is using criteria other than the availability of vaccines and public health needs to fix prioritisation for vaccination.There may be other undisclosed factors as well because if the tourism potential of a state decides vaccine supplies to them, then Kerala and Rajasthan — among the biggest tourist attractions for domestic and foreign tourists — must get priority. We also don’t know if other sectors of the economy are going to be prioritised for vaccination.The record achieved last week and rumours of more such single-day drives mark an apparent shift in the government’s vaccination policy. Till now, the Health Ministry had never talked about organising special days of vaccination. If the expert opinion is that the programme will be more successful in a campaign mode like the National Immunisation Days for polio and childhood vaccines, they should come out with a plan.Clarity is also needed if the health agencies are comfortable allowing political workers to mobilise people for vaccination, as happened last week. Special events like designated immunisation days and weeks help in the mobilisation of people for vaccination, and the health system can implement such organised events with preparation.The health system has delivered great results in the past on such days. India’s record has been far more impressive for childhood vaccines. Over 17 crore doses of polio vaccine were administered on a single day in 2011.In public interest, the Health Ministry and scientific agencies like the ICMR must reveal all the factors that are governing the vaccination drive and the course it is going to take. The states must be treated as partners in this process, and not mere recipients of Central help.The vaccination drive is picking up steam with a boost to vaccine production. At the same time, the government plans to resume the Vaccine Maitri programme.It is the job of the Health Ministry and professional public health experts to run the immunisation programme in a scientific, rational and transparent manner. At any cost, it should be kept above politics and not linked with individuals or political parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/shift-in-the-vaccination-policy-is-apparent-314867
23-09-2021||---||Yet another US alliance||THE annual UN General Assembly deliberations are currently in progress in New York and PM Modi will address the global body on September 25. US President Joe Biden made his maiden appearance at the UN on September 21) and identified the Indo-Pacific as one of the most consequential regions in the world, and that under his leadership, Quad had been ‘elevated’ to a summit-level dialogue. Such a meeting among the four members took place in early March but in the virtual mode.For India, a cost-benefit analysis about what constitutes the abiding national interest is imperative.The first in-person summit of Quad (US, Japan, India and Australia) will be held on September 24 in Washington. The meeting of this dialogue forum comes in the wake of a radical announcement regarding the creation of a new trilateral security alliance — AUKUS — that brings together Australia, the UK and the US.The AUKUS initiative was a surprise development and the reason it is radical is that at its core is the Biden decision to enable Australia to acquire nuclear-propelled submarines. Traditionally the US has been reluctant to part with such nuclear technology after the exception it had made in 1958 in relation to its major trans-Atlantic alliance partner — the UK.The AUKUS issue was further compounded by the fact that Australia, in acquiring the nuclear boats, had to cancel a contract with France which had signed a lucrative multi-billion-dollar deal to supply conventional submarines to Canberra. France and China have reacted sharply to AUKUS. Paris has accused the Anglo-Saxon group of ‘stabbing it in the back’, and in an unprecedented move, has recalled its ambassadors from the US and Australia. For now, it appears that the US-led western alliance has been jolted, with France expressing its anger at the betrayal of trust by its principal NATO partner.The Chinese foreign ministry spokesman tweeted that nuclear submarine cooperation among the US, UK and Australia ‘severely undermines regional peace & stability, intensifies arms race and undercuts intl non-proliferation efforts’ and added that this is ‘highly irresponsible and shows double standards on using nuclear export for geopolitical games.’ The Chinese English language daily Global Times was more vitriolic and in a harsh editorial warned Canberra: ‘Australia has turned itself into an adversary of China....if Australia dares to provoke China more blatantly or even find fault militarily, China will certainly punish it with no mercy.’What do the forthcoming Quad summit and the mini-storm created by AUKUS mean for India in the long run by way of its core national interests and current global orientation?On September 21, Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla clarified that in relation to Quad and AUKUS, the two are ‘not groupings of a similar nature’ and added that since India is not party to the trilateral AUKUS, the latter is ‘neither relevant nor will it have any impact on Quad.’It was reiterated that whereas AUKUS is a nascent security alliance, Quad remains a ‘plurilateral grouping of like-minded countries that have a shared vision of their attributes and values.’While this elucidation of the Indian position is prudent and familiar — namely that Quad is not directed against any other country — the unstated allusion to China is evident. In the March virtual summit of Quad, there was no explicit reference to China and neither was there a post-event joint statement. Four different statements highlighted the priorities and concerns that each of the Quad members brought to the global table.The emphasis was on the broad spectrum of regional and global challenges that included Covid and climate change, even while upholding the collective commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific predicated on international law as derived from the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and customary practice. The fact that China had chosen to reject this consensus about international law and taken recourse to the unilateral use of force by intimidation has been the major global challenge and differently experienced by the region. Some ASEAN states faced Chinese intimidation in the South China Sea dispute, Australia felt the wrath of Covid-triggered trade turbulence with Beijing, and India’s 2020 Galwan experience where lives were lost are cases in point.Thus while Quad and AUKUS may not have a direct linkage (even while noting that the US and Australia straddle both groups) — the very announcement of intent to make the Royal Australian Navy more technologically capable by way of underwater nuclear propulsion has created deep anxiety and anger in Beijing. From its earlier disparaging remarks that Quad was ‘like foam on the sea that would dissipate’ — China has now become acutely aware of its maritime vulnerability and the reality of the US-led collective resolve to raise the ante and seek adherence to a certain global consensus apropos dispute resolution.It merits repetition that none of the principal interlocutors who are now smarting from the Chinese pinch wish to move towards any kind of military confrontation but subtle suasion through techno-strategic signalling is embedded in the Quad/AUKUS sub-text.While Quad leaders have individually dwelt on the same geopolitical theme, it is expected that this time there would be a joint statement after the summit concludes that would have reference to building global supply chains which would bypass China or reduce its salience. Whether this is feasible in the short-term is moot but geo-technological competition extending across the cyber-space-spectrum-AI continuum is likely to be the critical determinant of the next few decades that will pit the disparate global democratic cluster against what China and its communist leadership represent.India is preparing for its 75th birthday anniversary of Independence in August 2022 and an objective and dispassionate cost-benefit analysis about what constitutes the abiding national interest and where the collective endeavour should be directed is imperative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/yet-another-us-alliance-314866
