24-09-2021||---||Congress’ caste card strewn with challenges||THE Congress has played the caste card in Punjab. In the circumstances it found itself, with the ‘guided’ mess created by Navjot Singh Sidhu, it was the best card it could play after the resignation of Capt Amarinder Singh as CM. It showed the Congress’ experienced hand behind the decision. The touch was different from the way Sidhu, with his phatta-maar politics, was let loose in Punjab.Obviously, the old guard (at the instance of Sonia Gandhi) moved in to control damage. For the moment, it has also managed to curb Sidhu who was becoming uncontrollable. His threat — ‘eent se eent baja doonga’ — if the high command did not give him decision-making powers must have brought home to the Gandhis that they may have bitten more than they could chew.They had wanted to cut down Captain to size. He is out. But the near certainty of six months ago — that the Congress was headed for another term in Punjab — is no longer there. The party then was led by a tall and experienced leader, who, for all his faults — like his lack of access to MLAs — had kept factionalism under check. With the Captain gone, the wranglings are out in the open and were in full play even before Channi had taken oath.Whatever be the electoral outcome in 2022, with Charanjit Singh Channi’s appointment as CM, the Congress has seized the initiative again, at least for the moment. The path is, however, strewn with formidable challenges.The first is to convert the symbolic advantage of fielding a lower caste person into a substantive one. The Congress has an advantage here because the SCs/BCs in Punjab (they add up to 32 per cent, and one-third of them are Sikhs) have voted for the Congress in sizeable numbers in past elections.This will mean creating a sense of confidence amongst the community that Channi is not going to be, as the BJP alleges, a ‘nightwatchman’. For, the other claimants for the SC vote — the Akali Dal-BSP combine, AAP which has been working in the community, and the BJP — are not going to remain quiet.Forget for a moment that Channi’s name was virtually picked out of the hat at the last moment. Ambika Soni ruled out former PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar (when she said she was not taking up the chief-ministership because a Sikh should rule Punjab). Sidhu refused to accept fellow Jat Sikh Sukhjinder Randhawa (now Deputy CM) as CM, even though Randhawa had helped him dethrone the Captain.The rise of a poor Ramdassia candidate as the CM of Punjab for the first time since the creation of the state in 1966 spoke something about our democracy, for all its imperfections.Undoubtedly, his appointment — he belongs to the larger and more endowed Ramdassia community amongst the SCs/BCs — will send its own signal. The elevation of Mayawati as UP CM had empowered the SCs/STs/BCs right down to the thana level, even if it did not improve their economic status vastly.Channi has started off on a good note. He spoke about the poor background he came from, having lived in a mud hut, even pulling a rickshaw, his mother making cowdung cakes. In his penury-to-power story, he saw himself as a ‘representative of the poor’ (than of a caste) and said that caste, creed and colour were irrelevant.Capt Amarinder’s appeal in 2017 lay in being a Jat Sikh (around 25 per cent), getting the support of the Hindus (around 38 per cent) and his ability to take on the powerful, which the Punjabis like. He could even cock a snook at the Congress high command!Channi's appeal lies in his caste credentials. He is not likely to cock a snook at the high command, which is what the Gandhis wanted. The whole exercise was about establishing the supremacy of the high command by cutting down the Captain to size.Now, a more difficult task for the Congress would be to manage the Jat Sikhs who have ruled the state for decades, and think it is their right to do so. This will not just be about preventing a Jat Sikh backlash — and the protesting farmers belong to this category. It will also be about managing the Jat Sikh leaders in the Congress, working at cross purposes: Navjot Sidhu, Sukhjinder Randhawa, and Capt Amarinder Singh, who has not yet opened his cards.The Captain may have been mollified somewhat, with Sidhu not being made CM, but he will not easily forget that the Gandhi siblings were behind the move to show him the door.The Congress will have to navigate the Jat Sikh versus SC/BC conundrum. When Harish Rawat, Congress in charge of Punjab, declared that the 2022 election would be led by Navjot Singh Sidhu, it was a way of telling Sidhu that his chance would come. The uproar against Rawat’s statement led the party spokesman to clarify that both CM Channi and party chief Sidhu would lead the campaign.The Congress may have to use 'ambivalence' as a poll strategy to do the tight ropewalk it will be called to do in the coming four months, to balance the SC/BC versus Jat Sikh claims.The bottom line, however, is this: if the Congress emerges victorious in 2022 under the chief-ministership of Channi, it would mean the lower castes have voted for the Congress in larger numbers and it would become very difficult for the party to remove Channi.If it does remove him, the BJP’s charge of using him as a ‘nightwatchman’ would stick, and the lower castes would not forget it easily. The humiliation of being used as a stopgap would resonate beyond Punjab. The caste card is a double-edged sword.The Congress knows it has to get SCs/BCs back on its side if it is to revive. Only then will the disgruntled upper caste think of returning to its fold to form an SC-Muslim-upper caste axis in north India, which was once fashioned so successfully by Indira Gandhi.Indira had considered making powerful Scheduled Caste leader Jagjivan Ram the interim PM when she was disqualified from Parliament for electoral malpractices in June 1975. But she ruled it out, knowing that it would be difficult to dislodge him. She decided, instead, to impose the Emergency. She feared Jagjivan Ram even when she was out of power (1977-79) because his rise could have blocked her return.The Gandhi siblings may well have promised chief-ministership to Sidhu. But then, such promises were made to others also, like Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan and TS Singh Deo in Chhattisgarh!Could the Congress’ ‘Channi card’ also be a googly to keep Sidhu in check?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/congress-caste-card-strewn-with-challenges-315270
24-09-2021||---||Quad, AUKUS, SAARC… and a divided Asia||GURUDEV Rabindranath Tagore would have been an unhappy man were he alive today. A poet-philosopher who relentlessly advocated Asian unity, he would have been utterly distressed by the disunity and conflicts in Asia, and the current efforts by Western powers to mire the continent in bloc rivalry.No other Indian leader of his times visited as many Asian countries as he did — Japan (1916, 1924, 1929), Burma (1916, 1924, 1927), Sri Lanka (1922, 1928, 1934), China (1924, 1928), Singapore (1916, 1924, 1927), Indonesia (1927), Malaysia (1924 and 1927), Thailand (1927), Vietnam (1929), and Iran and Iraq (1932).His mission was to ‘create an Asian mind’. When he established Visva-Bharati in 1921, his principal goal was to revive the age-old civilisational, cultural and spiritual bonds that linked India and other Asian countries. He was not the only Indian who had this vision. Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Subhas Chandra Bose also espoused Asian solidarity.‘The Asian Mind’ of Gurudev’s dreams is fragmented today. Countries that were once victims of colonialism have drifted apart. Asia — home to 60 per cent of the world population — is becoming increasingly non-peaceful, with Western powers trying to create competing groupings and ignite fires of conflict.Sadly, the internal quarrels in Asia are harming peace and closing the opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation aimed at enhancing the wellbeing of its peoples. West Asia has seen many wars in the recent past — Iran-Iraq war, the US invasion of Iraq, and the ongoing wars in Syria and Yemen. In South Asia, Afghanistan has suffered four decades of external wars and internal conflicts. Even after the recent withdrawal of American troops, there are no cooperative efforts by India and regional neighbours to help Afghanistan achieve stability and national reconstruction.This is mainly due to Taliban’s religious fanaticism on the one hand and India-Pakistan hostility on the other. India and Pakistan are in no mood to establish good neighbourly relations even 75 years after our two countries gained independence from British rule. Because of our ceaseless enmity, SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), of which Afghanistan is also a member, has become completely dysfunctional and remains in coma. Its leaders have not had a summit meeting since 2014.In contrast, China has achieved some success in making the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) a viable non-Western platform in the region. The SCO managed to induct both India and Pakistan as full members in 2017. At its recent 20th anniversary summit in Dushanbe (Tajikistan), Iran joined it as a full member. Afghanistan has an observer status in the SCO.Sadly, India has chosen to isolate itself from a regional cooperation endeavour involving China, Russia, Iran and Pakistan to promote peace and inclusive government in Kabul even though there is no basic difference among the five nations over the issue that the Taliban regime must not give sanctuaries to terrorist organisations.Instead, India is aligning its Afghan policy with that of America. More worrisome is America's reported attempt to seek a military base at some place in ‘north-west India’ for carrying out ‘over-the-horizon counter-terrorism operations’ in Afghanistan. Agreeing to this would be catastrophic for India and the region. It would also expose us to the criticism of following double standards. India has been rightly insisting that the Taliban should not allow Afghan soil to be used against India. How, then, can we allow the USA's anti-Afghan operations from Indian soil?Let's look at another major intra-Asian antagonism. India and China, the two great Asian civilisations, are locked in a power struggle, which, if unchecked, can be disastrous for both as well as the continent and the world. India-China rivalry, coupled with China’s failure to peacefully resolve maritime disputes with its neighbours in South China Sea, has given an opportunity for the distant US to fish in troubled waters.America has no business getting involved in Asian disputes. Yet, invoking the artificial concept of the ‘Indo-Pacific’, which gives India’s westernised ruling elite a feel-good sense of gaining global leadership, Washington has persuaded the Modi government to offer it a foothold in the India-China row.Since the end of World War II, US rulers have been acting on the belief that their country is the global hegemon and, as such, have the right to flaunt its power anywhere in the world.However, with the rise of China in recent decades, the days of US global domination are clearly numbered. Alarmed by this certainty, it is busy sowing the seeds of disunity in Asia. For this purpose, it is building military groupings to contain China.Unfortunately, we Indians, instead of sorting out our disputes with China on our own on the basis of equality and fairness, have chosen to join the US-led quadrilateral. Essentially an anti-China alliance, the Quad could end up making Asia the theatre of a new cold war and an expensive arms race. Should India allow outsiders to put their guns on its shoulder to fire at China? What will be the consequences of India becoming a pawn in America’s games?America has now created yet another anti-China grouping — AUKUS, a security pact among Australia, the UK, and the US, all three being Anglosphere nations. America and Britain will help Australia develop and deploy nuclear-powered submarines to deter China.France is extremely angry with its two NATO allies because the pact has scuttled the lucrative $80-billion French-Australian submarine deal. This shows how several western nations have now become predominantly war economies. They prosper only by selling costly weapon systems to non-western countries, including India.Be it Quad or AUKUS, what should worry Indians and all other Asians is how our seas and oceans will increasingly become a playfield for menacing warships and submarines.Exactly a hundred years ago, Mahatma Gandhi had warned about a future when powerful nations, using their navies, would “threaten world’s peace and exploit its resources” (Young India; December 8, 1921). His warning is now coming frighteningly true. Tagore too had warned Asians against imitating the monstrous features of the European rivalry, which triggered two horrific world wars.India, which aspires to become a ‘Vishwa Guru’, is blissfully ignoring Gurudev’s warning, too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quad-aukus-saarc%E2%80%A6-and-a-divided-asia-315269
24-09-2021||THE former Home Minister of Maharashtra and the former Police Commissioner of its capital city||Making light of the law||If people threaten to not vote for parties that do not give operational freedom to the police, the politicians will come to their senses.A showdown between a senior IPS officer in a crucial cutting-edge position in the police hierarchy and his political boss would be unthinkable even a few years ago. But times have changed very rapidly. Competing political parties at the Centre and in the states use, or rather misuse, the police under their command to dethrone or embarrass the opponent. And there is never a dearth of ambitious police officers willing to oblige!In the bargain, the people suffer. Both politicians and police leaders of this inclination do not seem to care for the people, who are entitled to the security of their lives and property. Do they get it? Do they feel safe in an environment where the top politician in charge of providing a secure atmosphere and the head of its police establishment, charged with upholding the rule of law, are busy quarrelling over the spoils of office and accusing each other in public?How did we arrive at this pass? The answer is simple. Over the past few decades our brand of democracy at work has allowed money power to decide who is going to rule. Politics has been criminalised and, simultaneously, the police have been politicised. To cut this Gordian knot the police need to be depoliticised before the process of decriminalising politics is attempted.The police are the agency tasked by law to prevent crime and bring criminals to justice. When police leaders join forces with venal politicians to replenish party coffers and their own, the end result of such an unholy alliance is easy to predict. A glaring example of this phenomenon is unravelling before our eyes in Mumbai, the ‘urbs prima in Indis’.The man who occupied the chair of Mumbai’s Police Commissioner was shifted from his exalted position when his pet policeman, an Assistant Police Inspector, was found to have placed a car with gelatin sticks outside the residence of Mukesh Ambani. It was an obvious case of connivance with the offender, or, at best, a clear evidence of inability to control the tendencies of his own pet official who, incidentally, reported directly to him, ignoring the intervening levels of supervisors.But when he was removed from office the disgraced top cop was not amused! The pact he had obviously made with his political boss had been breached by the latter. And so he did the unthinkable. He decided to expose the nexus between the politicians and the police. He alleged in a letter to the CM, released to the Press, that the Home Minister had called the inspector to his residence and ordered him to collect many crores of rupees every month from dance bar owners to replenish his and his party’s coffers! The letter hit the newspaper headlines. The politician-police-criminals nexus was out in the open. Till then, it was only mentioned in ‘top secret’ reports prepared by a former Union Home Secretary, NN Vohra, and in drawing-room conversations in society circles.The nexus has to be severed if the people are to breathe freely. The nexus is invariably weakened when the police leader is a man or woman of the highest integrity and competence. Police leaders can exert no influence on the politicians but they can compel their own men to keep the criminals in check. That ensures that criminals can operate only clandestinely. When such activities are confined to the covert the scale automatically contracts. The criminals stop flouting their importance and the public is relieved.Mumbai police have had the good fortune of having largely good Commissioners. It was not long ago that officers like Datta Padsalgikar (now one of the three Deputy NSAs) and Subodh Jaiswal (now CBI Director) were placed there. But why can’t the people always be favoured with such men of integrity? There is certainly no shortage in the IPS! Possibly some political parties have no access, or very little access to electoral bond money and are tempted to collect funds even from crime and criminals!The National Police Commission of 1977, headed by Dharma Vira, a retired civilian, had made certain recommendations to address this anticipated phenomenon. The Supreme Court in its 2006 Prakash Singh judgment endorsed the commission’s findings and directed the Centre and states to implement them. The core recommendation was the depolicisation of the police by selecting correct men or women to lead the force and leaving it to the chosen leaders to manage their own men. The rank and file must acknowledge its own seniors as their final arbiters. If politicians, or even bureaucrats, are to decide their fortunes confusion will prevail, as it is at present.No state government nor the Central government wants to release its hold on the police and the various units it mans, like the CBI and the NIA. They want to use them for political purposes to pull down opposition governments. This self-destructive interference in the internal management of the security apparatus has to be stopped by enlightened public opinion before more harm is done. The political class, traversing all recognised parties, will listen only if their electoral chances are jeopardised. If people threaten to not vote for parties that do not give operational freedom to the police, the politicians will come to their senses.The politicians have ensured that the Prakash Singh judgment was turned on its head. The laws passed to comply with the judgment actually put more power to interfere with police performance in the destructive hands of venal politicians. But my friend, Prakash, battles on. I admire his persistence and his tenacity. I wish him success and have offered to help him to fight on. He should concentrate on collecting live examples of the insidious interference by politicians in security management to prove to the public that the police have to be depoliticised if they have to fulfil their constitutional mandate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/making-light-of-the-law-315268
