26-09-2021||In sport||Women’s cricket, for batter or worse||The male is the default for human beings, reflected in terms such as mankind and humanity. Languages are androcentric, just as societies and religions are. Sporting terms reflect this, and cricket, the ‘gentleman’s’ game, is no exception.Is Smriti Mandhana a batsman, batswoman or batter? The Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC), based at the Lord’s ground in London, is the ‘custodian’ of the laws of cricket, and it has given its verdict — Smriti is a batter. The MCC has banished the male-centric terms ‘batsman’ and ‘batsmen’ from its rulebook.Now that that critical problem is solved, what next? What about allowing women to play at the Lord’s cricket ground? No women’s Test match has ever been played at the hallowed ground. Only 15 times have women been allowed to play an ODI at the venue, the last time four years ago, when India’s women lost the World Cup final to England. In the 2010s, only six women’s internationals were played at Lord’s. The Oval cricket ground, London’s other celebrated venue, has hosted six women’s Tests, but none since 1976. It’s unbelievable that in less enlightened times than now, women cricketers could get playing time of days at a stretch at the Oval — but not now, well into the 21st century.It’s not much different in India. Only five women’s internationals have ever been played at Kolkata’s Eden Gardens and eight at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium. Bengaluru’s Chinnaswamy Stadium is better, with 21 matches, while M Chidambaram Stadium has let women internationals play 16 times, New Delhi’s Arun Jaitley Stadium has hosted 11 women’s internationals (one was abandoned), and Ahmedabad’s Narendra Modi stadium has hosted seven women’s internationals.Why can’t Lord’s and Oval host more women’s international matches? Well, men are the priority — the grounds have to be available for the men’s Test and ODI matches, and also the domestic matches of both genders. Women’s internationals are not lucrative enough — not enough sponsorship, paying public or media attention. Conversely, if you don’t promote women’s sport at all, how do you expect sponsors or fans to turn up?Calling a female cricketer a batter or a batsman or a batswoman is, essentially, a first world problem, and it’s good that it’s been solved — hope it makes women and young girls more welcome in the sport. The real focus, however, must be on getting more women playing — in the first as well as the third world. The world has taken big strides towards some sort of gender equality in sport — in the Tokyo Olympics, for instance, major sporting nations such as China, USA, Australia and Great Britain had more women than men in their contingents. Yet, even in the West, the glass ceiling exists: The MCC barred women from its pavilion on international match days right until the 1990s and opened membership to women only in 1998 — and even then 30 per cent of the members voted against the proposal.In India, of course, much needs to change. The Indian cricket board (BCCI), very reluctantly, took charge of women’s cricket only in late 2006, becoming the last among the major cricket boards in the world to do so. And what about club membership, you ask? Well, you must be kidding — cricket associations are fiefdoms of regressive-minded men who have let relatives, friends and even employees into the members’ list, but have kept even male cricketers out. One example of the BCCI’s priorities — for one full year after the 2020 T20 World Cup final, India’s women’s team did not play a single game. During the pandemic, women’s sport suffered much more than the men’s.Bedi at 75Bishan Singh Bedi, the man who speaks truth to power, turned 75 on Saturday. For several months, since an operation to remove a blood clot on his brain early this year, Bedi had been away from the public eye. Calls or messages from him, raising issues, relating anecdotes and sharing opinion, ceased. But at a book launch to mark his birthday, the legend made a public appearance. He, obviously, is fighting to be himself again — he’s 75, and he’s fighting, which should be a lesson to all.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/womens-cricket-for-batter-or-worse-316213
26-09-2021||An elderly Army couple was travelling from Delhi to Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand to attend a wedding. The small bus whirled and bumped through tunnels of dust on broken roads.||Can only marvel at the batman||The bus screeched to a halt, raising a shower of dust in its wake. They were at the Ghat bridge. The green waters of the Saryu river raced southward, singing over rocks. The elderly man had been a much respected General in the Infantry. Tall, rugged with flowing pepper silver hair, he looked every inch a soldier. His long moustache imparted to him the aspect of an 18th century warlord. After retirement, he had started writing books and memoirs about Army service, which brought him acclaim and satisfaction.He was working on another book when this wedding journey had pulled him away from his desk. He alighted from the bus and offered his hand to his wife.They saw retired Havildar Mahesh emerge from a chai-khana where two gaily caprisoned ponies stood ready for the remaining journey. Behind old Mahesh walked his son, whose wedding it was. He was also a soldier in his father’s paltan. The two old comrades met and bear-hugged warmly without a hint of the wide chasm between their ranks.Mahesh’s village lay three hill hours away. Mahesh had been the General’s batman many years ago.The year was 1993 and Major General Sengar was then Major Sengar. The paltan was at Sopore, a Kashmiri town famous for its apple orchards, the Wular lake and its free roaming terrorists.In those days, bullet-proof jackets were just being introduced and were in short supply. Issued 30 per battalion, barely three or four came to a company’s share. The officers avoided wearing them thinking that the men didn’t have them. The men said if our officers aren’t wearing, we shall also make do without them.One day in September that year, Major Sengar was leading a column through terrorist-haunted Sopore town. The ominous alleys were narrow, with the houses welded together in rows. Terrorists started raining heavy fire. Bullets clanged and sparked and richocheted all around. Major Sengar, pinned in a doorway, fired back. Receiving a tremendous amount of fire, he felt it was only a matter of time before a bullet found him. He saw the figure of a man come darting through the spray of bullets and jump in front of him. It was Sepoy Mahesh.“Mahesh, what gall! Get back. You got two little kids to look after back home. Get aside and stop shielding me,” protested the officer. Major Sengar also had two sons aged two and three-and-a-half years. Mahesh had two daughters then and his son, whose wedding the Sengars had come for, was born later.But the adamant soldier didn’t budge. He behaved like a deaf man and ignored his officer’s entreaty. Other guardsmen were advancing now, retaliating and picking up terrorists firing from upper storey windows. Gradually, the terrorists’ fire diminished and they melted away. The Guards’ battalion again started probing through Sopore.After the day’s battle, Major Sengar called Sepoy Mahesh and admonished him sternly, “Why did you take such a grave risk? Why did you become a human shield for me? It’s lucky that both of us are alive.”“Sahab, I am assigned to you. It is my duty to protect my company commander. If a bullet had struck you without first going through me, I would have failed in performing my duty properly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/can-only-marvel-at-the-batman-316214
26-09-2021||My father||Memories & anti-memories||I propose to write about what I witnessed in Junagadh, which as a ‘native’ state acceded to Pakistan initially. Punjabis think that Partition narratives only belong to Punjab. Punjabi literature has also appropriated Partition, from Khushwant Singh to Amrita Pritam, forgetting there were also Bengal, Assam and Junagadh that could claim a bit of the Partition pie. Junagadh had a Muslim Nawab, Mahabat Khanji Babi (later Parveen Babi came from the same dynasty which had ruled Junagadh for two centuries).The Nawab was always surrounded by servants. He was generous, and when the Diwan, Abdul Kadir, had a heart attack, he got an elevator put in the house, something unheard of in the Forties. His arrogant son Shafiq and I were class fellows, and once we had a fight in which I had the worst of it. His elder sister Laeq was in the same school. Kadir was edged out and Sir Shahnawaz Bhutto, landlord from Larkana, became the Diwan. He was very communal, unlike Kadir, and led the ineffective Nawab by the nose into Pakistan and ruin. And he had a line to Muhammad Ali Jinnah.The main blame for the slaughter usually falls on Hindus, Sikhs and Muslims. People have lost sight of the role the British played and how they abandoned the country. When I wrote my novel “Ancestral Affairs”, I went to the Nehru Memorial Library and read newspapers of every single day of 1947 — mostly Times of India and Bombay Chronicle. There were two crucial dates — February 20, when it was announced that Britain would leave India by June 1948. Paramountcy would not end before the final changeover, and Mountbatten would replace Wavell as Governor-General. Prime Minister Clement Attlee said, “It is not the intention to hand over India to chaos.” But that is exactly what the British did.On July 4 came a bombshell. Two dominion states were to come into existence on August 15, as also the boundary commissions for Bengal and Punjab, with Cyril Radcliffe heading them. (He knew nothing about India, and WH Auden has a good poem on him). Sylhet would have a referendum on August 6 and 7; it voted for Pakistan with 2,39,619 to join Pakistan, and 1,84,041 votes to remain in Assam.July and August were very tense. The Nawab never stirred out, and the Gujarati newspapers were hell bent on exaggerations that Hurs and Baluchis were being imported into Junagadh and Bahauddin College was seeking affiliation to Sindh University. Samaldas Gandhi, nephew of the Mahatma, formed a unit called the Arzi Hukumat to rule Junagadh. Rich Gujarati traders fled. Cinema halls emptied.Muslims, who knew what was coming, kept a low profile. Not all. Shakir Muhammad, ADC to the heir apparent, Dilawar Khanji, who later was appointed Governor of Sindh by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto, son of Shahnawaz, came visiting. Shakir was a decent cricketer and a hard hitter on the billiards table. He put up a brave front. “We have a cannon left behind by Mahmud Ghazni that can bomb Rajkot. We have a gun which when I fire at Samaldas Gandhi, he will look back and say, ‘There go my intestines.’” No end to bravado.Princes were living in a fool’s paradise, thinking India would be split into three parts — Hindu, Muslim and Princely India. On September 19, VP Menon, the right hand man of Vallabhbhai Patel, came as plenipotentiary of the Government of India. Piloted by the IG, he landed along with Buch, the Regional Commissioner. He was told HH was very ill. Bhutto never let him see the Nawab and when he wanted to deliver the message from the Indian government to the heir apparent, he was told that Dilawar was too busy playing cricket! Now it was all over, bar the shouting.The Nawab and family fled to Karachi, after emptying the state’s treasury. The Pakistani angle was to counter-pose Kashmir with Junagadh, Hindu ruler with Muslim majority versus Muslim ruler with Hindu majority. The scheme obviously fell through. Vallabhbhai Patel came to Junagadh and spoke on the Bahauddin College grounds. Father took us there. Though he mixed his metaphors —“Hyderabad is in our stomach, we can swallow it whenever we want” — he spoke brilliantly, cool as a water-pitcher.Two statements stand out. Nehru as he derided the divine right of kings: “We are trustees of a great future even as we are inheritors of a great past.” Jinnah said on March 28: “It is better to divide India and flourish than to fight for a united India and destroy everything.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/memories-anti-memories-316212
26-09-2021||My husband||Portrait of a day in the life of a dysfunctional family||This was not that good a day. As we stepped around puddles of rainwater and walked carefully on the edge of slushy paths, I told my husband that our family life was in a state of emergency. “We are not doing well at all, Afzal,” I said. He agreed with me.“We have become a dysfunctional family,” he said. “We have failed.” We watched our dog enter a shallow pond in the park. The thin green cover of algae on the surface of the pond separated to make space for the black dog. Usually we yell at her, attempting to dissuade her from what we feel is unhealthy. She loves it. We would have to shampoo her before entering our home.As we continued to be agreeable with each other, Afzal and I made a list of things that seemed to be breaking us. I told him that his anger makes our daughters and me nervous. Something is making him fragile and we want to help him address it. He shared that he is frustrated with what he perceives as my obsessions. I sink myself into projects and am not available when he needs me. We spoke about our daughters and their anxieties. “We’ve been trying to solve their issues for so long,” said Afzal. “They need to take responsibility too.”“They do,” I said. “I also get frustrated and often one or the other child will patiently explain to me how much they are trying to participate in the daily work of the home. We need to ease up on them.” I spoke to him about our nagging post-corona health issues. Our fatigue and need for respite from expectations. His need to slow down and not try to fix things that are determined to decay and self-destruct. I want him to make space for his own healing.“I need to do so some straight-talking with the girls,” he said.“Be gentle,” I said in response. “There is a skewed power dynamic between parents and children. They feel helpless in the face of our displeasure. We have to be mindful to create a safe space in which they can hear us and speak without fear.”“I’m listening to you,” he said.Scarlet emerged from her romp in the water with green speckles on her underbelly. She raced towards us to share her happiness. “Don’t,” said Afzal sharply. “Don’t try to come near me. Embrace your mother.” I turned sideways to brace myself as Scarlet jumped on me with her muddy front paws.After a while, I laughed out loud. “Afzal, perhaps we misunderstand ourselves. We sound exactly like a regular family with over-wrought parents, mysterious teenagers, pets and a constant stream of houseguests and relatives. I think we may have finally become a functional family. Like everyone else!”Afzal liked my joke. This, my favourite trait of the man. He laughs when I am trying to be funny.Later in the day, I came out from my bath to hear the voices of my children and their father talking at the dining table. I recognised the word, ‘responsibility’. I could hear the girls responding.I knew I had to keep out of it and distracted myself with one of my many projects. I chose to feed the three families of cats who are my current obsessive joy. Watching the kittens transition from screaming with hunger to being satiated as they fill their bellies with boiled fish makes me feel that I have made my daily contribution towards world peace. Later, I took my laptop to my father-in-law’s room and sat near him as I hopped between multiple open tabs on the browser.“What is the programme for today?” Papa asked me.“Nothing much,” I said. “We shall have a quiet day of doing nothing.”“That’s easier said than done,” he said. “One has to work for peace. Chaos descends if we do nothing.”“That’s true, Papa, but sometimes we need rest.”I had worried about the morning’s conversation with Afzal for months before I initiated it. Speaking to each other about the weight that we had been dragging in isolation helped us acknowledge our mutual distress and keep it aside for a while. Both of us needed to feel a renewed sense of acceptance with our quirks and oddball personalities. The feeling of being taken for granted had made us resentful.One of the most important assets in intimate relationships is our separateness from each other. We need to protect it, savour it, sometimes fight for it. Cherishing our uniqueness is what keeps us together eventually.— The writer is a filmmaker & author.natasha.badhwar@gmail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/portrait-of-a-day-in-the-life-of-a-dysfunctional-family-316215
