27-09-2021||---||Chance for Congress to play reformer’s role||The appointment of a lower-caste person as the Chief Minister of Punjab, where almost one-third of the population belongs to the Scheduled Castes and there is a nearly equal proportion of OBCs (other backward classes), is considered as a game-changer by political commentators.Of the six chief ministers from the SC/BC community during post-Independence India, the Congress can boast of appointing the first CM from the community in Andhra Pradesh in 1960. However, Damodaram Sanjeevaiah was shifted to Delhi due to caste bickering within the party in the state. The same is the story of the others, except Mayawati, in a different context.The late Rajni Kothari commented that “caste does resurface as a result of the democratic process but by its resurfacing, it gets transformed…” Casteism in politics is no more and no less than the politicisation of caste, “which in turn leads to a transformation of the caste system.”Very few in the political class today understand the transformative capability of the democratic process in a vertically divided caste society. The Congress party, particularly the younger generation, seems to have not been informed of the core values of the party — democracy, secularism and socialism — and the political process of achieving them amid the din of economic reforms. There were no innovations in the Congress, except the Bhopal Declaration of 2002, in the post-reform era, making the party slowly lose its relevance.Now, an opportunity has been created that can be creatively handled, given the socio-economic crisis in Punjab.Punjab, one of the developed states of India, has been experiencing one crisis after another due to internal fragmentation, though it ostensibly appears to be a homogenous community due to Sikhism. The Sikhs constitute 57.69 per cent of the population of the state as per the 2011 Census and are internally subdivided on the basis of castes and sub-castes.Scholars have written extensively on the issues, particularly on the phenomenon of deras and the myth of a casteless society in Punjab. There is speculation that the new Chief Minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, may not be an effective political bait as he belongs to one of the components of the community that is internally divided.The demography of the state tells us that out of 32 per cent of the lower castes, 19.4 per cent are Sikhs and 12.4 per cent are Hindus. They are further divided into Mazhabis (30.7 per cent), Chamars (25.8 per cent), Ad-dharmis (15.9 per cent) and Balmikis (11.1 per cent) out of the 38 sub-castes.The common thread among them is untouchability. Though the SGPC has adopted a resolution to end untouchability within the gurdwaras, it has not captured the imagination of the community and seems to have failed the social agenda of the Gurus to be prime movers of change in the region.Now, the Congress party has an opportunity to bring social reform on its agenda vis-a-vis its opponents.Social reform in India was initiated as a part of religious restoration from the time of Ramanujacharya down to Dayanand Saraswati. Sikhism was an antidote to the hegemony of a caste. Guru Nanak was against the prevailing dominant practices of ritual pollution and caste order. In fact, the caste system resurfaced during the medieval period. Historian Irfan Habib has noted, “In Sind, under the Brahmin dynasty established in the seventh century, humiliating disabilities were imposed on the pastoral community of the Jats, seemingly taken straight out of Manusmriti.”The conversion of untouchables to Islam, Christianity, Sikhism and Buddhism seems to have not yielded the much-desired self-respect and human dignity. As a result, today, the lower-class converts are asking for caste-based reservations. Interestingly, the dominant castes among the lower classes in Punjab are not united and political parties and deras, seemingly on the basis of sub-caste identities, have involuntarily further strengthened the division.Sociologist Ronki Ram has noted: “In the absence of a strong Dalit movement and with the emergence of caste structures within the Sikh organisations, despite the clear Panthic strictures against it, Dalits were but helpless to seek refuge in those organisations and deras that promise them social equality and dignity.”There are no adivasis in Punjab and the Muslim population is around 2 per cent. In other words, Punjab seems to have a plethora of opportunities for a party like the Congress to shed its past and experiment with social engineering as a permanent mission.The nomination of Channi as Chief Minister sends enough signals to the community that has become as vocal and enthusiastic as in West Bengal to get into its fold those who were disillusioned due to the economic reforms that helped only a few dwija cronies.However, Punjab is a very sensitive state, given the demographic structure and concentration of economic and political power in a few pockets that need to be studied and reflected upon.Given the experience with radical moves and the damage encountered, the party is poised to get back to its basics of equality and social opportunity within the party. It is exactly here that the party may think of taking up the role of a reformer to unite all splinter groups that are divided on the basis of all kinds of collectives, including sub-castes, with a message that the social awakening is permanent and continuous.Yes, it is arduous and risky. But the party has already experimented with economic reforms and lost the permanent clout of the lower strata, poor and dispossessed. They are now, it seems, experienced and wiser to take collective decisions, provided someone from outside empathises with them, not for political gains, but for a genuine reform of social inclusion.The Congress or some other party has nothing to lose except a learning experience in the much-desired social reform.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/chance-for-congress-to-play-reformers-role-316548
27-09-2021||---||There is more to democracy than elections||Democracy is a ‘hurrah’ word, diametrically opposed to an ‘ugh’ word, say fascism. There is, however, little consensus on what democracy means.Minimalists hold that democracy enables a peaceful transfer of power from one set of elites to another. Theorists of substantive democracy concentrate on what exactly this elite does for the people. Does the government nurture the wellbeing of citizens, ranging from the provision of basic needs, to civil rights, and the right to associational life?There is more to democracy than elections. Elections are one, albeit, decisive moment in conversations that governments have with citizens, and citizens have with each other. Substantive democracy holds that citizens have the competence to judge their leaders. It is about monitoring governments and holding them responsible. And when citizens hold up a mirror to the government, they become the authors of their collective fate.As early as 1928, the Motilal Nehru Constitutional Draft introduced universal adult franchise. The point of view did not go uncontested. It was held that Indians were non-literate and poor; they simply did not possess the political competence to participate in politics. The authors of the draft countered this point of view. The introduction to the Draft Constitution, written by a committee appointed by an All Parties Meet, stated clearly that the repeated exercise of the vote is in itself a powerful educative factor. The average Indian voter understands his business and he can form an opinion on matters that directly affect him.Democracy is not just about the numbers a party won or did not win. We have to liberate ourselves from our fatal fascination with power, and understand that elections are about the exercise of free choice. This is the first step towards the deepening of political awareness.In our country, however, democracy is equated with, or rather, reduced to elections. Ironically, the result might contravene democratic principles. No party, apart from the Congress in 1984, has secured an absolute majority. The BJP secured 37.7 per cent of the votes cast in 2019.The oddity of the first-past-the-post electoral system is that the number of seats a party secures in the Lok Sabha bears but a faint relationship to the number of votes that have been cast for it. The second oddity is that despite the fact that the majority of voters voted for other parties, the party that forms the government exercises enormous and disproportionate power. The time for proportional representation has come.There are other such oddities. Election time inaugurates a hyper-political moment, a moment that verges on hysteria. Elections to important states (including Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat) are due in 2022 and, already, the temperatures are soaring. The chief ministers of two states — Punjab and Gujarat — have been summarily dismissed by the respective high commands, and politicians who might, perchance, succeed in winning elections have been appointed over tried and tested practitioners of politics.The moment was theatrical, but, notably, it transformed citizens into spectators, with no control who they wish to be ruled by. They had voted for X, and one year before the next round, they get Y!More exhausting is the assault on our eardrums. Of what use are words, promises, and pledges, when the cynical inaction of governments in times of need disproves them? In Shakespeare’s Hamlet, Polonius asks Hamlet about the book the latter is reading. “Words, words, words,” Hamlet replies dismissively. We can go further and hum with Eliza Doolittle in My Fair Lady: “Words, words, words, I am so sick of words... First from him, now from you. Is that all you blighters can do?”As a parliamentary, federal, democracy, India should have got used to elections. But politicians yearning for power and unthinkable control over the lives of citizens make every election into a spectacle. Their vocabularies are padded with exaggerated claims, rhetorical flourishes and sometimes rank mockery if not abuse of their opponents.Someone remind them that democracy beyond elections is about the lives people lead, it is about institutionalising freedom, equality and justice, so that each citizen can lead a fulfilling life in a decent society.Fortunately, associations in civil society realised sometime ago that democratic politics stretches far and wide, much beyond the remit of elections. While placing the Objectives Resolution before the Constituent Assembly on December 13, 1946, Jawaharlal Nehru said: “Words are magic things often enough but even the magic of words cannot convey the magic of the human spirit and of a nation’s passion.”In a substantive sense, democracy is about people standing up and asserting that they count. Recollect December 2019, when thousands of Indians asserted that they, not the government, owned the Constitution of India. At the end of 2020, lakhs of farmers, protesting against unjust and arbitrary laws, stormed the borders of Delhi. They continue to do so.The Central Government fortified the borders with barbed wire; on the other side, farmers grew flowers and fruit. The contrast between barbed wire reminiscent of prison camps, and flowers that blossomed in the dust, was striking. Both the movements showed us the power of creative and imaginative democratic politics and spoke of the novel ways in which people fight for their rights.Elections are an overdramatised moment in democracy. Real democracy is when citizens stand up and struggle for liberation from the very government some of them voted for.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/there-is-more-to-democracy-than-elections-316544
27-09-2021||---||Modi’s ‘5T’ agenda||If there is a single paramount element that came out from the 90-minute meeting between US President Joe Biden and PM Narendra Modi, it is the extensive damage which Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump did to Indo-US relations. It is clear from the joint statement issued after Modi’s first in-person meeting with Biden as President and from what the Indian delegation in Washington said in public — and more importantly, in private — after the summit that for four years, Indians hummed and hawed, doing their best to keep Trump in good humour, as if he was a petulant child.They did not do anything substantive with the US during the four Trump years other than walk on pins in and around the White House, all the time trying to prevent intemperate outbursts by the 45th President lest it spoiled the atmospherics surrounding the bilateral ties. The effort was a remarkable success. Few other countries managed to do that, as repeated discomfiture of several US-allied leaders, who wilted in front of Trump’s diplomatic indiscretions demonstrated.Now it is the turn of Modi aides —– External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and the ambassador in Washington, Taranjit Singh Sandhu — to pick up the ties from where they were left off by President Obama and make up for lost time.Even before he arrived in Washington, Modi eschewed sweet talk with America and Americans, which has been a feature of bilateral relations with Washington since the time of Nehru. In Modi’s departure statement in New Delhi, for example, there was none of the usual paeans for the oldest democracy in the world or for shared values or about English language making it easier for the two countries to do business. These were all good sentiments when Indo-US relations were changing from the latent hostility of the Cold War era to becoming ‘natural allies,’ a phrase coined by Vajpayee when he was PM.Modi decided that it was time to end such vacuous barrenness in public, and most definitely, in private. The PM, at least on his current trip to the US has, instead, opted for the transactional over the sentimental. The ‘5Ts,’ a description Modi coined, will guide relations in future. He conveyed this to Biden at their one-on-one meeting. These 5Ts are: technology, trade, talent, trusteeship and tradition.The primacy of the 5Ts was evident in the choice of the five CEOs of American companies whom the PM met on his first day in Washington. They were not picked up at random or with a view on optics. The idea that Modi will have one-on-one interactions — in such a new format — with select CEOs whenever he next visited the US goes back a year ago. In October 2020, even as the US was in the throes of the pandemic and looking for a way forward, the Indian ambassador in Washington began a series of meetings with leading CEOs in his jurisdiction. He divided his attention equally between American CEOs of Indian origin and other corporate honchos for a balance in assessing the mood among captains of US business towards post-Covid-19 India. Among the heads of conglomerates that he met in October alone were: Milind Pant, CEO of Amway; Jamie Dimon, CEO of JP Morgan; Arvind Krishna, CEO of IBM; and Alex Holmes, Chairman and CEO, MoneyGram. Last October was ideal from the point of view of a foreign diplomat for such an initiative because the US presidential election campaign was in full swing. As such, Sandhu was free of the intense political footwork that he is called upon to do on Capitol Hill or the White House in normal times. After the elections, the ambassador was able to continue this process because politicians were caught up until January in disputes over Biden’s victory as large sections of the Republican Party rallied round Trump.Four of Modi’s 5Ts are reflected in the choice of the CEOs he met in Washington. The only exclusion that these five CEOs personify is tradition. But then, American business traditions and those of India are still incompatible and both sides still have a long way to go in harmonising them, if at all.From ringing the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange to hosting fancy lunches for a dozen or so American CEOs to addressing business organisations such as the US-India Business Council, successive Indian PMs and finance ministers have tried many ways over at least two decades to attract US investment into India. Foreign Direct Investment and other forms of investment have come to India, but it is questionable if gimmicks such as ringing the opening bell have played any role in such inflows.So, the Modi aides now in charge of India’s outreach to the US decided that it was time to change the old approach. Instead, it was decided that the PM will hold separate meetings with the five CEOs he interacted with. It was also decided that a change of location was advisable: instead of the global business hub of New York, the venue for the CEO interaction was moved to Washington because it signified power and governance over money. This triumvirate understands such delicate nuances in the American social fabric: all three men have been ambassadors in Washington.It is clear at the end of Modi’s visit that both sides attach top priority to reviving mechanisms for bringing back on track the intense and meaningful engagement with India, which characterised the Bill Clinton-George W Bush-Barack Obama tenures in the White House. Among the mechanisms to be woken up from the deep coma of the Trump years are a trade policy dialogue and joint mechanisms on counter-terrorism. A significant addition to these will be joint structures for pandemic preparedness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/modis-5t-agenda-316537
