28-09-2021||Distinguished Fellow||The demographic bogey||EARLIER this month, in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query, the Union Home Ministry headed by the de facto number two in the government, Amit Shah, declared that the perceived threats to the Hindu religion were ‘hypothetical’ and ‘imaginary’.Sangh Parivar’s political mobilisation strategy rests on marginalising the Muslims, especially in northern India.We can only hope that this response feeds into the current political discourse. But that may be asking for too much. As of now, the Sangh Parivar’s political mobilisation strategy rests on marginalising the Muslims, especially in northern India. Just the other day, Yogi Adityanath hot-buttoned it by declaring that prior to his assuming office in 2017, all food rations used to go to those who addressed their fathers as ‘abba jaan’— a thinly veiled reference to Muslims. Figures, of course, gave the lie to this claim since at that time, there were 14 crore beneficiaries of this scheme initiated by the then government run by the Samajwadi Party, and census figures show that there were less than 4 crore Muslims in the state at the time.Ad hominem attacks on Muslims are not uncommon these days. Social media and ‘WhatsApp University’ have played a dubious role in spreading fake information. Politicians, ever ready to stir trouble, have taken it up with laws, some to limit families, others banning conversions, ever ready to burn the straw man.The Sangh Parivar is not unaware of this; most of their leaders are, after all, educated. But to accept its conclusions would mean abandoning what has proved to be a spectacular political mobilisation tool. Never mind that tens of millions of people have been marginalised socially, educationally and economically, something that only detracts from the country’s health. Attempts to square the circle by declaring, as RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat has, that “every Indian citizen is a Hindu” mean little in the real world which is run by the Adityanaths of the world.One persistent narrative suggests that the Hindus will soon be outnumbered by Muslims in the country. The 2011 census says that Muslims constitute 14.2 per cent of the country’s population and this figure is slated to reach around 18.4 per cent by 2050. But by then, the Hindus will constitute 76.7 per cent of the population and Hindu and Muslim population growth rates will be similar.A recent Pew Research Centre poll has some answers to this demographic anxiety. It found that India’s religious composition has remained largely stable since Partition and though for years Muslim fertility rates were higher than those of Hindus (a consequence of higher levels of backwardness and illiteracy), they are now more or less converging.In 2015, the fertility rate for an average Muslim woman was 2.6 and for her Hindu counterpart, it was 2.1. The fertility rate is the average number of babies a woman will have in her lifetime.A fertility rate of 2.1 means just enough babies will be born to maintain the population levels constant.Government figures for nine states, released earlier this year, reveal that Hindi-speaking states like Bihar have high fertility rates for people of both religions, while those in Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh or Karnataka are below the replacement level for both. The fertility rate in Jammu & Kashmir is 1.45, lower than the fertility rate of Hindus in other states, but ironically, the rate for Hindus in J&K is even lower at 1.32.Another vicious narrative relates to the alleged prevalence of forced conversions. But the real-world data gives it the lie. In 2018, an RTI reply in Maharashtra noted that the total number of those who converted in the state in the 43 months studied was 1,687. Most converts to Islam and Hinduism came from the other’s faith. In a population of around 120 million people, the number is clearly statistically irrelevant.Figures in other states are likely to be similar. The Pew study cited above surveyed nearly 30,000 Indian adults and found that religious preferences were very stable in the country. As many as 99 per cent of those born Hindu had remained the same into adulthood, while the figures for Muslims and Christians were 97 per cent and 94 per cent, respectively. There were conversions, but Hindus gained as many people as they lost. Yet, there is an enormous din around the need to ban conversions and some nine states have actually passed laws against conversion in recent years.In democracies, it is not unusual for divisions to be accentuated during election time. All parties try and maximise their votes by indirectly and sometimes directly using caste and religion. After the elections, these divisions need to be healed and governance be based on the citizenship of the individual, regardless of caste, creed and gender. This, unfortunately, has not been happening in India. One reason for this is the constant cycle of elections, but another is that false beliefs have taken hold in a significant section of the population, based on the dishonest propaganda.As India hurtles towards becoming the most populous nation on earth, it needs to keep a careful watch on social friction that is tearing its national fabric apart. No matter what the Assam or UP governments do, in 2050, there will be 310 million or so Muslims in the country. They will be vastly outnumbered by the 1.38 billion Hindus, but they will not be a small number. Making large chunks of minorities feel that they are somehow not quite Indian is a self-destructive approach. All Indians need to be better educated and productive; leaving behind entire communities and groups will most certainly not yield a New India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/the-demographic-bogey-317127
28-09-2021||Former Union Minister of Law and Justice||A governance agenda for the Channi govt||The installation of the Charanjit Singh Channi-led Congress government is a defining moment in Punjab’s contemporary political history. It signals the advent of new power structures and a welcome recognition of the ascendant social forces.For the present, the new government is beset with daunting challenges. It must navigate the many pulls and pressures inherent in the fragile compromise assiduously stitched together by the party high command. Considering the circumstances that have catapulted Channi to the high office, he would need to tread with care, honouring, humouring and cajoling his temperamental colleagues to pull together in a direction that best serves the interests of the state.He must, at the same time, uphold the dignity of his office. His unassuming manner and self-effacing humility could be his principal assets to secure a delicate arrangement necessitated by political necessity. His humility will hopefully enable him to enlist the willing allegiance of his colleagues.Having been provided a historic opportunity, the Chief Minister must, notwithstanding the paucity of time, give to the state a vision of hope in its future by focusing on such fundamental issues as the necessity of crop diversification in view of the state’s falling water table and the urgency to provide income security to farmers.He must ensure transparent governance and initiate credible measures to promote mega-private sector investment in the state for employment generation and skill development, with a special focus on women’s empowerment.A massive expansion of the state’s health infrastructure cannot be delayed any further nor can the state lower its guard with regard to Covid management.As an immediate measure, the government needs to find legally sustainable ways to ensure a substantial reduction in electricity tariff and a temporary waiver of power bills across the board.At the political level, the Chief Minister, along with the state party president, will need to engage with the farmers’ groups in a continuing show of solidarity and support for their cause.The foremost challenge, however, for the Channi government will be to maintain law and order, apart from social and religious harmony in the state. The persistent demand for bringing to justice those responsible for the be-adbi (sacrilege) of the holy scriptures and the ‘kingpins’ of drug trafficking will need to be addressed within the framework of legal options circumscribed by a series of binding judgments and judicial orders.The Chief Minister’s sagacity in addressing a highly emotive issue consistent with the imperatives of constitutional governance is on test.The choices he must make are difficult, indeed. He must recognise the sensitivities of people, consistent with his oath of office to uphold the Constitution. His government cannot be seen as vindictive or captive to its own rhetoric.A sobering lesson in constitutional governance is that those who live under the law are bound by its command, independently of their own will. Clearly, a government bound by the discipline of law must defer to the constitutional constraints on the exercise of the state’s coercive power against political rivals, who cannot be treated as personal enemies to be tamed or decimated at will. In the final analysis, justice to foes and friends alike must not only be done but should also be seen to be done.This is the enduring raj dharma, the observance of which will ensure the legitimacy of governance by the new administration. And only a just exercise of political power can ensure tranquility in the state that will enable the government to commit itself to the urgent tasks at hand.Less than 100 days before the announcement of elections, the Chief Minister and his colleagues cannot afford to be distracted by the Opposition’s agitational agenda, fuelled by religious sensitivities and possibly impregnated with casteist connotations that can result in a devastating communal and social divide. Having borne the brunt of terrorism and extremism to secure the integrity of the nation, the state can ill-afford yet another period of conflict and its accompanying pains.Indeed, the maintenance of peace, social solidarity and communal harmony must remain the first charge on the resources of the state and skills of political management.At another fundamental level, the new dispensation, which has sworn to uphold democracy and inclusion in the state, must remind itself that a truly vibrant democracy is not only about periodic elections. It is about the contestation of ideas in freedom and without fear. It is not about the ‘conceit of the clever’ but about the wholesomeness of the human condition, anchored in the ideal of dignity and driven by compassion for the marginalised. We cannot forget that democratic governance is about public reasoning around the ‘moral questions of justice’. It is about the necessity to address issues of power in an ethical frame of reference.In making tough choices, the Chief Minister is expected to move in a direction that will assure all Punjabis, over time, the possibility of a better life and future that is theirs to uphold and shape.Finally, while traversing the bends and turns of politics, he needs to beware of the feeble loyalties of friends and the compulsive animosity of rivals — the stuff of everyday politics.Over to you, Mr Chief Minister, with my felicitations and best wishes.Views are personal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/a-governance-agenda-for-the-channi-govt-317120
28-09-2021||Epidemiologist||Covid vaccination needs global solidarity||The United Kingdom recently released travel guidelines, to be enforced from October 4, which require the mandatory 10-day quarantine and a series of RT-PCR tests for the unvaccinated travellers arriving in the UK. As per these guidelines, even some vaccines which have received emergency use listing (EUL) by the World Health Organisation (WHO) are not recognised by the UK.Therefore, fully vaccinated citizens of many countries will be considered as being ‘theoretically unvaccinated’ and subjected to all restrictions that apply to the really ‘unvaccinated’ persons.These guidelines consider the people from India who have received two shots of the Covishield — the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India — as being unvaccinated. This, in spite of the fact that the Covishield formulation is exactly similar to the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine being used in the UK, with the only difference being the site of manufacture.In another example, the UK has sent Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines to Kenya, Africa. However, as per the country’s guidelines, the Kenyans who have been fully vaccinated with the vaccine supplied by the UK and visiting the UK, will be considered as being unvaccinated.This travel policy has, understandably, created a furore and many countries, including India, have protested. How can it be explained that a vaccine with a similar formulation is acceptable for the UK citizens but not recognised if received by the citizens of other countries or manufactured in another country? Moreover, some vaccines approved by the WHO have also been excluded. Many countries have termed this as ‘colonialism’ and ‘vaccine discrimination’.However, a few days later, following diplomatic interventions, the UK Government clarified that the Covishield vaccine is recognised, but the issue is with India’s vaccine certificate. The matter has not been completely resolved yet, and a solution is likely to emerge soon.At the same time, this move by the UK is just a sequel to the series of mistakes that the world community continues to make with regard to the Covid-19 vaccination.The Covid-19 vaccines have been in the news and been considered as a ray of hope since the beginning of the pandemic. But, even before the first Covid-19 vaccine was approved, the challenge of ‘vaccine nationalism’ emerged. A few high-income countries secured up to five times more vaccine doses than needed for their population. The criticism from other countries for the same did not stop them from acquiring more doses.Fortunately, the spectacular success in Covid-19 vaccine research and development meant that nearly 21 vaccines received emergency use authorisation within 21 months of the pandemic.Yet, of the 580 crore Covid-19 vaccines administered worldwide as of mid-September, 80 per cent have been administered in high-and upper-middle income countries. Only 0.5 per cent of the total vaccines have reached low-income countries, even as the availability of vaccines is equally important for every country.The rich countries have given two doses to up to 80 per cent of their adult population and are considering giving the third and fourth shots, while in many poorer countries, barely 10 per cent of the population has received one shot. In Africa, only two per cent of the population has been fully vaccinated. This is an example of the blatant ‘vaccine inequity’.The global collaboration of COVAX (Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access) , co-led by the WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, has met only a partial success in getting the vaccines it needs.‘Vaccine nationalism’ and ‘vaccine inequity’ has shown that while the global community talks about solidarity and cooperation in the pandemic response, the ground situation renders these claims hollow. This cycle doesn’t seem to end.For countries like India, it is time for self-reflection as well. A lot of data and information related to the Covid vaccine is not easily available. The problem partly originates in the poor health data recording and reporting systems in the country. Else, why should the data of the Covid-19 vaccine clinical trial take months to be synthesised and documented? If it had been planned in advance and if the process strengthened, it could have been submitted to the authorities concerned, including the WHO, earlier.And in that case, by now, there might have been a decision on EUL by the WHO on India’s second Covid-19 vaccine. Currently, of the two Covid-19 vaccines used in India, Covaxin is not listed by the WHO, and Covishield is facing restrictions in many countries. If this situation continues for long, it may impact the public enthusiasm about vaccines.‘Vaccine nationalism’, ‘vaccine discrimination’ and ‘vaccine inequity’ are not the only challenges in the Covid-19 pandemic response. In the months ahead, as normalcy returns and travel opens in many countries, there is a risk of similar challenges emerging again. We need to be prepared to prevent such discriminatory vaccine travel policies at all levels.On many fronts, where solidarity and collaboration are needed, many countries have disappointed the global community. But there is still some time. The countries need to share vaccines with the rest of the world and collaborate with COVAX.In this direction, the announcement by the Government of India that from the next quarter of 2021, some Covid-19 vaccines would be exported is commendable.The question is, if the countries do not cooperate with each other during the pandemic, then when would they do it? Time is short, but the global community still has another chance. The coming generation will assess all our steps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/covid-vaccination-needs-global-solidarity-317123
