29-09-2021||---||Remembering VP Menon, our unrecognised nation-builder||Vappala Pangunni Menon was my maternal grand-uncle. During the 1940s, his aged mother lived next to our ancestral house in Kothakurussi, a sleepy village in British South Malabar. It is also called ‘Anaganadi’, meaning the foothills of Anangan Mala (mountain). Anangan has a legend, similar to Mount Lycabettus (Athens). Lycabettus emerged when Goddess Athena dropped a piece of stone while carrying a heap to build Acropolis. Anangan rose when God Hanuman dropped a piece of Dronagiri while carrying the magical herb ‘Sanjeevani’ to save Lakshmana.In those days most people in Kerala lived away from main roads in independent houses surrounded by verdant paddy fields. Consequently, one had to walk quite a distance from the roads, using narrow foot tracks dividing lush paddy fields, to reach such traditional houses. During the rains, the tracks would get slushy. Despite this, Menon used to come frequently to visit his mother, enduring physical inconvenience.My earliest recollection of meeting him was as an eight-year-old in 1945. My grandmother, who was his cousin, took me to meet him telling me that ‘Kuttamama’, as he was called, was a ‘big man’ from our ‘Tharawad’(family). Relatives, visitors and high officials used to throng the house as he was then working closely with the ‘Viceroy’. One such person waiting to meet him in 1945 was Sir CP Ramaswamy Iyer, Dewan of Travancore State who declared independence on June 11, 1947.Since then, I would meet Kuttamama in Kerala, Bangalore or in Bombay. He guided me through my All-India Services examination in 1957-58 and even suggested which ‘cadre’ I should choose. His last letter to me was on July 23, 1965, while I was posted in Sangli, Maharashtra. He said that he was going to England in September to “eradicate my illness once and for all”. He was suffering from severe asthma. It was not to be. He passed away in December 1965.Kuttamama was patient with youngsters as he knew the pangs of unemployed youngsters.  An incident at this stage of his life had become folklore. Celebrated authors Larry Collins and Dominique Lapierre had described this period in their work ‘Freedom at Midnight’ (1975). American Unitarian Minister Robert Fulghum referred to it in his philosophical musings ‘All I need to know I learned in Kindergarten-Uncommon thoughts on Common things’ (1986).An unemployed Menon arrived in New Delhi in 1914 en route to Simla, then British Raj’s summer capital. After dropping out of school at the age of 13, he had moved from job to job holding such low-ranking positions like government peon, factory hand and construction worker. He travelled to New Delhi to seek a government clerk’s job, which was the dream of any youngster. On reaching Delhi, he found that he had lost all his money on the train. He then approached an elderly Sikh gentleman for a loan of Rs 15 for his train fare to Simla, and it was given.Menon’s daughter told Collins-Lapierre the rest of the story: When Menon asked him how he would repay, the Sikh replied: “No -- until the day you die, you will always give that sum to any honest man who asks for your help”. Six weeks before his death, his daughter recalled that a beggar came to his family home in Bangalore. Menon sent his daughter for his wallet, took out fifteen rupees and gave it to the man. “He was still repaying his debt”.From that low position, Menon became a reference point during every constitutional crisis for the last three Viceroys with his encyclopaedic knowledge. Collins-Lapierre describe how in 1947 Lord Mountbatten had turned to Menon, “the highest-ranking Indian in his viceregal establishment who had no degree from Oxford or Cambridge like the vaunted administrative elite the Indian Civil Service. No family ties had hastened his rise. VP Menon was an incongruous oddity in the rarefied air of the Viceroy’s house, a self-made man”.During my meetings, he would tell me that in 1914 he had no place to stay in New Delhi. A kind senior permitted him to stay in an unobtrusive corner of the Old Secretariat, allowing him to use its washrooms. Since he had nothing else to do at night, he would study the old files in the ‘Constitutional Reforms’ section where he started working continuously since 1917 until he became Constitutional Adviser and Reforms Commissioner.Yet Menon worked closely not only with the British but also with Indian leaders with a patriotic zeal. Mountbatten’s diary (April 15-May 6, No: 149) mentions Menon’s ‘sterling qualities’ during this difficult period. His entries for May 6-June 4 (No: 15) mention how Menon helped him in getting “Pandit Nehru’s and Sardar Patel’s support”.Menon’s second book ‘The Transfer of Power in India’ (1957) carries nine pages of xerox sheets of the “India Independence Act” drafted by a committee chaired by him with luminaries like Law Secretary Sir George Spence and KVK Sundaram, ICS as members. The draft was vetted and signed by Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru on July 3, 1947, as the head of the Interim Government. On July 4, the Bill was introduced in the British Parliament and passed on July 16, creating India and Pakistan.In June 1947, Mountbatten approved the creation of the ‘States’ ministry under Sardar Patel with Menon as Secretary, to integrate 562 princely states. (Diary: July 5-25, entries 65-66). Menon’s first book published in 1955 on the integration of Indian states gives dramatic details. He took over as Secretary, States Ministry, in addition to his charge as constitutional adviser on July 5. Yet, he could achieve integration of most of the states by August 15, as appreciatively mentioned by Mountbatten in his address to our Constituent Assembly on August 15.On retirement, Menon faded away from the limelight. He received no official honours after 1947 for his amazing achievement of peacefully integrating most of the princely states. It is, however, gratifying that Dr G Prasanna Kumar, a retired IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, is organising a commemorative lecture by Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Menon’s 128th birth anniversary on September 30.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/remembering-vp-menon-our-unrecognised-nation-builder-317857
29-09-2021||---||Quad takeaways to boost India’s capabilities||The first in-person Quad summit hosted by US President Joe Biden on September 24 brought a firm focus to the evolving partnership. It was the second summit this year. The intent of the partners to forge a partnership which could be a defining one for the second quarter of the 21st century is evident.The Biden administration has shown fulsome commitment to Quad. India’s hesitancies are overcome; Australia, which was the original recalcitrant player, is now a determined partner. Japan’s steadfast commitment is such that PM Suga participated in the last week of his term.The Quad summit was big in its intentions, proposals, and joint statement. The statement in March 2021 was barely five paragraphs long; the September statement is much longer. It is backed by a more detailed fact sheet of the envisaged partnerships. Quad has become more formalised, though not institutionalised. Its summit will be held annually as will its ministerial meetings. These will be at the level of foreign ministers. It is unlikely to graduate to a 2+2 arrangement, which the Quad partners all bilaterally have.This is because Quad has clearly eschewed security cooperation as an objective. Maritime security, the Malabar exercise and other bilateral, trilateral and Quad-based security dialogue, will not diminish. They will deal with the complex regional security separately.This emerged when Foreign Secretary Shringla briefed the media prior to PM Modi’s US visit. The Malabar exercise, which now involves all four Quad countries, and was held in August, is not a Quad activity. Security aspects were not part of Quad. The joint statement is clear about this.The first big takeaway thus is that Quad is focusing on a partnership for a new order. The free and open Indo-Pacific will go well beyond security. A modern development partnership is envisaged.Another factor is to reduce the anxieties in the Indo-Pacific region, particularly among the ASEAN countries. They are petrified at the prospect of a growing Quad-China contention in which they would be asked to take sides. The confused and disparate messaging from ASEAN countries regarding AUKUS reflects this anxiety.By removing the security dimension from Quad and generously praising the ASEAN centrality and its Indo-Pacific outlook in the second paragraph of the joint statement, Quad aims to build partnerships with ASEAN, who are at the heart of the region. The battle for the hearts and minds of ASEAN countries, which China is winning, is clearly joined. A willingness to work with the EU on this is alluded to.Another takeaway is the larger agenda of cooperation and futuristic development that Quad is undertaking. It aims to create a ring of prosperity and modern engagement in the Indo-Pacific. The countries of the region, particularly ASEAN, are informed that they could be beneficiaries of these initiatives, and need not depend solely on China.Quad, which normally focuses on the Indo-Pacific, in its joint statement now devoted a paragraph on South Asia, focusing on Afghanistan. The red lines which will determine Afghanistan’s future after the US withdrawal are in UNSCR 2593 and Quad emphasises them. Quad is an important development partner of Afghanistan, and could contribute to its future. If the Taliban-led government follows the mandate to act responsibly and abjure internal and cross-border terrorism, Quad will assist them. Proscribing the use of Afghanistan as a political tool is significant, particularly for India, as the paragraph reflects the India-US formulation.The concerns of Japan and Australia are covered with references to the situation in North Korea, Myanmar, the Pacific Islands and the small island development states. The challenge to the Chinese role in these areas by supporting regional initiatives, including that of ASEAN is notable. Quad as a stabilising force in the Indo-Pacific could emerge as an alternative, which could work within the East Asia Summit, where all four are members.The enhanced agenda of Quad is ambitious and modern. There are working groups in place, dealing with vaccines, critical technology and climate issues. Now their agendas are elaborated for expansion. The roles of the Quad countries are better defined. The new focal points added are infrastructure, cyber security, space and education.These will challenge the BRI capabilities of China. Inversely, there is an emphasis on building resilient 5G technology segments and opening it to the region with high standards. Protection of critical infrastructure from cyber attacks is clearly aimed at China. Thus, the takeaway is that the Quad countries will develop new technologies for health, climate and energy, including hydrogen, digital technologies and infrastructure and work together to protect them. A focus on science and technology is evident in the documents.The 100 scholarships with 25 meritorious STEM researchers from each of the Quad countries to work in the US, is similar to India’s scheme for 1,000 ASEAN students to study at the IITs.On the vaccine initiative, Japan commits $3.3 billion under the Covid-19 Crisis Response Emergency Support Loan Programme for the region. This could support the expansion of manufacturing in India. Australia commits $500 million to support last-mile delivery and procurement of vaccines for underserved countries in the Indo-Pacific.This vaccine initiative is evidently bearing fruit. The important lesson is that though procurement and implementation systems in the Quad countries are varied, they seem to have coalesced on the common production of a vaccine using the complementarities among them.The emphasis on supply chains is also a takeaway. These are already being implemented for the vaccines, but would now specifically focus on semiconductors, critical technologies for the future and cyber security. They would entail supply side management of goods, technologies and services, which would likely be enumerated in the next few months.For India, the biggest advantage is that it has a set of committed countries with which it shares values and strategic perspective. They are good options for India’s development and maritime security efforts. As each Quad member strengthens, it will improve the responsiveness of Quad. The development agenda brings options to India of the next generation science and technology where it can be an effective partner and build its own capabilities as it sets out to deal with the strategic challenge of China.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/quad-takeaways-to-boost-indias-capabilities-317584
29-09-2021||---||China eyes technological edge over rivals||The first part of this article is about the ‘visa humiliation’ of India, inflicted by the Communist Party of China (CPC). The second part addresses the CPC’s ways to strengthen air power, which stands perilously close to the aerial terrain of the Indian Air Force (IAF). Hence, New Delhi may like to change the threat alert to real-time ‘war of attrition’.The one-point agenda of the humiliation inflicted by the Chinese and belittling of India shouldn’t be accepted by a 21st century sovereign country. Yet, as Indian diplomacy groans in agony under the weight of the uncivil and aggressive CPC-owned state, and as New Delhi’s mandarins hope for a favourable response for the issuance of visa to Indians — which stands suspended since November 2020 on the pretext of Covid-19 restrictions — one must ‘appreciate’ how well India treats the CPC.The Chinese are being allowed to enter India on a visa made available by the Ministry of External Affairs, without mutual reciprocity. The Chinese enter and exit India with ease, thereby allowing themselves the leisure and pleasure to do what they feel like in the Indian hinterland. From economics to commerce, finance to banking and border intrusion to cyber fraud, the CPC leaders must be laughing at India’s plight, taking full advantage of the favour being granted through unrestricted movement of Chinese nationals across India.In the process, the CPC dictators become a hero in the eyes of their oppressed and suppressed people, and despite being a democracy, the Indian government faces criticism from citizens enjoying fundamental rights for not being able to get the mutual benefits which the Chinese are enjoying on the Indian soil at the expense of the Indian state.The so-called ‘free citizens of the CPC state visit India for everything. And the actual ‘free’ Indians, under laws administered by the Government of India, are shackled by a foreign government that restricts their international movement. Isn’t the scenario abominable as the Chinese pop up in every nook and corner of India?Now, on to China’s foray into the foreign military arena! The IAF, on the eve of its 89th anniversary, notes the devious ploy of the CPC, to implement its plan into reality, through all or any means — fair or foul — by enhancing its capability and slicing the cake to spoil the rival’s plan of consumption.So, ‘read’ the Chinese through their own 4th century BC soldier-scholar Sun Tzu’s The art of war: “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of hundred battles.” India followed, and victory was theirs in the 1971 war with Pakistan. Nevertheless, ‘if you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained, you will also suffer a defeat’.It happened in September 1965 during the India-Pakistan war. The victory in the Punjab sector didn’t replicate in other combat zones where India faulted; only to be mutually restored in the post-war Tashkent meet in 1966. And finally, ‘If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle’. It occurred spectacularly, when the 20th century successors of Sun Tzu, the CPC-controlled People’s Liberation Army (PLA), attacked India unprovoked in 1962 (to save its dictator Mao Zedong from the famine that killed 50 million Chinese). Indeed, Mao gave a body blow to the political leadership of New Delhi. Indian polity then knew neither the enemy nor its own self in 1962.So, today the ‘768 combat-capable’ IAF aircraft face China’s ‘2,367 combat-capable’ fleet (Military Balance-2021). How did it happen? It started with cold, calculated means three decades ago with emphatic emphasis on import substitution and home-made military aviation to avoid possible interruption of combat aircraft flow, following unanticipated and unexpected change in the supplier country’s political weather vane.Starting with the Soviet aircraft import in the 1950s, the CPC Air Force today poses a challenge to all with deep inroads into Western technology to enhance its aviation capacity building. Thus, came in 2009 the Chinese XAC Y-20 Kunpeng medium transport/multi-role aircraft, designed reportedly with Antonov inputs. However, ‘recent image showed the design conforming more to Boeing C-17’. In July 2009, a former Boeing employee was convicted of selling C-17 technical details to China (Jane’s All the World’s Aircraft).SAC Y-9 is another China-made special mission aircraft, supplied to Pakistan as Karakoram Eagle (KE-03). A reported similar role to the US Lockheed EP-3, expectedly its ‘systems were copied from an EP-3, which made emergency landing in China 2001’.Contextually, one is constrained to draw the attention of the IAF to media reports of August 9, 2012: ‘Defence glare on Chinese spares’. “The Defence Ministry is investigating reports that faulty Chinese spares were used in the US-origin military hardware sold to India; the then Defence Minister AK Antony told Parliament’. He ‘listed some equipment among the contracts signed in the last five years (2005-10)’, the total value of which was more than $10 billion. Antony further said the Defence Ministry got intelligence reports in November 2011 about a ‘probable compromise’ of computers of the Eastern Naval Command, Visakhapatnam.That the CPC could drag anyone to any extent to achieve the ‘numero uno’ status, stands vindicated by numerous credible reports on its mischief which the developed Western world miserably failed to read over the years. Thus, it is the US-led West which surrendered their technological advantage to the CPC through joint venture and collaboration, and sheepishly succumbed to Beijing’s demands, however harsh these were.A few more instances will suffice. On May 28, 2013 came the news of Polish maker Aero AT being bought over by China’s Jiangsu Lantian (Blue Sky) Aerospace Industrial Park ‘to produce light plane for Chinese market’. In February 2002 came the US-China joint venture in the form of Shanghai Sikorsky Aircraft Company, with US technology access to China. There are several military and civil aviation programmes of the Chinese in which Airbus to Boeing and companies like Rockwell, Honeywell, Safran, Eaton Aerospace, Saint-Gobain-Sully, Liebherr (both French and German) are there with long-term development leading to home product programme of the CPC, the sole aim being self-sufficiency in defence to face any eventuality and not be dependent on foreign powers for military hardware.Ironically, however, after a three-decade honeymoon with the CPC-led China, cracks are visible. The US today is desperately trying to curb the CPC by clubbing other countries through Quad and AUKUS. Is it too late in the day? Or is it going to be one of those still-born tech programmes? Only time can tell. Nevertheless, it’s also time for New Delhi and the defence forces to take note as the IAF completes 89 years. The flight to the destination (IAF’s centenary celebrations) is fraught with unanticipated, unexpected and severe air turbulence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/china-eyes-technological-edge-over-rivals-317580
29-09-2021||---||How UP cookie will crumble||Uttar pradesh’s regions spanning the west, east, centre and Bundelkhand, exist in silos, each with their own preoccupations and concerns conditioned by economics, geography and demography. However, come an election, political imperatives transcend the distinctive characteristics. UP votes as one state, and has lately, rooted for a single party or coalition. The fractured verdicts that threw UP into disarray in the past are history. The next Assembly election is about five months away. While a lull has seemingly descended over the east and central regions and Bundelkhand, the western belt is in ferment.The farmers’ protests reflect west UP’s pre-election zeitgeist. The agitation, led by the Jat farmers, saw the emergence of Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of the BKU, as a force to reckon with, but Tikait’s resurrection had other after-effects. The maturation of Jayant Chaudhary, who heads the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), is a significant consequence of the agrarian churn. As long as his father, Chaudhary Ajit Singh was around (he passed away in May 2021), his scion lived in his shadow and fought the polls on the legacy of his grandfather, Chaudhary Charan Singh, that appeared to gradually fade away under the weight of the BJP and its Hindutva project. Jayant is the biggest beneficiary of the protests because on a reflex, he reacted the way a seasoned politician would: seize the moment and build on it.Tikait imbued the movement with emotions that placed him on the centre stage; Jayant stirred the cauldron of sentiments and together they aroused feelings against the UP government. West UP covers the districts adjoining Delhi and Haryana known as the Jat belt, which is a misnomer because while the Jats once laid down the law, Mandal and the BSP phenomena saw the OBCs and the Dalits assert their political autonomy—Brijbhoomi and Rohilkhand hold 125 of the 403 Assembly seats. Large parts of this region, which voted for socialists, became BJP strongholds after 1989 and stayed that way. In the 1993 polls, which the SP and the BSP fought together, central and eastern UP slipped away from the BJP’s grasp, despite the party projecting it as a ‘referendum’ on the Babri mosque’s demolition but the west enabled the BJP to stay afloat. Even the BJP now privately admits it cannot take the west’s rural turf for granted because certain developments presage a shift on the ground.On September 20, Jayant was anointed with the ‘Chaudhary’ prefix at a ‘rasam pagdi’ ceremony that heralded his arrival as the new political representative of the khaps across India. These informal village councils in North India that also work as quasi judicial bodies congregated at Chhaprauli in UP’s Baghpat district, the traditional seat of the Chaudhary family, and instated Jayant as the community head. This position was held by his father and grandfather. Rakesh Tikait and his brother, Naresh Tikait, who heads the BKU, attended the ritual in a political leg-up for Jayant.However, Jayant’s RLD has its limitations. It can hope to address the Jats, a community that is not entirely trusted by the other upper castes, the OBCs and certainly not the Dalits who for years weren’t allowed by the Jats to independently exercise their franchise. Likewise, the BKU is straitjacketed with a Jat-exclusive appeal. The RLD’s alliance with the SP could give Jayant the lift he needs, provided SP president Akhilesh Yadav goes beyond getting the support of the Yadavs and ensures the Muslims vote almost en bloc for the coalition.There are straws in the wind, which the political players might look to grasp before the moment passes. The Gurjar or Gujjars, an influential OBC community, that is generally loyal to the BJP, was in arms recently when the caste title ‘Gurjar’ went missing from the plaque of a statue of Mihir Bhoj, a ninth century king of the Gurjar-Pratihara dynasty, who is revered by the Gujjars. Last week, CM Yogi Adityanath unveiled Bhoj’s statue without the ‘Gurjar’ title which the community promptly construed as an affront to their history, and importantly, a tactic used by the Rajputs, Adityanath’s community, to appropriate a caste totem and embed him in their pantheon of greats. The Gujjars gathered at a mahapanchayat to register their objections. Such a development cannot bode well for the BJP that’s counting on the OBC votes to neutralise the prospective loss of Jat support.On the other hand, is the SP-RLD fully assured of Jat backing? A throwback to recent history is useful to get a perspective on the Jat votes. West UP was seared by communal violence which originated in Muzaffarnagar in 2013 and pitted the Jats against Muslims. The Jats and Muslims, who shared a working relationship, became sworn adversaries and no attempt by the RLD to resurrect the metaphors that defined communal equations helped. The RLD was trounced in every election held since 2014. The Tikaits admitted they voted for the BJP in 2019. Even now, Rakesh Tikait sounds ambivalent.In a recent interview, he claimed the BKU would remain ‘apolitical’, he would not share a political platform with the RLD and that many of his comrades would still vote the BJP because of ‘local pressures’. To try and mollify the farmers, Adityanath hiked the state administered price of sugarcane by Rs 25 per quintal, the first raise in his tenure. That might not be enough of a sweetener because one of the BJP’s MP, Varun Gandhi, demanded that the price be augmented by another Rs 25 to take it to Rs 400 per quintal.The imponderables have made the scenario uncertain for the players in the prelude to the elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/how-up-cookie-will-crumble-317579
