30-09-2021||---||India-US strategic ties should be reassessed||Modi-watchers, foreign policy experts and strategy pundits have been weighing in on the success — the adjectives ‘spectacular’ and ‘grand’ have been avoided — of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Washington and New York. They heaved a deep sigh of relief when the Australia-United Kingdom-United States (AUKUS) alliance was announced by US President Joe Biden, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on September 15, days before the physical summit of the Quad comprising the US, India, Japan and Australia in Washington on September 24.Prime Minister Modi attended with his Japanese and Australian counterparts, Yoshihide Suga and Morrison, hosted by Biden as part of his American visit. It was felt that the Quad had been pushed to the second place by the transoceanic Anglo-Saxon military alliance, which is to help Australia get nuclear submarines, clearly targeting China, and much more directly than the Quad.The Indian commentariat was angry and disappointed with the formation and announcement of the AUKUS, and there was a slow lamentation that the battle against China was being narrowed by excluding India and Japan from the military formation. But after the Quad summit, where nothing concrete had emerged, the Indian observers took a sharp turn and proffered the argument that it was good India was not part of the AUKUS because by joining the military alliance, India would have alienated Russia and its freedom to buy from Moscow would have been reduced.After a long time in the Indian strategic discourse, Russia has made a comeback, and everyone has begun to say what a bad idea it was for India to be part of a military alliance and how it would compromise India’s strategic autonomy. And the Quad summit became a trophy of success for Modi because the India-US bilateral did not have much meat in it. It was a regular diplomatic non-event. The major event was the Quad summit because it has become evident that the United States and President Biden are quite busy putting the Afghan debacle behind and robustly pursuing an anti-China strategic game in the Indo-Pacific.The Prime Minister’s meeting with the CEOs of five American majors was played up on the first day in Washington, but there was no radical breakthrough. The foreign investments flowing into India from the United States were following their slow pace, and the Prime Minister’s exhortations did not make any difference. So, from the meeting with the CEOs to the bilateral and the quadrilateral were all subdued events, and the media had a hard time converting it into something interesting and sensational. The final lap, which included the United Nations General Assembly annual jamboree in New York, had more buzz than the Washington part of the journey. Modi’s warning about the threat of terrorism without naming Pakistan and the precarious situation in Afghanistan and referring to the ocean as a common ground without referring to China seemed a subtle onslaught.The reply of India’s First Secretary Sneha Dubey to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s insidious speech grabbed more attention than the Prime Minister’s speech. Again, the Indian media wanted to celebrate Modi’s UNGA speech as that of a veritable global leader, and that he put Pakistan in its place by not mentioning it and established that India belonged to a different league. The interpretative acrobatics of the media as well as that of the experts made for an interesting brainteaser.Modi’s trip to the United States was subdued. It lacked the Prime Minister’s raised energy levels which he had displayed on his earlier visits to the country. The welcome by the adoring NRIs in Washington and at New York was not electrifying though the Prime Minister seemed quite pleased. One of the reasons that Modi was quieter this time round in America was the embarrassing fact of the ‘Howdy, Modi!’ rally at Houston where he endorsed former President Donald Trump’s candidacy, though the slogan ‘Ab Ki Baar, Trump Sarkar’, which resounded in the stadium was coined in the 2016 presidential campaign by the Republican Hindu Coalition (RHC) and Trump had enthusiastically participated in the clip. The Houston rally on September 24, 2019, was followed by the Ahmedabad rally for Trump on February 24, 2020. It was a diplomatic and political faux pas which must have rankled in the minds of both Modi and Biden, but like good politicians, they let it be. But again like good politicians, neither Modi nor Biden would have forgotten about it. Politicians have elephantine memories, for good or for bad.Part of the reason for the lack of that extra spark in Modi’s trip to the United States this time had something to do with the Trump faux pas, which everyone in the BJP and the Modi government would vehemently deny and dismiss. But it would be hard to put out of mind two large, loud rallies held in Houston and Ahmedabad, with the Prime Minister playing a stellar role in both. There is no need to linger too long on it and wallow in penitence for the strategic error, and that too an unforced one. And the simple lesson would be that one should not be carried away by one’s own enthusiasm. Many at that time had argued that Republican Trump was friendlier towards India than any Democrat president. He was friendlier but he did not mince words when it came to the issue of taxes on Harley Davidsons in India, or when he demanded the delivery of hydroxychloroquine supplies from India in April 2020.The India-US bilateral relations are not at a high nor have they hit the nadir. There is a sense of huge disappointment in India after the American exit from Afghanistan because it has weakened India’s position in the region and harmed its interests. For 20 years, India breathed relatively easy because of the American presence in Kabul. The formation of the Quad is no consolation, and the AUKUS has only made things worse. India has to seriously reassess its strategic ties with the US.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/india-us-strategic-ties-should-be-reassessed-318062
30-09-2021||---||Protectionist mindset limiting trade gains||The bonhomie of the Modi-Biden summit may have been low key but there are great expectations, both on the strategic front as well as the stalled area of economic relations. The latter has even more contentious issues than the former. Expanding trade and technology ties may have been highlighted as one of the big hopes from the meeting, yet there could be limited success here.Bilateral trade volumes have grown over the years but the hurdles in the way of a sharp acceleration seem to be mounting rather than the reverse. The result is that China has displaced the US as India’s biggest trade partner in the last fiscal.In this backdrop, much more needs to be done to smoothen over the many rough patches in trade ties that have stubbornly refused to disappear over the years. These include non-tariff barriers, the lack of alignment in international quality standards and a perceived failure to provide access to this country’s huge market. The market access constraints have been a perennial complaint of successive US administrations.A new dimension has been added to the plethora of differences between the two countries, with the US having apparently indicated its lack of interest in a bilateral free trade agreement (FTA). The prospect of such an FTA was avidly discussed during the Trump administration’s tenure but no positive decisions were taken. There was some talk of a mini-trade deal but this too fell through.Clearly, it has been accepted that the chasm between the two sides is too wide to be bridged right now through a bilateral agreement. Though Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal has called for moving forward on other fronts, the American disinterest in an FTA has been a disappointment at a time when India is trying to forge more regional trade pacts.Significantly, Goyal also cautioned the industry that seeking market access abroad would mean a reciprocal opening up of markets here. Whether this means that the gradual rise in protectionist tariffs since the NDA assumed power will be reversed is yet to be seen. But there is no doubt that if India wants to integrate into the global value chains, it will have to halt the creeping rise in tariffs that is adding costs to the economy. The economic benefits of being a part of the Quad grouping will also be negated unless there is a serious effort to open up the domestic market to Japan and Australia, along with the US.Greater access is at the core of the Quad’s plan of technology cooperation in the area of semiconductors — the ubiquitous chips at the core of all technical goods that are taken for granted nowadays. The global chips shortage, combined with the fact that the biggest producer, Taiwan, is facing the threat of takeover by China, has pushed this item onto the priority list for the Quad. Complementarities in technological expertise, manufacturing capabilities and engineering skills among these four countries can successfully create a global supply chain for semiconductors.The question is: will this government put its atmarnirbhar policy and related protectionist approach aside to become a part of this value chain?The answer has to be in the affirmative if it is to become an integral part of the Quad’s semiconductor supply chain initiative. The initiative has arisen from the recognition that national self-sufficiency does not work in this sector. The four-country grouping has even gone on record to call for a diverse and competitive market, a comment based on the fact that semiconductor production is typically spread over several countries. In case the initiative succeeds, it will enable many countries to emerge out of the stranglehold of dependency on China or the beleaguered Taiwan for their critical chip supplies.Till now, India has not played a pivotal role in the global value chains that are fuelling trade flows around the world. One reason, according to a recent survey by consulting firm Deloitte, is apparently the fact that the lure of coming to this country for many investors is its vast internal market.Multinational business leaders, especially from Japan, are interested in investing here despite the current economic downturn, but purely to supply to the domestic market, and not to make India a springboard for exports.This perception needs to change and the Quad’s semiconductor initiative could be the starting point in case it leads to removal of the current protectionist mindset.What is interesting, however, is that foreign direct investment inflows have been surging in spite of the 7.3 per cent contraction in growth during 2020-21. These rose by nearly 10 per cent from $74.39 billion in 2019-20 to $81.72 billion in 2020-21. And this, when global FDI flows fell from $1.5 trillion to $1 trillion over the same period.This is all to the good, but these inflows are not aimed at making India a part of the global value chains, as that would need both reduction in tariff barriers as well as measures to improve the ease-of-doing business. In the absence of such policy changes, the Deloitte survey indicates that Vietnam and Indonesia score higher as investment destinations than India among the global corporate leaders.For India to reap the benefits of the summit-level camaraderie with the US as well as other Quad partners, there needs to be a fundamental shift in policy. When the Modi government assumed power, deep and wide-ranging economic reforms were expected to be put in place. Instead, there has been an incremental gradual approach in many areas. Then came the atmanirbhar policy which actually represented a step backward into the era of protectionism.One can only hope the policy will be sidelined for a more pragmatic approach in line with the recent initiatives to reverse the retrospective tax legislation and provide support to the flailing telecom sector. A fresh approach has been taken lately towards moribund economic policies, even if rather late in the day. This approach needs to be extended to trade and technology. Otherwise, the prospect of positive outcomes from the Quad summit may be non-existent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/protectionist-mindset-limiting-trade-gains-318061
30-09-2021||---||New momentum for Quad||A UN tribunal at the Hague was convened in 2013, under the provisions of the Law of the Sea to rule on an arbitration case filed by the Philippines government, contesting the outrageous claims made by China on its maritime boundaries. The court ruled in favour of the Philippines, stating that the ‘nine dash line’ under which China made its claims to its so-called ‘historic rights’ to resources in the South China Sea, had no legal basis. None of the land features claimed by China met the requirements of an ‘exclusive economic zone’. Beijing arbitrarily dismissed the court’s award, saying that it was not binding. When India lost a case on its maritime boundaries with Bangladesh, it respected the verdict of the international tribunal.It is in similar circumstances that China had acquired territory by the use of force earlier. Beijing faces opposition to its maritime boundary claims from many countries. It has also shown scant respect for its land borders with India, Nepal, Bhutan, Laos, Mongolia, Myanmar, South Korea, North Korea and Tibet, where it has seized territory. China’s disputes on its borders with Russia ended after a bruising conflict in the 1970s and 1980s. Given the fact that a number of countries where China has resorted to maritime aggression, like Japan and the Philippines, are US allies, America maintains a strong military presence in the western Pacific.It is in this context that Quad emerged as a force to resist Chinese maritime aggression, while enhancing its economic cooperation across the Indo-Pacific. India has undertaken timely and useful exchanges with the US in recent years, during periods of border tensions with China. President Biden has shown considerable interest in strengthening Quad after he assumed office. India has always wanted greater economic cooperation touching on the lives of people in the Indo-Pacific Region, for Quad to be useful and influential. India has been urging the need for primary emphasis on economic issues, like vaccines and global supply chains, while the focus of attention has primarily been on joint naval exercises in the past.Pressed by India, Quad decided to widen its relevance and influence by placing substantial interest in economic matters. In the meantime, France and the UK participated in joint naval exercises in the Indian and Pacific Oceans. While the UK decided over six decades ago not to have a military presence ‘east of Suez’, it restored its naval links by sending an aircraft carrier for the exercises across the Indo-Pacific Region earlier this year. It also, however, muddied the waters by undermining a $40 billion nuclear submarine deal between France and Australia.The recent Quad summit in Washington was a remarkable success in clearing doubts about how President Biden would respond after the humiliating US withdrawal from Afghanistan. The results of the summit exceeded all expectations.The warmth shown by Biden in his talks with PM Modi was exceptional. More importantly, the hard preparatory work done by External Affairs Minister Jaishankar and NSA Ajit Doval ensured that Indian priorities on national security and in measures to diplomatically meet the Chinese challenge were adopted. The summit addressed concerns and policies in the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and access to critical and emerging technologies. The persistent Indian effort played a significant role in the decision for the production of 1.2 billion additional vaccines for export, with investments of around $3.5 billion coming largely from Japan. There will be an emphasis on strengthening global health and security. Quad will contribute significantly to measures to take control of the dangers posed by the coronavirus. India is stepping up its production of vaccines to contribute significantly to the production of 1.2 billion vaccines envisaged in the Quad summit. India would be the major contributor of vaccines across the Indo-Pacific Region, till the shores of its East African partners.China is expanding its maritime presence across the Indian Ocean, from the shores of East Africa to the Straits of Malacca, with bases under construction in Pakistan’s Balochistan and Sind provinces. China is also building the Bay of Bengal port of Kyaukphyu in Myanmar. The time has come for India to step up maritime cooperation with the US Fifth Fleet based in Bahrain. The fleet is equipped with aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines, and also air support based in Qatar. While India has two nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarines, it needs to strengthen its fleet, like Australia is doing, with cooperation from countries like France or Russia for the use of conventional missiles across the Indian Ocean.One of the most important understandings reached during the summit in Washington included measures to address shared concerns through agreements to cooperate closely on counter-terrorism and humanitarian issues in Afghanistan. Quad has also specifically denounced the support or use of ‘terrorist proxies’ (like LeT and JeM) to launch or plan ‘cross-border’ terrorist attacks. This naturally applies to cross-border activities of the Taliban and the entire family of Sirajuddin Haqqani, who lives primarily in Pakistan, but is now the interior minister of the Taliban government.The government chose to ignore calls for early recognition of the Taliban government, whose behaviour has been anything but civilised. Moreover, there is nothing to suggest that there is going to be an end of Taliban support for radical Islamic groups across the world, like the Al-Qaeda. It remains to be seen how the Taliban will respond to the calls for help from the Uighur Muslims in China’s Xinjiang province.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/comment/new-momentum-for-quad-318058
