02-01-2022||---||Patiala dhaba worker spits on rotis, video goes viral||Patiala, January 1A video of a dhaba worker spitting on tandoori rotis went viral on social media today. The video is unleashing anger among the city residents. In the video the worker of a dhaba, near Sheran Wala Gate, is clearly seen spitting on every roti before pasting it on the walls of tandoor (oven).However, it was not clear when and who had shot the video. Meanwhile, the Health Department in the evening raided the said dhaba, but it was found to be closed at the time of the raid. District health officer said they would again conduct the raid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dhaba-worker-spits-on-rotis-video-goes-viral-357147
02-01-2022||---||Drivers of 108 ambulance service protest over dues||Patiala, January 1Drivers of 108 ambulance service held a protest and blocked the road at Fountain roundabout for hours here today. The drivers were protesting against a private company for running ambulance services in the state.To mark their protest, the drivers parked their ambulances at the roundabout and blocked all four sides of the circuit. The employees alleged that the company had not given their salaries for over two months.Joga Singh, a protesting employee, said that it was very difficult for them to run their households in the face of no salary for two months. However, the officials of the private company, who reached the protesting site, said that one month’s salary was delayed. The company officials claimed that salary would be released within a week. The protesting drivers after a few hours called off their stir after assurance of releasing the salaries from the company officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/drivers-of-108-ambulance-service-protest-over-dues-357146
02-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala district logs 98 fresh Covid cases in a day, highest in six months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 1The district reported a record 98 Covid-19 cases after a gap of six months today, thereby taking active cases count to 244. Of 98 cases, Patiala city alone reported 88 cases, while other cases were reported from Kauli, Bhadson, Rajpur and Samana. The sudden rise in the cases, which is highest in the state, has set alarm bells ringing for the officials of the Health Department and administration.Patiala Civil Surgeon said that rising cases was a result of the people becoming complacent for Covid over the past few months. He warned that the situation might go out of hand, if people didn’t adopt Covid appropriate behaviour.He said, “We are already in talks with the district administration over the rising Covid-19 cases. If the situation gets worse in the coming days, we will be compelled to take stricter measures to stem the spread.”It has been learnt that the administration, in the face of mounting Covid-19 cases, is planning to impose curfew in the district.Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that the positivity rate had increased manifold. He said the rate had surpassed 7 per cent, which was earlier below 1 per cent. He further said that the new Omicron variant would spread at double rate as compared to Delta variant. Sumeet said that the number of cases were likely to rise at the exponential level in the coming days.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said that people should follow Covid appropriate behaviour. He said, “We are very concerned over the surge in cases. People should start wearing masks in public places.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-logs-98-fresh-covid-cases-in-a-day-highest-in-six-months-357145
02-01-2022||---||24 more students test positive at Thapar Institute, Patiala, count rises to 93||Patiala, January 1Hours after 54 students tested positive for Covid-19, hundreds of students from various hostels held a New Year’s Eve bash in violation of the protocol at the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (TIET) last night. The party, students claimed, continued until the wee hours of Saturday.Sheer negligenceIt is sheer negligence. The authorities should have taken care of this, especially when so many students have tested positive — Dr Sumeet Singh, District EpidemiologistThis, even as 24 more students tested positive at the institute on Saturday, taking the count to 93 over the past few days. Ironically, the Health Department has decided not to conduct further testing in other hostels on the campus, evidently owing to the lackadaisical attitude of the institute authorities.In a video accessed by The Tribune, students were last evening seen dancing and roaming on the campus, in clear violation of the safety protocol. Unmindful of the serious implications of their behaviour, some symptomatic students also took part in the party, said sources.However, Thapar authorities denied organising any such party. Gurbinder Singh, registrar, TIET, said: “The institute has not organised any New Year’s Eve party. We are not even aware of students holding such a party at the hostel. They might have gathered on their own.” The Health Department said it was negligence on part of students and institute authorities.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said: “Of course, large gatherings are bound to spread infection. The authorities should have taken care of this, especially when so many students have tested positive.”DC Sandeep Hans said the institute had been asked to ensure such laxity should not be repeated in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/24-more-students-test-ve-at-thapar-count-rises-to-93-357137
