03-01-2022||---||Patiala district reports highest single-day spike of 133 cases in 6 months||Patiala, January 2In the highest single-day spike over the last six months, the district today reported 133 positive cases of Covid. Of 133, Patiala city alone reported 120 cases, while rest were reported from Nabha, Rajpura, Kauli, and Dudhdan Sadhan. With this, the tally of active cases in the district has risen to 351.Around 302 cases had been reported in the last three days. Health officials said the rising positivity rate, which has reached above 11 per cent, was a cause of concern. It has been learnt that the positivity rate jumped to 11.7 on Sunday from 7.2 per cent on Saturday.Health officials, who have been conducting Covid tests, said that the majority of symptomatic patients were being turned out to be testing positive for the Covid. However, the number of hospitalisation is low. It has been learnt that only 16 of total 351 active cases are hospitalised.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that to trace contacts of positive cases was hard in the face of higher infection rate. Restriction of movement was the most important to curb the spread in the third wave, he said. He claimed, “Some areas of Patiala city have been reporting a higher number of cases than others. We will have to declare these areas as containment zones in the coming days to stem the spread. Restriction of movement of the people is must to reduce the impact of the third wave.”It has been learnt that the Health Department is struggling with Covid testing owing to the ongoing strike by the health staff. Besides, many health officials, including doctors, have been tested positive which has also hampered the fight against Covid.In view of the sudden surge in positive cases, the administration is planning to impose a night curfew in the district. Sources have informed that the Chief Minister is likely to take a final call on the imposition of the night curfew as early as in the next 24 hours.Meanwhile, Dr Harjinder Singh, Director-Principal Government Medical College, said that the isolation centre at Government Rajindra Hospital was ready to handle the rise in Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-133-cases-in-6-months-357560
03-01-2022||---||Nine-day painting workshop at Chitkara University concludes||Patiala, January 2Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit was the chief guest on the concluding day of the art festival Kala Kumbh at Chitkara University here. A nine-day painting workshop was organised at the university as part of 75-week grand celebration—Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav initiative. As many as 250 artists participated in the 450 m long and 3 m wide scroll painting.Talking to students, Governor Purohit said they should make Dr Abdul Kalam Azad their role model. He congratulated the painters for participation and said they had documented the valiant acts of soldiers who played an important role in the independence struggle. He said this was an example of the country’s unity in diversity.Adwaita Gadanayak, Director General, National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA), said it was a learning experience for participant artists. He said the painting would be available for people after its inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Archna Mantri, VC, Chitkara University, said the Kala Kumbh had given a great opportunity to people of the region to see the huge art being done in a massive scale where the painters expressed their creative freedom and represented specific styles of art form, specially contemporary and traditional. She said that the Fadd, Bhil, Mandana, Kangra, Vorli , Thanga, Pichawai , Kalamkari were most attracted to traditional forms whereas contemporary painting through the use of brush, strokes and colours had shown the states that the artists belong to.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nine-day-painting-workshop-at-chitkara-university-concludes-357549
03-01-2022||---||Federation demands reservation for Mazhabi Sikhs in Punjabi University jobs||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 2Punjabi University will follow the reservation policy of the Punjab Government for regular appointments on the posts of assistant professors and principals at its constituent colleges. The university will advertise the same changes after recently announced recruitment came under fire for questionable process from representatives of the Dr Ambedkar Employees’ Federation, Punjab, who alleged that the posts were not advertised as per the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (reservation in services) Act.The university had advertised six posts of principals and 133 posts of assistant professors at constituent colleges.The bifurcation of the posts has been done for SC and BC category, economically weaker section and others. Raising concerns, Jatinder Singh Mattoo, president, Dr Ambedkar Employees Federation, Punjab, said, “The university has not given reservation to Mazhabi Sikhs and the Balmiki category within the SC category reservation. Instead, it has given the whole 25 per cent reservation for the SC category.This is in violation of the Punjab Scheduled Caste and Backward Classes (reservation in services) Act, 2006. As per the Act, the state government provides 25 per cent reservation to scheduled caste category individuals. Of these, 12.5 per cent reservation is given to the majhabi Sikh and balmiki category as they are further left behind in education within the SC category individuals.The remaining seats are for SC Ravidasiya and others. By not providing separate mention of the Mazhabi Sikh and Balmiki categories, the university has discriminated against such applicants.”He said the federation had written to the university Vice-Chancellor on the matter. “We will wait for the university to make the change, else we will hold a protest,” he said.University Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind said, “The university will follow the state government reservation policy and give the break-up on the university website as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/federation-demands-reservation-for-mazhabi-sikhs-in-varsity-jobs-357548
03-01-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Three killed in accidents||A 19-year-old biker, identified as Ashish Kumar of Hardoi district, was killed on the spot when a speeding vehicle hit his bike on the GT road Sirhind, near Nabipur village, last night. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital Fatehgarh Sahib, where doctors declared him dead. Shailendra Kumar, uncle of the deceased, said that Ashish was going to Ludhiana from Panchkula on his bike. When he reached near Nabipur village he was hit by an unknown vehicle and died on the spot. The police have registered a case against an unidentified vehicle driver. The body was handed over to his family members after postmortem.In another incident, a man was killed when he was hit by a train near Sirhind railway station. ASI Tejinder Singh of the Government Railway Police said that Satish Kumar of Madhubani Bihar was crossing the railway tracks near Brahman Majra Sirhind and was hit by a train and died on the spot. Similarly, another unidentified person was killed when he was hit by a train while crossing the railway tracks near old railway over bridge at Sirhind town. The police have kept the bodies of both the deceased in the mortuary of Civil Hospital Fatehgarh Sahib.— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-killed-in-accidents-357545
03-01-2022||Patiala||Nine booked for assaulting Patiala BJP leader, his gunman||The police booked nine persons, three of whom have been identified, after a gunman of a local leader alleged that miscreants rammed their car into their vehicle, misbehaved with the BJP leader and also attempted to snatch his pistol.The police have registered a case against Rupinder Singh, Daljit Singh of Fatehgarh Sahib, and Karanvir Singh of Officer Complex, Patiala, besides six unidentified persons.The Lahori Gate police registered a case on the complaint of Balkar Singh, gunman of a BJP leader. He said he was coming with the BJP leader from railway crossing 21 to Leela Bhawan at around 1.15 am on January 1, when another car rammed into their vehicle. He said, “Five persons were sitting in the vehicle who started hurling abuses. A man, who came out of another vehicle, thrashed the BJP leader and threatened to kill him. They also tore my clothes and stopped me from discharging my duty. One of them attempted to snatch my pistol.”The police have registered a case under Sections 279, 427, 323, 148, 353 and 186 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nine-booked-for-assaulting-patiala-bjp-leader-his-gunman-357544
