04-01-2022||Karam Prakash ||Doctors at Patiala medical college and hospital violate protocol; health dept reminds them of guidelines||Tribune News Service Patiala, January 4Amid the rising Covid cases, Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital has turned into a covid hotspot after over 60 doctors and 30 MBBS students have tested positive.Alumni meet, retirement party and New Year party held on the college premises are said to have been the contributory factors in the worsening situation.The Tribune has learnt that even the administration staff of the hospital and staff from the medical education department had participated in the parties, disregarding the Covid guidelines. And many of those who attended have tested positive.The departments of radio diagnosis, surgery, and gynaecology are the ones severely hit. Some resident doctors of paediatrics and medicine have also tested positive.Junior residents, who have tested positive, told the Tribune that hospital staff was not following Covid-appropriate behaviour which eventually led to the situation.The Patiala Health Department, after a sudden rise in cases, had to write a letter to the Rajindra Hospital to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour strictly. The letter reads: “Doctors, in large numbers, have already tested positive. This will hamper health services at the hospital; therefore, Covid protocol should strictly be followed.”Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans held a late-night meeting with college and hospital authorities at Government Medical College. Hans has been holding a series of meetings to control the situation at the hospital. Dr Harjinder Singh, director principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, said, “We are trying to convert one of the hostels as an isolation centre for doctors and MBBS students. Besides, we are planning to send other MBBS students, who have not tested positive, to their homes.”Later, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said all MBBS students of the medical college, including positive cases, had been sent home.The DC said it appears that all cases are of omicron variant. Samples had been sent for genome sequencing.The DC said this after holding a review meeting at Circuit House.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/doctors-at-patiala-medical-college-and-hospital-violate-protocol-health-dept-reminds-them-of-guidelines-358071
04-01-2022||---||Will regularise services of Covid warriors, if voted to power in Punjab: AAP||Patiala, January 3Amid the din of the upcoming Assembly elections, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president and Lok Sabha member from Sangrur Bhagwant Mann today met protesting Covid warriors at Government Rajindra Hospital and assured them of regularising their services if the party was voted to power.Mann, by offering water, broke the fast unto death of some protesting Covid warriors, who are on fast for over two months. Mann said, “Among the first few decisions, if AAP form the government, we will regularise Covid warriors. Our party has already given jobs to corona-warriors in Delhi.”The Covid warriors were hired last year after the pandemic broke out and have worked during both the waves.Targetting the Congress government, Mann said that protests by qualified youngsters had been a common place in Punjab. “Everywhere you go, one or other is protesting. No one is satisfied with the government. Money spent by the government on advertisement would be enough to provide jobs to Covid warriors,” said Bhagwant Mann. He said that Congress ministers were busy fighting for power, while people of Punjab were fighting for their rights.Commenting on the announcements made by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for women, Bhagwant Mann said, “When Arvind Kejriwal announced that each woman in the state will be given Rs 1,000 per month then Congressmen were criticising Kejriwal and I (Mann). Where would the money come from now? Today, Sidhu himself has started announcing free schemes.” He said the AAP government as well as people of Punjab will hold those accountable who’d spend five years saying, ‘The exchequer is empty.’ The government treasury will be replenished and the money from this treasury will be used to provide facilities to all sections, including teachers, doctors, nurses, corona warriors and other employees.Along with AAP Punjab president, party district president Tejinder Mehta, women wing president Veerpal Kaur Chahal, Dr Balbir Singh, Harmeet Singh Pathanmajra, Kundan Gogia, Prof Sumer Seera, Jagtar Singh Taari, Dr Simarpreet Singh, Harpreet Singh Dhindsa, Anil Mehra, Gurpreet Singh, Lucky Lehal, Ashok Bangar and Puneet Budhiraja were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/will-regularise-services-of-covid-warriors-if-voted-to-power-in-punjab-aap-357986
04-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||No colony under Patiala Urban Planning and Development Authority regularised in over 3 years||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 3Planned development in Patiala and adjoining areas falling under the Patiala Urban Planning and Development Authority (PDA) is a distant dream. Not even a single colony that was developped illegally in its jurisdiction till March 2018 has been regularised under the state’s regularisation policy notified the same year. This has not only left plot holders and residents in such colonies devoid of basic amenities, but has also failed the basic aim of the regularisation policy of bringing such areas under planned development.The PDA had come out with a list of 447 unapproved colonies under its jurisdiction in 2018 after a survey. Since then the office has regularised only plots. Not even a single colony has been regularised till date.On the other hand, the department has been collecting regularisation charges from individual plot holders for issuance of no objection certificate since the policy for regularisation of colonies was notified in September 2018. Till date, 5,064 plots have been regularised in Patiala tehsil, 329 in Nabha, 277 in Rajpura, 41 in Patran, 2 in Samana, 651 in Sangrur district, 101 in Amloh of Fatehgarh Sahib and 23 in Barnala district, all of which fall under PDA.Officials in the PDA said they had been sending notices to the developers of illegal colonies. They said their office received applications from 126 colonisers for regularisation. “We have raised objections on the validity of their documents. Many colonisers have failed to submit ownership details with the applications. Their applications are pending. We have served the demand notice to carry out the final approval for only one colony after its documents were found complete”, PDA Additional Chief Administrator Isha Singhal said.In terms of action against the illegal colonisers, the department has written to the police for registration of FIRs against those who failed to apply. At least seven such FIRs were registered in May 2021. This is despite the fact that the policy otherwise offers various other possible actions, including disconnecting their electricity connections and barring the colonies from registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-colony-under-pda-regularised-in-over-3-years-357985
04-01-2022||Patiala||Punjabi University uploads revised advertisement for recruitment||A day after the matter of lapses in Punjabi University advertisement for hiring of assistant professors and principals at constituent colleges was raised, the university has released a revised advertisement and mentioned reservation of seats as per the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (reservation in services) Act.The Dr Ambedkar Employees’ Federation, Punjab, had raised the claim over the posts that were not advertised as per the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Act.The university today released a revised advertisement and gave a sub-category wise distribution of posts for SC candidates. Of the total 39 posts for SC candidates, 15 each are now reserved for Mazbi and Balmiki applicants and Ramdasia and other sub-categories. Nine posts are single posts for different subjects available for the SC category candidates which the university said would be given to candidates of both the sub-categories on the basis of merit list, irrespective of the sub-category. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-varsity-uploads-revised-advertisement-for-recruitment-357984
04-01-2022||Patiala/Bathinda||2 from Rampura Phul die as car falls into canal in Patiala||Two persons died while three are missing as the vehicle they were traveling in fell into the Bhakra canal near the Passiana police station in Patiala.The deceased have been identified as Neelam Rani and Samita Garg, both residents of Rampura Phul in Bathinda. The police said search operation to find the missing persons was underway.According to the deceased’s kin, all five members of the family were on their way to their home town after paying obeisance at the Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula. The missing persons include Jaswinder Garg, Peeru Garg and Isha Garg.Passiana SHO Ankurdeep Singh said they had received information about the incident on Sunday night. Following this, divers were roped in to carry out rescue operation.In another incident, a student was killed and three others were injured in a road mishap as a school van collided head-on with a tractor-trailer in Maur Mandi on Rampura-Talwandi road on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-die-as-car-falls-into-canal-357920
04-01-2022||Karam Prakash||60 doctors and 30 MBBS students of Patiala medical college test Covid positive||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 3Amid rising Covid-19 cases, more than 60 doctors and 30 MBBS students of Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College have tested positive. Majority of them are resident doctors. In the face of the sudden spread of infection among doctors, the collapse of the healthcare system looms large, say experts.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “Of course, it is a matter of concern. If doctors themselves test positive, we will be in great trouble to handle the patients.” Apart from Rajindra hospital, staff of the Patiala Health Department, including doctors, have also tested positive.In the highest single-day spike over the past six months, Patiala, on Monday, reported 143 positive cases. Of the 143 cases, Patiala city alone reported 131. With 486 cases within five days, the tally of active cases in the district has risen to 491.Patiala appears to have already turned into a Covid hotspot. Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said they were facing tough time as majority of the health staff was on strike, while some had tested positive.Patiala DC Sandeep Hans, in a public appeal, asked residents to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and avoid large gatherings. He said the sudden spike was an outcome of the recently held elections to the Rajindra Gymkhana and Mahindra Club and parties on the New Year’s Eve. Hans said positive cases at Thapar University were also due to gathering by students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/60-patiala-doctors-covid-ve-357871
04-01-2022||---||2 killed, others missing as car falls into Bhakra canal near Patiala||Patiala, January 3Two occupants of a car were killed while others are missing after their vehicle fell into the Bhakra canal near Passiana police station.The deceased have been identified as Neelam Rani and Shikha Garg.Police said that search operation to find the others was under way.Passiana SHO Ankurdeep Singh said they had received the information on Sunday night.Following this, divers were called to carry out the rescue operation, he said.However, the operations could not be carried out during night—due to poor weather conditions, he added."In the morning, we resumed the operation and fished out the Swift car. Two bodies, both of women, have been recovered from the car."The SHO said the deceased were residents of Rampura Phul in Bathinda district.He said they were yet to ascertain the cause of the accident.The car occupants were on their way to their hometown after paying obeisance at Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula district of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-killed-others-missing-as-car-falls-into-bhakra-canal-near-patiala-357798
