05-01-2022||Patiala||Balwant Singh Rajoana rushed to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, after chest pain||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/balwant-singh-rajoana-rushed-to-rajindra-hospital-patiala-after-chest-pain-358319
05-01-2022||---||With 366 Covid cases, Patiala district reports highest single-day spike in 8 months||Patiala, January 4In the highest single-day spike over the past eight months, the district today reported 366 positive cases of Covid. With the sudden spike, the active case count in the district has risen to 839. Around 740 cases had been reported in the past four days.Of today’s 366 cases, 330 were reported from Patiala city alone, while the rest were from Kauli, Dudhan Sadhan, Rajpura, Bhadson, Shutrana and Kallon Majra.Officials of the Health Department said that majority of the cases in Patiala city were reported from New Laal Bagh, Bharpur Garden, Anand Nagar-B, Majithia Enclave, SST Nagar and Model Town.Similarly, two more areas— Bharpur Garden and New Laal Bagh— in Patiala city had to be declared containment zones after both the areas reported eight and 11 cases respectively.It has been learnt that 11 staff members, including one doctor of Government TB Hospital, have tested positive for Covid.Officials of the Health Department said that the third wave of Covid had already hit the district.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said it was very likely that the Omicron variant was behind the exponential rise in the Covid cases. He said, “Higher infection rate suggests that Omicron might be behind the sudden rise in cases. However, a confirmation report of a new strain is yet to be out by the lab.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the situation had become grim in the district. “We are well prepared to handle the third wave. However, residents have to strictly adopt Covid appropriate behaviour to stem the spread,” he said.Sodhi said that residents should get the due doses of vaccination to avoid hospitalisation at the earliest.Masks mandatory in public places: DCDeputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans on Tuesday issued orders directing people to wear face masks mandatory in public places. The new orders will remain in place till January 15. As per the new orders, the DC has also enforced night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am. People are also required to ensure social distancing, he said.The new orders have been released as per direction of the state government.Only fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to attend government or private offices, working spaces, factories, industries, etc., the order said.Travellers having negative RT-PCR test report from ICMR-approved lab, not earlier than 72 hours from arrival, will be permitted to enter the district. The DC said all educational institutions, schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions to remain closed. Medical and nursing colleges will function as usual. Bars, cinemas, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums and zoos will function with 50 per cent capacity.He said all sports complexes, stadiums, swimming pools and gyms will remain closed, except being used for training of sports persons for national and international sports events. Spectators are not allowed. AC buses will function with 50 percent capacity.Reviewing the status of activities on Tuesday, the DC said proper guidelines have been issued to tackle situations arising due to spread of the virus. The DC directed the Civil Surgeon and the District Epidemiologist to carry out careful testing of individuals to identify Covid cases and also check availability of level 2 and 3 facilities at government hospitals. He directed the SDMs to work in close cooperation with the health department to keep the spread of the virus in check.Municipal Joint Commissioner Naman Markan along with SDMs and officials of the Government Rajindra Hospital were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/with-366-covid-cases-patiala-district-reports-highest-single-day-spike-in-8-months-358303
05-01-2022||---||Farmers continue protest in front of Patiala district administrative complex||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 4Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) continued their protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Tuesday. The work at the District Administrative Complex was stalled on Monday as employees were not allowed to enter the complex. The farmers will hold a meeting on January 7 to initiate the next action.The farmers said they were demanding enactment of law on guaranteed purchase of all crops on MSP, along with withdrawal of criminal cases slapped on farmers and others at Delhi, Chandigarh and other states at the earliest. They demanded all kind of government and non-government loan waiver of farmers and farm workers.A resident of Daun Kalan village, Makhan Singh of the Bharti Kisan Union Ekta Ugrahan said they were on protest since December 20. “ We are protesting in front of the district administrative complex. We vacate rear gates of the complex in the evening to allow the office functioning. Now we will burn effigies of the Prime Minister in protests across all district administrative complexes on Wednesday,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said he had requested the farmers to follow Covid-19 guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-continue-protest-in-front-of-patiala-district-administrative-complex-358301
05-01-2022||---||Three killed in road accidents||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 4Three persons were killed in road accidents in the district.Ranjit Singh of Ablowal village in his complaint to the Civil Lines police here said that his uncle and mother were on their bicycle when a rashly driven vehicle hit them on Passi road. Ranjit said his mother Sudama Devi died in the accident, while his uncle Raj Kumar was injured.In another accident near Rakhra village bus stand, Harvinder Singh of Nabha in his complaint to the police said that his father Bhim Singh was on his two-wheeler when an unidentified tractor-trolley hit him on January 2. He said his father was killed in the accident.The police have registered cases under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC against unidentified persons.Similarly, Gurwinder Singh of Fatehgarh Sahib in his complaint to the Shambhu police said that his cousin Harinder Singh and his friend riding a two-wheeler were hit by a truck near Tepla highway on Monday. He said Harinder Singh died in the accident, while his friend suffered injuries. The police have registered a case against truck driver Masook Ahmed under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-killed-in-road-accidents-358296
