06-01-2022||Patiala||NIS Patiala reports 4 COVID positive cases||The third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has struck the National Institute of Sports (NIS), Patiala with the elite centre on Thursday reporting four positive cases inside its campus.The positive cases were confirmed following 170 RT-PCR tests conducted among athletes and coaches residing inside the campus.The cases include three junior athletes and one coach.“RT-PCR tests for 170 athletes and coaches were conducted in NSNIS Patiala on Tuesday as part of SAI COVID SOP. Results have revealed that three junior athletes and one coach are COVID positive,” the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said in a statement.“All four are symptomatic and have been isolated as per SOP.” “There are no positive cases among national campers and their training is continuing unhindered inside a bio-bubble.” A SAI official also said that the elite athletes are in a completely different bio-bubble and have no link with the junior athletes or the outside world.The official revealed that besides athletes, NIS Patiala also reported some positive cases among a few students of its academic courses, but they live outside the campus and have no connection with their campers.The four, who have returned positive, will be re-tested after 10 days as per the guidelines issued by the Punjab government.“We have knowledge that there were a few cases among those who attend our academic courses but they all stay outside the campus. As soon as we learnt about them, we have stopped physical classes three days back and shifted to online mode,” the official told PTI.Athletics and boxing are the two important disciplines whose national camps are being held at NIS, Patiala.During the second wave last March, 26 sportspersons and support staff across disciplines were found to be COVID-19 positive after around 380 campers were subjected to tests for the dreaded infection at the NIS Patiala. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/sports/nis-patiala-reports-4-covid-positive-cases-358806
06-01-2022||---||Three athletes, coach test positive at NIS Patiala||Patiala, January 5Around 170 athletes were tested for Covid at the Netaji Subhas National Institute of Sports (NIS Patiala) as part of SAI Covid SOP on Tuesday. Test results have revealed that three junior athletes and one coach found infected with Covid.However, all four positive patient are asymptomatic and have been isolated as per SOP. “There are no positive cases among national campers and training for them is continuing unhindered in a bio bubble, “ said a NIS official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-athletes-coach-test-positive-at-nis-358711
06-01-2022||---||Students to defy curbs on educational institutions||Patiala, January 5Students of Punjabi University have decided to defy the state government decision of shutting operations of educational institutions. In turn, the students associated with various student political parties questioned the rationale behind shutting the educational institutions over the threat of spread of Covid-19, while huge political gatherings and rallies are being organised by political parties. The students have decided to force the university authorities to open hostels, library and hostel mess.Gurpreet Singh, leader of the PSU (Lalkar) said the students associated with student political parties, including All India Students’ Federation, Punjab Student Union, Punjab Radical Student Union and the Students’ Federation of India, rejected the decisions on Wednesday.They said, “The educational institutions are the first where Covid related restrictions have been enforced. But election rallies are going on without any curbs.”The students alleged that the curbs being put in place were for vested interests. They said the level of education in the country had already suffered a blow when universities, colleges and schools were closed during the previous waves of Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-to-defy-curbs-on-edu-institutions-358709
06-01-2022||Surinder Bhardwaj||Minister lays stone for three sports projects in Mandi Gobindgarh||Fatehgarh Sahib, January 5To effectively prevent and combat the menace of drug abuse, we have to connect the youths with sports by providing them good infrastructure and by creating a good avenue of jobs for outstanding sportspersons. This was stated by Agriculture Minister Kaka Randeep Singh today, while addressing a gathering of industrialists and sports persons, after laying the foundation stone of three sports projects to be completed at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore at Mandi Gobindgarh.He said the government was committed to develop sports infrastructure in the state, besides providing good jobs to emerging sports persons. He called upon the industrialists of the town to come forward for the maintenance of various government buildings, parks and playgrounds, so that Mandi Gobindgarh could be developed as a sports hub.He inaugurated two tennis courts, a squash court and a shooting range constructed at a cost of Rs 39 lakh, Rs 33.52 lakh and Rs 38.05 lakh, respectively.President of Municipal Council Mandi Gobindgarh Harpreet Singh Prince thanked the minister and assured that the Municipal Council would provide all sorts of facilities to players.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/minister-lays-stone-for-three-sports-projects-358708
06-01-2022||Patiala||Punjabi University postpones exams||Punjabi University has postponed examinations of all courses till January 15. The decision was taken in view of the state government’s curbs on functioning of educational institutions and others.Officials at the university said they had all facilities to conduct the exams while following Covid-19 guidelines. “Only a few number of students were supposed to take the exams but the university has decided to postpone all the pending exams as per the orders of the district administration”, a spokesperson of the university said.Earlier in the day, videos of students staging a protest on the campus were also circulated online, wherein the students protested against the conduct of exams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-postpones-exams-358707
06-01-2022||---||Garden Natak Mela organised at Baradari Gardens, Patiala||Patiala, January 5Despite severe cold, the National Theatre Arts Society (NTAS) in collaboration with Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, organised their 234th monthly Garden Natak Mela at Baradari Gardens here on Tuesday. Chief guest socialite architect LR Gupta, along with special guests, dedicated the event to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.Gupta inspired the writers-artists to prepare and stage plays on the life and sacrifice of Guru Teg Bahadar. He presented a cash award of Rs 5,000 to NTAS and lauded duo Pran Sabharwal-Sunita Sabharwal for regularly continuing Garden Theatre Movement for the last 20 years covering 234 monthly episodes. The programme, included Sunita-Pran Sabharwal directed plays Ajmer Aulakh’s ‘Sukki Kukh’ and ‘Avaisley Yuddhan Di Naika’ besides Gopal Sharma other artists who took part in it were Jagdish Kumar, Rajat Chauhan, Rajshri, Manisha, Sunny Sidhu, Santosh Rani, Aman Bains, Shubham won much applause for their arts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/garden-natak-mela-organised-at-baradari-358706
06-01-2022||---||Most markets adhere to night curfew in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 5Following the Deputy Commissioner’s order of night curfew, shops and other commercial places in the city were found shut on Tuesday after 10 pm. Barring some shops, all city markets wore a deserted look after 10 pm yesterday. Police personnel were seen going around directing shop owners to adhere to the directions.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans’s directions released on Tuesday will remain in effect till January 15. Among various areas of the city, two shops, a dhaba on the Lower Mall road and a wine and beer shop near the Children Memorial Chowk were found functioning past 10.30 pm. A police van reached the wine and beer shop and directed the workers to shut the shop. Meanwhile, eateries at the Lower Mall road continued function till 10.45 pm.All shops at the market adjacent to YPS School, Leela Bhawan market, shops on Lower Mall road, Bhupindra road and in Tripuri were found shut.Officials in the administration said they were making efforts to ensure that all directions were followed by the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/most-markets-adhere-to-night-curfew-in-royal-city-358705
06-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Rise in Covid cases in dist alarming: Health officials||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 5The Covid situation in the district has turned alarming with an exponential rise in positive cases. The district recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid cases in over eight months as 598 more people tested positive for the disease on Wednesday. With the sudden spike, the active case count in the district has risen to 1,431. It has been learnt that around 1,110 cases had been reported in the past three days.Of 598 cases, Patiala city alone reported around 516 cases, while the rest were reported from Kauli (26), Dudhan Sadhan (14), Samana (11). Besides, Kallon Majra, Nabha and Harpalpur reported six cases each. .Health officials said stricter measures would need to be implemented very soon. The situation is getting out of hand, because the cases are rising at a very rapid rate, they said. Health experts have predicted that daily positive cases in the district are likely to go beyond 1,500 after January 15. Experts further claimed that the district had already been hit by the third wave and would witness a peak by the end of January.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said, “The situation is continuously turning grim. We, health officials, have been doing what we can with limited staff. People need to wear face masks and avoid mass gatherings, if they want to stem the surge of Covid-19.”Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “People are not realising the fatalities the virus can cause. They should wear masks at public places and follow social distancing. Without Covid appropriate behaviour, it will be impossible to stem the spread. Besides, people having symptoms should avoid going out of their homes and get themselves tested at the earliest.”Patiala DC tests positiveDeputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Gurpreet Thind, and SDM Samana Swati Tiwana had been tested positive for Covid-19. Besides, many health officials have also been tested positive. Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu is also said to have been tested positive. Patiala Superintendent of Police has also tested positive for Covid.22 teachers test positiveAround 22 teachers of Government New Power House Colony School have tested positive for Covid. Besides, 12 staff members of the government school in Alipur Ariyan village were also found infected with the virus.NIS stops physical classesIn the wake of rising Covid cases in the district, the National Institute of Sports (NIS) cancels offline practical classes for the next 15 days. However, online classes will continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rise-in-covid-cases-in-dist-alarming-health-officials-358704
06-01-2022||Residents of Patiala rural||Patiala Rural: Civic neglect angers locals||Voters of the constituency, also known as Patiala-2, believe that they have continuously been neglected when it comes to civic amenities. It is learnt that majority of the residents are disgruntled mainly due to the environmental hazards caused by the “chotti nadi” that passes through the area. Nadi, a rain water rivulet, has virtually turned into a sewage drain over the years. It, in fact, passes through around 35 residential colonies of the constituency and has affected most of the area. However, a transformation project of the rivulet is already on, but the residents are not happy with the pace of work and blame the current dispensation for not completing the project in time.Jasvir Singh, vice-president, Old Bishan Nagar Sudhar committee, said: “We thought that work on the transformation project would be completed in time, but it didn’t. We continue to face health issues due to Chotti Nadi.” It is learnt that widening of roads has also been a major demand here. Demanding that the Patiala-Sirhind road should immediately be four-laned, residents say narrow roads are the major cause of road accidents in the area.Past trendCabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra is serving a second successive term as MLA from the constituency. In 2017, Mohindra defeated the AAP candidate by a margin of 27,229 votes to register victory in the elections.Electorate strengthTotal voters 2,19,989Male 1,13,699Female 1,06,281Third gender 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/civic-neglect-angers-locals-358520
06-01-2022||---||Two UK returnees test positive for Omicron in Patiala||Patiala, January 5Two Patiala residents who had returned from the United Kingdom (UK) have been found infected with the Omicron variant of Covid virus. After their return to India on December 30, they tested positive for Covid-19. However, after the genome testing, it was found that they were infected with the highly transmissible Omicron.Health officials said the patients had been shifted to the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The officials said both the patients were asymptomatic.In the highest single-day spike, over the past eight months, Patiala on Wednesday reported 598 positive cases. With the sudden spike, the active case count in the district has already risen to 1,431. It has been learned that around 1,110 cases had been reported within three days.Attendants hiredThe Health Department got a shot in the arm as Deputy CM OP Soni on Wednesday gave appointment letters to 308 ward attendants. He said the government had advertised for 800 posts and 308 were appointed in the first phase. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/two-uk-returnees-test-positive-for-omicron-358518
