07-01-2022||---||Waterlogging on Patiala roads after rain||Patiala, January 6Despite measures taken by the Municipal Corporation (MC), some roads were under rainwater as the region witnessed downpour and drizzling throughout Wednesday. The areas, including Chhoti-Baradari and the Namdar Khan road among others, witnessed waterlogging.Importantly, the Municipal Corporation had cleaned city’s nullah recently. The civic body spent Rs3.5 crore on cleaning of 3 km sewerlines of the city.The corporation also bought a super-suction machine for cleaning sewerlines, which cost Rs1.5 crore.Earlier, while receiving the machine in December officials had said it would be used for cleaning sewerlines and is expected to bring much respite from blocked drains. Meanwhile, an MC official said water receded soon after it rained in the city.When contacted about accumulation of rainwater on the Namdar Khan road yesterday, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma said, “I immediately sent civic body officials to drain rainwater. Water must have accumulated there due to ongoing work. Prompt action is taken in case waterlogging is reported from any area of the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/waterlogging-on-roads-after-rain-358958
07-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||Patiala: NIS, Charan Bagh declared containment zones||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 6The district is now the epicentre of Covid cases. At present, Patiala district has reported the highest number of cases in the state. Out of total 687 Covid cases in the district, 579 were reported from Patiala city on Thursday. As such, health officials have declared National Institute of Sports and Charan Bagh as containment zones due to the high number of positive cases in these areas.The number of active cases in the district is now at 2,103, of which 1,800 are from the city. The district also reported one death due to virus.Health officials said presently only two areas of the city had been added to the list of containment zones after a high number of cases were reported from there. Now, there were four containment zones in the city, they said.“We have started pasting posters of hotspot zones at places where the case count is high,” they added.Areas with maximum cases include Model Town, Charan Bagh, New Lal Bagh, NIS, Thapar Institute, Government Medical College, SST Nagar and Urban Estate.Dr Sumit Singh, district epidemiologist said, “We are pasting warnings of hotspot zones in areas where Covid cases are widely spread in many streets. Such are high risk areas. People have been directed to avoid going to such places.”“Forty four people have been admitted to various hospitals in the district after they were infected with virus. Of them, 11 are level three patients and 33 are level two,” he added.“Although the percentage of such cases is expected to be lower than that was reported during the last wave, we are expecting hospitalisation to rise within a day or two. If the Covid spread continues as it is, we might also witness fatalities due to severity of the virus,” he said.Directions for hotspotsMany Covid cases have been reported from areas, declared hotspot zones. People should avoid going to each other’s homes in such areas.Government officials contract virusBesides Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans and Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, who contracted virus, various other government officials have also tested positive for Covid-19.Patiala MP Covid positiveMember of Parliament Preneet Kaur in a tweet today said, “I have tested positive for Covid. I’m feeling fine, but I request everyone, who came in contact with me in last few days to get themselves tested for the virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-more-areas-declared-containment-zones-358955
07-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala: Soaring Covid cases prompt beneficiaries to get vax shots||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 6Surging Covid cases, seemingly, have prompted beneficiaries to throng vaccination centres in large numbers. “Daily inoculation count in the district is on the rise as beneficiaries are rushing to vaccination centres,” say health officials.The Health Department claimed that they administered 16,717 Covid doses on Thursday. “The increase in daily vaccination count is sudden and unexpected because, on December 30, we could inoculate only 6,780 beneficiaries,” the department added.Chaotic scenes are witnessed at various vaccination centres because thousands queue up for getting jabbed against virus. The Health Department informed that they, in the face of rising footfall at centres, had to increase vaccination centres in the district.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said daily vaccination figures had seen an upswing following rise in positive cases. “It is good to see people come in large numbers for vaccination shots. With every passing day, the vaccination count is going up.”Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, said 11.20 lakh beneficiaries, out of the targeted 14 lakh, had received the first dose while 5.85 lakh had received both doses.“Despite shortage of manpower owing to the ongoing strike by the health staff, we have been able to vaccinate 16,000 people. We are planning to hold more vaccination camps as we have enough Covid vaccination doses,” Dr Goyal added.She said before surge in Covid cases people were reluctant to get vaccinated, but now things had changed. “We went at doorstep of beneficiaries, but many refused to get vaccinated. However, things are getting better now,” she added. They would start giving booster dose to frontline and healthcare workers from January 10, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/soaring-covid-cases-prompt-beneficiaries-to-get-vax-shots-358950
07-01-2022||---||Gender test racket busted on Rajpura Civil Hospital premises||Patiala, January 6A joint team of the Health Department from Karnal and Patiala caught two individuals carrying out sex determination at a dilapidated house within the premises of the Civil Hospital, Rajpura, during a raid here today.Both, the operator of the ultrasound machine and his helper, have been handed over to the police. They have been identified as Sonu and Ram. A resident doctor living nearby is also under investigation.The team from the Health Department, Haryana, had information about illegal ultrasound tests being carried out in Rajpura.Officials said they laid a trap with the help of a decoy customer on the basis of a tip-off, and caught the machine operator and his helper red-handed while conducting an ultrasound test.Dr Sandeep Abrol of Karnal said the decoy customer was sent with Rs25,000 of which over Rs24,000 had been recovered and currency notes matched. The team also recovered the ultrasound machine and other equipment from house, he added.The illegal sex determination racket was going on at dilapidated officers’ quarters within the premises of the Civil Hospital, Rajpura, he said. The kitchen and rooms of the house were being used as makeshift ultrasound centre, he added.“We think someone was living in the house. We have also confiscated a digital video recorded from an adjacent location, which has been handed over to the police for further investigation. The role of a resident doctor living in nearby quarters is also under investigation,” he said.Dr Jagpalinder Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Rajpura, said an FIR registered would be registered against two suspects. “One of the suspect works as a Class IV employee at the hospital,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/gender-test-racket-busted-on-civil-hospital-premises-358947
