08-01-2022||Patiala||Gender test: Explanation sought from Rajpura SMO||The Patiala Health Department has sought an explanation from the Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Rajpura, over the issue of sex determination on the premises of the Rajpura Civil Hospital. However, no action has been taken against any health officer so far. When questioned about any lapse over the illegal practice, Dr Jatinder Kansal, District Health and Family Welfare Officer, said, “Action will be taken only after the inquiry is completed. Besides, the police are investigating the matter.”Dr Jagpalinder Singh, SMO, Rajpura, “It is very unfortunate that such an illegal practice was being carried out at the hospital premises. We are thoroughly investigating it. However, there is no lapse on our part since we can’t check every household at the premises.”The Karnal Health Department, along with officials of the Patiala Health Department, had caught three persons red-handed carrying illegal sex determination of a pregnant decoy patient at the Rajpura Civil Hospital premises yesterday. The residential quarter, wherein the sex determination racket was busted, is said to have been next to the quarter of a senior doctor of the hospital. The SMO Rajpura has already sought an explanation from the said doctor for overlooking the racket in his neighbourhood.It has been learnt that one of the accused, Ram Kumar, who is a Class IV employee of the hospital, was carrying out illegal sex-determination with the help of co-accused Sonu Bajaj, alias Krishan Gopal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/explanation-sought-from-rajpura-smo-359341
08-01-2022||Patiala||Punjabi University assistant professors hold protest against transfers||Assistant professors of Punjabi University staged a protest over transfers on the campus here today. They were ‘transferred to their original place of appointment’ as per orders of the Vice-Chancellor issued yesterday. While the teachers alleged that the university was biased in transferring only a select few, the university refuted the charges and said the transfers from their original places had been carried out under political pressure and were wrong.The university on Thursday issued transfer orders to 31 assistant professors who have been working at its various campuses.Director constituent colleges Trishanjit Kaur said the constituent colleges had been established as part of an initiative of the Central Government to provide higher education in remote areas of the state. “Thirteen such colleges are being run under Punjabi University. A set number of teachers were hired for them, but with time, they were transferred to different locations that affected the level of education in the remote colleges which were left without regular teachers. All such teachers are being transferred back to their original places of appointment,” Kaur said.One of the protesters, assistant professor Ravinder Ghuman, alleged the university had adopted a pick-and-choose method to transfer only selected teachers. “This is while the university does not have a proper transfer policy”, he said. He said the transferred teachers would now start a hunger strike.Responding to the same, Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind said, “The assistant professors are being transferred to their original place of appointment. In fact, their appointment letters categorically mentioned that they will not be transferred to any other location and their appointments were being made for the specific colleges. With time, the university transferred them to areas close to cities. Today’s decision is a corrective measure and we have sent them back to their original places.”He said the university was in favour of preparing a transfer policy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-varsity-asst-professors-hold-protest-against-transfers-359340
08-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala district reports 831 new Covid cases; positivity rate 33%||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 7Every third person, who is being tested, is turning out to be Covid positive in the district. The positivity rate today reached close to 33 per cent — the highest ever since pandemic broke out in 2020.Health officials said the third wave, which has already set off, was the fastest rising as compared to previous two. The district, in the highest single day spike since the pandemic broke out in 2020, reported 831 positive cases today.With this development, the active case count in the district has now risen to 2,916. Health officials said that daily positive count could go around 1,500 during the peak of the third wave. The district has reported 2,216 cases over the past three days.Officials of the Health Department said that hospitalisation, despite exponential rise, was around two per cent of the active cases.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that majority of the cases, in Patiala city, were reported from Vidya Nagar, Rose Avenue, Urban Estate Phase-2, Yadvindra Enclave, Guru Nanak Nagar, Bharat Nagar and the Moti Bagh area.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that cases would continue to rise in the coming days. He said around 95 per cent of the cases, so far, had been reported from Patiala City. He said, “The infection rate of the new variant is very high, therefore, the positivity rate is also high. Large gatherings have played spoilsport, and it will create havoc in the coming days if not stopped.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dist-reports-831-new-covid-cases-positivity-rate-33-359338
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala district hospitals get radio labs||Deputy Chief Minister OP Soni virtually inaugurated three radio diagnostic and laboratory centres at the district hospitals of Patiala, Sangrur and Barnala today.Soni said work on setting up ultra-modern labs had been started under public-private partnership between Krishna Diagnostics and Health and Family Welfare Department.He said the government had made efforts to provide affordable radiology and laboratory facilities to the people. These hi-tech labs would provide services to all sections as earlier needy patients had to travel to big cities to get diagnostic tests done and it was also costly and time consuming. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/three-district-hospitals-get-radio-labs-359200
08-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Omicron: Punjab's lone genome lab in Patiala runs out of test kits||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 7Amid the tsunami of Covid-19 cases, the efforts to detect and isolate the cases of the Omicron variant have been severely hit because the state’s only genome sequencing laboratory, at Government Medical College here, has run out of the testing kits. The laboratory detects the prevalence of the new mutation in the virus.Countrywide shortageWe gave around 100 kits this week to the lab, but there is a shortage of kits in the country. We are trying to provide more kits to the state lab. — Dr Rajesh Bhasker, State Nodal OfficerCurrently, the laboratory does not have even a single testing kit for the genome sequencing. It is learnt that the laboratory has, so far, tested only 532 Covid positive samples while 96 tests are pending.Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, said, “We have given around 100 kits this week to the lab. There is a shortage of kits in the country. We are doing what we can to provide more kits to the state lab.”Sources said the lab, owing to the shortage of the kits, was testing only international travellers from high-risk countries. Patiala Deputy Commissioner recently said Omicron variant was the potential virus behind the recent outbreak at Government Rajindra Hospital and Medical College. However, tests to ascertain the prevalence of Omicron could not be carried out due to the shortage of kits. Also, samples of cases at Thapar university, last week, also could not be tested.Lab officials informed that they had processed around 96 samples for Omicron on Thursday, but the reports might take more than a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/states-lone-genome-lab-in-patiala-runs-out-of-test-kits-359198
