09-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||DEO issues notice to Patiala AAP district chief over questionable content in pamphlet||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 9The district electoral officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner, Patiala, Sandeep Hans has issued a notice in the matter of violation of model code of conduct to Patiala district president of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and has sought clarification on statements made in a pamphlet by Monday.Apparently, this is the first notice issued in the state after the model code of conduct was implemented on January 8.The pamphlet in question was circulated in the district on Sunday which carried objectionable statements regarding allegedly accepting bribes from political parties. It is not yet clear about who has issued the pamphlet as it does not carry the name of the publisher, the address of the printing press along with the number of copies of the pamphlet printed.The heading of the letter said, ‘Sariyan partiyan ton paise lao par vote jharu nu deo’ (Accept money from all parties but cast your vote for broom -- election symbol of Aam Aadmi Party). Further, the letter says, “Accept money from these parties and cast your vote for Aam Aadmi Party.”Importantly, the election office had received a complaint on the content of the pamphlet on the cVigil app which was launched by the Election Commission of India to enable citizens to report on violation of election code of conduct.District electoral officer Sandeep Hans said a clarification regarding the pamphlet has been demanded from the concerned by 12 noon Monday.Dr Balbir Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party said, “We have not issued the pamphlet and do not justify it. Apparently, someone has played a trick to defame us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/deo-issues-notice-to-patiala-aap-district-chief-over-questionable-content-in-pamphlet-359717
09-01-2022||Patiala||First ASD surgery done  at Rajindra Hospital||The department of cardiology performed its first successful surgery of atrial septal defect (ASD) at Government Rajindra Hospita here today. Gautam Singal, in-charge, said that a 41-year-old patient had come to hospital with a complaint of breathlessness and was initially managed for asthma.Dr Singal said, “She was initially managed as a case of asthma. However, on evaluation she was found to have a heart murmur and split-second heart-sound. Her echo showed a large hole in the upper chambers of the heart.”Dr Singal said, “After thorough evaluation, she underwent the process of device closure, and is currently doing well. She will be discharged soon.”The hole in the heart normally is present in the foetus only (when the child is inside the mother and growing). The hole helps in mixing of blood inside and closes on its own at the time of birth. “Those defects which don’t get closed, on its own, require either a device closure or open heart surgery,” said Dr Singal.He explained further that the advantage of this device-closure was that there was no need of open-heart surgery and patient could be discharged next day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/first-asd-surgery-done-at-rajindra-hospital-359576
09-01-2022||---||Implement model code strictly: DC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner said today that with the announcement of the election schedule in Punjab by the Election Commission of India, the model code of conduct had come into force in the district.In the videoconference meeting held by District Election Officer Sandeep Hans with SSP Sandeep Garg, Additional Deputy Commissioners Gautam Jain and Gurpreet Singh Thind, regarding the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections, it was advised that the model code of conduct should be strictly implemented. He allealed to all the prospective candidates contesting elections to follow the model code of conduct with complete conviction.Sandeep Hans said that the voting for eight constituencies of Patiala would be held on February 14, wherein 15,03,544 voters will exercise their voting rights in the district. 1,788 polling stations have been set up to facilitate voters in the district. The DC said that all political rallies and congregations had been banned completely till January 15. Along with this all permissions already given to hold any such rallies have been cancelled.DC Sandeep Hans ordered to remove all kinds of advertisements, flaxes, banners, posters with immediate effect. The Patiala Municipal Corporation as well as officers on duty and BDOs have been instructed to start with the above mentioned job. It has also been notified to all government officials to remove photographs of political figures from their offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/implement-model-code-strictly-dc-359575
09-01-2022||---||Patiala district reports 840 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 8The Covid-19 now seems to be strengthening its grip in the district as infections continue to rise at an alarming rate. In the highest single-day spike, ever since the pandemic broke out in 2020, the district today reported 840 positive cases. With this, the active case count, after 222 recoveries, in the district stands at 3490.Of 840 cases, 630 positive cases were reported from Patiala city alone, while rest were reported from Kauli (59), Nabha (30), Rajpura (25), Kallon Majra (24), Dudhan Sadhan (20), Harpalpur (14) and Saman (11). It has been learnt that majority of the fresh cases, ironically, were reported from urban areas.Officials of the Health Department said around 3,075 cases were reported from urban areas, while only 417 from rural areas. Meanwhile, the district reported two Covid deaths, thereby, taking the death count to 1,368 ever since the pandemic broke out two years back.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said that only 59 patients had been hospitalised. He said that residents, in the face of less hospitalisation, should not take the third wave lightly. Singh said that five common symptoms of Omicron were fever, fatigue, cough (dry and wet), runny nose and eye pain. He said, “Though symptoms of Omicron variant are mild as compared to delta, however, the new mutated virus could still be fatal if ignored.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that positive cases were rising at an exponential rate, however, there was no need to panic. He said the government had reduced home isolation periods from 10 days to seven days.17,207 jabbed in distDespite the inclement weather, a huge rush of beneficiaries was witnessed at various vaccination centres. Officials of the Health Department said they administered around 17, 207 doses today. Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said that residents were showing great enthusiasm for the Covid vaccination, therefore, the district vaccination count was increasing at a faster rate with each passing day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-reports-840-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-359573
