10-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Booster dose drive begins today, most health workers already Covid positive in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 9Though the drive to administer “precaution” dose (booster dose) to healthcare and frontline workers would kick-off on Monday, majority of the workers have already tested positive for the virus across the state.Can be jabbed after 3 monthsThe workers, who have already tested positive for the virus, can receive the third dose only after 90 days from the day of infection. — Health DepartmentIt has been learnt that thousands of healthcare and frontline workers, who are expected to get the booster dose, are already infected and therefore, cannot receive it.The state Health Department said those workers, who had already tested positive for the virus, could receive the third dose only after 90 days from the day of infection.The timing of administering precaution (booster) dose is being questioned by none other than healthcare workers themselves, including senior consultants, resident doctors and officials of the department. On this, state Nodal Officer Dr Rajesh Bhasker said: “It is not our decision and the announcement regarding this was made by the Centre.”Notably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on December 25, had announced the administration of the third dose of Covid vaccine from January 10.“Had we got a permission for the booster dose a month earlier, the frontline medical workers could have been saved from the spreading infection. We had enough Covid doses at the district headquarters. I think the frontline medical workers should have been jabbed with booster dose before the third wave had set in,” said an expert of the Health Department.Meanwhile, Patiala District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said: “Over 50 per cent of the employees at the health institutions in Patiala have tested positive. Now, as per the protocol, we have to delay the administration of the booster dose to the infected beneficiaries.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/booster-dose-drive-begins-today-most-health-workers-already-ve-359807
10-01-2022||---||Covid positivity rate hits 15%, Patiala worst-affected||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Punjab reported nine deaths in the last 24 hours — highest in a day since July last year when the second Covid wave was nearing end. As per the Covid media bulletin, the state reported 3,922 fresh cases, including nine deaths.Day after press meet, chief poll officer +ve40% yet to receive 2nd dose in aboharAfter fresh curbs last week, frequency of residents heading to the Abohar Civil Hospital to get vaccinated increased for a few days. The daily average stood above 1,000 shots. However, on Sunday, only 200 turned up. Senior Medical Officer Dr Gagandeep Singh said around 40% of beneficiaries were yet to get their second dose. Seven more persons tested positive in the past three days. OCIn district-wise break-up, Patiala reported three deaths and Sangrur, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana, SAS Nagar and Pathankot reported one death each.As far as cases are concerned, Patiala topped the chart with 768 cases, followed by SAS Nagar (750), Ludhiana (509), Amritsar (305), Jalandhar (292) and Pathankot (256).Amid high fatality rate, high positivity rate is another concern for the state. As Punjab’s Covid testing remains low, the positivity rate at 15 per cent is quite high as compared to the national average of around 10 per cent.Punjab Covid testing has reached around 25,000 tests daily, which is quite low as compared to the neighbouring states. On Saturday, out of 24,877 tests done, 3,643 were found positive. In Haryana and Himachal Pradesh, the positivity rate remains around 8 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/positivity-rate-hits-15-patiala-worst-affected-359806
10-01-2022||Patiala||2 killed in Banur road accident||Two persons, including a woman, were killed in a road accident when they were hit by a speeding vehicle in Banur today.In his complaint to the police, Sultan Singh, a resident of Banur, said that the victims were struck by a speeding vehicle on the roadside at Abrawa village. The police have registered a case of death due to negligence driving against an unidentified person under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-killed-in-banur-road-accident-359815
10-01-2022||Patiala||Punjabi University, Patiala, to resume online classes today||Punjabi University has decided to resume online classes for its first year students for the remaining part of the session from Monday. This was done after the university’s academic work was affected since December 1 due to PFUCTO’s protest for implementation of the 6th pay commission report and against the delinking of salaries of new recruits.Representatives of the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Sunday said the university had decided to extend the session for first year students by two weeks. They said while the classes were affected due to an ‘education bandh’ launched by the faculty, the session for first year students was started late. Therefore, the time to complete the syllabus was extended by two weeks.Officials said the PFUCTO had decided to change their mode of protest in light of the implementation of the model code of conduct.“It is understood that with the code in place, there is no point in continuing the protest in the same manner. Nevertheless, we will change the mode of our protest. The PFUCTO will continue to pursue the issues. The same was decided in an online meeting today”, said Sukhjinder Singh Buttar. He said the PFUCTO would hold a meeting on Tuesday and take a call on its next steps. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-resume-online-classes-today-359811
10-01-2022||---||Teen killed in daylight attack in Patiala||Patiala, January 9A 19-year-old youngster was killed and his friend was seriously injured when they were attacked by a group of youngsters at Bajwa Colony here this afternoon.The deceased has been identified as Nikhil and the injured as Vivek. The police said that Nikhil and Vivek were at Bajwa Colony when they were attacked with a sharp-edged weapon, reportedly scissors, by a group of youngsters.The accused have been identified as Rishi, Chetan, Aman and Ankush.The Station House Officer (SHO) Urban Estate said the police had registered a case against the accused under Sections 302, 307 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and raids were underway to nab the perpetrators. The SHO said the accused and the deceased had studied in the same school. Earlier, they were friends but became foes over some issue, the SHO further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/teen-killed-in-daylight-attack-359808
10-01-2022||---||Incessant rain leaves several Patiala areas waterlogged||Patiala, January 9The district today received 44.7 mm of rainfall and the minimum temperature dropped to 10.8° C. The Indian Meteorological Department said the district remained second to Ludhaina in the state which received 46.2 mm rain. As a result, a number of Patiala city areas, including Pratap Nagar, Police Lines, Dogra Mohalla and Model Town saw acute water-logging. Agriculture officers say the rainfall will be beneficial for the wheat crop but detrimental for vegetables.The city received incessant rainfall in the evening hours on January 8. It exposed the Municipal Corporation Patiala’s preparedness for the showers, which had recently spent huge funds on nullah cleaning works.Commuters waged through waterlogged streets in Dogra Mohalla, Model Town, near the office of languages department, among others. The Namdar Khan road also witnessed water-logging despite that the Municipal Corporation officials had ordered respective field staff to take immediate action to clear off stranded rainwater a few days ago.The Municipal Corporation had recently spent Rs 3.50 crore on cleaning of the city’s nullahs. Vineet Kumar, Commissioner, Patiala Municipal Corporation, said, “Cleaning of storm drains is required to control flooding. We will get this done on priority.”Meanwhile, Patiala Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Jaswant Singh said the downpour was beneficial for the wheat crop. “Till now the rainfall has been beneficial for the wheat crop. It is expected that the region will not receive more rain in the coming few days,” Jaswant said.He said his office had demanded reports regarding loss to vegetables from the field staff. “The vegetable crops, including cauliflower, potato, peas and others have definitely been hit. Therefore we have directed the field staff to provide details of losses generated by farmers. We will take requisite action as per received information,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/incessant-rain-leaves-several-royal-city-areas-waterlogged-359805
10-01-2022||---||Covid deaths begin to rise as cases surge in Patiala||Patiala, January 9With the rise in daily Covid cases in the district, hospitalisation and deaths have also started increasing. The district today witnessed three Covid deaths, thereby, taking the death count to 1,371 since the pandemic broke out in 2020. The district has reported eight Covid-related deaths in the month of January, including five over the past 48 hours.Officials of the Health Department said that hospitalisation and deaths from Covid were rising, although not as fast as the positive cases. Currently 66 positive patients are in hospitals, and 11 of them are on ventilator support, informed the Health Department.Of three Covid deaths reported today, a 59-year-old patient was brought dead to Government Rajindra Hospital, while another died at PGIMER Chandigarh within 24 hours of admission to the hospital. Meanwhile, a 47-year-old patient died at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, informed the Health Department.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said that deaths would rise in the coming days. He said, “With the increase in positive cases, Covid deaths are also increasing. Around five patients have died of Covid in the district over the past two days. The number of deaths may increase with an increase in the number of hospitalisations of patients.”Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the district reported 768 positive cases on Sunday. He said the active case count, after 108 recoveries, stood at 4,147. Of 768 cases, 521 positives were reported from Patiala city alone, while rest were reported from Kauli (54), Rajpura (50), Nabha (39), Samana (22), Dudhan sadhan (20), Harpalpur (19) and Kallon Majra (17). It has been learnt that the majority of the fresh cases are being reported from urban areas.Positivity rate above 30%The Covid positivity rate in the district continues to be alarming. As per the Health Department, positivity rate was around 32 per cent. Health officials said that almost every third person, who is being tested, was turning out to be positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-deaths-begin-to-rise-as-cases-surge-359803
