11-01-2022||Aman Sood||Armed men in Patiala shoot dead former sarpanch in broad daylight||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 11Armed men on Tuesday shot dead a former sarpanch in Patiala in broad daylight.Tara Dutt, the ex-sarpanch of Jhill village in Patiala rural and a resident of Tripari, was overseeing the construction work of his new house in Vikas Colony when unidentified men got off a car and allegedly pumped three bullets into Dutt.The labourers and contractor at the spot rushed him to a private hospital, where he was declared dead.Senior police officials said the reason behind the murder is not known. The police are investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/armed-men-shoot-dead-former-sarpanch-in-patiala-in-broad-daylight-360311
11-01-2022||Patiala||Patiala: Students briefed about free legal aid at webinar||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), under its legal literacy mission, organised a webinar with teachers and students of Government High School, Bhanra, today.Secretary, District Legal Service Authority, Parminder Kaur, informed the students about people who were eligible for free legal aid. She said, “People falling under the category of scheduled castes, women or children, victims of unemployment, victims of natural disasters, industrial workers, prisoners, physically or mentally ill persons or persons whose annual income is less than three lakh are eligible for free legal aid.”The students were also informed about process and mode of availing free legal aid along with about the National Legal Services Authority Scheme 2015, Juvenile Justice Act, POCSO Act, Child Marriage Act, permanent lok adalat, toll free number 1968, mediation benefits, among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-briefed-about-free-legal-aid-at-webinar-360132
11-01-2022||---||Rain causes damage to vegetable crops in Patiala district||Patiala, January 10The recent rain in the district has damaged vegetable crops, including potato, peas and tomato. Officials of the Horticulture Department said as per their estimate, potato and peas crops in the district have been damaged on 1,500 and 500 hectares, respectively. The department has prepared a report for the government to take further decision.Dr Nirwant Singh, Deputy Director, Horticulture, said the rain had affected potato, peas and tomato crops. We have collected the field reports and sent them to the office of the director, Horticulture Department.Kulwinder Singh, Horticulture Development Officer, Patiala, said a report had been prepared and sent to the department. “As per our estimate, peas in nearly 500 hectares have been damaged. Potato crop has suffered a major blow as the crop in 1,500 hectares in the district is expected to have been affected. This includes Banur, Nabha and Rajpura areas where many farmers grow potato crop,” he said.He said the climate was favourable on Monday which must have brought respite to the farmers. “Those who are able to clear-off the stranded water from their fields will register comparatively less losses,” he said. The Horticulture Development Officer said many farmers in the Sanaur area grow tomatoes as well. “The crop is grown in greater quantities than other areas. As per reports, tomato growers did not suffer major losses. Still the crop in nearly 100 hectares has been affected”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rain-causes-damage-to-vegetable-crops-in-patiala-district-360131
11-01-2022||---||Covid curbs: Patiala District Courts to function with 50% staff||Patiala, January 10As per the instructions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the District and Sessions Judge, Patiala, has capped the presence of court employees at 50 per cent in the office. The order has come a few days after District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal’s office emphasised on hearing cases through video-conferencing and allowed physical hearing only in a limited number of cases while following the Covid-19 protocol.He said all officers were required to prepare a roster requiring 50 per cent of the employees to attend the office in such a manner that court and office work did not suffer.Persons suffering from disability and pregnant women have been exempted from the same. Those who will not be attending the office on a given day are required to work from home and shall not leave the station without proper permission.While allowing physical presence of more than 50 per cent of officials in a case of necessity, the District and Sessions Judge said all officials were required to wear face masks while maintaining social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-curbs-patiala-district-courts-to-function-with-50-staff-360129
11-01-2022||---||Booster dose: 357 vaccinated on Day 1 in Patiala||Patiala, January 10The Health Department today started administering the booster dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to health and frontline workers, besides people above the age of 60 suffering from other ailments in the district. The dose was administered to 357 eligible persons. The district today reported 455 new cases of Covid-19.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said frontline worker, those issued election duties, health workers and people above the age of 60 suffering from other ailments were eligible for the booster dose 39 weeks after they were administered the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine.The district on the other hand recorded 455 new cases of Covid-19, of which 319 were reported from Patiala city alone. The number of active cases in the district has reached 4,162. Meanwhile, a death was also confirmed in the district taking the toll to 1,372.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumit Singh said the government had cut isolation period for individuals from 10 days to 7. He advised the patients to keep as much distance from others in the household as possible.Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department said that 18,058 persons were vaccinated in the district today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/booster-dose-357-vaccinated-on-day-1-in-patiala-360127
11-01-2022||Aman Sood||Ghanaur: Ghaggar remains bane of villagers||The first town in Punjab when one enters from Haryana from the Amritsar-Delhi national highway has seen many new projects and roads in the inner constituency of Ghanaur. The constituency has seen many investments in the past one decade.However, it has gained much notoriety for illegal mining, which is rampant in the whole Ghaggar belt and farmlands near it.Ghanaur, being a rural segment, shares its border with Haryana and the constituency residents will be the first in the state to get canal-based water supply, for which work is almost in its final stages.“After years of flooding and losses in every monsoon due to the overflowing Ghaggar and the diseases its polluted water brings with it, we will finally get treated canal-based water supply for our villages,” says Bapror resident Devinder Singh. “Due to water pollution and skin diseases near villages along the river, the cost of our land has not risen,” he said, adding that a permanent solution to Ghaggar was the need of the hour.Sitting Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur has nurtured the constituency for almost 15 years. The SAD has fielded its former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, ignoring former MLA Harpreet Kaur Mukhmailpur, whose family enjoys a significant public support. AAP is fielding kabaddi player Gurlal Singh Ghanaur.Jalalpur says he has been instrumental in getting many works done like setting up of a water treatment plant for drinking water, an industrial corridor project for six villages, new Shambhu block, road widening, upkeep of Civil Hospital, renovations of Anaj Mandi, a sewage treatment plant, renovation of bus stand, etc.Locals’ key demandsPast trendIn 2002, Congress candidate Jasjit Singh Randhawa was the winner; while in 2007, Jalalpur won as an Independent. In 2012, Harpreet Mukhmailpur won the seat, defeating Jalalpur. But the latter won on Congress ticket in 2017.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 1,60,202Male: 86123Female: 74,079Third gender: 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ghanaur-ghaggar-remains-bane-of-villagers-360125
