12-01-2022||---||Health team collects food samples in Patiala||Patiala, January 11A team from the Food Safety Officer’s office today collected nine samples of eatables from shops at the Lahori Gate and adjoining areas to check the sale of adulterated food items ahead of Lohri. The samples will be sent to the food-testing lab in Kharar.District Health Officer Shelly Jetly said the team checked food items of display in shops at Lahori Gate, Mathura road, and adjoining areas. “We will take action against the shop owners if the collected samples fail the test,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-team-collects-food-samples-in-patiala-360453
12-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||Political slugfest hits Patiala Municipal Corporation works||Tribune News ServicePatiala, January 11Various public works are in a limbo due to politics among councillors. A meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee convened on November 15, where a number of works were to be passed, had to be postponed for want of quorum. Now that the model code of conduct for the Assembly elections has come into force, those works can’t be started during the election period.The public works were already delayed for nearly two months, thanks to the political slugfest among councillors. Residents said the MC should get special approval to start the works during the election period (till March 10).At the November 15 meeting, called by Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, the MC was to issue work orders for the construction and renovation of dharamshalas, old-age homes, for laying interlocking tiles, etc. Later, a meeting was called for a vote of confidence, the proceedings of which were challenged in the court. The Mayor and the Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi, who claimed to be the acting mayor, both called meetings of the F&CC separately but the matters remained inconclusive.The Local Government Department, on a request of the MC, gave the powers to issue work orders for the pending projects to the MC Commissioner on January 7. The very next day, the model code of conduct came into force.Commissioner Vineet Kumar said today, “We had sent a request to the Local Government Department to take a decision on the pending works in December. It gave permission to issue work orders on January 7. All pending work orders were then issued and a few works were started on the ground as well. However, most works are pending.”The corporation is now sending a list of works with their status to the district electoral officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/political-slugfest-hits-patiala-municipal-corporation-works-360450
12-01-2022||---||No vacant Covid bed at private hospitals in Patiala||Patiala, January 11Private hospitals in the district are witnessing 100 per cent occupancy of beds allocated to Covid-19 patients. The number of level 2 and 3 patients is also on the rise along with a rising number of deaths. The district reported an all-time high of 909 cases today.Officials of the Health Department said hospitalisation of patients had increased in the district. A total of 83 patients are in hospitals. Of these, 17 are level 3 and 66 are level 2 patients. The District Epidemiologist, Dr Sumit Singh, said the number of deaths is also rising. “Two deaths were reported today. The private hospitals in the district are already witnessing 100 per cent occupancy of Covid-19 beds.”Of a total of 3,352 samples collected yesterday, 909 tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 609 patients are from Patiala city. There are 4,468 active cases in the district.Dr Sumit Singh said, “This is an all-time high in the district. Now, the virus is spreading to satellite towns and to adjacent villages, including Bahadurgarh and Hasanpur. The number of cases in rural areas could see a further rise in the coming days.”361 get booster doseHealth officials said 361 eligible residents were administered the booster dose today.Officials said those who are eligible should get themselves vaccinated with the booster dose. The department also collected 2,876 samples.District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said all people should wear masks and maintain social distance. He said in view of Covid-19, the Election Commission had ordered a ban on organising and holding political and election rallies till January 15.T here is also a ban on rallies on cycles, bikes and other vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-vacant-covid-bed-at-private-hospitals-in-patiala-360447
12-01-2022||---||Ex-sarpanch shot in broad daylight in Patiala||Patiala, January 11Armed men today shot dead a former sarpanch outside his house under construction at Vikas Nagar in broad daylight.The deceased, Tara Dutt (40), was a former sarpanch of Jhill village in the Patiala rural constituency. He was residing at Tripari and was overseeing the construction of his new house at Vikas Nagar when the attackers alighted from a car and allegedly pumped four-eight bullets into him.The labourers and contractor rushed him to a private hospital where the doctors declared him dead.The police said two weapons were used in the crime and prima facie, it appeared that more than five bullets hit the victim. “Around 12 rounds were fired at the spot by the assailants who fled the scene immediately,” said the police.A senior police official said around half a dozen men came in an SUV and started firing indiscriminately at Dutt who was entering his house under construction. “It looks like an old enmity as the victim was facing a few criminal cases and had many opponents. We are trying to get footage from the nearby CCTVs to identify the assailants or get clues about them,” he said.Senior police officials said the exact reason behind the murder was not known, but a couple of recent FIRs related to the victim could hold the key. “We are still investigating the actual reason for the crime,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ex-sarpanch-shot-in-broad-daylight-in-360445
