13-01-2022||Aman Sood||Ban on rallies in Punjab elections hits small traders hard||Patiala, January 12These days, 46-year-old Naresh Kumar, who earned a living by renting out LED screens for functions and political rallies, is hard-pressed to make ends meet.The ban on rallies, roadshows and street meetings in view of the Covid pandemic till January 15 has hit small traders like him hard.Naresh now repairs LED screens at a makeshift shop to provide for his family. He hopes against hope that the ban would be lifted after January 15, but with cases rising, it seems unlikely.Paramjit Singh, who owns a tent shop near Fountain Chowk here, says: “The Assembly elections are usually the time to make money. A single rally by a state-level leader in Patiala would translate into a business of Rs 2-3 lakh. This time, however, things are not looking good.”Caterers, too, are incurring losses. Subhash Negi, who owns a shop at Sherawalan Gate, says: “In the previous elections, leaders usually hired caterers for a month and paid in advance. During the 2019 General Election, I made around Rs 10 lakh by covering three candidates in a month. Contrast this to today’s scenario. No candidate has approached me for the catering service till now.”Taxi business is also facing the heat. From renting out around 10 taxis per candidate every day in the previous elections, the number is down to zero, says Laljit Singh of Laali Taxi Service.Those in the business of supplying election material to parties have also been hit by the Election Commission (EC) guideline to ban rallies.“In 2017, I did brisk business. The daily sale was more than Rs 1 lakh. This time, it is not even Rs 10,000,” says Rajesh Kumar, who has been supplying election material for two decades.He and other traders are keeping their fingers crossed and waiting for the new EC guidelines post January 15.On the downswingThe orders for flags, stickers and caps have dried up. In 2017, I did brisk business. The daily sale was more than Rs1 lakh. This time, it is not even Rs10,000. — Rajesh Kumar, supplier of poll material||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ban-on-rallies-hits-small-traders-hard-360780
13-01-2022||Fatehgarh Sahib||Covid-19: Fatehgarh Sahib reports 145 cases, 1 death||The district reported 145 new Covid cases and one death in the past 24 hours. Presently, there are 631 active cases in the district and 8,860 patients have been cured, the Civil Surgeon said.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur held a meeting with officials of the Health Department and directed to intensify the vaccination drive. She stressed for 100 per cent vaccination in the district. The DC said that beneficiaries were being vaccinated at 59 health centers and the Civil Hospitals at Fatehgarh Sahib, Basi, Amloh and Mandi Gobindgarh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-fatehgarh-sahib-reports-145-cases-1-death-360755
13-01-2022||Patiala||Patiala epidemiologist: Don't take Omicron lightly||The district reported 906 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Wednesday. Of the 906 cases, Patiala city alone reported 452 cases, while the active case count stood at 4,620 in the district.District epidemiologist Dr Sumit Singh said people should not take the Omicron variant lightly. “Even though the ratio of people being admitted to hospital now is lower than the second wave, the spurt in the number of cases may increase hospitalisation of people. Everyone should follow the Covid-19 guidelines and wear masks at public places,” he said.On Wednesday, officials of the Health Department took samples of 2,276 persons for testing. A total of 17.53 lakh doses have been administered in the district till date, officials said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctor-dont-take-omicron-lightly-360753
13-01-2022||---||Documentary on ballot screened at Punjabi University, Patiala||Patiala, January 12On the occasion of National Youth Day at Punjabi University here today, a documentary on casting of votes during the coming Assembly elections was screened for students. Gurbakhshish Singh Antal, District Nodal Officer, SWEEP, said the Chief Electoral Officer, Punjab, was holding an awareness drive on the elections and casting of votes with the help of players and SWEEP. He said the hockey team of Punjabi University had also been shown in the documentary.Officers associated with the drive said it was aimed at ensuring 100 per cent voter participation in the elections.Meanwhile, Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, here celebrated National Youth Day through Google meet. The day is celebrated to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand. Students and NCC cadets — Riya and Mehak Sharma — read the biography and teachings of Swami Vivekanand on the occasion.School principal Balwinder Kaur said Vivekanand’s personality and deeds were highly motivational. “Our youth can carry the nation to the pinnacle of glory by following them,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/documentary-on-ballot-screened-at-punjabi-university-patiala-360752
13-01-2022||---||Adhere to poll code, parties told||Patiala, January 12District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, at a meeting with representatives of political parties, advised them to comply with the model code of conduct imposed by the Election Commission of India.He said the administration would provide all possible support to them during the election and advised them to perform their activities within the established norms while following Covid-19 restrictions.“For assembly elections, the revised poll expenditure limit for candidates is Rs 40 lakh. Therefore, all candidates should follow the rules as the expenditure incurred by them will be under scrutiny”, he said.He said the Election Commission of India had barred physical rallies and roadshows till January 15, restricting the number of persons allowed for door-to-door campaigns for five.He said teams of the district administration were working round-the-clock and the police as well as the Excise Department were alert and cautious. “No one should indulge in any illegal activity, including distribution of drugs and intoxicants”, he said.Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Additional District Election Officer Gurpreet Singh Thind assured free and fair polls if the political parties cooperate with them.District rural Congress president Gurdeep Singh Untsar and office in-charge Mahinder Singh; Akash Sharma and Sukhbir Singh of the Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan Samaj Party; Sukhdev Singh from AAP; Jaswinder Singh Chhabra of the NCP, Shama Kant Pandey of the Shiv Sena, Ravinder Singla of Shiv Sena (Hindustan), were present at the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/adhere-to-poll-code-parties-told-360751
13-01-2022||---||Publishers told to print name on election-related material||Patiala, January 12Three days after a political party was sent a notice for circulating questionable pamphlet seeking votes on January 9, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans today held at a meeting with representatives of the printers and publishers and said the administration would keep tabs on illegal posters, handbills and leaflets during the election period.The Deputy Commissioner said the administration would not allow violation of election norms and stern action would be taken against violators.He said as per guidelines of the ECI, no person should print or publish any election pamphlet or poster which did not bear name and addresses of the printer, publisher, number of copies and others.The Deputy Commissioner said, “They should collect mandatory declaration from persons, who come for publishing pamphlets, leaflets, posters, handbills and other poll-related material. Every effort will be made to ensure that the model code of conduct is implemented in letter and spirit. Teams have already been constituted and directed to remove illegal flex posters,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/publishers-told-to-print-name-on-election-related-material-360750
13-01-2022||---||Despite ban, employee unions continue protest over demands in Patiala||Patiala, January 12Despite the implementation of the model code of conduct on January 8, members of different unions continued their protests against the state government over pending demands here today . Union leaders said knowing well that their demands could not be fulfilled by the government now, they were protesting to deliver a message against it in the coming elections.Leaders of the Democratic Employees Federation, led by the Punjab-UT Employees and Pensioners Front, burnt an effigy of the state government outside the office of the District Education Officer (DEO) here. They said during its five-year tenure, the government had failed to fulfil the demands of employees, pensioners, contractual workers and others. The leaders said they would continue their protest against the government during the election period.Representative of the Democratic Employees’ Federation, Democratic Teachers’ Front and Mid-day Meal Cooks said they were holding the protest as the government had failed to regularise the services of contractual and outsourced employees. Instead, it had pasted false posters claiming that jobs of 36,000 workers had been regularised. They said the government failed to implement equal pay for equal work in the state.The protesters organised rallies in Patiala, Nabha, Samana, Patran, and Rajpura. They said they would hold a convention in Jalandhar on January 16.Meanwhile, member of the Class IV Government Employees’ Union and Punjab Subordinate Services Federation also held a protest outside the office of the Deputy Commissioner. They were demanding implementation of the old-pension scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-ban-employee-unions-continue-protest-over-demands-in-patiala-360749
