15-01-2022||Patiala||Bhadson soldier killed in Rajouri||A 22-year-old soldier was killed in a gunfight with militants in the Rajouri area of Jammu and Kashmir. The soldier has been identified as Navraj Singh son of Avtar Singh, resident of Kheri Jattan village in Bhadson. As per information, Navraj suffered a gunshot and was admitted to a hospital in serious condition.Residents of the village said he had joined the Army some time ago. Bhadson SHO Rajvinder Kaur said she received the Army man’s death information today. “The body of the youth is expected to reach his village tomorrow”, she said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bhadson-soldier-killed-in-rajouri-361433
15-01-2022||Patiala||Check Covid bed availability on Cova app||Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans today said people should avail free Covid test, treatment and medical services at government hospitals. He authorised MD PRTC Parneet Kaur Shergil to regulate bed facilities at government hospitals. She held an online meetingwith Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi, Deputy Medical Commissioner and nodal officerof Government Rajindra Hospital.Parneet Shergil said people could view the availability of beds at government hospitals through Cova app. Good facilities for the treatment of Covid patients are available at the govt hospitals, she said.As many as 320 beds are available at Government Rajindra Hospital for L 2 patients, and 280 beds for L3 patients, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/check-covid-bed-availability-on-cova-app-361432
15-01-2022||Patiala||Free & fair elections with Covid protocol top priority of administration||Deputy Commissioner-cum-District Election Officer Sandeep Hans today said the district administration would conduct the Assembly poll in a free and fair manner with complete transparency. He elaborated on the provisions being made in the wake of Covid-19 spread.During a press conference in the city, he said the Covid-19 protocol would be followed in the poll to ensure safety of the public. He said the district administration would ensure strict enforcement of the model code of conduct and all poll-related complaints would be resolved at the earliest. Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Gurpreet Singh Thind was also present on the occasion.Sandeep Hans said more than 12,000 officials had been deployed on polling duties and arrangements had been made to adequately train them for elections. He said the entire polling staff had also been fully vaccinated.The District Election Officer said the prospective candidates and political parties had been advised to refrain from paid news as such a trend was harmful for democratic process as per the Supreme Court and the Election Commission of India. He appealed to the media to refrain from paid news circulation as the Media Certification and Monitoring Committee had been formed to monitor the news and advertisements given by contesting candidates and their supporters in the newspapers, social media accounts and all across electronic media.Sandeep Hans said the district police were deployed to maintain peace in the district and it had set up inter-district and inter-state barriers for surveillance. Two companies of the ITBP and one company of the SF have reached Patiala and other required forces will be deployed soon. He said that orders regarding deposition of licensed arms of the general public were already in place.General public can register violation of model code of conduct complaints on helpline number 1950 and on the e-vigil app, the DC said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/free-fair-elections-with-covid-protocol-top-priority-of-administration-361429
15-01-2022||Ravneet Singh||Patiala district reports 16 Covid deaths in 11 days||Patiala, January 14The district has started witnessing a steep rise in the number of Covid deaths. As many as 16 deaths have been reported since January 4, while at least one death was reported per day since January 8.Officials of the District Health Department said they were witnessing a rise in daily deaths. “Majority of reported Covid-19 death occurred among aged with comorbidities. They are high risk patients and need hospitalisation. Of the 16 deaths reported in the last two weeks, only two individuals were below 50 years, others were in the 70-80 age group,” District Epidemiologist Dr Sumit Singh said.He said most people left to their homes after giving samples at the hospital. “We suggest they stay at the hospital for treatment,” he said.Meanwhile, the Health Department today administered Covid-19 doses to 17,626 persons at vaccination camps organised by the district administration. The district also reported 634 new cases of Covid-19 today.Officials in the Health Department said that 1,668 people were administered the booster dose of covid-19 vaccine. Besides, 438 children in the age group of 15-18 years were administrated the vaccine.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said the district reported 634 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Friday. Of the total cases, 396 were reported from Patiala city alone, while the active case count is 4,324 in the district. The health officials took 2,081 samples for Covid testing. The administration has started a special vaccination drive for government employees, deputed on election duties in Patiala rural constituency, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-dist-reports-16-deaths-in-11-days-361427
