18-01-2022||Patiala||Man held for killing stray dogs in Samana||The Samana police today arrested a man for allegedly killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering stray dogs useless in the city. The suspect has been identified as Jacky Bedi of Motia Bazar. A case has been registered on a complaint of Sushma Singh of Darshan Colony near Bhadson road here.The complainant said she noticed on a social media site that the accused used to keep dogs at his house and beat them. She claimed he had broken legs of dogs as well. Sushma said she had rescued a dog over a year ago. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-held-for-killing-stray-dogs-in-samana-362261
18-01-2022||---||Poll icons spread awareness||Patiala, January 17Voter awareness icons have started activities to aware people about their voting rights. Jagwinder Singh Patrana and Jagdeep Singh participated in a voter awareness drive at the Mini Secretariat Seva Kendra. They said the people should ensure 100 per cent voter turnout.District nodal officer SWEEP Gurbakshish Singh Antal said differently-abled and those above the age of 80 years could cast their votes through postal ballot. He said special arrangements were being made to ensure that Covid-19 patients could also cast votes. He said the district icons were educating people about voting at different places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/poll-icons-spread-awareness-362260
18-01-2022||---||Patiala: Elderly woman found murdered at house in Tafajalpura||Patiala, January 17A 77-year-old woman was found murdered at her house in the Tafajalpura area of the city. The victim has been identified as Surjit Kaur. The police said the deceased had injury marks on her head and face. The body had been kept in the mortuary of the Government Rajindra Hospital for postmortem. The police said that all possible angles were being looked at to find the motive behind the murder. At the time of murder the victim is said to have been alone.Mohit Aggarwal, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), said they had registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC. He said that the daughter-in-law of the victim had gone to gurudwara, while her son was on his job when the murder took place. The DSP said the police were investigating the matter and it was too early to come to any conclusion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/elderly-woman-found-murdered-at-house-362259
18-01-2022||---||Programme on critical criminal law begins at RGNUL, Patiala||Patiala, January 17Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) today started a seven-day capacity building programme on critical criminal law. Officials said it was done with an objective to explore unconventional paradigms vital for deconstructing criminal law, enhance knowledge, skills and performance of researchers and academicians. The programme will continue till January 23.Prof GS Bajpai, Vice-Chancellor, RGNUL, Prof Robert Peacock, president, World Society of victimology, among others addressed the students. Prof GS Bajpai emphasised on the need for utilising alternative approaches to push boundaries and scope of criminology. He said, “The operations of criminal law can be greatly improved through the use of critical perspectives.”Advocate Sidharth Luthra focussed on the need to recalibrate functioning of criminal Law in times of digitisation and pandemic. He talked about traditional parameters of assessing crime that were abhorrent to rule of law. “In the digital times lampooning of legitimate acts, dismantling of evidential and procedural law, criminalisation of conduct and lack of legal mechanism to regulate virtual conferencing during the pandemic are areas of great concern,” he said. He discussed the need to empower researchers, lawyers and faculty with skills to understand the new developments. Prof Robert Peacock discussed the genesis of crime and the nature of justice in his lecture.Special facilities for differently abled studentsPunjabi University has started preparing lists of students at various departments to provide special facilities to its differently-abled students. The university has also formulated a committee for them which will be led by convener Trishanjit Kaur.The university said the four-member committee would make sure if the differently-abled students were being provided all facilities as per their requirements. “We will find out the needs of such students so that the new students can avail the facilities from the first day itself. The university will also make provisions of toilets for the differently-abled and provide wheelchairs at the departments. It will make provisions for lifts, railings and ramps for such student”, Trishanjit Kaur said.She said the university would work on making it easy for students to go from one place to other on the campus and enhance the availability of Braille section at the university library as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/programme-on-critical-criminal-law-begins-at-rgnul-362258
18-01-2022||---||Punjabi University to hold seminar offline, MSTs online||Patiala, January 17Punjabi University will hold an annual seminar of PhD students through offline mode. University authorities said only a limited number of students would be invited in strict adherence to Covid protocol. It will, however, conduct the mid-semester tests (MSTs) of all classes through online mode.The university today released a revised notification for the annual seminar. Insiders said when all activities at educational institutions were being undertaken as per Covid-19 protocol, the annual seminars should also be conducted in a similar way and students should not be asked to be present at the department. The university said, “Only a few students are being called for the annual seminar. A limited number of teachers will be present. The university will follow all Covid-19 protocols.The university has decided to conduct the mid-semester tests. It said they would be conducted through online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsity-to-hold-seminar-offline-msts-online-362257
18-01-2022||Karam Prakash||48% of those who died of Covid in Patiala in Jan were jabbed||Patiala, January 17Around 48 per cent Covid-19 deaths in the month of January were that of vaccinated patients in the district. The Health Department said that the district had reported 27 Covid deaths since January 1. Of 27 deaths, 10 had received both the doses of Covid vaccine, while three had received one dose.However, the department claimed that majority of them, who died, had comorbid conditions. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that vaccination definitely reduced mortality, however, some fully vaccinated patients had died.“It depends on the amount of antibodies the body produces after it contracts Covid-19 infection. Some had the single dose while In some cases patients had received second dose recently, which takes time to generate antibodies, “said Sodhi.The state government and health experts ever since the vaccination drive began in the state have been claiming that vaccination reduces hospitalisation and mortality to a great extent. However, it has been learnt that many fully vaccinated have already been hospitalised in the third wave, and young patients, who were fully vaccinated and had no comorbid conditions also died.Today, 17,703 persons were vaccinated in the district. Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said that 11.79 lakh beneficiaries, out of targeted population of 14.98 lakh, had received the first dose, while 6.8 lakh received both the doses. She further said that 6,757 beneficiaries, including health workers, had been given booster dose.Cases declineAs the Health Department has shifted its focus on the vaccination of maximum number of people, the district is seeing a decline in positive cases. The district reported only 284 positive cases in the past 24 hours. The district had reported over 900 single-day positive cases last week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/48-of-those-who-died-of-covid-in-jan-were-jabbed-362256
18-01-2022||---||Patiala: Over 1L boxes of expired milk powder seized from godown||Patiala, January 17The Health Department seized over one lakh boxes of expired milk powder during a raid conducted late this night. The tin boxes, that had milk powder, meant for infants, were caught from a godown of Medicinea Healthcare Private Limited in the Factory area of the city.A team of food safety officers will collect samples and send these to a lab for testing. Prime facie, it appears the expired products were brought to the godown to repackage these with a new expiry date. — Dr Shelly Jately, District Health OfficerBesides, the Health Department also found expired medicines and surgical equipment in a large quantity. Health officials said that expired milk powder and other items were being repackaged with altering the expiry date of the items.Confirming the development, Dr Shelly Jately, District Health Officer(DHO), said that a team of Food Safety Officers would collect samples and sent them to the lab for testing. The DHO said prime facie it looked that expired products had been brought at the godown to repackage them with new expiry date.It has been learnt that the godown was recently taken on a rent and seemingly had to be used to repackage expired items. The labourers at the godown said they were working on daily wage after putting the shutter down.Officials of the Health Department said that a case would be registered with the police only after the raid was completed. The raid was going on till the filing of the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-1l-boxes-of-expired-milk-powder-seized-from-godown-362255
