19-01-2022||---||Former Patiala Mayor Vishnu Sharma back in Congress fold||Patiala, January 18The poll battle for the prestigious Patiala urban seat, earlier contested on the Congress ticket by former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, has got an interesting twist after prominent Hindu leader from Patiala and former Mayor Vishnu Sharma rejoined the Congress in the presence of PPCC chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sharma had quit the Congress following differences with Capt Amarinder Singh and his wife Preneet Kaur in 2014.The first Mayor of Patiala Municipal Corporation during the Congress government in the state from 2002-07, Sharma is a prominent Hindu leader of the city. Speculations are rife that he might be considered to be the Congress candidate from Patiala urban seat from where former CM Capt Amarinder Singh is expected to contest on the Punjab Lok Congress ticket.“I am back in my family and will work to strengthen the party in the district. I met Navjot Singh Sidhu and have discussed the way forward”, said Sharma. On the possibility of contesting the polls from Patiala against Capt Amarinder Singh, Sharma said, “I will abide by the party’s decision on this. It is home coming for me”, he said.Vishnu Sharma also remained the district Congress Committee (Urban) president and later was the first mayor of Patiala city from 2002-2007 and later left the Congress and joined the SAD in 2014. During the SAD regime, he was made the Chairman, Improvement Trust Patiala.Senior Congress leaders from Patiala welcomed the decision to induct Vishnu Sharma claiming that he was a grassroots level leader, who knows the Patiala Urban constituency like the back of his hand. “Vishnu Sharma is one of the contenders for the party ticket from Patiala urban.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/former-patiala-mayor-vishnu-sharma-back-in-congress-fold-362551
19-01-2022||---||7 Covid deaths in Patiala district, highest single-day count in 7 months||Patiala, January 18In the highest single-day death count, after a gap of seven months, the district today reported seven Covid deaths. So far, the district had reported 34 deaths in the month of January. Officials of the Health Department said that Omicron variant was not ‘mild’, especially for elderly and comorbid patients. Of seven Covid deaths, two patients were aged around 35 years, while others were above 60 years. Health officials said that the residents had wrong perception of Omicron being a mild variant because Covid deaths continued to rise.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said, “People are dying because of Covid only. Omicron may be mild as compared to other variants of corona virus, however, it should not be played down as equal to common cold. People should not hide symptoms and avoid self medications.”He said that many patients were arriving at a very late stage, consequent upon that some Covid deaths were reported within a few hours of admission.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that the district reported 578 positive cases today. Of 578 cases, 221 positive cases were reported from Patiala city alone, followed by Kallon Majra block with 99 cases. Besides, Rajpura reported 73 cases, Shutrana 35, Harpalur 36, Kauli 30, Bhadson 29, Nabha 22; Dudhan Sadhan 20 and Samana 13.Health Department shifts focus on vaccinationAmid rising Covid-19 deaths, the Health Department has shifted its focus on vaccination. The Health Department administered 23, 913 doses on Tuesday.It has been learnt that the department is putting extra efforts on jabbing to achieve the vaccination target set by the Election Commission.As a result, testing of Covid cases has already slowed down. The health authorities collected only 2,067 Covid samples in the past 24 hours. Last week, the Health Department was collecting over 3,000 samples daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/7-covid-deaths-in-patiala-district-highest-single-day-count-in-7-months-362550
19-01-2022||Patiala||Patiala: Online career assessment test held for students||The career guidance and placement cell of Multani Mal Modi College in collaboration with Petroleum University, Dehradun, organised an online career assessment test for students to equip them with emerging trends and industry requirements for employment and placements. The main objective of this event was to help the students in assessment and recognition of their skills, abilities, potential and techniques to upgrade and optimise them.College Principal Khushvinder Kumar said, “The career assessment test is very useful for a student at the age of career selection as these tests can help the students to understand their skills and talents and help them to make an informed decision on various career options.”Placement coordinator Neeraj Goyal said that student’s quality and strength based on five elements — interest, personality, aptitude, emotional intelligence and orientation — were analysed during the test. Placement officer Rohit Sachdeva said that 325 students participated in the programme. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-online-career-assessment-test-held-for-students-362549
19-01-2022||Patiala||Voter awareness drive in Patiala district||District SWEEP teams carry out drives to inform people about their voting rights through wall paintings and sloganeering.Nodal officer Gurbakshisk Singh Antal said they were working along with various people, including national awardee Gurpreet Singh and former teacher Dharampal Shastri, and were communicating to them about partaking in the elections with the help of wall paintings. He said the team had carried out wall paintings at Government Ripudaman Collgee Nabha, Government Model High School Nabha, Government High School Nardu and other places. The teams have spread the message in over 70 villages, Antal said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/voter-awareness-drive-in-patiala-district-362548
19-01-2022||---||Punjabi University forms committee for energy audit||Patiala, January 18Punjabi University has formed a committee for green and energy audit as per the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) requirements. The committee will focus on ensuring eco-friendly and sustainable practices in the university environment.“The committee will focus on promoting green energy and disposal of e-waste. We will work toward energy conservation so that our energy expenditure remains low. The committee will also analyse and report on the green energy policies”, convener Dr Sukhjinder Singh Buttar said.He said the report prepared by the team wouldbe presented at the time of the NAAC team’s visit to the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-forms-committee-for-energy-audit-362547
19-01-2022||---||Illegal liquor seized, 1 held in Patiala||Patiala, January 18The district police today arrested a man and seized 45 cartons of illegal liquor, meant for sale in Haryana, from his car.The police stopped a car at a naka and during checking they found illegal liquor in the vehicle. The suspect has been identified as Gurmeet Singh. The police said the suspect was a repeat offender and registered a case under Sections 61,1,14 and 78 (2) of the Excise Act against him. Besides, the police also impounded the car used to smuggle the liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-liquor-seized-1-held-in-patiala-362546
19-01-2022||Aman Sood||To outwit poll panel, Punjab cops given 'dummy' postings||Patiala, January 18In a violation of rules, a number of police officers have been transferred to “cells which are not under the direct purview of the Election Commission”. Such transfers are often termed as “dummy” postings as these do not require any additional manpower and are not directly related to the poll process.Will seek reportI will seek a report on all postings. Those posted outside cannot miss their duty and go to the place of their choice. All rules will be strictly implemented. — Ishwar Singh, ADGP and EC's Nodal OfficerSample this: An SHO, who served for almost over three years in a Cabinet minister’s constituency and was transferred out of the district, continues to skip his new posting and remain in the constituency where the minister’s son is now contesting. Another SHO who served for over three years, under an MLA, was posted in the Special Branch. He continues to play truant from the office to help the MLA.Besides, a number of cops are these days “missing” from the place of postings and are reportedly helping their political masters. When a similar attempt was made ahead of the polls in 2017, the state EC had issued a notice to the then DGP, to explain the transfer of policemen on “dummy” postings.Documents in possession of The Tribune revealed that many transfers had been made against “dummy” postings. Since these don’t come under the poll panel’s ambit, these officials get a free hand to serve interests of their favourites.“I have made the postings based on recommendation of the SSPs concerned. We will keep a watch on their actual work on the ground,” said Mukhwinder Singh Chhina, IG, Patiala Range.“A number of officers from different branches, specially the police, are helping their political masters. We have reported the matter,” said SAD leader Daljit Cheema.The EC guidelines, issued before polls, say: “No officer connected directly with elections shall be allowed to continue in the home district. If he/she has completed three years in respective district, then he/she will not be able to continue with the present posting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/to-outwit-poll-panel-cops-given-dummy-postings-362440
