20-01-2022||---||Recoveries surpass new cases, positivity rate 25% in Patiala district||Patiala, January 19The daily count of Covid-19 recoveries has outnumbered the fresh cases in the district.The number of people who recovered from the infection today was 745, while the number of new cases recorded in the same period was 415. The active case count in the district has declined to 2,838. Last week, the active case count was around 4,620. Officials of the Health Department said they had collected 41,000 samples in the month of January, of which, 10,209 tested positive for the Covid. Health officials said the district’s average positivity rate was around 25 per cent, while 36 people had died of Covid in January. The case fatality ratio was around 0.35 per cent.The state Health Department has set a target of carrying out around 4,000 Covid-19 tests daily for the district health authorities. Of 4000 samples, 2750 would be RT-PCR, while 1,250 would be antigen. The district Health Department has been asked to prioritise testing of symptomatic and patients with comorbidities. Besides, inmates of old-age homes and jails are also being tested. It has been learnt that to achieve the target the number of sample teams would be increased and community health officers and AYUSH doctors would be deployed for that. Officials of the district health authorities claimed that sampling targets were little unrealistic in the face of special focus on Covid vaccination. The Health Department today administered 17,255 doses to the beneficiaries.. Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said they had administered around 19.08 lakh doses ever since the vaccination drive started last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/recoveries-surpass-new-cases-positivity-rate-25-362851
20-01-2022||---||Residents blame street vendors for congestion on roads in Patiala||Patiala, January 19Traffic woes of city residents remain constant despite the Municipal Corporation’s repeated assurances of tackling the street vendor menace. The corporation’s plan to shift the street vendors is awaiting necessary approval like water supply and other facilities at designated spots to be provided by the engineering branch.The Municipal Corporation had devised a plan to rehabilitate street vendors in order to decongest the city roads. The corporation hired a private consultant for implementation of the project in 2017. It allotted a tender for the purpose in 2018 and identified various new places in 2019. The corporation issued identity cards to vendors in 2020 but the work remained pending after the first batch of vendors was shifted from the old sabzi mandi of Ragho Majra to a new site in February last year.Residents said, “The corporation has failed to complete the process. After five years of the current government, the city’s traffic condition due to the street vendors remains the same. People face issues in commuting at the time of protests. The area around Mata Kaushalya Hospital faces the brunt of traffic snarls regularly.”Officials in the corporation say there is lack of political will. Requesting anonymity an insider said, “Earlier, the corporation managed to remove the street vendors from the Ragho Majra area in 2021 solely due to political will of councillors living in the area. Now no one cares about issues of the people.”Officials of the land branch of the MC said, “We have written to the corporation to provide water and other facilities at designated spots, including near the city bus stand, DLF colony and the Tripuri market area. The project is going on”, Superintendent Surjit Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/residents-blame-street-vendors-for-congestion-on-roads-in-patiala-362848
20-01-2022||---||Punjabi University sets up committee to promote green activities||Patiala, January 19Punjabi University has set up a committee for taking initiative to promote green activities as per the guidelines of NAAC. Convener Onkar Singh said the university had been carrying out activities in relation to promoting green activities on the campus.He said, “Now the university has set up a committee and carry out plantation drivesas per the environment of the state. We will slowly and gradually remove plants and trees which extract excessive underground water.”He said the university would make use of vermicompost for the management of dry and wet waste and also install rainwater harvesting system on buildings.“As part of the committee, we will also make efforts to gradually reduce the university’s expenditure on electricity”, he said.                                     #Environment||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-sets-up-committee-to-promote-green-activities-362846
20-01-2022||Patiala||District & Sessions Judge pays visit to homes for children in Rajpura and Patiala||Rajinder Aggarwal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, paid a surprise visit to children home Rajpura and Patiala on Tuesday.He discussed problems of education and food being faced by the children living at the children homes. He directed managements of the children homes to ensure that the children did not face any difficulty. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/district-sessions-judge-pays-visit-to-homes-for-children-in-rajpura-and-patiala-362845
20-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Patiala block heads told to look into 'fake' vaccination entries||Patiala, January 19Following the allegations of fake entries in the Covid vaccination data of the Health Department, the authorities in Patiala district on Wednesday issued letters to all block heads to look into the matter.Amid prevailing vaccination hesitancy in the state, several fake entries are alleged to have crept into the Covid vaccination data of the department. According to information, many beneficiaries have allegedly got the vaccination certificates without taking a jab.Sources said the department had been suggested to change the passwords of the login IDs that were issued for entering the vaccination data.Officials from the department said over 200 login IDs had been issued in the district to get an access of the Covid vaccination portal. The IDs were also shared with those private persons who had to be hired for few days, owing to the strike of health staff in last month, said the department. Sources said the person who made fake entries, must be possessing the login information to the vaccination portal.According to the Health Department, there is a difference of thousands between the data available on the online portal and that with the Patiala Health Department. The vaccination count on the Central Government portal – CoWIN – is higher as compared to the state department’s data.District Immunisation Officer Dr Veenu Goyal said the issue had already been brought into their notice and steps were being taken to stop such practice. She said: “There could be some beneficiaries, who get their entries put on the portal and did not got the vaccine.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/patiala-block-heads-told-to-look-into-fake-vaccination-entries-362727
20-01-2022||Aman Sood||Punjab officials 'approach' DCs to avoid poll duty||Patiala, January 19Hundreds of government officials are trying to approach the district electoral officers (DEO) to seek exemption from poll duty. From politicians to journalists to family doctors of the DEOs, the government officials are trying to approach everyone to avoid poll duty.Apprehending violence and Covid during the upcoming Vidhan Sabha polls, government employees are running from pillar to post to get exemption from poll duty. While a majority are allegedly trying to shirk work citing excuses, many others fear action by the Election Commission (EC) in case of lapses, if any.NO EXEMPTION, ONLY ACTION If senior officers can work in field throughout the day, govt officials can too...they should stop seeking exemption. I’ve already told my staff to recommend action under the Punjab Civil Service Rules against the officials approaching me. Sandeep Hans, Patiala DEOEmployees are queuing up outside the offices of the Deputy Commissioners (DCs) in various districts, who are also the DEOs, with applications to somehow escape the poll duty.In many cases, the department heads are bowing to the pressure and recommending to the DEO that if “certain officials are put on election duty, the office work will suffer”.“I have received 130 applications, while there are 50 messages in my phone. Everyone wants exemption from election work,” said an IAS officer.For instance, maternity leave, severe infection, pain in heart, birthday of daughter, a sick relative, skin allergy, taking care of an infant, cooking for parents and attending to a pregnant wife are some of the excuses being made by government officials to seek exemption from poll duty.A majority of the DEOs have, however, “almost decided to sanction leave only in case of any death”.Meanwhile, women officials too want to stay away from poll duties, apprehending violence, while others fear repercussions for any lapse on the voting day.Patiala DEO Sandeep Hans, however, has warned of strict action against all such officials approaching him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/officials-approach-dcs-to-avoid-poll-duty-362715
