24-01-2022||Patiala||Vax drive in Patiala district way short of target||Amid widespread vaccine hesitancy, the Health Department and the district administration couldn’t convince enough beneficiaries to meet the Covid vaccination target today.Against the daily target of 50,000, only 8,153 beneficiaries received the jab in the district today. While 5,004 beneficiaries got the second dose, 3,037 reached vaccination centres to receive their first dose. Besides, 112 beneficiaries were administered the booster dose.Meanwhile, it is learnt that over 3 lakh beneficiaries in the district have not taken their second dose and have skipped the due date for it.A health official said, “Our staff is ready to administer Covid dose at all health centres. However, we are helpless when people are not turning up.”In view of the upcoming Assembly elections in the state, the Election Commission has already given an ultimatum to the Patiala Health Department to reach the national average figure of Covid-19 vaccination, which is 92 per cent of targeted population with first dose and 69 per cent with second shot, in the next seven days. Consequently, the department has been reaching out to various NGOs, religious outfits and other social organisations to motivate people for vaccination. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vax-drive-in-patiala-district-way-short-of-target-363967
24-01-2022||Patiala||Patiala: Two-day rain leaves Royal City flooded||Incessant rain for two days left many places in the city flooded.The Meteorological Department today stated that light to moderate rain occurred at most places of Punjab, including Patiala. Yesterday, 31.8 mm of rainfall was recorded at Punjabi University.Nevertheless, areas of Tripuri, near the city bus stand, Sanauri Adda, Lakkar Mandi and others saw a flood-like situation. People had to wade through waterlogged streets.Residents blamed the MC Engineering Department for the poor drainage system due to which rainwater remained accumulated on roads.A commuter said, “Engineers of the civic body wasted public funds by laying small-sized sewer pipes. The municipal works are to be blamed for the people’s plight today.”The area near the Mayor’s official residence was also waterlogged for a long time.MC Joint Commissioner Naman Marken said, “Departmental officials did not bring the issue of water-logging to my knowledge today. I will ask the officials to check the situation on ground and resolve it at the earliest.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-two-day-rain-leaves-royal-city-flooded-363966
24-01-2022||Patiala||Will boycott Punjab Assembly poll: BKU (Krantikari)||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Krantikari) has decided to boycott voting in the Assembly elections scheduled to be held in the state on February 20.In a statement, the union, joined by the Lok Sangram Morcha, Punjab, the Krantikari Pendu Mazdoor Union, Punjab, the Azad Kisan Committee, Doaba, the Students for Society and the Democratic Students’ Organisation, informed that they would neither support any political party nor cast vote in the elections.Ranjit Singh Swazpur, Patiala district president of the BKU (Krantikari), said, “We have decided to stay away from votes and elections this time. The decisions were taken during state-level meetings held recently.”Union leaders alleged that all political outfits were equal in respect to neglecting public welfare. Citing the over a year-long protest on Delhi borders, they said the protest was successful because of the support of people from all walks of life and since the unions kept themselves away from political parties.They pointed out that political parties were ignorant when it came to the issues of farming sector, land ownership and oppression of various classes of people. They alleged, “These parties want people to think only about freebies, including electricity and water.”Gurdhian Singh Dhanna of the BKU (Krantikari) said, “Neither will we cast vote, nor will support any political party in the upcoming elections.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/will-boycott-punjab-assembly-poll-bku-krantikari-363965
24-01-2022||Patiala||Principals, teachers' meet at CGC, Jhanjeri||Netaji’s birth anniversary celebratedPatiala: The Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, on Sunday celebrated the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. Students organised a Google meet and discussed life and achievements of Netaji. NCC cadet Riya threw light on Ajad Hind Fauj and Netaji’s slogan, “Give me blood and I shall give you freedom”. Cadet Jatin apprised the students of early life and educational achievements of Bose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/principals-teachers-meet-363964
24-01-2022||Aman Sood||Ghaggar floods key issue in Sangrur, Patiala||Patiala, January 23The Ghaggar river is the biggest poll issue for over six constituencies in Patiala and Sangrur districts, but more importantly for Ghanaur, Samana, Shutrana and Lehra where it causes the maximum damage when it overflows.Waiting for 2 decadesGhaggar is the biggest poll issue for us. No leader has ever bothered about us after winning the elections. We have been looking up to the state government for a solution to the problem for the past over two decades. — Gurinder Lalli, Ghanaur residentOften termed a “river of sorrow”, the Ghaggar issue is again haunting leaders across the party lines. With the Vidhan Sabha elections again round the corner, politicians are back to their best, including a slew of promises on the Ghaggar.Politicians have been milking the issue of floods and pollution to fight electoral battles in Patiala and Sangrur districts for the past almost two decades without offering any permanent solution. In the past three decades, floods in Ghaggar have caused losses in hundreds of villages.“Though MLA and MP candidates promise end to our suffering, nothing concrete has ever been done,” said Ghanaur resident Gurinder Lalli. Besides floods, many residents of villages alongside the polluted Ghaggar face cancer problem. Many villages have cancer patients. The Ghaggar originates in Himachal Pradesh and flows from Punjab and Haryana into Rajasthan.“To stop the devastation in its area, Haryana has constructed a toe wall on the 4-km stretch from where the Ghaggar flows into the state. Every monsoon, we suffer losses to life and property while pollution is killing us slowly,” said Amaninder Singh from Hashampur Mangta, a tail-end village. “We will work to widen and strengthen its banks to ensure that floods can be controlled,” said Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur.                                     #Ghaggar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ghaggar-floods-key-issue-in-sangrur-patiala-363840
