25-01-2022||Patiala||Varsity holds webinar on issues, concerns of girl child||Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Patiala, organised a webinar on Girl Child in India: Issues and Concerns. The webinar dwelt on the role of the university towards skill orientation and empowering women towards economic independence.University VC Prof Karamjit drew upon the need to honour human rights of all and called upon the need to follow our holy scriptures and engage in spiritualism to remove social evils. Prof Anita Gill, dean, academic affairs, drew attention towards the issues faced by girl child even before her birth till her last breath. She said educationists needed to work towards removing the injustice towards girls.Prof Mary E John from the Centre for Women’s Development Studies, New Delhi, discussed the 19th century reforms for children and the post-independence period when the notion of girl child was first coined. She discussed a range of issues around girl children.—||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsity-holds-webinar-on-issues-concerns-of-girl-child-364175
25-01-2022||---||Layoffs: Youths, farmers block gate of  Rajpura power plant||Patiala, January 24Youths and residents of several villages in Rajpura joined by activists of the Bharti Kisan Union Ugrahan on Monday blocked entry and exit gates of Rajpura thermal power plant over laying off youths from the plant leaving workers, including women, inside the plant premises.Farmers blocked the entry and exit gates of the Rajpura power plant on Monday morning. Manjit Singh Nyal, district president of BKU Ugrahan, said they took up the issue with the plant management number of times but they did not pay any heed. He said, “A number of youths of adjoining villages who had been working at the plant till 2015 were laid off by officials. We have been demanding their reinstatement. The plant officials are responsible for the management of underbridge of adjoining railway line, ensuring proper green belt in the area and installation of boundary fencing around trees adjacent to the plant and village farmlands from where wild animals enter villagers’ farmlands. We blocked one of the gates today and will block the remaining gates tomorrow if the matter stands unresolved.”Officials of Nabha Power Limited said the youths were hired by a contractor and not by the plant officials directly. “They had filed an appeal in the office of Labour Commissioner over laying off which was rejected. Today, Over 100-150 farmers blocked the entry gate of the plant leaving all employees, including women, inside the plant. The matter has been brought to the notice of the district administration. It was not the responsibility of the plant management to maintain the underpass,” an official of the power plant said. The plant officials have filed a complaint against the youths and farmers with the district police alleging illegal confinement.DSP Ghanaur Jaswinder Tiwana late in the evening said the police were trying to resolve the matter through talks. He said there was no obstruction to the entry and exit of employees from the plant premises.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said the administration was in talks with the farmers and plant officials. “The SDM and the DSP Rajpura are at the site. We are trying to resolve the matter”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/layoffs-youths-farmers-block-gate-of-rajpura-power-plant-364174
25-01-2022||Patiala||National Girl Child Day celebrated||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) celebrated National Girl Child Day in collaboration with the department of health, education and offices of the Child Development Project Officers (CDPOs) here today.The authority officials organised a webinar along with teachers, students, principles of Government Victoria Senior Secondary School, Patiala; Senior Secondary School, Old Police Lines; Government Senior Secondary School, Nabha; Government Senior Secondary School, Tripuri; Senior Secondary School, Vajidpur; CDPOs Patiala; supervisors and anganwadi workers.Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Parminder Kaur, impressed upon the objective of celebration of the day to spread awareness about the rights of the girl child and issues relating to their education, health and nutrition. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/national-girl-child-day-celebrated-364173
25-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Fearing info leak, district health officer raids dairy all alone||Patiala, January 24So as not to leak information, the District Health Officer (DHO) all alone raided Dhawan Milk Dairy in Samana town of the district here today. Around six food samples — milk, curd, khoya, paneer, butter and desi ghee— were collected from the dairy. The samples would be sent to state food laboratory, Kharar, for testing, the DHO said. Dr Shelly Jately said she had to go, sans any staff accompanying her, onto the raid for the sheer reason of leaking the information to the dairy owner. She claimed earlier on several occasions when they went to raid the same dairy it was found closed every time. She said, “I went all alone in a private vehicle for the raid. Only after reaching the dairy, I called other staff members, including food safety officers, who completed the raid.”She said the information of raid on dairy was seemingly leaked during the earlier two occasions. “There were several complaints against Dhawan Milk Dairy. However, we were not able to collect samples as shop used to be found closed. Any action against the dairy owner will be taken after results of the food samples,” Shelly said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fearing-info-leak-district-health-officer-raids-dairy-all-alone-364172
25-01-2022||---||53 inmates of Nabha jail, 35 of Patiala test +ve for Covid||Patiala, January 24As many as 53 inmates, including one woman, in the new district Nabha jail, tested positive for Covid during a routine checking today.Officials of the Patiala Health Department said two inmates had to be hospitalised, while rest had been isolated at the jail complex. Dr Dalbir Kaur, Senior Medical Officer, said there were reports of many symptomatic inmates at the jail, following which Covid sampling was conducted at the jail. “Two inmates, who have got comorbid conditions, have been admitted to the hospital, while others have been isolated in the jail.”Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department said that 35 inmates had also tested positive at Patiala Central Jail. The health officials said that positive inmates had been separated from other inmates and had been isolated in a special barrack. Patiala District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “If any inmate at the jail premises falls sick, he or she will be shifted to hospital for treatment.”Dist records 163 fresh cases, six deathsThe district today recorded a sharp decline in positive cases, while deaths from Covid continue to rise. The district reported only 163 positive cases, while it recorded six Covid deaths in the past 24 hours.Health officials said that all Covid patients, who died were above 60 years. Of the six, an 86-year-old man died at his residence only. Health officials said that around 59 people had already died of Covid in January.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/53-inmates-of-nabha-jail-35-of-patiala-test-ve-for-covid-364171
25-01-2022||Patiala||Sacrilege attempt at Patiala's Mata Kali Temple, 1 held||A man was today arrested following an alleged sacrilege attempt at the historic Mata Kali Temple here.SSP Sandeep Garg said additional police had been deployed at the temple and the suspect was being questioned. In the CCTV footage, which went viral on social media, the masked suspect is seen scaling the enclosure, where the deity’s idol is installed, and attempting desecration. The suspect is immediately pushed away by the priest.Bid to disturb peaceSome vested interests are trying to destabilise social harmony on the eve of elections, but I will not let them succeed in their malicious motives. Charanjit Singh Channi, Chief MinisterKotwali SHO Bikram Singh Brar said the suspect had been identified as Rajdeep Singh and had been booked under Sections 295-A and 354 of the Indian Penal Code.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said a meeting had been called with all stakeholders over the issue.Following the incident, members of the BJP condemned the incident and demanded a high-level investigation. Security has been stepped up in the city.Patiala MP Preneet Kaur condemned the incident and urged the authorities to take stern action against the culprits. Deliberate attempts were being made to hurt the religious sentiments, she said, while urging for calm.                                      #sacrilege||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-attempt-at-patiala-temple-1-held-364139
25-01-2022||Aman Sood||Patiala liquor haul: 1 of 4 suspects ticket aspirant||Patiala, January 24The role of the police and the Excise Department has come under scanner after they failed to make any arrest even three days after recovery of a huge quantity of liquor from an unauthorised storage place here. Sources claimed no arrest had been made so far as one of the suspects was linked to the Congress.Claim, counter-claimThe police are now investigating the case. If there is any laxity in the probe, we will look into it. Rajat Agarwal, Excise CommissionerExcise Department is probing the liquor haul case and it will make arrests, if required. Ashok Kumar Sharma, DSP (City), PatialaOn January 22, the Excise Department and the police “raided and searched the premises of liquor licensee Manju Singla”. An unauthorised stock of liquor was seized from a house located near their Lahori Gate vend.Excise Commissioner Rajat Agarwal later said it was found that three persons, namely Lalit Singla, Keshav Singla (who are family members of the licensee) and their partner Umesh Sharma, were involved in storing liquor at unauthorised places.Information gathered by The Tribune revealed that Keshav is a Congress leader and an applicant for the Patiala (Urban) seat.Keshav said, “I have submitted details to the Excise Department. There was nothing wrong, except that the liquor was stored in a house. Except one brand, all holograms on bottles were intact.”SAD and AAP leaders said, “We will write to the Election Commission and seek action against the cops.” They alleged that the liquor was to be distributed during polls.DCC Patiala (Urban) chief NP Verma said such liquor traders who were storing illegal liquor did not deserve to be in the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/liquor-haul-1-of-4-suspects-ticket-aspirant-364120
