26-01-2022||Patiala||Punjabi University School marks Voters’ Day||Model School, Punjabi University, here celebrated National Voters’ Day on Tuesday as per the guidelines of the district administration. The event was organised to create awareness among students and staff about the electoral process and the right to vote. The teachers also took an oath that they would exercise their right to vote in the coming Assembly elections to strengthen the foundations of democracy. NCC cadets Jatin and Riya shared their views. Principal Balwinder Kaur, ANO Satvir Singh and teacher Gagandeep Singh also shared their views on the significance of the day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-school-marks-voters-day-364473
26-01-2022||---||Punjabi University: New group to fight A-Class Officers Association elections||Patiala, January 25A new group of A-Class officers of Punjabi University here has decided to contest the coming elections of the A-Class Officers Association. The group is aiming for a change in the association leadership which, they claim, has been in control of a select number of people serving their own interests for the past many years.Members of the new group, formed under the banner of “A-Class Officers Sanjha Manch”, said they had made a fresh start by deviating from the traditional parties and filed nominations for the elections.The group, comprising Kamaljit Singh Jaggi, Brahmjot Singh, Digvir Singh Nagra, Rajbir Singh, Jaswinder Kaur, Rajiv Sood, Devki Ji, Ranjan Parmar, Meena Garg, Umrao Singh, Ashish Gupta and Daljit Singh, said, “For the past many years, only two traditional parties have been participating in the university elections. Both parties have been taking turns in installing their members as president of the association. But this time, the A-class officers want a change in the university, because both previously elected parties have been constantly focusing on special and personal affairs of certain people.There are a total of 280 A-class officers on the campus. There are 11 posts of the association — president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary, cashier and six executive members. The voting will take place on February 3 followed by the counting of votes the same day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-new-group-to-fight-a-class-officers-association-elections-364472
26-01-2022||---||Patiala Civic body fails to ensure waste segregation in city||Patiala, January 25Material recovery facilities and compost pits of the MC, which were constructed at a huge cost to ensure a proper management of the city’s nearly 130 MT of garbage generated daily, have been lying in an unused condition for a long time. The entire waste is dumped at the Sanauri Adda site where the MC had started a remediation plant to segregate the legacy waste and clear the site of the garbage.There are six sites in the city where the MC has constructed compost pits. One of them is opposite the official residence of the Mayor on the Rajbaha road. All of these have been lying unused since their construction.Officials in the MC said no officials had been deputed at the site for the segregation of waste. “Nor has the MC managed to ensure that people segregate waste at source. Most people are ignorant to the waste segregation guidelines and dispose of garbage as they please,” said an official.The MC had decided to issue challans and collect a fine from units that fail to segregate waste at source in September 2020. An official said, “Such process of issuing challans has remained only on paper. The MC has failed to implement it on the ground. Political interests of pressure groups and politicians act as a major hindrance to the drive.”The bio-remediation plant at the Sanauri Adda dump is also functioning at a slow pace. The MC Joint Commissioner, Naman Marken, said his office had directed the officials concerned to carry out minor works and those already cleared for the compost pit sites, so that these could be put to use. “Major works which need clearance from Commissioner will be taken on priority once a new commissioner assumes charge.”He said the MC aimed at removing the legacy waste from the site by April or May this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-civic-body-fails-to-ensure-waste-segregation-in-city-364471
26-01-2022||---||Shot in the arm for Congress Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur||Patiala, January 25Sitting Congress MLA from Ghanaur Madan Lal Jalalpur got a shot in the arm when Zila Parishad member Parminder Singh Lali announced his full support to him at Rampur village in the district. Parminder had been angry with the MLA for quite long.Lali, along with his associates, announced full support to the MLA in the upcoming Assembly elections. In fact, Lali and his group in Ghanaur were said to have been not happy with the MLA due to personal issues.Meanwhile, one of the AAP leaders from Ghanaur, Gurpreet Singh Sandhu, joined the Congress. Sandhu said AAP candidate from Ghanaur Gurlal Singh would lose his deposit in the elections. He alleged that Gurlal was a parachute candidate, who had never been active for the party.Meanwhile, Jalalpur said Sandhu would be given full respect and responsibility in the coming days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/shot-in-the-arm-for-madan-lal-jalalpur-364470
26-01-2022||---||Patiala district continues to see Covid deaths, cases dip||Patiala, January 25Though the district today recorded a sharp decline in daily cases, deaths due to Covid continued to rise. The district reported 193 positive cases and five deaths over the past 24 hours.Now, the district death count stands at 1,428, since the pandemic broke out in 2020. Data reveals that around 65 people have succumbed to Covid in January.Of five deaths reported today, three patients were unvaccinated. Health officials said all five patients had comorbidities. Of the 193 positive cases, Patiala City alone reported 93 cases, while Rajpura logged 25 cases, Bhadson 16, Kauli 16, Nabha12, Kallon Majra eight and Dudhan Sadhan reported five cases, said Civil Surgeon Prince Sodhi.Meanwhile, the Health Department administered 15, 942 doses. The officials concerned said around 19.87 lakh doses had been administered in the district. Around 12.21 lakh beneficiaries, out of the targeted population of 14.98 lakh, have received their first dose, while 7.5 lakh beneficiaries are fully vaccinated.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “We have been making our best efforts to boost vaccination in the district. Staff of some of the centres, which are not performing well, have been directed to pull up their socks.”93 cases from Patiala cityOf the 193 positive cases, Patiala City alone reported 93 cases, while Rajpura logged 25 cases, Bhadson 16, Kauli 16, Nabha12, Kallon Majra eight and Dudhan Sadhan reported five cases, said Civil Surgeon Prince Sodhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-continues-to-see-covid-deaths-cases-dip-364468
