30-01-2022||---||Faculty development programme ends at Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law||Patiala, January 29Two-day faculty development workshop to propel educational capabilities of faculty and researchers to new levels was concluded at the Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) here today. Vice-Chancellor Prof GS Bajpai speaking on research skills emphasised on research process, importance of data analysis and demonstrated the use of SPSS/software in research. “The SPSS can fetch data from almost any type of file and generate tabulated reports, charts, descriptive statistics,” he said.Registrar Naresh Kumar Vats discussed interdisciplinary teaching. He elaborated on pedagogical techniques to ensure active participation of students in the learning process. “Interaction, dialogue and discussion can engage learners in active learning. Teachers must adapt according to the academic needs of learners”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/faculty-development-programme-ends-at-rajiv-gandhi-national-university-of-law-365440
30-01-2022||---||Honour for Punjabi University Professor||Patiala, January 29Dr Himender Bharti, professor, Punjabi University, has been nominated as an expert member for evaluation of research proposals under the INSPIRE programme of department of science and technology (DST) of the Central Government. The ant specialist head of the zoology department on the campus has important research projects, including those sanctioned by the Ministry of Science and Technology, in his name.The INSPIRE fellowship is granted to meritorious students who have secured first position in their master’s programme. The student’s proposal for pursuing PhD is securitised by the committee. Dr Bharti said, “I feel this venture of DST needs to be popularised among students of northern India as they are less aware about it which can strengthen their careers.”Bharti is an evolutionary biologist with research on insect systematics, phylogeography, speciation patterns, phylogenetics, ecology and conservation biology.He was nominated as a fellow of prestigious Royal Entomological Society, London. Moreover, he is credited with the discovery of more than 100 new species of ants, in addition to a number of new records. His findings include endemic and red list species.He is president of International Network for Study of Ants (ANeT) and International Union for Study of Social Insects (IUSSI) Indian Chapter, besides he is on the editorial board of international journals, Asian Myrmecology, Sociobiology, Current Research in Insect Science (Elsevier).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/honour-for-punjabi-university-professor-365439
30-01-2022||---||Patiala Health Department fails to meet daily Covid vaccination target||Patiala, January 29The Health Department today administered 24, 946 doses of Covid vaccine against the daily vaccination target of 70,000. Officials of the Health Department said after today’s vaccination 12.63 lakh beneficiaries of the targeted 14.98 lakh had been vaccinated with the first dose, while 7.8 lakh had been given both the doses in the district.Experts said it was unfortunate that the Health Department had continuously been failing to complete the daily vaccination target.It has been learnt that the Health Department has been going door-to-door to motivate the beneficiaries is receiving poor responses from the people. Health officials said that vaccination-related rumours had been playing spoilsport in bringing them to the vaccination centres. The sources said that beneficiaries had been reluctant to get the Covid dose in the face of widespread rumours about the side effects of the vaccine. Over five lakh beneficiaries in the district didn’t show up for a second shot and had already skipped the due date of their second dose of the vaccine.The Health Department said that they had been making efforts to bust the vaccination rumours. Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said, “Daily vaccination figure is going upwards. We appeal to beneficiaries to get Covid vaccination at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-health-department-fails-to-meet-daily-covid-vaccination-target-365438
30-01-2022||---||8 food samples fail quality test in Patiala district||Patiala, January 29Eight food samples collected by the Health Department last month have failed to meet quality standards. As per the report, six food samples were declared ‘substandard’, one unsafe, and one food sample was found ‘misbranded’.Dr Shelly Jaitley, District Health Officer (DHO), said that cream of Shyam Sweets in Samana had been found ‘unsafe’ by the lab, while curd and paneer sample of Khalsa Dairy in Devigarh were declared substandard. One sample each of milk and milk cake of Punjab Dairy in Samana town had also been found substandard. Similarly, milk cake of Sukhi Sweets in Dudhan Sadhan block had been found substandard, said the DHO.Dr Shelly further informed that special ‘Namkeen Mathi’ of Nitin Confectionary had been found misbranded by the lab.As per the Food Safety Act, substandard means an article of food shall be deemed to be substandard, if it does not meet the specified criteria. While, misbranding food samples implies: falsely describing any food sample to mislead consumers or gives a false guarantee.Following the lab reports, the Health Department has issued notices to all the shop owners whose food samples have failed the quality test. Meanwhile, it has been learnt that owner of Shyam Sweets, whose sample was found unsafe, has already challenged the said report and has made a request for a retest of the sample from another government lab at Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/8-food-samples-fail-quality-test-in-patiala-district-365435
30-01-2022||Karam Prakash||Covid-19 effect : Govt Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, faces blood shortage||Patiala, January 29The blood bank at Government Rajindra Hospital is facing an acute shortage of blood as donors stay away. The blood bank has sent out an SOS to the public for voluntary donation at the earliest.Due to the ongoing shortage, kids suffering from thalassaemia, who require lifelong regular blood transfusions, are said to have been severely hit.We are organising emergency blood donation camps. The problem will be resolved soon. Dr Harpal Singh, in-charge, blood bankKin of a patient admitted at gynaecology emergency of Rajindra Hospital said that he was turned away by the blood bank owing to the shortage of blood. He had to make a desperate attempt in the middle of the night to get a donor.Sources said the blood bank at Rajindra Hospital had been facing blood shortage for the past one week. It has been learnt that outdoor blood donation camps, one of the major source of blood donations, are not being held evidently due to the third wave of Covid. Besides, educational institutes, where blood camps were being organised, are also shut.Dr Rajni Bassi, assistant professor, department of blood transfusion, said there were 250 children suffering from thalassaemia and taking treatment at the hospital, besides everyday 25 children come to the hospital for the treatment. “The IMA Patiala, along with other organisations of medical professionals, is organising emergency blood donation,” he said.Meanwhile, Dr Harpal Singh, in-charge, blood bank, said, “We are organising emergency blood donation camps. The problem will be resolved soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-effect-govt-rajindra-hospital-patiala-faces-blood-shortage-365430
