01-01-2021||Opinion||High price: growing numbers in jails during Covid||The rule is bail, jail is the exception. This is a principle reiterated through the years by the Supreme Court — even in 2020 when the managing director of a television channel was being granted interim bail — yet it seems to have had little effect in practice. The evidence for the Indian justice system’s preference for detention lies in the percentage of undertrial prisoners. The latest National Crime Records Bureau report shows that 67.7 per cent of 4.33 lakh prisoners in the country are waiting for trial, some for years. Of these, around 65 per cent are Dalit, adivasi and marginalized people, often barely literate or illiterate, and too poor to afford the bail fee. This last factor has been underlined by a recent study of pandemic policing in Madhya Pradesh by the Criminal Justice and Police Accountability Project. Although the study focuses on one state, the practices it reveals are common to subsidiary courts across the country. The growing numbers in jails during the pandemic reveal the police’s tendency to arrest people for minor offences, and also show that many find the bail fee unaffordable. In lower courts, bail for those arrested for petty offences is usually Rs 10,000 in a country where 57 per cent of people earn less than Rs 10,000 a month. In higher courts, bail amounts exceed Rs 30,000. This system reflects India’s culture of heartlessness towards the underprivileged. Yet Indian jurisprudence considers everyone innocent till proven guilty, while for the Constitution the right to freedom is fundamental. It has been suggested that the socio-economic situation of the accused should be considered before fixing bail — it is at the discretion of the judge, after all — and that compliance with the investigation and attendance during hearing should be ensured by means other than money or imprisonment, unless the last is necessitated by the gravity of the crime. Noticeably, many given bail are powerful enough to threaten complainants or witnesses, while numerous others spend years inside till trials find them innocent. This attitude prompts the prolonging of detention under laws such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, with their mandated six months-to-one year incarceration without trial. Bail reform requires, first, a return to the principles of jurisprudence and the Constitution, and a revival of respect for human dignity and fair treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Opinion||Make a wish for the new year||If wishes were horses, goes the old Scottish proverb, then beggars would ride. The inherent cynicism of the adage notwithstanding, human beings remain wishful creatures at heart and the New Year is considered to be a perfect occasion to make new wishes or renew old resolutions. Apparently, 60 per cent of adults around the world believe that the dawn of a mint-new year is a propitious time for making wishes. Yet — depressingly — honouring these resolutions is a different matter altogether. Global data suggest that 80 per cent of the New Year resolutions are to be found in metaphorical trash bins by the second week of February. Even though mankind has the morality and the means to fulfil only 8 per cent of these pledges, the pitiful success rate cannot take away anything from the importance of New Year resolutions. That is because they represent a residual altruism in cultures that needs to be recognized and nurtured. The nurturing is especially important given the nature of the year that has ended. In the annals of modern history, 2020 will undoubtedly be remembered as annus horribilis. The year that was remains a testament to disasters. An invisible virus claimed almost two million lives globally. Nations suffered as much as their citizens with the pandemic and mitigatory responses — prolonged periods of lockdown were a common strategy — devastating economies. A joint statement by the World Health Organization and several other global bodies issued in October last year predicted, among other things, that millions of people were at risk of sliding into extreme poverty; the figure of undernourished people was expected to touch 132 million; and nearly half of the world’s 3.3 billion workforce were threatened with unemployment. India, meanwhile, demonstrated that it was vulnerable to a different kind of contagion. An elected government not only proved to be markedly incompetent in addressing the sufferings of migrant workers but was also complicit in the vilification of a minority community as a willing carrier of the disease. Vaccines have turned despair to hope but the virus, or another pandemic, cannot be wished away. This makes it important for the world to wish for the resurrection of empathy and kindness this New Year. These vanishing human traits could prove to be the vaccine that is needed to vanquish the germs of hate and discrimination that plague the global body politic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Opinion||MGNREGA: rural welfare on crutches||Headline: Byline: Debmalya Nandy The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act tracker released by the People’s Action for Employment Guarantee as well as a research report presented by LibTech India reveal why the rural job programme has not been able to cater to the needs of the poorest during this steep rural job crisis. Earlier, a survey by the Azim Premji University had shown that 6 out of 10 rural workers had lost their jobs during the lockdown. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy also stated that about 1.1 crore daily wage workers were unemployed. Corroborating these claims, the Right to Food Campaign survey has shown that about 43 per cent of its respondents had no work in the month of April and May and that 62 per cent of the workers are now earning considerably less than pre-Covid times. These are adequate evidence of the crisis of employment in India during and after the lockdown. The MGNREGA, the biggest rural flagship job programme, was expected to rise to the occasion and ensure people earned a dignified income and coped with income losses. However, the PAEG report suggests that while 1.3 crore new job cards were issued and about 1 crore more households have worked under the scheme compared to last year as of November 30, the average employment per household remains as low as 41 days as of now as compared to 48 days in 2019. Also, 17 lakh households had completed 100 days of employment as of November 30 against 40.6 lakh households last year. In a crisis year, it is expected that a higher number of households would go for full employment under the MGNREGA. But the data show that while demand for work has been very high, the implementation has been shoddy. The MGNREGA’s limited efficacy can be attributed to three factors. The lack of funds and their slow release have an adverse impact. The PAEG report shows that till the end of November, the persondays generated were 43 per cent higher than that achieved during the same period last year. This means that the Centre should have allocated 380 crore persondays for 2020-21 in the labour budget. However, it has only allocated 324 crore persondays as of November 30 as per the official website. This is restricting opportunities for additional employment. The ministry is left with less than 20 per cent funds. This is worrying since the remaining months would be peak working time given that the harvest season is over. The inadequate sanctioning of schemes across gram panchayats hinders operations, thereby reducing employment opportunities. The block administration does not sanction schemes in bulk on account of the lack of competency. Consequently, workers do not get access to work at their convenience. Currently, the sanctioning processes are conducted through a software-based system called SECURE that is controlled by a handful of block and district officials. Even in states where gram panchayats are entrusted with sanctioning finances, the software-based system has taken control away from them. Lack of awareness among workers and the supply-driven nature of MGNREGA result in workers not even knowing that they can demand work and earn additional cash in times of crisis. The MGNREGA has been in force for 14 years, but many people across rural India do not even know about its existence. The report is also suggestive of inadequate administrative reciprocation against the surge in demand for work. It says that about 13 per cent of demands remained unmet. However, a recent survey conducted by Gaon Connection and CSDS-Lokniti has shown that only 20 per cent of the willing households got work. About 45.6 lakh households were not issued cards and the demands of 97 lakh households were not met during the year, as per the PAEG findings. There is no respite for workers even after the payment is made by the Centre. LibTech India released a report describing the problems of last-mile delivery — 45 per cent of workers had to visit banks multiple times and an estimated 40 per cent of banking correspondents users made multiple trips due to biometric failures;  the average cost incurred while visiting  a bank to withdraw wages was Rs 31. Workers paid about Rs 11 while accessing their wages from banking correspondents and Rs 67 when they visited an ATM; 57 per cent of the respondents reported that their passbooks don’t get updated; an estimated 42 per cent of workers in Jharkhand and 38 per cent in Rajasthan took more than four hours to access wages from banks, while an estimated 18 per cent of bank users were denied wages and asked to visit the banking correspondents instead. This survey, conducted among 1947 workers in Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand, also found that according to official figures, as of July 2020, in the last five years, about Rs 4,800 crore worth of payments had been rejected and payments worth about Rs 1,274 crore are still pending. A large number of the workers have lost trust in the MGNREGA because of the uncertainties involved in accessing work and payments. Last mile delivery problems have worsened the situation. It is a pity that we have lost an opportunity to strengthen the rural job programme in spite of the Centre moving away from the earlier stance of rubbishing the MGNREGA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
01-01-2021||Opinion||A tour de force||Many people, not just soccer fans, know about the outcome of one of the most famous ‘football’ matches in history. It was played between Greece and Germany, with the Greeks scoring the winning goal through Socrates, against a German team led by Hegel. It seems that philosophers like sports — or is it the other way round? The philosophers’ football match is revisited in a French book titled Socrates on a Bike (Socrate à vélo). There, the Greeks (no great cyclists usually) have been allowed to compete in the most celebrated cycling race, the Tour de France. Their team is led by Socrates, with Plato and Aristotle as his teammates. But while the football match is one of Monty Python’s most celebrated sketches, the book about cycling is authored by a professional cyclist, Guillaume Martin, currently the leader of the Cofidis cycling team, and a recent finisher in the 11th position in the Tour de France, the world’s most famous race. Martin, who studied philosophy at university while training as a professional cyclist, is out to prove that sportspersons do have interests other than physical exercise. Such clichés are constant in sports, especially in cycling, which is wrongly seen as being all about pedalling (perhaps on steroids). In the 1980s, another French champion — he won the Tour on two occasions — was nicknamed “the intellectual” because he wore glasses. The Tour itself was a rather strange affair in this Covid year. Its success depends on a couple of factors. It is staged in the summer, when people have more time to gather on the sides of the roads to catch a glimpse of the speeding pack of riders (the peloton). It also relies on the stories told by journalists, originally by the sports publication, L’Auto, which launched the competition in 1903. Live television has now taken over as the favoured mode of engagement with the race. This year, it was moved from July to September. Spectators were sometimes allowed on the roads, but scarcely around the finishing line — this was damaging to the town councils who paid a significant amount of money to host the Tour. But television ensured the success of the show — everyone could share the drama of the penultimate stage when the yellow jersey and favourite, Primož Roglic, lost the competition to his younger compatriot from Slovenia, Tadej Pogacar. Stories are a big part of any sport, perhaps none more so than cycling. So it was appropriate to turn to Martin’s book on cycling to relive some of the excitement of watching the race. In his philosophical tale, Martin weaves together, in a whimsical but engrossing way, stories about the author as a cyclist and as a philosopher, stories about the Tour de France, as well as philosophical reflections. Genuine cycling references can be detected in the middle of portraits of the Greeks on their bikes and philosophical allusions pepper the stories of cyclists training for the competition. The book recreates the preliminaries of the Tour before describing a fictional race with recognizable stages. While the introduction offers a pre-Tour press conference in which the Greek philosophers have to field questions such as “what is it like to think on a bike?” the aim is to bring together sportive and intellectual matters. The posture of the philosopher-cyclist is defended by Martin with a healthy dose of self-irony. The irony extends to journalists who have approached him with interest, but whom he finds are forever repeating the same questions, voicing the same prejudices about sports, and lacking in an intellectual dimension. All the clichés peddled by journalists are exposed by Martin, who ascribes them to the economic interests surrounding mega-events such as the Tour de France and to the commercialization of the sport during the summer month in which it usually takes place. In turn, cyclists feel obliged to conform to the same clichés. Martin makes an interesting argument about sports. He argues that there are two types of intelligence involved in physical activities. Theoretical intelligence, which is of reflexive nature, dealing with tactics, knowledge of the rules and so on. Then there is practical intelligence, which is largely instinctual, proceeds from the body, and from the training of the body. Rather than perpetuate the Western separation between the physical and the intellectual (and, indeed, the superiority of the intellectual over the physical), we have to remember that both go hand in hand. This is why Martin wants to pursue the connections between sports and philosophy; both activities deal with what humans can or cannot achieve. Martin brings to the debate his experience as a professional cyclist. Being a champion is a full-time job, which requires work. A champion thinks first and foremost about winning, not just about taking part or about fair-play. Competition is about opposition, about asserting yourself against others, not about bringing people together. But Martin is a playful character who retains a healthy sense of distance. He knows that cycling, all sports in fact, are, first and foremost, games. They tell stories which, in turn, people like to watch on television or, health situation permitting, in a stadium or along the roads. They tell stories which people read about, and which then circulate. And so, from the idea of the intellectual cyclist, from the cliché of the philosopher cyclist, emerges the fanciful tale of philosophers on their bikes, running the Tour de France. Following poor results, the German team is now managed by Alfred Einstein who tries to inculcate into his team the principles of hard-pedalling based on the idea that space shrinks with speed. According to Einstein, if the Greeks are such good cyclists, it is thanks to philosophy. Hence, he tries to enroll a few philosophers. Before getting to the Tour, the cyclists have to train to get into the spirit and the team managers have to recruit and select the best players. Martin applies this principle to his teams of philosophers. Einstein finds it difficult to assemble a suitable group: Kant drops out; Schopenhauer is not good enough; Nietzsche, the most gifted, is too individualistic (although he ends up winning the king of the mountains competition). Marx and Freud stay on, joined by Habermas. As for the Greeks, the tensions in the team initially lead Socrates to leave the outfit. They do not perform very well in the early races, nor do the Germans, who have also lost their coach. But just before the start of the Tour, Socrates rejoins the team, the leader is reinstated, the team has found its composure and unity. Even the French field a team, with Pascal, Bergson, Sartre among the riders. After the preparations, the race. While the book follows all the stages of a fictional Tour de France, the aficionado may recognize famous landmarks of past Tours as well as specific types of stages (time trials, mountains, sprint finish). Cycling tactics (when to launch a breakaway) are revisited in philosophical terms. The technical, tactical, and physical efforts involved in the stages are approached through the lens of philosophy. The perception of time in cycling, as experienced by spectators, is transformed through a pastiche of the French philosopher, Henri Bergson, famous for his writings on time. The anonymity of the peloton is shaken by the French philosopher, Jean-Paul Sartre, who exhorts the cyclists to free themselves from predefined race tactics. The author himself finds in the Greek concept of Kairos a way to analyse that irrational moment in a race when a champion abandons perfect control in favour of risk, excess, and inspiration. He also finds in the ancient philosophy of stoicism a model on how to handle the pain involved in such a race. Martin’s book is an invitation to think about sports, to disregard the oppositions between mind and body, between the intellectual and the physical. It gestures towards the freedom of the cyclist and the freedom of the writer, finding a form of fulfilment in the conjoining of both. The author is professor of English Literature at Sorbonne University, Paris||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
