02-01-2021||Opinion||Great show: India wins Boxing Day Test||Sir — After the debacle in the first Test match against Australia, Team India bounced back in style by winning the Boxing Day Test at Melbourne to level the four-match series 1-1. All eyes were on the stand-in captain, Ajinkya Rahane, how he would lead the team in the absence of Virat Kohli and, most importantly, how India would come from behind to erase one of its darkest moments in Test history. Rahane not only led the team admirably well but also hit a brilliant century in the first innings to give India its decisive winning lead (“An inspiration named Rahane”, Dec 30). By winning this Test, Rahane has also become the second Indian captain after M.S. Dhoni to win each of his first three Tests as skipper. India has never lost a Test in which Rahane has scored a century. The win at Melbourne is all the more significant for India as it has been achieved in the absence of some key players, including Kohli. Perhaps the two major gains for India from this Test are the worthy performances of the debutants, Shubman Gill and Mohammed Siraj. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It was evident from Team India’s remarkable showing in Melbourne that the squad was determined to win, especially after its ignominious performance in the previous Test in Adelaide where the entire batting order was bundled out for a paltry 36 runs in the second innings. The players had nothing left to lose and everything to prove. Ajinkya Rahane had a gargantuan job ahead; his team had to perform in the absence of the ace batsman, Virat Kohli — he had decided to play only the first Test so that he could go on paternity leave thereafter — and the fast bowler, Mohammed Shami, who was injured. It would not be unreasonable to say that even Indian fans were perhaps expecting their team to lose. Fortunately, Team India proved them wrong. All the changes in the squad line-up paid off, and the entire unit played a tight game, stopping runs and getting crucial catches. Rahane’s field placements were accurately planned, and the bowlers backed their skipper’s decisions. Rahane’s captain’s knock of 112 runs did a world of good in repairing his damaged reputation after his howler in the first Test, where Kohli got run out owing to a bad decision made by Rahane. Under Rahane’s captaincy, the team beat Australia decisively. More important, Rahane proved that the team and, indeed, the nation can count on him in Kohli’s absence. This is of utmost importance in Indian cricket, where all too often the burden of winning falls upon the shoulders of one or two players. Kohli should not feel as though the team’s fortunes depend entirely on him; he should be able to rely on each of his teammates. Malini Bose,Calcutta Novel choice Sir — It was both amusing and oddly heartening to read that a 50-year-old farmer in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhindwara district who has been feuding with his family has named his second wife and, interestingly, his dog, Jacky, as his legal heirs. He has cited them as the only two members of his family who take care of him. This is a novel way to acknowledge the fact that animals do indeed play a big role in the mental and physical well-being of human beings. However, is India’s legal apparatus equipped to ensure that Jacky benefits from his inheritance? Sayantan Guha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Opinion||Bottoms up: gendering of drinks||It is the time of dance and song and mirth — mostly virtual this year — and the poet’s longing for that divine beaker with beaded bubbles winking at the brim may have overtaken many unpoetic souls. But must women dancing the night away as hard as the men drink from a different fount? Received wisdom — or expectation — tends to place the long-stemmed glass of wine or delicately coloured cocktail in elegant female fingers, not the more substantial one with rich golden liquid sloshing about on silvery cubes of ice. For some mysterious reason, whisky seems to be a male drink. Women may have a gin and tonic, or even a vodka, probably mixed with something sweet or tangy. Whisky is unashamedly ‘manly’, although there seems to be no imaginative bar to women partaking of rum — with coke perhaps — and, at merrier moments, inescapably evoking memories of the rambunctious song sung by the terrifying Long John Silver. Yet rum, peculiarly enough, is not specifically ‘male’. The boss-woman plumps firmly for the glass of whisky in literature and film. And not just there either. A male aura surrounds it in everyday life too: a woman who chooses whisky is stereotyped — nicely — as someone who knows her own mind and is not bothered if it shows and — not so nicely — as intimidating. But the gendering of drink breaks down when one steps out of those rooms where women come and go, speaking of Michelangelo, as another poet put it with somewhat bleak irony. An unforgettable scene in a liquor shack by the forest in an Indian film has a beautiful tribal woman, played by an outstanding Indian actor, asking the babu from the city for more drink. The liquor that the first poet visualized as being cooled in the deep-delved earth, tasting of Flora and the country green, is plentiful and varied in rural India, made from flowers, or grain, or juice, or sap, and shared by everyone in the village or community on social occasions. Men and women relish the same drink together. So is it nature or culture that determines taste? Are the women talking of Michelangelo just expected to like wine more than whisky because it looks graceful, as they could once have smoked cigarettes from slender, gold-tipped holders? In these days of more robust equality, however, fun is less picky about gendered delicateness than before. Men and women can slurp and gobble away without attracting the raised eyebrow. With male chefs taking over the more fashionable kitchens and women pilots holding the controls in cockpits, delicacy and virility have become rather elusive attributes to define. More so in middle-class households, where men do the dishes and look after the baby as much as women come home late from work. The evening glass of whisky is shared relaxation then, with beaded bubbles winking gender divides cheerfully away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Opinion||Sweet spotlight: hot chocolate bombs trend on Tiktok||Of all the things to remember 2020 by, you would never have considered hot chocolate bombs to be one. They emerged slowly to grab attention in October on TikTok and then were everywhere on social media. These are hollow spheres of chocolate over which steamed milk is poured to melt and transform them into cups of hot chocolate. The New York Times called it the perfect metaphor for the end of the year — under pressure, we were about to crack anyway. Another food item that dominated TikTok in the early days of the lockdown — Google revealed it was one of the most searched-for recipes in 2020 — was the dalgona coffee, a South Korean drink in which instant coffee, sugar and milk are whipped into a foamy blend. It generated almost half a billion views. Similarly, iced coffee with whipped cream on top also dominated food videos of the year. TikTok showed that the biggest trending food in 2020, posted with 1.6 billion views, was #pancakecereal where people make tiny pancakes that can just be had in a bowl with milk. While TikTok food videos reveal innovation and new trends, they also show that users still rely on comfort. According to Google Trends, there was more than a 280 per cent increase in the search for “banana bread” in March. Reel life Last year marked the 30th anniversary of the classic Christmas movie, Home Alone — and there are many ways for people to take a walk down memory lane and pay tribute to it. In mid-December, the Graduate Evanston launched ‘The King McCallister Experience’, which lets guests book a room that is a replica of the room of the parents of the film’s protagonist, Kevin McCallister. Guests get to eat Little Nero’s cheese pizza; the mini-bar is stocked with Kevin’s favourite snacks from the movie. The room comes with a movie theatre with all the Home Alone films, as well as a Polaroid camera. Ten per cent of the proceeds from each booking will be donated to Lurie Children’s Hospital. In Dallas, Texas, an Airbnb rental also offered a limited edition Home Alone experience. The owner, Jeremy Turner, designed the space — called ‘The Kevin’ — to replicate some of the movie’s iconic setups. To top it all, he delivered free cheese pizza to the guests. The award-winning food artist, Michelle Wibowo, was commissioned by Disney+ to create a gingerbread replica of the McCallister home. Her creation, which took over 300 hours to complete, included 63 trees, 33 windows, 14 pizza boxes and six lampposts.Different experience New Year’s Eve in 2020 was unlike any other for everyone. The iconic Times Square celebration was not even open to the public. Instead, organizers created a global virtual New Year’s Eve ball drop. The event, called VNYE (Virtual New Year’s Eve), brought Times Square alive on people’s devices through what was supposed to be a virtual reality/augmented reality-based experience. The live-stream event allowed people to view Times Square from different angles, watch virtual concerts, ‘take’ the elevator up to the dance floor and watch the ball drop when the clock struck midnight. There was still a way to see NYE at Times Square in person. One could rent a geodesic dome via Airbnb on the Nasdaq terrace, right under the ball, for $21, giving one direct views of Times Square. Those booking a stay also got to enjoy an indoor art lounge where they could watch the celebrations, relax in a reading corner with board games, eat snacks from a fully-stocked dining area as well as dinner prepared by a private chef and cheesecake from Junior’s.Buy less Over Christmas, more than 80 million people travelled to celebrate the holidays. Many Americans are burdened by financial crises and delayed stimulus checks; families could barely afford Christmas presents for their children. Almost 40 per cent of Americans reportedly planned to spend less on gifts this holiday season than they did the year before. But overall, most people planned smaller gatherings. According to data from Pinterest, there has been a huge uptick in people searching for holiday movies and ways to celebrate Christmas at home. There are over 10,000 posts tagged with #CeramicChristmasTree, a vintage ornament popular in the 1970s. Real Christmas tree sales also saw an increase by retailers nationwide. Justin Bieber, Cardi B, Mariah Carey, Ariana Grande and Keith Urban took to social media on Christmas to share family photos, videos and inspiring messages. Wonder Woman 1984 and the Pixar animated film, Soul, debuted on streaming services on December 25. Footnote Times Square adorned billboards with funny tweets by Twitter that summarized 2020. There were six million tweets; some of the chosen ones included “Unsung hero of 2020: Athleisure” and “Can’t wait until I can say that was so 2020”. The initiative was a part of Twitter’s ‘out-of-home’ campaign to showcase tweets that made people laugh during a difficult year. It is launching in other American cities as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
02-01-2021||Opinion||In poor health||2020 has been a bad year for the health of Indians and for the health of Indian democracy too. The Modi-Shah regime, which is authoritarian by instinct and belief, has used the pandemic to further undermine the processes of constitutional democracy and strengthen its hold over State and society. In pursuit of its ambitions, the regime has launched a multi-pronged attack on the Indian Parliament, Indian federalism, the Indian press and Indian civil society organizations. Let us consider these in turn. In the years he was chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi displayed a consistent contempt for legislative procedure. A report compiled after he had been a decade in office showed that of all the chief ministers of Gujarat since the state’s formation, Modi convened the least assembly sittings. Months would pass in which the assembly would not meet; when it did, a day would be enough to dispose of matters at hand, with much time spent mourning members who had passed away. As is well known, apart from disregarding inputs from MLAs from the Opposition and even from his own party, Chief Minister Modi rarely consulted his own cabinet about major policy decisions. Modi has carried this contempt for consultation with him to New Delhi. For him, Parliament is a place to make the odd stirring speech in, not a chamber for deliberative decision-making. The partisan attitude adopted by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the chairman of the Rajya Sabha is very much in line with their leader’s way of thinking. Their deputies act in the same way. Consider the manner in which the farm bills were ‘passed’ through the Rajya Sabha, with the deputy-chairman of the House, Harivansh, violating all the rules and norms of Parliament by refusing to allow actual voting, and making the bills into law on the basis of his own sense of the House. Of this departure from democratic practice, P.D.T. Achary, the former secretary-general of the Lok Sabha, wrote, “Parliament’s systems are designed to enable the opposition to have its say and the government to have its way. If the former is not possible, parliament as a democratic institution cannot survive for long.” Those who are Modi bhakts, or who believe that the ends justify the means, have disregarded these violations and welcomed the bills as ‘historic’. On the other hand, supporters of the farm bills with more scruples and a deeper understanding of history have honourably alerted us to the awful consequences of such contempt for Parliament. Thus, as the senior lawyer, Arvind Datar, writes, “The enormous economic loss and the dislocation of normal life around Delhi could have been wholly avoided if the Bills had not been bulldozed through Parliament. The agitation teaches us the importance of following parliamentary procedure not just in letter but in spirit as well.” Union ministers may put the blame on urban Naxals, Khalistanis, and Opposition parties, but, as Datar points out, it is the “extraordinary haste with which the farm bills were pushed through both the Houses [that] has created the present crisis, which can only exacerbate the economic woes caused by the pandemic.” More recently, the government cancelled the winter session of Parliament citing the pandemic, even as the Union home minister was addressing large political rallies in Assam and West Bengal. As chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi claimed to believe in ‘co-operative federalism’. As prime minister, he has sought to savagely curtail the rights and responsibilities of states. Again, the farm bill can serve as an example. As Harish Damodaran has pointed out, since the Constitution clearly places both ‘agriculture’ and ‘markets’ on the state list, on these matters “the Centre can encourage, incentivise, persuade and cajole states. However, it cannot legislate on its own.” Nonetheless, through a creative (mis)interpretation of an item in the concurrent list which covers trade and commerce in foodstuffs, the Centre had these bills passed, through the dubious procedure in Parliament described above, and without consulting the states at all. The pandemic has witnessed a more general attack on the federal principle. The powers of the Centre have been strengthened through colonial-era laws and the National Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, state governments run by Opposition parties have been undermined by bribing, cajoling, or intimidating legislators to switch their allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party. A true marker of how much the BJP cares for power and how little for the health of Indians was that the prime minister waited for the swearing-in of the new government in Madhya Pradesh before imposing a draconian lockdown at four hours’ notice. In its attack on federalism, the BJP has particularly targeted two large states — West Bengal and Maharashtra. Here, governors more loyal to the ruling party at the Centre than to the Constitution and Central investigative agencies more loyal to their ministers than to the law have been used by the Modi-Shah regime to harass the non-BJP governments that currently rule these states. This intimidation has become so brazen that the BJP’s once loyal and long-term ally, the Shiv Sena, was compelled to state: “What if our Prime Minister is taking a special interest in destabilising State governments? The Prime Minister belongs to the country. The country stands as a federation. Even the states which do not have BJP governments, those states also talk about national interest. This feeling is being killed.” In his years as chief minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi was deeply distrustful of even the most non-political of civil society organizations. He has carried this distrust over to New Delhi. The year, 2020, had seen a tightening of the already extensive curbs on non-governmental organizations. The new amendment to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, argues one analyst, is designed to facilitate “arbitrary, vindictive action by the authorities”. By curbing and confining NGOs, the bill shall “have far-reaching consequences on the fields of education, health, people’s livelihoods, gender justice and indeed democracy in India”. Narendra Modi has never much liked journalists who think for themselves, as his refusal to hold a press conference in six-and-a-half years as prime minister shows. The year, 2020, saw growing attacks on the independence of the press in India. In the first two months after the lockdown was imposed in late March, some 55 journalists faced FIRs, physical intimidation, and arrest. The highest number of attacks on journalists were in Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh, which are all ruled or controlled by the BJP. As a report by the Free Speech Collective noted, “The year 2020 has been a bad one for journalists in India… The killing and attacks on journalists have continued unabated. While self-censorship within the media remained an open secret, the government sought to increase regulation of the media, with media policies, funding and administrative mechanisms for online media.” India now occupies the 142nd place on the World Press Freedom Index, ranking well below Nepal, Afghanistan and Sri Lanka, though the fact that we are three places above Pakistan may provide some consolation to deshbhakts. Apart from attacks on Parliament, federalism, civil society organizations and the press, 2020 had also seen a further stigmatization of India’s large and vulnerable Muslim minority. This stigmatization has been overseen by two of the most powerful politicians in India. The hand of the home minister, Amit Shah, is most visible in the BJP’s Bengal campaign and in the police’s partisan handling of the Delhi riots and their aftermath and the hand of UP’s chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, in the incarceration of a growing number of Muslim men on charges that are shady, flimsy, or non-existent. Notwithstanding the prime minister’s recent speech at the Aligarh Muslim University, it is clearly Adityanath’s majoritarianism that represents the deep, inner feelings of the party faithful, as manifest in the eagerness of other BJP chief ministers to enact the discriminatory laws and practices adopted in UP. When the new laws regarding agriculture and labour were passed, there was a chorus of applause from free-market columnists crowing, “the crisis has not been wasted”. The chorus was credulous, because sustained economic growth requires both a level playing field and the rule of law. Neither does, or can, exist, in the Modi-Shah regime. Capitalists who contribute more to the secretive electoral bonds scheme shall get preferential treatment over those who don’t. Politicians who defect from other parties to the BJP miraculously have all corruption cases against them dropped. The police, the bureaucracy and even the courts allegedly act in the interests of their political masters rather than according to the law. To hold the State and the private sector accountable, one needs the transparent gaze of a free press, informed debate in Parliament, and independent civil society organizations. With what transpired in 2020, we have even less of these than previously. Finally, one cannot have social harmony if the State and the ruling party treat those who are not Hindus as inferior to those who are. For the prime minister and his party, political power, ideological control, and personal glory take precedence over the economic and social well-being of India’s citizens. They have, therefore, used, or rather abused, the crisis to weaken the institutions of Indian democracy and the traditions of Indian pluralism so as to further the construction of an authoritarian and majoritarian State, which they seek far more diligently than anything else. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
