03-01-2021||Opinion||New Year pledges that make the BJP furious ||As his first resolution for 2021, the Bharatiya Janata Party member of parliament, Subramanian Swamy, listed being “committed to Narendra Modi as Prime Minister”. His second resolution was the propagation of Hindutva. The first was seen as a sign of some relief in the BJP quarters. Party managers now felt that the MP, notorious for doggedly getting after somebody he wants to target, would not attack the government. However, the 81-year-old MP was back in form on the second day of the new year. In a tweet, he sought to target the prime minister for appointing someone as principal scientific adviser. “I am amazed that PM has made Dr. Vijay Raghavan as Principal Adviser on Science in the PMO,” his tweet said. He then went on to level serious allegations against Raghavan. “This Raghavan... was on the Chinese Wuhan Bat virus project and brought the Chinese to Nagaland to experiment on the Bats without Govt clearance,” his tweet added. In another tweet, Swamy urged the prime minister to cancel the Republic Day parade this year in view of the pandemic, citing reports of soldiers getting infected during rehearsals. He went on to add that it would be a relief for the prime minister of Britain, Boris Johnson — who is scheduled to be chief guest for the parade — in the midst of Brexit. All this has made the BJP managers furious. They probably missed the last sentence in Swamy’s 2021 resolution — he said he would continue to “speak truth sans fear”. The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, just anointed his trusted lieutenant and Rajya Sabha member, RCP Singh, as the national president of the Janata Dal (United). As the stature of the five-feet tall man grew further with the announcement, celebrations broke out at the party headquarters in Patna. A flamboyant party worker, Chhotu Singh, brought the biggest garland available in the city. He brought one of marigold weighing around 120 kilogrammes, held aloft by a dozen men. As RCP Singh emerged from the office, Chhotu Singh rushed to garland him, but some other party leaders cautioned him that it would either break his neck or pull him down to the ground. Finally, it was decided to hold the garland in the air around the new leader. “Yaar, tum chhotu, RCP chhote, mala bhi chhota laana chahiye tha is awsar par (Friend, your name means small, RCP is also small, you should have brought a small garland to suit the occasion),” a party leader told Chhotu Singh as guffaws rang among the workers. The BJP poached six of the seven JD(U) members of legislative assembly in Arunachal Pradesh recently. The act has put the senior leaders of the party in Bihar in a peculiar position. They cannot open their mouths, they cannot face the roaming journalists, and they cannot talk back to the JD(U) leaders who are on a rampage, condemning their party at will. The senior BJP leaders have reportedly questioned the move of their party leadership, though not publicly. “We feel ashamed over the development. Our party has always felt proud of its ethics, fair play and protecting our friends, but our top leadership is doing exactly the opposite,” a senior BJP leader from Bihar confided. The two parties are allies in Bihar and have barely scraped through in the recent assembly elections. Another saffron party leader asserted that having Nitish Kumar in good humour was important, lest 2015 gets repeated — the JD(U) had aligned with the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress back then to trounce the BJP, switching horses mid-term. The chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, was never known for his diplomacy. A hard-boiled communist who came up the hard way in both life and party, Vijayan has often made cadres cringe in his presence. His famous audacity has for long been the subject of tea-shop discussions in Kerala. But the same Vijayan surprised everyone with his diplomatic manoeuvres to convince the governor, Arif Mohammed Khan, to reconsider his decision of not clearing an assembly session to pass a resolution against the farm laws. The pugnacious communist did not want an issue with the governor. Like some party insiders say, Khan was lucky to have a much mellowed-down Vijayan in office. The decision of the Congress central leadership to align with N Chandrababu Naidu’s Telugu Desam Party in the 2018 assembly elections had angered the local party leaders in Telangana who felt the results would be disastrous. The TDP had opposed the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh and the Congress lost the people’s support in Telangana by embracing Naidu in a stunning political somersault that showcased lack of foresight. The same TDP ghost is haunting the Congress again as senior leaders of Telangana fear a major exodus if the efforts to make Revanth Reddy the state unit chief succeed. They see Reddy, who came from the TDP, as a Naidu lackey, and are trying to convince the high command that most seniors will defect to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi and the BJP if he becomes state chief. Many leaders are reportedly circulating documents showing pending criminal cases against Reddy and recalling how he allegedly abused Sonia Gandhi during his stint in the TDP. They also blame one key party functionary close to Rahul Gandhi for misleading the party on the choice of chief in Telangana where the ground is ripe for Congress revival. The Congress leader to watch out for in Kerala is Oommen Chandy. At 77, the soft-spoken former chief minister may not be on the right side of age and health, but his stock has only increased in the party gearing up to face the assembly polls in about four months. Still licking the wounds of the debacle in the local body polls, the Congress is banking on the Kerala swing voters, alternating between the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front. Many want Chandy to play a pivotal role to win back the state, who is perhaps the right answer for the Congress’s woes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
03-01-2021||Opinion||Lessons from the field matter||Hashtag. RealLeadersCare An instance from last week reminded that we look to the field for more than adrenaline rush. Small acts of kindness, the hard knocks of resolve, resilience and sterling leadership, carry way beyond the playing field. What else can explain the overwhelming applause for India stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane’s keep-it-up-and-going tap to Ravindra Jadeja after being run out himself? Around the time when protesting farmers’ death toll crossed 50, reams were written about “(Indian cricket) team spirit” and Rahane’s “leadership”. His mix-up in Adelaide from a few days ago when he had got his captain, Virat Kohli, run out, and for which he had apologised, was all forgotten and forgiven. Compassion and Camaraderie Likewise, there was much ado when Russian tennis player Daria Kasatkina injured herself and retired from the Italian Open in Rome last year and her opponent, Belarus’s Victoria Azarenka, rushed with the ice pack and towel. After a chat, hug and kiss on Kasatkina’s forehead as Azarenka turned to go her way, Kasatkina held out a grateful lingering hand. The commentator remarked on the “genuine camaraderie that exists between tennis players” and the Women’s Tennis Association tweeted a visual of the two players with two hearts accompanying two words --- “compassion and camaraderie”. Game. Set. Match Last September, Japan’s Naomi Osaka beat Azarenka to win the US Open. Post match, before the awards ceremony, there was the usual acceptance speech and Q&A round. After Osaka had thanked Azarenka for a “tough game”, she was asked --- “You said from the beginning you had seven matches, seven masks, seven names. What was the message...” Osaka’s masks had names of seven black victims of racial violence. The 23-year-old grand-slammed --- “Well, what was the message you got?” Which reminds of another Osaka story. In 2018 she had won her first US Open beating no less than Serena Williams. But the match itself had been fraught with tension. Williams had lost her temper once too often --- she smashed her racket and called the chair umpire a thief --- and had to forfeit a game and was even fined. Osaka had to face a lot of booing from Williams's fans. That day, the young player had tears "rivering" down her cheeks right through the awards ceremony. Way later, Williams recounted that she had written to Osaka to apologise for marring her big moment and the young sportsperson had apparently replied: “People can misunderstand anger for strength because they can't differentiate between the two... No one has stood up for themselves the way you have and you need to continue trailblazing.”  Lessons from the field matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
03-01-2021||Opinion||Aaj phir Jeeney ki Tamanna Hai||Plop! And so the journey began, and already its has gone plop! plop! plop! plop! so many multiple times that we have lost count of the plop-plops yet left ahead of us. So come, come along, there’s no time, Time is passing plop-plop-plop and we cannot let Time pass without keeping pace with it, else Time will leave us behind and you know what happens to those that Time leaves behind. They become the past, left behind, no longer within reach, forever irretrievable, gone. Those that Time leaves behind as it passes, plop-plop-plop, become the material of what we can only remember, or remember not. There is another word for them, but let us not use that word now, not at this time, not at beginnings, not when we have just set out. Come! Make haste! Mind Time. We have to be on our way, there’s no other perceivable way now, we already left. Plop! Plop! Plop! But where to? And who might you be? To command in such fashion? You may have a point, and some pull, but if only your name was Desire. Desire? Are you surprised? Who could you be but Desire that I should even be persuaded ? Or even hear? Your entreaty: Come! Why else would I listen? Give me another reason, else let me be. Let Time pass, and let me be bypassed. For why else would I make the effort? Desire. And Desire alone, the first and last and the only one. The temptress Time employs. What else is Time but a catalogue of Desire? Sought. Secured. Or squandered. That is how Time passes. Plop! Plop! Plop! Plop! Stepping stone to stepping stone to stepping stone. For beyond Desire we may all well lose step with Time and become what Time leaves behind. What do you say? What are we without Desire? Think of yourself devoid of it. And prove to me you are still one of our species and remain alive. Why would you be here if not for Desire? Why would you follow Time? Why would you not wave it ahead, go on, proceed, plop! plop! plop! I am done, this is it, this is where it ends because this is the end of Desire, the use before date has ticked over. Else, get up, walk. Time is travelling. Its Temptress is too, on silken blades that bleed all the way. It’s the way it tells itself, Time, its wake is a crowded wake. And bloodied, like disembodied, ageing Merlot. But you do not wish to become part of it yet. You want to come along, there’s more to want, there’s more to seek, there’s more to grasp and cling to, and more to quaff and quench. Oh Desire. Clip my nails so they may sprout again in shapes of waxing moon; and sprout again my nails so they may be clipped again in shapes of waning moon. As long as there’s a thing to do, or things, as long as there’s desire. If nothing else, a clipped nail, and the illusion of slices of the moon. One last drop down the throat. Who knows there may yet be room. One last rattle of air probing the suburbs of the heart. Who knows what may yet lie there lost and to be found. One last dribble of the iris. Who knows what it may settle on and go still. One last pulse on the vein. Who knows what it may yet tell. There’s Time? It isn’t the last? Who knows there may be yet more. Even after this, even when it has been such a long dying. And yet we are not dead. And yet we are being beckoned. Come! Make haste! Desire. Time’s temptress. One more time. Time, it travels, and if there’s a thing to do, or things, you travel along too. Plop-plop! Clop-clop. Cloppety-clip. Throbbetty-throb. It’s Time. And it is passing. Come then, say plop! Where have we arrived here from? And where might we be headed? The wind, it sings And breaks the wings of birds The wolves, they howl And they’re minding the herds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
03-01-2021||Opinion||Fairy tale on field||The cricket in Australia was a grace note at the end of this dirge-like year. The telecast of the Test before Christmas and the Boxing Day match soon afterwards was a window into normalcy. Even when the Indians were thrashed for 36 at Adelaide, the fact that they lost before flesh-and-blood spectators in a familiar cricket ground made it a welcome vision from a world we had lost. The rousing turnaround in Melbourne supplied a fairy-tale send-off to 2020. Fairy tales generally make no difference to the real world, but the match at the MCG provided such an unlikely climax to one particular life story that it left hard-boiled hacks muttering about miracles. Mohammed Siraj made his Test debut as a like-for-like replacement for Mohammed Shami who had his arm broken by a short ball in Adelaide. These were big boots to fill. After struggles with injury and inconsistency, Shami, along with Jasprit Bumrah and Umesh Yadav, had become an indispensable member of India’s pace attack. His loss left India’s fast-bowling trident with a missing prong. Enter Siraj. Purely in terms of cricketing pedigree, Siraj’s rise to the top was unreal in its improbability. Here was a 26-year-old debutant seam bowler who had only begun using a leather ball with a seam at the age of 21! Having made this bizarrely late transition from tennis ball cricket, Siraj made his first-class debut in 2015, was bought at the IPL auction in 2017, became Hyderabad’s main wicket taker with the red ball and performed so well for India A that he made it to the Test squad to Australia. His life in the last five years has been lived in fast-forward. When you overlay this prodigious cricket career with his personal backstory, his Australian debut begins to resemble a fairy tale scripted by a filmi screenwriter with a gift for melodrama. Oddly enough, Siraj’s cricketing career was foretold in fiction by Nagesh Kukunoor. In 2005, Kukunoor made a feature film, Iqbal, which told the story of a Muslim boy who made the Andhra Pradesh Ranji Trophy team as a fast bowler without any experience in competitive cricket, thanks to an inspirational coach. The climax of the film has Iqbal going on to play for India. Since this is a Bombay film, and its hero must transcend overwhelming odds, Iqbal is also deaf, but deafness apart, the similarities between the film and Siraj’s life are uncanny. A young Muslim lad from Andhra Pradesh (remember, this is 2005 and there is no Telangana state) with a talent for fast bowling and no league experience is helped by an inspirational coach (Naseeruddin Shah in the movie, Karthik Udupa in real life) to make it to the provincial first class side (Andhra Pradesh for Iqbal, Hyderabad for Siraj), and from there on he is fast-tracked into the Indian team thanks to the talent spotting genius of a former India international (Kapil Dev playing himself in the film and Rahul Dravid in his role as the India A coach and mentor). Iqbal is the ultimate feel-good film and it works. When its hero finally takes the field for India in an ODI, there were people sniffling in every section of the cinema hall. Siraj’s story is, if anything, even more moving. We all know by now that his father, an auto-rickshaw driver, died during the early part of the Australian tour and Siraj, encouraged by his mother, stayed on the tour because his dream of playing for India had been shared by his father. He made that decision when he had no real prospect of making the team because the fast bowling places were taken. It was only Shami’s injury that gave him his shot at glory. He seized it with both hands. He ran in hard, bowled an economical and disciplined line and length, moved the ball both ways and took five wickets for very few runs. His captain, Ajinkya Rahane, went out of his way to praise his commitment and ability. It was a dream debut. Iqbal is the only Hindi film I can think of where the central character is a Muslim in a matter-of-fact way. He just happens to be a Muslim in the same way that he happens to be deaf. There is a nice taken-for-granted air about Iqbal’s Muslim-ness. It’s almost as if Kukunoor is making the point that just as your nominally Hindu protagonist in the run-of-the-mill Bombay film doesn’t have to be self-conscious about his religious identity, neither does Iqbal. It is, if you like, a dream of innocence. It’s the kind of dream all of us want to believe can come true. Shoaib Akhtar, the eccentric and fearsomely fast Pakistani bowler, was widely reported in the Indian press when he said that Siraj’s selection showed that anyone, regardless of caste or class or creed, could make the Indian cricket team. And Siraj’s compressed and magical career shows that he’s right. It’s to the credit of Indian cricket that Siraj rose to the top despite his obvious disadvantages. Should Siraj consolidate his place in the team, it’s more than likely that in the near future, there will be new ball spells when a Mohammed will be steaming in from either end to bowl for India. And in that moment, thanks to the magical communion that sport creates between teams and their fans, Siraj’s faith, and Shami’s, will be irrelevant. But Iqbal’s dream of innocence can’t be dreamt in Narendra Modi’s India because cricket isn’t a bubble in which a cricketer can live out his entire life. He must return to a country, a state, a city, a neighbourhood where public men devote their careers to stigmatizing his co-religionists, policing their diets, attacking their livelihoods, criminalizing their romances, subverting their citizenship, confining them to ghettoes, even lynching them with impunity. Republican India was never a perfectly pluralist democracy, but there was a time when its politicians paid lip service to the ideal of a secular State. A film like Iqbal is plausible only in a world where the broader public sphere is committed to the ideal of even-handedness. It can have no purchase on the national imagination of a country where the ruling party at the Centre and many of its states are committed to excluding Muslims from political representation, where the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh has effectively declared open season on Muslims, where love-jihad-obsessed legislators in BJP-ruled states spend their time writing lunatic bigotry into law. ‘No normal sport in an abnormal society’ was the slogan coined by the South African Council on Sport in its campaign against apartheid in South Africa. It was both a powerful slogan and a simple truth. India doesn’t formally discriminate against Muslims on the same scale as apartheid South Africa did, but the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Register of Citizens and the love jihad laws suggest that institutionalized discrimination is on the near horizon. When majoritarianism distorts a country’s democratic institutions and forces them to diverge from the basic fairness that sustains the meritocratic structures of sport, the minority sportsman in a national team finds himself representing a nation that treats his co-religionists as second-class citizens. As citizen-spectators, we are then forced to reckon with the tension between glorying in Siraj’s achievements on ‘our’ behalf and reconciling that pride with the increasingly brazen persecution of Muslims in India. To look at the cricket and look away from the rest is one option. To look at the cricket and then hold politics accountable to the same standards of fairness that we expect of sport is the other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
03-01-2021||Opinion||Exclusive language||Most people are glad that they put the nightmare that was the year, 2020, behind them. This may have something to do with the sea changes the year brought — an almighty shove in the direction of the Digital Age was among the turbulences. But the Luddites may be celebrating a bit too soon. The vaccines are being rolled out to save the world from the dreaded coronavirus, but there is no respite yet from the Zoom meeting; neither offices nor colleges are willing to zoom out yet. Zoom, therefore, is in. As the raging pandemic pushed people out of the real world and into the virtual one, suddenly everything — from school and work to birthday parties and funerals — began to be held on Zoom. Such was its popularity that Zoom not only became the ‘verb of the year’ but it also became a noun. Only Google can rival this feat of grammatical pole-vault — it went in the opposite direction, becoming a verb from a noun in 2006. Language, the adage goes, mirrors history in miniature. The roots that technology is putting down in language then are a reflection of the future. But this metaphorical mirror also sports a deep crack. One one side of the chasm lies the child with multiple electronic devices of his own. He speaks the language of technology fluently, cleverly switching off the video feed to the online class streaming on his tablet to play video games on his phone. On the other side are children, such as the girls from Howrah and Kerala, who decided to end their lives because their families could not afford a single smart device on which they could attend these New Age classes. According to the 75th round of National Sample Survey conducted between July 2017 and June 2018, just 4.4 per cent rural households in India have a computer against 14.4 per cent in urban areas; 14.9 per cent rural households have access to the internet against 42 per cent households in urban areas. India and the world are not very different places when it comes to digital exclusion: almost half the global population did not have access to mobile phones or the internet at the end of 2020, says a study on global internet usage. The select clientele of this techno-tongue has wider connotations. Students from disadvantaged backgrounds are not the only ones having trouble speaking it. Telemedicine and internet banking, which, too, are being taught the same tongue, are reportedly eluding vast segments of people in India. There is no denying the potential of technology — it can and has revolutionized human existence. What need to be addressed though are associated conditions like accessibility and affordability that would allow every section of society to enjoy its fruits. Technology has cast a spell on the land and language. But is it not a spell of exclusion?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-94
