04-01-2021||Opinion||Familiar taste: the Roman ‘thermopolium’||Sir — What’s in a name? That which ancient Romans called a ‘thermopolium’ in 79 CE, we could just as easily call a dhaba in 2020 CE. A food stall that was buried when Mount Vesuvius erupted has been excavated in Italy and the cock and ducks painted on it in vivid colours would not have been out of place in any roadside stall in India. People across place and time are joined by food. Paleobiologists have also found remnants of concoctions that had meat and fish. Since Rome of yore imported spices like cinnamon and tarum from India, it might not be a stretch to imagine that food at the thermopolium might have had a familiar taste. Kaushiki Sarkhel,Calcutta Set them free Sir — Bail is the rule, and jail the exception — this principle, enunciated by the Supreme Court in several judgments, continues to prove elusive for undertrial prisoners who are less privileged and powerful (“High price”, Jan 1). The alarming imbalance in the country’s justice system is brought out by cold facts — 67.7 per cent of 4.33 lakh prisoners in the country are waiting for trial, some of them for years; out of them about 65 per cent are Dalit, adivasi and marginalized people, often illiterate or barely literate and too poor to afford the bail fee. These figures have been revealed by the latest National Crime Records Bureau report. The promptness with which the Supreme Court acted while granting bail to Arnab Goswami, overriding the Bombay High Court’s judgment, is a recent case in point. Such promptness has been missing in the cases of activists, lawyers and writers arrested more than two years ago for criticizing the government. Bail reform requires a return to the values enshrined in the Constitution as well as a revival of respect for human dignity and fair treatment. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The refusal to grant bail deprives individuals of liberty. Discussions on bail reform usually arise when exceptional cases capture public attention. At present, the power to grant bail is exercised sparingly. Subordinate courts routinely reject bail. The accused are then required to approach the high court or the Supreme Court and thus remain incarcerated as undertrials for extended periods of time. The system of bail typically requires people to furnish a bond for some property valued at the amount determined by the concerned judge. The sums are often exorbitant and most undertrials cannot afford to pay it. As per an earlier apex court ruling, the socio-economic condition of the accused must be taken into consideration while deciding on the amount of the cash bond. But this is rarely done. It is time the justice system was reformed to protect the rights of citizens. C.K. Mahadevan,Thiruvananthapuram Debatable stand Sir — I read the write-ups by Uddalak Mukherjee with interest (“Goodwill hunting”, Dec 30). Unfortunately, intellectual encounters are losing steam in present-day polity; money and muscle power are gaining ground instead of a discursive endeavour to win hearts and mind. This sorry state of affairs is becoming universal. But the lack of moderation in politics of the day in India, especially in Bengal, has become a thorn in the side of rational thinking. Worryingly a large section of the intelligentsia is turning out to be party to this arrogant warfare. Surely, the framework of public engagement has changed and conventional wisdom is no longer evincing much interest? Over the past few years, I have tried to fathom the reasons behind the so-called decadence in intellectual propriety. I have lived in London for over two decades now and during this time, the modalities of my engagement with the people I know have undergone significant transformation. Polarization has become the norm not only among politicians but also among many acquaintances whom I always knew to be sane otherwise. Exposure to knowledge is no longer a guarantee to rational thinking. I have nothing against cultural nationalism as a political discourse. In fact, I always admired Atal Bihari Vajpayee and L.K. Advani for their steadfast tryst with ideology. What worries me is the constant and significant intervention in people’s lives, use of coercive ways to impose perceived puritanism and use of divisive tools to vitiate discursive politics. Mistakes have been made; elitism has overlooked and often undermined popular ethos. But such mistakes can be recorded and resolved through civilized debate. While argumentation is no longer the prerogative of the politicians, the people at the helm are oxidizing the flames by being selective in their expressions of judgment. I fear the current situation is even worse than that of the Emergency, which is considered a blot on the Indian democracy. Tirthankar Bandyopadhyay,London Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee must be lauded for his article. “Nationalism is a great menace.” — this is what Rabindranath Tagore thought of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s most favoured notion. One wonders how the BJP can try to claim Tagore, whose ideology stands in direct opposition to that of the saffron party? How can it dare to do so after dividing the country in terms of religion? Individuals who dare to speak their minds find themselves behind bars; even octogenarians are not spared. What a brilliant way to pay tribute to Tagore who dreamt of an India where minds would be without fear and heads held high. Paying tribute to Tagore is a clever ruse aimed at winning the upcoming assembly elections in Bengal. Owing to the secular humanitarian legacy of Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam, West Bengal has remained immune to the BJP’s brand of communal hatred. In this sense, BJP is indeed a rank outsider in Bengal. Not a single secular Bengali worth his salt will vote for a party zealously demonizing minorities. Not to mention several other snubs that the party has dealt Bengal over the years or its failure in governance in the time that it has been in power. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||Look deeper: women, SCs, STs in Indian police||Progress rarely follows a linear path. The latest data — they included figures on gender, caste and identity-based representation — released by the Bureau of Police Research and Development are suggestive of the non-linear dimension of progress. It may seem heartening that India’s scheduled tribes now enjoy better representation in the force in comparison to their share in the nation’s population: they form 12 per cent of all police forces even though their share in India’s population is about 8.6 per cent. Similarly, the number of women in the police has nearly doubled to 2.15 lakh in 2019 from around 1.11 lakh in 2014. In a nation divided along lines of identity and gender, any improvement that helps balance the scales of community-based representation in institutions can be viewed as a mark of reassurance about the State’s intentions regarding inclusion and affirmative action. A closer look at the data set, unfortunately, throws up a far more dispiriting picture. Women still form a paltry 10 per cent of the actual strength of the police, and they mostly occupy the lower rungs of the police hierarchy. Only Maharashtra has a woman in the highest ranks in the special branches dealing with intelligence collection, while Tamil Nadu and Haryana have women inspector-generals in crime investigation departments. This gender lopsidedness has two troubling consequences. First, it compromises the ratio of women officers to women citizens — one for every 3,026 — often deterring the latter from reporting violent crimes to policemen who are known to be deeply insensitive to the myriad troubles experienced by Indian women. Fewer women also result in police policy lacking sensitization and direction when it comes to tackling gender issues. The other backward classes are also poorly represented, forming only 25 per cent of police personnel even though it constitutes 41 per cent of India’s population. According to the published data, SC and ST representation is markedly poor in the decision-making ranks. This has an ominous ring given that the majority of India’s under-trials belong to marginalized groups. Already, the nation’s police people ratio — it fell from 198 in 2018 to 195 in 2019 — is short of the United Nations mandated figure of over 220. A stretched force suffering from severe imbalances in community and gender representation is far from ideal when it comes to its ability to confront crime that is often the outcome of social, cultural and economic disparities. Proportionate identity representation in the police raises another important question. Should not merit — and not identity — be the only criterion for recruitment and assessment in the police?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||Health issues: Indian banking sector||The Reserve Bank of India has indicated that the true health of the Indian banking sector is much worse than what current statistics indicate. The commercial banking system’s gross non-performing assets were 9.1 per cent of advances in March 2019. This fell to 8.2 per cent in March 2020. It fell further to 7.5 per cent in September 2020. This, as it appears, is good news. However, it conceals more than it reveals. First of all, the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code helped resolve many large non-performing corporate accounts. This was a one-off improvement in the balance sheet of the banking sector. Second, banks usually prefer to write off bad debts after a while rather than keep provisioning for them. Again, this helps improve the optics of their balance sheets. Even after a debt is written off by a bank, the borrower continues to be liable to repay the written-off debt. However, banks are usually lethargic in pursuing borrowers. Data reveal that only 15-20 per cent of such debts are ever recovered. Third, the RBI, in the year of Covid-19, allowed a standstill in asset quality as part of its regulatory forbearance. In short, this meant that NPAs were not to be identified and declared. This will end on March 31, 2021. The true picture of slippages and new NPAs formed during the Covid-19 period will emerge only then. According to the banking regulator as well as banking sector observers, the real carnage of economic disruptions will become evident once the special measures are rolled back. This will imply that banks will be unable and unwilling to lend and expose themselves to additional risks. Their lending strategies will become conservative. During the pandemic, credit off-take has also been slow; latest data for November 2020 show that it has actually shrunk by 0.7 per cent. Deposits in banks have grown during the period. While this may reflect the trust shown in the banking system by depositors, it becomes more difficult for the banks to earn profits. Low demand for advances and high supply of deposits are not good news for banks.  There are two ways out of this, and they must occur concurrently. The animal spirits of Indian investors have to become active, driven by optimism and opportunities, and the government has to make large budgetary provisions using tax-payers’ money to infuse capital in the weakened banking system. When these concurrent changes will take place is anybody’s guess at the moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||The bubble has burst: facial recognition||Imagine walking into an international airport, completing self-check-in, self-baggage-check-in and then striding through security, with no one stopping you till just before you board — and only because Covid-19 protocol requires physical distancing. That is how easy it is for Chinese nationals to travel through Guangzhou’s Baiyun International Airport, the third busiest in the country. This kind of seamless rail and bus travel has been a norm in many Chinese cities for a couple of years, and it is all owing to indigenously designed facial recognition systems. These systems have been installed in supermarkets too, providing relief to busy working women. “No need now to wait in a long line,’’ said the 33-year-old Xinyu, who can only shop after a long working day. The demand for such systems went up rapidly after the coronavirus struck. In February itself, Guangzhou installed facial recognition thermometers in buses. As passengers swiped their bus cards, the thermometer scanned their faces, took their temperature and reported it to the driver. Urban residential communities also started installing the software too in order to reduce the physical use of objects and to limit visitors. For the elderly, this came as a boon. “No need to carry keys, cards or wallets,’’ smiled an old woman out for daily tai chi on a winter morning. As young people stayed locked inside, Tencent used facial recognition to detect underage players as they logged in to Tencent Games. The ban imposed by the United States of America on cyber technology originating from China in May only pushed the companies to innovate. In June, Lenovo introduced a laptop with facial recognition technology. Companies upgraded their software to recognize even masked faces through the iris and forehead; this was used on campuses when they reopened and also on Beijing’s subways. No escape But now, the bubble has burst. Facial recognition software is the new Enemy Number One. In November, a court in the provincial capital of Hangzhou ordered a park to compensate one of its regular visitors and delete his facial information. The member had sued the park after it insisted on his facial information for the activation of his annual admission card. His objections and requests that his card be cancelled and admission fee refunded were rejected. When he became a member last year, the park had taken his fingerprints and photograph; by making this new demand, the park was in breach of contract, he argued. The court agreed with him, but refused to invalidate the park’s new rule making biometric information the only form of admission. The case provoked a storm. Earlier, pedestrians in the provincial capital, Jinan, had protested at their faces being flashed across screens on the road after they jumped the red signal at zebra crossings, prompting the authorities to blur their faces. This time, however, protests poured in from many cities. Residents said they had not been consulted when their community managements installed facial recognition software at their gates; some had refused to register for it. More serious were the complaints against real estate and courier agencies which either forced their clients to register their facial information, or secretly photographed them. In the provincial capital, Nanning, 10 customers had their properties sold without their knowledge by a dealer who had used their facial information to access their bank details. On January 1, a new law protecting citizens’ privacy came into effect. But while private players will have to take permission before gathering such data, the government can use such information collected through equipment in public spaces only for “public security”. There is no escape, then, from Big Brother.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
04-01-2021||Opinion||Turning tables||Institutions like the Asiatic Society of India, set up by the British in the eighteenth century, played an important role in generating knowledge about India. Unlike the traditional knowledge available in gurukuls, on palm-leaf manuscripts and other pre-printing forms, this new knowledge was modern and used modern technology. Several new educational institutions were established around this time, imparting modern knowledge with an aim to revive interest in India. More importantly, new institutions with new norms were defining how — from what perspective — India would be represented through the selected content. This new branch of knowledge, labelled Orientalism, later came under the careful scrutiny of postcolonial scholars like Edward Said who detected an underlying political agenda. There was undoubtedly a hidden political agenda — termed Eurocentrism — in Orientalism. A large body of knowledge on India was produced by Western scholars and was used to further the political interest of the British raj. For instance, these scholars constructed the East or the Orient as spiritual, and the West or the Occident as materialist. This was then used to justify British rule in India. Oriental India being portrayed as other-worldly and the occidental British as this-worldly allowed the latter to claim that they were justified in ruling this-world-of-India as they were the experts. This is just one instance of how the new knowledge was used to oppress Indians. Postcolonial scholars were, therefore, correct in rejecting Orientalism. I would, however, like to re-examine their premise and conclusion. The premise being: Orientalism is Eurocentric, with a strong political intent; and the conclusion: Orientalism is to be rejected because of its politics. Now while I accept the premise, I do not find it necessary to accept the conclusion. I am in total agreement with these critics of Orientalism. Despite this, I still don’t find it necessary to reject the formula on which Orientalism is founded. Let me explain further. The Self — in this case, the Occident — constructs its Other, the Orient, to further its political motive of justifying its rule over the latter. In formal terminology, A constructs B for C, where A stands for Occident, B for Orient and C for justifying political rule. I have identified an opening in this formula that makes it vulnerable. I’d like to utilize this vulnerability and insert another premise into the formula, which will, in turn, combat the original premise Orientalism is based on. If A can study B for C, without rejecting this formula, I’d like to insert another premise into it: B studies A for C, that is, India studies Europe to serve its own politics. If one is logical, this additional premise inserted into the formula is completely consistent with the premise that supports Orientalism. If the British could do their patriotic duty by producing knowledge about the Orient to help justify British colonial rule, what stops Indians from producing knowledge about the British for the sake of India? Instead of rejecting it, I would like to emulate the formula used for Orientalism, utilizing its inherent vulnerability. Rather than spending time in establishing an alternative formula, and then seeking justification and acceptance for it, I would like to use the existing one with the simple modification of inserting a combative premise. This is unlike the postcolonial scholars who rejected the formula. This strategy has kept me from getting mired in only critiquing the adversary, running the risk of being co-opted. It has also saved me from being perpetually defensive. Both these situations led postcolonialism to either be passive or accept distorted assumptions of the modern West, such as taking it to be monolithic when it disinherited its pre-modern. Instead, stationed within the formula of my adversary, enjoying the comfort of space, justification, visibility and acceptability, I begin my combat activities, doing to them exactly what they did to us. This route has eluded the postcolonialists who seem to be doomed to remain defensive. This combative strategy is absent in academic works, which are primarily focused on Oriental scholarship and its critique. Pursuing such a strategy makes it possible to take on the Western knowledge systems. I find this way of positioning — where one is firmly located within modern India with access to classical as well as modern Indian resources and combating Western philosophy — to be very productive and rewarding. Although this possibility seems to have escaped the attention of mainstream academic scholarship, I have found this attitude in modern Indian writers like Bal Gangadhar Tilak, Swami Vivekananda, Sri Aurobindo, Gurudev Rabindranath Tagore, Mahatma Gandhi, Babasaheb Ambedkar and in the writings from Bhasha literature that form the base of language federalism in India. The writings of S. Radhakrishnan, Krishna Chandra Bhattacharyya, Ananda K. Coomaraswamy, J.L. Mehta, Alam Khundmiri, Ashis Nandy and Ramchandra Gandhi also propound insightful theories. Let me take two ideas; one from Vivekananda and another from Bhattacharyya. The former suggested that Indians should select only those ideas from the West that they find to be rational and good. In his famous talk, “Swaraj in Ideas”, Bhattacharyya asked despite spending a lot of time, talent, energy and resources in studying Western theories, have Indians made any original contribution at all to knowledge about the West? This can be an opportunity for academics to not only combat Orientalism but also contribute positively by providing novel criticism of the West and identifying issues that may have eluded Western scholars. This will also enable Western scholars to recognize some of the unique elements of modern India, such as non-literates from the pre-modern sustaining modern democracies, when liberalism has clearly set modern autonomous individuals as the premise on which nationalism and democracies are founded. Without this change in gaze and position, humanities and social sciences in India will — to cite Hannah Arendt in a different context — follow banality, or remain much like a car in neutral gear, neither moving forward nor presenting a better description of modern India which is a wonder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
