05-01-2021||Opinion||Hard truths: executive and judiciary||If the mixing of politics and religion is dangerous in a secular country, the slightest suspicion that the executive in a democracy is encroaching on the territory of justice is equally so. The Andhra Pradesh High Court has pronounced strongly against what it perceived as such encroachment by the chief minister of the state, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and his government. The two-judge bench of Rakesh Kumar and D. Ramesh was hearing a case challenging the auction of government land to private parties. Reportedly stating that the chief minister was undermining the functioning of the court, the bench referred to his letter to the Chief Justice of India, complaining against the functioning of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Since the two chief justices of the Andhra Pradesh and Telangana High Courts were transferred, the bench expressed its disapproval, as that might look as though the Supreme Court collegium were responding to the chief minister’s letter. The justice system could thus lose credibility in people’s minds. More, the transfers were to the chief minister’s advantage, because the hearings against him would be delayed. In September, the police had closed a number of cases against him, calling them ‘false’. The chief minister, the court reportedly pointed out, had also complained against a senior Supreme Court judge, who had asked that all cases against legislators be completed within a year. The issues raised here are deeply unsettling. The high court reportedly remarked that the courts were ‘under attack’ from people in power; this laid bare the connection with corruption. The implied contempt for the system in Mr Reddy’s complaint to the Supreme Court was indirectly touched upon, while the Andhra Pradesh High Court judge, Mr Kumar, responded sharply to the government’s attempt, based allegedly on falsehoods, to have him recuse himself on grounds of bias from the case he was hearing. He also said that if there were a gap of a year before judges were reassigned after retiring, no political party in power would be able to undermine the judiciary’s independence. The statement made obvious the implications of the confrontation between the Andhra Pradesh chief minister and the state’s high court, while pointing to a systemic flaw — a loose end that, for obvious reasons, legislatures have left unchanged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||Exercise caution: Indian oil sardine on path to revival||Sir — After years of low yield, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute has found that the Indian oil sardine is on a path to revival on the Kerala coast. While this is indeed great news, the researchers have warned that the resurgence is still in its early stages. The schools of fish are below the reproductive age and indiscriminate fishing would have an adverse affect. Hopefully, fishermen will heed these warnings and wait till the fish reach maturity. Navya Abraham,Kochi Start anew Sir — It must come as a relief to many that the United Kingdom and the European Union managed to strike a provisional free trade deal on December 24, just before the post-Brexit transition period ended on December 31 (“Deal with it”, Dec 30). The deal contains stipulations on subjects ranging from civil nuclear cooperation and energy interconnections to fishing and aviation. The deal comes as a boost for the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, whose vociferous push towards Brexit saw him rise to his current position. But those hoping that it will allow British assets to catch up with high-flying overseas markets may be disappointed. The nature of the deal will leave Britain far more detached from the EU than was thought likely in 2016, with signs pointing towards the need for further negotiations. The combination of Brexit and Covid-19 has left the British economy in tatters. Its currency is 20 per cent below its long-term fair value and few expect it to recover fully in the near future. The deal leaves much to be desired. It is not surprising that the details of the agreement reached between London and Brussels are still somewhat fuzzy for now. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Boris Johnson must be lauded for ensuring a dignified exit for the UK from the EU. The citizens of the country had been dragged through the turmoil for years, both by the Labour Party and the Tories before the referendum in 2016. The UK, an established global financial hub, has been through much uncertainty. However, the pandemic has made it abundantly clear that both the UK and the EU need each other to tide over these trying times. The latest deal agreed upon by the two parties opens up a new chapter of regional cooperation in Europe. R. Narayanan,Navi Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||Pot boils: JDU and the BJP||Political disaffection does not obey the laws of geography. Therefore, it is only to be expected that the tremors of a political development in Arunachal Pradesh would be felt in Bihar. After the Bharatiya Janata Party, as is its wont, welcomed six legislators from the Janata Dal (United) into its fold in the northeastern state, the game could well be afoot in Bihar where the BJP and the JD(U) are in power by virtue of a wafer-thin majority. The Rashtriya Janata Dal, the party that won the highest number of seats among the contenders in the recent elections, is doing its bit to muddy the waters within the National Democratic Alliance. In a significant concession, Rabri Devi, the former chief minister, said that she would have no objections if Nitish Kumar were to switch sides and join the Grand Alliance. This remark had been preceded by speculation — aided and abetted by another leader of the RJD — that as many as 17 legislators of a besieged JD(U) have expressed an interest to join the RJD since the BJP, now the senior partner in the ruling alliance, was weakening Mr Kumar’s party. Mr Kumar has scotched these rumours. They could be emblematic of the posturing that is common in competitive politics. But a staunch denial is unlikely to calm the nerves in Patna. The NDA, even though it won the mandate in Bihar, remains vulnerable because of several reasons other than the absence of a decisive majority. An expansive and aggressive BJP is likely to be a source of anguish for Mr Kumar whose political leverage has been reduced significantly because of a modest performance at the hustings. The JD(U) has only 43 seats in its kitty. Mr Kumar’s history of changing political spots — he had fought and won the 2015 polls with the RJD by its side, only to return to the NDA’s arms two years later — would also force the BJP to look over its shoulders. The RJD, energized by its recent showing, is waiting in the wings. Of course, such blatant jockeying for power remains unmindful of ideological fidelity or that other principle integral in a democracy:  the sanctity of the people’s mandate. The propensity to dishonour electoral verdicts has coincided with the political ascendancy of the BJP, which has snatched several states from its rivals by means that are usually more foul than fair. Would a cornered Mr Kumar pay the BJP back in its own coin?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||India’s para-athletes||The World Health Organization observed the International Day of Persons with Disabilities on December 3, endorsing the theme, “a day for all”. The United Nations is embarking on its 17-point sustainable development goals for the year, 2030, and inclusive measures for the disabled have been duly accommodated. India has been a signatory to the UN Convention on Rights of Persons with Disabilities since 2016. However, India seems undeterred about not executing adequate measures for PwDs in various fields, including sports. Sport has the potential to lessen the stigma attached to the disabled community. To make sports for the disabled inclusive, the Union sports ministry has planned to spend Rs 83.7 lakh under the Khelo India initiative. The Centre for Disability Sports is also coming up in Gwalior. In a refreshing change, during this year’s Indian Premier League, an education-tech firm roped in Deepa Malik, a silver medallist in Paralympics, for an advertisement. Manasi Joshi, a para-badminton player, also made it to the cover of Time’s Asia edition. Blind cricket is also gaining popularity in India. However, these developments, although inspiring, are not enough. As it is, sport has taken a back seat in public policy. Parasports, or sports for PwDs, is yet to become part of the mainstream narrative. Consequently, Paralympians are left in the lurch; the Paralympic movement is yet to gain traction in India too. Significantly, India has taken part in the Paralympic Games since 1968. Athletes have brought back 12 medals in a total of 10 editions of the tournament. For many such athletes, representing the country is often a means of gaining acceptance in society. The prospect of winning a medal comes with the promise of recognition, awards and, in many cases, a job. However, there is a dearth of interest in disability sports in the public domain. This has resulted in the paucity of sponsors and, as a result, a funds crunch. Moreover, sports for PwDs are also limited to urban centres. There are divisions pertaining to gender and geography. Women with disabilities and PwDs from rural areas are grossly under-represented in policy. The Paralympics, which caters to persons with some kinds of physical disability and is separate from the Deaflympics and the Special Olympic World Games — two other major sporting competitions for PwDs — has had a lopsided participation from women in the Indian contingent. Among 95 athletes, 12 women have represented the country in the past 30 years. The cyborgfication of elite disabled athletes on account of the increasing use of technology is also a matter of concern. The other challenges for sports for PwDs include the scarcity of physical education in schools, the absence of coaches as well as socio-cultural prejudices. At a time when there is a global shift towards making sports inclusive, India cannot afford to achieve development in the real sense if it continues to marginalize PwDs who constitute 2.21 per cent of the total population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
05-01-2021||Opinion||The prescient Poet: Modi-Shah invoke Tagore||Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and the Bharatiya Janata Party as a whole are known for conflating Hindutva with nationalism. Many BJP leaders, including Modi, have employed phrases, idioms and images invoking binaries — Eid versus Diwali, to cite one example — during election campaigns. These messages strengthen division and reflect the adoption of a sectarian approach for acquiring political power. So when Modi and Shah invoked Rabindranath Tagore, one was reminded of the dire warning issued by Tagore in his speech, “Robbery of Soil”, delivered in 1922 at Calcutta University. Anticipating the “sectarian ambition for power”, Tagore outlined its sordid and grim aftermath endangering unity and amity among people and imperilling harmonious relations among the different organs of collective life. He said — presciently — “Whenever some sectarian ambition for power establishes a dominating position in life’s republic, the sense of unity, which can only be generated and maintained by a perfect rhythm of reciprocity between the parts is bound to be disturbed.” The disunity and the imbalance attributed to the dominance of the “sectarian ambition for power” are now being replayed egregiously in the life of the Republic. Institutions are collapsing; freedom is being throttled; dissent criminalized. Tagore had prophesied that the “sectarian ambition for power” is accompanied by an assault on the unity of people and the subsequent fall of institutions, on account of greed, would threaten democracy. With a far-sighted perspective, he had said, “In a society where the greed of an individual or of a group is allowed to grow uncontrolled, and is encouraged or even applauded by the populace, democracy, as it is termed in the West, cannot be truly realized.” Tragically, some people are applauding the quest for power anchored in sectarianism. Tagore’s words and fears, articulated in 1922, have come true. Gurudev’s incisive analysis — “In such an atmosphere a constant struggle goes on among individuals to capture public organizations for the satisfaction of their own personal ambition” — is applicable to the New India that is being conjured up by aligning it with the forces representing vigilantism and Hindutva. It is instructive that Tagore likened democracy prevailing in such a situation to an elephant employed by the clever and the rich for their benefit. This establishes the point that the proponents of sectarianism exercising the levers of power in a democracy reduce it to fulfil their pleasure-seeking activities. Tagore reflected on another worrisome development. “The organs of information and expression, through which opinions are manufactured, and the machinery of administration, are openly or secretly manipulated by the prosperous few...” It is revealing that Tagore could anticipate rulers manufacturing narratives by determining the functioning of the media, thereby generating news and views as desired by them. Tagore was apprehending the emergence of what is now called ‘godi media’ that are subservient to the ruling regime. Tagore’s reflections on the domination of the media and the generation of media content by the rulers in their favour are evocative of Walter Lippmann’s articulations on the manufacturing of consent in his book, Public Opinion, published in 1922. It is remarkable that Tagore delivered his speech in which he elaborated on the same idea in the same year. These reflections are also echoed in Noam Chomsky’s Manufacturing Consent. It is also edifying to note that Tagore was sceptical that the people manipulating the organs of information and expression would, like the proverbial camel, never “... pass through the needle’s eye, that narrow gate, that leads to the kingdom of ideals”. “Such a society”, Tagore said, “necessarily becomes inhospitable, suspicious, and callous towards those who preach their faith in ideals, in spiritual freedom”. Adding further, he said, “In such a society people become intoxicated by the constant stimulation of what they are told is progress, like the man for whom wine has a greater attraction than food”. Nearly 90 years after Tagore wrote these lines, the people have been misled by progress or vikas and society has become “inhospitable, suspicious, and callous towards those who preach their faith in ideals, in spiritual freedom”. Indeed, it is tragic that those who are invoking Tagore are the same people who are persecuting citizens and Tagore’s vision of an India that is the embodiment of the ideal of a land “[w]here the mind is without fear and the head is held high”. The author served as OSD to President K.R. Narayanan||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
05-01-2021||Opinion||Balancing act||In The Class, a 2008 French drama-film, a middle-aged, white, male teacher emphasizes the French identity of everyone present in a diverse class of young students with parental backgrounds in Francophone countries. This is met with a rebuttal by one of the students that he is not French and that he hails from his parents’ country of origin. The two continue to argue as neither relents. The present acrimonious debate in France on ‘safeguarding the republic’, this time centred on Muslim citizens, is not new although the arguments and consequences have both a local as well as a universal context. A greater, in-depth understanding is required for the outside world, particularly multi-ethnic and multi-religious countries reeling under similar challenges, as there are multiple factors underpinning the acrimonious and violent chapter in France’s political journey. At the same time, the argument that the French challenge is unique needs to be interrogated further. The current spate of developments is a result of the assassination of a French teacher in October last year. The French teacher had angered the assassin as he had shown his students cartoons of Prophet Muhammed in a civic education course on the freedom of expression. A series of other assassinations followed in France, carried out by young Muslim residents. France has seen a wave of violence since the 2015 terror attacks on the satirical magazine, Charlie Hebdo, and the shooting in a Jewish school in Toulouse in 2012, which killed seven, including three children. After the recent attacks, the president, Emmanuel Macron, vowed to meet the challenge. Some initial statements from members of his government, which were later clarified, became controversial as many heads of state and governments of Muslim-majority countries accused him of peddling Islamophobia. In response to these developments, Macron has now come forward with a new draft law, which is designed to curb ‘Islamist separatism’. The bill, which will go to the National Assembly, the lower chamber of Parliament, this month includes an extension of the principle of ‘neutrality’ in public services — it prohibits civil servants from wearing ostentatious religious symbols, for instance — to private sector companies if they are contracted by the authorities. An overwhelming majority of France’s citizenry across the political spectrum supports the president who is up for re-election in 2022. The majority believes that ‘France’s distinctive form of laïcité, or secularism, is in danger.’ The laïcité law of 1905 emphasizes that the French Republic establishes that religion is a private matter and that the State has to remain neutral in matters of religion. The challenges to the French State in this regard are multifold and interwoven. Within the European context, France has one of the largest Muslim population with diverse ethnic backgrounds although the majority come from the Maghreb region and from erstwhile French colonies, namely Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. The French Muslim population, according to Pew Research Center, is estimated to be around 8.8 per cent. France, like many European countries, needs young immigrants as the median age is 41.5 years and the population of more than 65 years is 19.84 per cent. The fertility rate is 1.9 per cent, less than the replacement rate of 2.1 per cent. One of the vital distinctions of the French political project is that it is de facto a multi-cultural and multi-confessional society, but de jure its institutions are shaped by laïcité, not multiculturalism. The social scientist, Clément Godbarge, who is native to the wine-growing region of Bordeaux, told me that outsiders should be more sensitive to a nuanced understanding of the domestic context in which the French majority is articulating its concerns. He argued, “Approaches to secularism tend to be the result of complex historical processes, long negotiations that are unique to a country’s history and institutions.” Apart from the domestic factors, there is a need to pay attention to the external influences impacting the events in France. Most of the recent attacks were carried out by new immigrants, including a Sudanese asylum-seeker, a Chechen refugee, and a Pakistani Punjabi. They came from distant countries with little connection to France and are less aware of French history, values and traditions. The impact of schisms within the larger Muslim world may play a part in the religiosity of recent immigrants, which includes a larger number of people with Turkish ethnicity. That explains some of the proactive combative statements by the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with respect to recent developments in France. By taking up real or perceived grievances of Muslim populations across the world, Erdogan has often challenged the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s traditional leadership of the Muslim ummah. On the other side of the spectrum, reeling under the threat of globalization and automation, many Western democracies are experiencing the rise of majoritarian politics among vast swathes of blue-collar workers. Threatened by the popularity of right-wing political parties such as National Rally, the centrist ruling party, La République En Marche, and the left-of-centre Socialist Party are competing in populism. This is coupled with the lack of inclusive political, social and economic structures. France is no exception to this trend. The idea of the laïcité may have a definite historical context but the challenges that the French society faces cannot ignore the contemporary structural and institutional biases that impact the minorities, including the Muslims born and raised in France. There are institutional impediments in France to social mobility that push them into ghettos. France has a rigid institutional entry code for many professions, including lowly-paid ones. Meanwhile, the argument that the mosque is the site for radicalization for some Muslims doesn’t stand the test of empirical evidence. The majority of lone wolf attacks in the West are perpetuated by those radicalized through online platforms. Consistent studies have proven that with a few exceptions radicalization of young men occurs courtesy online echo-chambers. On the other hand, mosques, particularly those in Western societies, are places for socialization and the development of social capital for minorities. In fact, mosques can deter attacks as they allow individuals to socialize and provide them with platforms to articulate their anxieties and concerns within a social framework. Any sign of radicalization can be easily identified by social peers, whereas lone wolf attacks are difficult to intercept. Finally, the issue of deculturalization of the Muslim community is common to many European countries, including France. The idea of treating Muslim people hailing from a diverse range of ethnic and geographical backgrounds as a homogenous group reinforces this deculturalization. Prescriptive policies and popular narratives reinforce the homogenous religious identity while underestimating the influence of distinct languages, cultures and customs. The younger men start eying broader, universal Islamic causes, internalizing real or perceived Islamic grievances. This is exacerbated by the problem of online radicalization, which is hard to interdict by State agencies. Filtration mechanisms of tech giants, such as YouTube, Facebook and Twitter, are also proving to be far from adequate. To sum up, the French State and its civil society response will have to strike a fine balance between the need to be sensitive to and accommodative of the religious aspirations of its largest religious minority on the one hand and the majority’s fears that a long-held civilizational belief system of the country is in danger on the other. In doing so, the response requires to be more creative, nuanced and grounded in the political, social and economic realities of the 21st century that are shaping France as well as the rest of the global community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-93
