06-01-2021||Opinion||Shrinking size: core economic sector||The core sector of the Indian economy comprising eight infrastructure industries has been contracting continuously since March 2020. Undoubtedly, the disruptions due to the pandemic have taken their toll on almost all industries. However, the depth of the contraction and its persistence bode ill for the prospects of economic recovery in the near future. Industries like steel, cement, natural gas and refinery products have sunk to alarming levels. Within the core sector, growth in only coal, fertilizers and electricity has been just about positive. In March 2020, the sector had shrunk by 8.6 per cent. Next month, it fell to negative 37.9 per cent. In September 2020, it had recovered to a negative 0.1 per cent, but fell again in November 2020 to negative 2.6 per cent. During the period between April and November 2020, the cumulative growth rate of the core sector was a negative 11.4 per cent. It may be noted that the eight industries mentioned constitute 40.27 per cent in terms of weight in the index of industrial production. Apart from being important in total size, the core sector is significant in another way: it supports general manufacturing by producing universal intermediaries. Coal, cement and steel, for instance, are required in so many different productive activities. If the economy is down in terms of demand, the derived demand for these goods would be low too, leading to excess capacity and contraction in production. On the other hand, if the economy is growing fast, the derived demand will be brisk, leading to rapid growth in this sector. The continuous contraction in the core sector is clearly indicative of the poor demand conditions for manufactured goods and services. The demand for consumer goods being low implies that capacity building will also be low. Hence the demand for new plant and machinery will be poor as well. This situation is also indicative of the fact that easy and cheap credit available for industrial units, as has been the policy stance of the Government of India in providing a stimulus for economic recovery from the effects of the pandemic, is not working. Production is simply refusing to grow. It will not pick up as long as final demand is sluggish. The point is to get more purchasing power in the hands of the poor and the lower middle class. Hopefully, the finance minister will address this vital issue in the forthcoming Union budget.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||New hope: India ready for Covid vaccines||Sir — It is heartening to note that India is ready to use two coronavirus vaccines for emergency cases. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, Covishield, made in this country by the Serum Institute of India, and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin are thus going to play a key role in the vaccination programme. Covishield, for one, can be stored at normal fridge temperatures, making its transportation easier and cheaper than, say, the Pfizer vaccine. India’s experience of conducting general elections on a large-scale can come in handy for carrying out this massive programme without too many hiccups. But since the approvals were fast-tracked on account of emergency requirements, there is need for close monitoring of the entire process. Full cooperation of the people can be achieved only by promoting proper knowledge and right information about the vaccine. People must be made aware that the vaccine is an important weapon in the war against the coronavirus. But it is not the only weapon. Precautions to stop the spread of the virus must be continued. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The new year could not have started on a brighter note as the drug regulatory body of India recommended the Covishield vaccine for emergency use on the first day (“Oxford vaccine cleared in India, wait for others”, Jan 2). Now, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, along with the one manufactured by Bharat Biotech, can be administered to around 300 million people. When more vaccines are approved, one hopes that better coverage for the entire country can be achieved. But considering the population and the complexities of our nation, the government would do well to pull up its socks so as not to repeat the mistake of last year, where it failed miserably in providing proper public healthcare when the pandemic broke out. Since the Serum Institute of India has itself suggested that it can produce 100 million doses per month, people should be ready for the long haul. They should be patient and follow all protocol as they have been doing for the past one year. One should wait for patients who need it most to get the vaccine dose first. The government must work closely with the key stakeholders in this case to ensure seamless inoculation. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — While the Centre is quite euphoric about the drug regulatory authority approving conditional use of two vaccines, concerns expressed by a host of independent experts, questioning the process of approval of Covaxin in spite of pending efficacy data from its Phase 3 trials, cannot be brushed aside. Efficacy data are an indication of how effective the vaccine is in preventing the virus attack. One expert has pointed out that the regulator’s own draft guidance underlines the importance of safety data. According to another expert, even emergency use authorization requires efficacy data. In effect, they have raised questions about the way the approval has been rushed through without adequate thought on the part of the regulatory body, based simply on the recommendations of the expert panel. Such action could lead to people losing confidence in the regulatory system that affects millions of lives. Scientists also seem concerned about the regulatory authority’s silence on the mechanisms through which it would continue to review the performance of these vaccines (“Vaccine review method riddle”, Jan 4). The government must address these issues at once. The drum-beating over the approval of the vaccines might have temporarily drowned out the sound and fury of farmers at the threshold of the national capital, but it would be imprudent of the Narendra Modi-led government to think that it can sustain this effect without offering more clarity. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Safe flight Sir — India is a treat for bird-watchers especially in winter, as avians from across the borders land up in states like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bengal. But this time their trips could be cut short by the sudden outbreak of a contagion. Recently, hundreds of migratory birds were found dead at a lake in Himachal Pradesh on account of avian influenza. The flu has been spotted in three other states in India. A lockdown to prevent the spread of Covid-19 worked for humans. But it is difficult to regulate the free flight of birds. Urgent steps must be taken to ensure the safe return of these winged guests. Shraddha Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||Unclear shot: India Covid-19 vaccine roll out||Rolling out vaccines in the time of a raging pandemic in a nation as populous as India was bound to be accompanied by attendant challenges. But the lack of transparency and public anxiety regarding the effectivity of these medicines were not expected to be among the obstacles. Yet, that is exactly the situation that India is dealing with after the Drugs Controller General of India, which is responsible for approving drug licences, gave its nod to ‘Covishield’ and ‘Covaxin’, the two drugs that have been developed by the Serum Institute of India — the manufacturer of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine — and Bharat Biotech, respectively. It must be noted that the DCGI approval pertains to ‘restricted use in emergency situations’. Additionally, both companies have been asked to submit information related to safety, efficiency and immunogenicity from ongoing trials. These stipulations are not unwarranted. The SII has furnished Phase III trial data from Brazil and the United Kingdom, but the results of tests on Indian respondents are still awaited; as for Bharat Biotech, it has received the DCGI’s nod in spite of not finishing its Phase III trial data. The absence of this information is worrying for two — one medical, the other ethical — reasons. First, science’s triumph over Covid-19 is not complete yet. Already, there are signs of the emergence of at least two highly contagious strains. Expediting vaccination — India’s Covid load notwithstanding — without adequate knowledge of their impact on indigenous recipients warrants caution. Second, this is not the first time that medications have been pushed through in India; influenza vaccines had received the green signal during the H1N1 outbreak sans efficacy data. This only goes to show that democratic India is yet to learn to demand accountability from manufacturers and regulatory institutions even in the arena of public health. A bit of the blame must lie with the prevailing populist model of politics. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is already making suitable noises in a bid to gain political mileage out of the vaccination exercise. Characteristically, it has targeted those who are raising legitimate concern about the relaxation of standard protocols — Phase III trial data, for instance — as part of the initiative. The prime minister has described the vaccine roll out as a shot in the arm for the nation. His admirers would be hoping that it would be a boost for his party too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||Partition of India: memories for the future||Nations have their own ways of dealing with memories of trauma. For the newly independent India, a project of silence seemed necessary for the project of the nation-state. Indeed, there may be some sense in arguing that the devastations of the Partition didn’t rattle the national imagination beyond the first few years. From childhood memory of the early Sixties, it seems to me that Independence Day celebration referred more to the new nation than the severed nation. Of course it would be wrong to say that the Partition died out from popular memory. Communal flare-ups are, above all, sore reminders of an unresolved past — till, of course, they became organized, calculated pogroms. In recent decades, the more the national narrative of stability, growth and statist secularism proved untenable, the more has been the interest in the Partition, taking it as the dividing line of our national life, a line that holds the secret of much of our present misery. The new kind of scholarship that emerged in the late 1990s started asking new kinds of questions: how did people undergo the experience of Partition — as a group, as a family, as an individual? How did Partition become part of ourselves? What does it mean to live with poisonous memories that cannot be shared even with intimate relations? What is it to witness? This scholarship paralleled, tied up and, at times, drew intellectual sustenance from the emergence of a self-conscious discourse of memory in history writing, made possible by the Holocaust discourse and the emergence of cultural studies as a discipline. Partition archives are, at long last, coming into existence in India. The Amritsar Partition Museum heralded the beginning three years back. Richly funded, it is an imaginatively conceived museum and enjoys close ties with the Punjabi diaspora, especially in Britain. Sadly, Bengal’s presence is just about marginal there, a kind of ‘also-happened’ add-on. Interestingly, a two-part BBC documentary on the partition of India televised on August 14 and 15, 2017 — precisely the time the Amritsar museum was opened to the public — hardly mentioned that India was partitioned in the eastern flank as well. It was an all-Punjab affair. Rituparna Roy, a city scholar, has been working hard for the past three years towards establishing a similar museum in Calcutta. But lacking funds, her initiatives have remained restricted to organizing talks, symposia and international conferences, film festivals and art exhibition in different venues of the city. No archive is innocent, neither is it completely open-ended. How one reads the upcoming archives of the Partition is a challenge that the organizers must undertake. For instance, there could be a whole different way of conceptualizing the Bengal Partition, one that would suggest that while the British design to partition the province on communal lines remained an important provocation, as was the slow rise of an orthodox Islamic streak particularly in eastern part of Bengal from the nineteenth century, the main share of blame goes squarely to the upper-caste Hindus and the virtual apartheid they practised with the Bengali Muslim peasants and workers. That even after seven decades of the Partition, when it is mostly the Dalits and other lower castes among Hindus who are left in Bangladesh, oppression and quotidian harassment continue is yet another twist to history’s kaleidoscope, offering an intimate insight into the ways the triangle of caste, religion and power works in realpolitik. A collective, popular recollection can unobtrusively become a national recollection. The numerous memoirs, written or oral, in recent times of refugees from erstwhile East Pakistan seem to have already acquired standard generic protocols: the lush green villages where Hindus and Muslims lived harmoniously, the sudden eruption of the Partition owing to the connivance of the British rulers and some misguided and opportunistic leaders, the enormous hardship and bravery in the initial decades of re-settlement aiding, paradoxically, the formation of a new solidarity among the refugees and, finally, the gradual upward journey on the economic and social curve. In the last seventy years, the Partition has clearly acquired three generations of progenies. For the first generation — those who crossed the border soon after the Partition leaving a chunk of their lives behind — objects that survived were matters of everyday continuity and also occasions for active mourning for those that got lost. The primary source of anguish was the loss of landscape and desh. For the second generation like me, those objects were mnemonic items, ones that were still in use, but had a second life through reminiscences. In the process, they acquired a halo of earlier shades, a pentimento, a sad intimacy scripted into their very materiality. The objects, no matter how humble, invented a time for us, which was neither of Bengal that existed before the Partition nor of our present but at the interface of the two. The third generation’s Partition is a construct from representational sources like television serials, novels, textbooks, political party speeches and only, very marginally, from family sources. The dialects — the most vibrant link to the past — are rarely heard today even among refugee colony youth. If the second generation is post-memory, may we call the third generation, post-forgetting, remembering after it has been ordinarily forgotten? What would the museumization of objects open to all viewers from all lands — objects that were once tightly located in history’s mess — mean culturally and politically? This is a point to ponder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
06-01-2021||Opinion||An original choice||In the American West, a ration of reverence is usually given to the grizzled Anglo rancher who rises at a public hearing and announces that his people have been on the land for five generations. So what are we to make of Rep. Deb Haaland, a citizen of the Laguna Pueblo, who says that her people have been in the Rio Grande Valley of New Mexico for 35 generations — dating to the 13th century? “Native history is American history,” she told me. “Regardless of where you are in this country now, you’re on ancestral Indian land, and that land has a history.” As Joe Biden’s choice for interior secretary, Haaland is poised to make a rare positive mark in the history of how a nation of immigrants treated the country’s original inhabitants. She would be the first Native American cabinet secretary — a distinction that has prompted celebration throughout Indian Country. “I haven’t been the one making policy,” she said. “But I’ve been the one on the receiving end of it.” There will be plenty of sniping, second-guessing and disappointment among the tribes by people who expect much of Haaland having a seat at the big table. But for now, we should let this moment breathe. I spoke to her on the anniversary of a day of infamy. On December 29, 1890, the US army slaughtered men, women and children at Wounded Knee in South Dakota. Government policy was to strip Indians of their language, culture and religion, with children sent off to boarding schools where they were taught that the old ways were wrong. At the end of the 19th century, the popular view was that indigenous people would soon disappear. And yet here is Haaland, one of more than five million Native Americans, ready to knock down some of the last barriers of time and terrain in this country. Her personal story alone makes Haaland an anomaly in the parlours of power. Soon after graduating from college, she became a single mother. She was sometimes dependent on food stamps, and she once ran a small business selling homemade salsa to make a living and support her child. As a freshman representative in 2019, she was still paying off her student loans. When she ran for office, her slogan was, “Congress has never heard a voice like mine.” Now the person with that voice could soon be overseeing one-fifth of the land in the United States of America. As interior secretary, her portfolio would include national parks, wildlife refuges, the US Geological Survey and the vast acreage of the Bureau of Land Management. Interior, for good reason, is known as the Department of Everything Else. As such, she would also be overseeing millions of acres taken from Indians in treaties broken over the past several centuries, and would be the top government liaison with 574 federally recognized tribes — the nations within a nation. This is quite the compass — from a deep slot in the earth near the Grand Canyon, wherein dwell the Havasupai, to the rainforest of the Olympic Peninsula, home of the Makah Nation, to urban neighbourhoods that house Indians struggling with healthcare access. “I wish we could right some wrongs,” she said of the centuries-old saga of sorrow. But she seems content to try to right the many wrongs that Donald Trump’s administration has inflicted on the land. Trump’s first interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, literally rode into office on a horse named Tonto and then promptly launched a campaign to make it easier to drill on public land. The current secretary, David Bernhardt, was an oil and gas lobbyist whose public service on behalf of his former clients was warmly received by his old friends. Biden has pledged to end all new oil and gas drilling on these rangelands, forests and plains — an enormous change that will be fought fiercely by those who profit from land owned by all Americans. He has also promised to restore Bears Ears National Monument — a marvel of sandstone, mountains and Native sacred sites in the Southwest — that was gutted by Trump, who reduced the size of the protected area by 85 per cent. Haaland is eager for the opportunity to do something lasting. “I’ll be fierce for all of us, for our planet and all of our protected land,” she said in December. But it’s the weight of Native history that makes the choice of Haaland so extraordinary, as she acknowledged. “This moment is profound when we consider the fact that a former secretary of the interior once proclaimed it his goal to, quote, ‘civilize or exterminate’ us’.” She was referring to Alexander H.H. Stuart, the secretary of the interior in the early 1850s, in the Fillmore administration. “Exterminate” was no exaggeration. The census of 1900 counted more than 237,000 Native Americans, a population collapse of nearly 90 per cent in the estimate of many ethnohistorians, from the time of first European contact. Some of the atrocities are well known. But less well known is how the government made it a crime for Natives to practise their religion. It was a violation of the First Amendment to lock people up for enacting the rituals of faith — unless they worshipped Native gods through certain dances and ceremonies deemed criminal by the government. A consistent plea from Indian Country today is a request that fellow Americans consider Native people as much more than living relics locked in a tragic past. Haaland aims to ensure that. “I’ll never forget where I came from,” she said. But, she added, “ I love this opportunity.” Even if she can’t reverse history, she is poised to make some. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
