07-01-2021||Opinion||Project P: Modi's Central Vista||The nod from the Supreme Court has removed the hurdles on the path of the Central Vista project. The Narendra Modi government is eager to portray the initiative — it includes a plan to build a new Parliament building — as one of its crowning achievements. In its response to petitions that had challenged the undertaking on account of such concerns as arbitrary changes to land use and the government’s alleged indifference to environment impact assessments, India’s highest court stuck to the legal technicalities of the matter at hand. The two judges who delivered the majority judgment found no infirmities in the approvals that had been granted by the powers that be. The court was also prudent enough to reiterate the boundaries between the judiciary and the executive, saying that it had been “called upon... to venture into territories that are way beyond the contemplated powers of a constitutional court”. However, it must be borne in mind that the judgment was not unanimous. The dissenting judge raised serious objections, arguing that several statutory provisions had been ignored in spite of public reservations. The criticism is likely to take some of the sheen off Mr Modi’s enterprise. The apex court’s prioritization of environmental concerns must be welcomed. It has also reminded the petitioners that enquiring into the priorities of an elected government is not the court’s concern. The proverbial doubting Thomases — their tribe continues to swell — however, are not obliged to honour such probities. There is bound to be concern with the Centre’s priorities when an elected dispensation deems it fit to spend Rs 20,000 crore on the Central Vista while remaining tightfisted when it comes to alleviate the economic sufferings of the poor, the migrants as well as of small enterprises. Monetary relief remains a pipe dream for these constituencies; there have also been cuts in the allowances of India’s brave soldiers, the Congress has pointed out. The project, critics suggest, is also rich in a dark symbolism: that of a pluralist, representative India making way for an ambitious but far less inclusive or tolerant nation. It is now up to Mr Modi and his party to dispel these doubts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
07-01-2021||Opinion||Shaky Indian start-up ecosystem||Narendra Modi has a peculiar penchant for fustian bluster. He said Indian start-ups of today would become the multinationals of tomorrow. Sloganeering is glib; it is much harder to deliver on a gilded dream. Start-ups have had a pretty messy ride in India because the government has not been able to create a nurturing ecosystem. The biggest challenge for a start-up is the compulsion to raise funds to scale up operations as young investors slog through the Sisyphean task of meeting exacting milestones to bag investors. This creates enormous pressure on young managements, which tend to work within a collegial atmosphere of brainstorming and camaraderie, to focus on outcomes and valuations. The fear of failure and the frustration of grappling with whimsical policy pronouncements and taxation issues continue to snuff out dreams of creating India’s response to a Facebook or an Amazon. Venture Intelligence, the research and analysis firm that tracks developments in the start-up space closely, estimates that India has 36 Unicorns at present. Unicorns are start-ups that have achieved a valuation of over $1 billion, determined by multiple rounds of funding. Flipkart — acquired by Walmart — stands at top of the heap with a valuation of $21 billion. It has still some way to go before it becomes a multinational. There can also be quibbles over whether it has retained its ‘Indian’ character after the exit of its original founders, raising questions about India’s ability to throw up its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos who can battle through challenges and retain control to ensure the firm hews close to its original vision. Funding for start-ups comes mainly from investors in the United States of America and China. The pandemic and the frosty relations with Beijing mean that there is no clarity over whether start-ups will continue to be able to source funds from Chinese investors. Last September, the parliamentary standing committee on finance published a report that made suggestions on how to reduce dependence on overseas capital by creating a pool of funds that could be funnelled to Indian start-ups. The Centre has not made things easy for start-ups with its tax policies. The parliamentary committee report said that the government should abolish the long-term capital gains tax on investments in start-ups for two years, after which a securities transaction tax could be imposed based on fair market valuation in the case of collective investment vehicles that route money into start-ups. Many start-up founders have been dismayed by India’s tax and bureaucratic hurdles and considered ‘flipping’ their corporate structures by creating holding companies in benign regulatory regimes like Singapore and the Netherlands. Several have transferred their intellectual property — the precious asset at the heart of any start-up — to these holding companies. Bureaucratic nitpicking over transfer pricing guidelines and the fierce determination to tax any transaction involving shares and IP wreck the environment, fanning the exodus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
07-01-2021||Opinion||Digital Bharat in federal India||The Bengal government has cancelled its authorization of the Common Service Centres (Tathya Mitra Kendras) that rendered online services to citizens against the realization of user charges. Instead, it has set up the Bangla Sahayata Kendra to provide digital services to people free of cost. Citizens can reportedly access all schemes of the state government through the BSK. The expenditure to set up and run the BSK centres will be borne by the state. The chief minister has urged people to visit BSKs instead of availing facilities on payment of user charges in CSCs sponsored by the Centre. The CSC project was envisaged by the United Progressive Alliance government to be implemented in a public-private-partnership model. The centres were to be run by tech-savvy, young entrepreneurs who would provide e-services to the rural population through a single delivery platform on payment of user charges. The bouquet of services included basic transactions of banks and post offices, payment of bills and insurance premiums, booking of travel tickets, access to e-forms, e-Nagarik and e-District services — birth/death certificates, caste/domicile certificates, PAN card, voter card, Aadhaar card enrolment, downloading and printing — passport applications, e-courts and result services, income tax return filings and so on. The CSCs were also thought of to provide access to skill upgradation, cost effective health services to rural masses, notification for recruitments and provide expert advice on weather/soil information to the farmers. The revenue support to the CSCs was to be borne by the Central and the state governments. Impressed by the success of the CSC model in its formative years, the National Democratic Alliance government decided to expand the scheme to each of the 2,50,000 gram panchayats and included it as one of the mission modes projects under Digital India. However, the success of the scheme is crucially dependent on healthy federal relations. Whatever may be the compulsions of competitive politics in an election year, Bengal’s parallel initiative undermines the premise that CSCs would be dependent on support from different layers of government in an ideal federal environment. The new initiative of the Bengal government, even though it may provide some employment opportunities, will jeopardize the viability of the CSCs. Did the CSCs fulfil the expectations of the policymakers? Did any state board venture to use the CSCs to reach students at a time when schools are closed because of the pandemic? Did the state health department explore the possibility of using CSCs for providing skeletal healthcare services to the rural population? There is always scope for introspection. Attempts were made to turn village entrepreneurs into banking correspondents of some private banks. Under this arrangement, the CSC was to function as the business facilitator of the bank to promote financial inclusion in rural areas. But there has been no visible impact of such efforts. Although the CSC model was not developed exclusively for rural areas, its impacts are mainly in gramin Bharat. If the CSC is to grow, it must ride piggyback on the rural postal network. Nearly 88 per cent of post offices in India are rural branch offices manned by gramin dak sevaks, who are well-versed in operating smartphones and hand-held devices connected to remote servers. Willing gramin branch postmasters must be roped in on a war-footing to provide services through the CSC portal outside their usual working hours in the post office. There is absolutely no point in having CSC in the departmental post offices that are mostly in the urban areas. The integration of gramin dak sevaks in the CSC system will lead to the expansion of CSC infrastructure and provide dak sevaks with a supplementary source of income. There was a time when trade unions and certain political parties were opposed to any form of computerization in offices. But the people’s perspective started changing, at least in urban areas, with the computerization of the railway reservation system. The computerization of the post office has had a similar effect. More than 26 crore digital transactions took place, involving an amount of Rs 30,473 crore, through hand-held devices in little more than a year. Admittedly, internet connectivity remains a concern in nearly 18 per cent of Indian villages. But if the CSC were to tie up effectively with the rural postal network, the two together may emerge as the engine of change in gramin Bharat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
07-01-2021||Opinion||Man for change||As India approaches yet another Republic Day, the political agenda — or, to be more accurate, the agenda that is projected as overriding by the media — is dominated by the issue of reforms. This is not unique. Since 1991, when an India crippled by political and economic mismanagement decided to change course — in the management of the national economy at least — the political agenda has been dictated by divergent attitudes to change. True, this was always the case since the first general election of 1951-52. The post-1991 difference was that unlike the era of total Congress dominance, competitive politics had evolved to the point where alternatives and options were available to the electorate at both the state and national levels. The stir that is being witnessed in and around the national capital, Delhi, with farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh teaming up with professional agitators has, predictably, attracted huge attention. Unlike the stereotype of ‘peasant’ agitations that fuelled the romantic imagination of an earlier generation, the protesters aren’t from the lowest and most impoverished sections of society. If the analysis of the economist, Surjit Bhalla, is to be believed, the sight of wizened old men and feisty ladies shivering in the winter rain but determined to fight for their entitlements is real but also deceptive. Using official data, Bhalla has reinforced the impression that the movement being witnessed on the electronic media isn’t really born of economic desperation but stems from a dogged defence of existing privileges. It is, in short, a movement against reforms. According to Bhalla, the top 2 lakh farmers of Punjab and Haryana have incomes that are among the top 8 per cent. More significant, the top 20,000 farmers have incomes that are in the top 2 per cent. Apart from the fact that agricultural income is free of income tax, wheat farmers enjoy a higher rate of return than rice farmers. Using data from the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, the economist has calculated that “an average rice-farmer in India gets a return of 90% over costs excluding family labour; an average wheat farmer obtains a return of 161%.” Furthermore, the profits are markedly different across regions. “The Punjab farmer has the lowest cost of production, about 75% of average for wheat, and 59% of all-India average for paddy. The yields are also higher, with the net result that the Punjab-Haryana large farmer... earns Rs 1.25 lakh a year per ha from cultivation of wheat and paddy.” Additionally, the average holding of the 1,97,000 top farmers in Punjab and Haryana is 6.3 hectares. At “Rs 1.25 lakhs per hectare, this translates into an annual tax-free income of Rs 7.9 lakhs.” The largest farmers, with holdings of 12.6 hectares on an average, are estimated to have agricultural income of approximate Rs 15.75 lakh annually. The fact that those protesting on the Delhi border aren’t exactly peasants engaged in subsistence farming — as nearly 90 per cent of agriculturists in West Bengal are — does not necessarily make this movement illegitimate or less worthy of national attention. It has about the same measure of significance as the protests of diamond traders and cloth merchants in Gujarat against the goods and services tax prior to the Gujarat assembly election of 2017. The social character of the agitation, however, explains a few things. First, it explains why the movement is confined to what was once referred to as the Green Revolution tract. In other parts of India, where smaller farmers have the means of securing the minimum support price for wheat and rice, there is a natural attraction for the deregulation of the market and liberation from the middlemen who are the only real beneficiaries of the old APMC Act. The enacted reforms are also likely to spur investments in agro-industries, including cold storages. These investments have, so far, been patchy owing to earlier restrictions against ‘hoarding’ — restrictions that were put in place during the era of food shortages. Secondly, the support extended to the agitating farmers by a galaxy of economists who had earlier been pressing on governments to undertake the most challenging of economic reforms may seem puzzling. It confirms that the objection is less to the song than the singer. This may explain why a substantial body of the orphaned Left has rallied behind a cause that in earlier decades would have been debunked as kulak. The intellectual support for the agitation is intimately connected with the fact that — for reasons of its own — the Narendra Modi government has effected a tectonic shift in the composition of ‘experts’ whose views it values. Finally, the ongoing agitation, it is clear, is an instrument to put the Modi government on the back foot. This, again, is a natural goal of the Opposition, which is yet to fully recover from the drubbing it received in the 2019 general election. The Opposition had begun 2020 by instigating what was essentially a Muslim revolt against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. This fulfilled a short-term function during the Delhi assembly election that the Bharatiya Janata Party lost miserably but its all-India objective was stymied by the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. During the lockdown and its immediate aftermath, there was also an attempt to use the panic among migrant workers for partisan ends. However, this too had limited success, as was evident from the absence of any backlash during the Bihar assembly election the Opposition Grand Alliance hoped it would win but lost narrowly. The farmer’s agitation in Punjab and Haryana is another roll of the dice. The calculation is that if Modi steps back, it will have a knock-on effect and reduce its appetite for future reforms. And, if the reforms come to a screeching halt, the Modi government will lose its momentum and merely go through the motions for the rest of its second term. The extent to which the prime minister has become a personal target for those who seek to put the quest for political power above reforms should not be underestimated. Whereas earlier governments had tried to manage reforms through stealth, Modi has expended his enormous political capital, particularly his image as a man of unimpeachable integrity, to accelerate the pace of change in India. Whether it is the expansion of banking services to reach the lowest layers of Indian society, managing the hiccups resulting from the introduction of GST and enlarging the quantum of tax compliance through a combination of carrot and stick, the prime minister has pushed through reforms relentlessly, believing that he has the political mandate to usher change. Nor has he been afraid of the political fracas that invariably results from change. Whether as chief minister in Gujarat and now as prime minister, he has a fanatical appetite to take risks in pursuit of a worthwhile objective. He has confronted challenges headlong, even if it has involved local difficulties — be it in Gujarat after the imposition of GST, in Assam and West Bengal after the CAA, and in coping with the understandable fear of rich farmers over losing their comfort zone. Modi, it would seem, has repeatedly threatened the cosy world of those who are comfortable in an unchanging realm where stagnation and political status quo go hand in hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-92
