08-01-2021||Opinion||Give it time: cooling-off period for judges||Laws are the product of a society’s understanding of justice; it may not feel that the deliverers of justice require laws defining ethical principles. Recently, a two-judge bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court underlined the need for a cooling-off period for judges before they accepted another position after retirement. This has long been a subject of debate but, with no law imposing a time bar, retired judges often accept appointments whenever they are offered, whether by the government or the court. A report on the post-retirement assignments of Supreme Court judges since 1999 shows that 73 out of 103 took up new posts, 65 of them within three years of retirement; 62 of them had positions offered by the government or those in which it had a say. The context of the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s remark was its reported concern that the courts were ‘under attack’ from those in power. The suggestion of compliance could destroy the people’s trust in the judiciary’s neutrality, a feeling that found some expression when Ranjan Gogoi, the former Chief Justice of India, was nominated to the Rajya Sabha four months after his retirement. He had headed the bench that pronounced the verdict on the Babri Masjid-Ram Mandir land case which had caused discomfort to many. The prime minister later laid the foundation stone of the mandir. Another former CJI was appointed governor of Kerala in 2014 — also four months after retiring. It is no secret that a governor is the Centre’s person in an Opposition-ruled state. Other Supreme Court judges have joined as heads of tribunals, government commissions and committees, or as lokayuktas. Court-appointed posts seldom have the pay and perquisites of a government-nominated position, but a puzzled public may find these nuances elusive. The importance of a cooling-off period of two to three years, therefore, has been argued by many, including some judges. The perception of people is all-important: they must not feel that the possibility of a suitable assignment after retirement can colour verdicts. Judges are seen as examples of ethical conduct; they do not need a law to determine how long they should wait before taking up another appointment. Since the Supreme Court prides itself on its internal checks and balances, this is a check it should formulate by itself. Legislation for a time bar is unlikely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||Shamed: Capitol Hill attack||A demagogue should have no place in a democracy. Ironically, a democracy can end up electing a demagogue to office. The United States of America, the torchbearer of global democracy, has shown the world that such a horror can, indeed, come to pass. Capitol Hill, the plinth that supports democratic America, was under siege — and shamed — by a mob of supporters of the outgoing president, Donald Trump. The mob clashed with security men, disrupted the proceedings of the electoral count, while claiming, among other things, that the elections that led to Mr Trump’s ouster were fraudulent. The outrage was not spontaneous: it was part of a deliberate, unfolding orchestration by a cynical leader who seems to relish his anti-constitutionalism. That the rioters were allowed easy access to the temple of American democracy raises speculations of a wilfully tardy security arrangement. The cue must have come from the top. Mr Trump and his admirers have been engaged in inciting supporters for a while, refusing to concede the polls. Hours before the attack, Mr Trump’s lawyer endorsed a ‘trial by combat’; it has been reported that Mr Trump, too, had made patently false claims shortly before the carnage. Mr Trump is no bitter loser: he has lent explicit support to an insurrection against democracy and the US Constitution. The ironies of the Trumpian legacy are glaring. The leader who projected himself to be a custodian of law and order thought nothing of attempting to subvert time-honoured stipulations that protect the citadel of democracy. His tepid response to the assault on Capitol Hill blows to smithereens his carefully crafted image of a president who prides himself in upholding the law against agents of chaos. The man who pledged to make America great has now turned the nation into a laughing stock in the eyes of its rivals: Beijing, the opposite of a model democracy, mocked the US by describing the metaphorical fire on Capitol Hill as a “beautiful sight”. Those committed to democracy and its ideals may take heart from the fact that Joe Biden’s triumph is now formal. But Mr Trump’s ability for mischief must not be undermined. The law must act swiftly and decisively against the storm-troopers and their general. The challenge to reclaim democracy from the grip of the Trumpian vision remains formidable. Yet, it must be overcome. Otherwise, democracy, not just in the US, will be devoured by its children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||Make a case for heritage conservation in India||Unlike in the West where it is a well-established subject with a sound philosophical foundation, conservation, being a new discipline, faces many challenges in India. We in India are in an experimental phase of it. In the Indian context, historians treat buildings sacrosanct and want no changes; developers/builders see conservation as a major obstruction and want complete change; society — by and large ignorant of conservation — is convinced that such a change is necessary; the government is unconcerned and living heritage is not on its agenda — the few conservation cases that the government undertakes are usually beautification drives; the architect — not exposed to conservation — is content developing and redeveloping sites. It is the conservationist who treats heritage contextually and serves as a bridge between the historian and the builder. Stiff challenges Properties in historic cities also lack maintenance. This is because the Rent Control Act enacted in the 1940s had frozen rents. Consequently landlords can’t maintain their buildings and they have to be pulled down or redeveloped. Restoration is in its nascent stage. Skilful repairs are rare while reconstruction/redevelopment ends up being pastiche replicas. A conservationist or a conservation architect usually faces the following challenges — excessive experimentation with material and techniques; an unsympathetic ambience that does not nurture the importance of conservation in the masses; the loss of traditions and skills during the execution of projects; difficulty in sourcing traditional materials, such as coloured glass, lead and lime works; poor appreciation of the skill of craftsmen who are poorly remunerated; the absence of scientific laboratories to test material or mortar mixes; conservation is a slow and tedious process and tight deadlines are one of the biggest impediments to quality conservation enterprises; since most heritage sites are owned by the government, bureaucratic rules — the floating of tenders, awarding work to the lowest bidder, adherence to the Schedule of Rates — pose problems; government support for lived in heritage of residential stock is minimal, resulting in the encouragement of redevelopment that is detrimental to conservation; slow approvals and complicated permission rules add to conservation’s challenges.Build bridges Conservation builds bridges between the past and the future through the present. It provides an opportunity to tap into traditional skills and integrate crafts into mainstream construction. It ensures continuity and when used in residential stock, it can create affordable housing without disrupting the fragile socio-cultural balance. Finally, it generates employment for craftsmen and augments tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||A light in the gathering gloom: the case of Amartya Sen and Indian politics||In order to be in Indian politics, individuals should come prepared for a barrage of abuse, legal harassment, intrusions into personal lives and the very real threat of losing their own. An essential element of the coping strategy would then be to treat both garlands and brickbats with mild indifference. The modern political amphitheatre accommodates everything but academic brilliance. We like our academics to be apolitical and treat them with respect so long as they remain in their campuses, using their pen to address issues unrelated to society and active politics. This expectation denies the very creativity that distinguishes great minds from those of laymen. History has been witness to the transition of academics into activists with varying degrees of success. Rabindranath Tagore, even though he was not an academic in the formal sense, had made this transition; so did Albert Einstein. With their insights, these individuals obeyed a set of principles and enriched the practice of thought and justice within the limits of their time. Increasing discomfort with events around them compelled these individuals to step outside their comfort zones at some point. This happened to Tagore and Einstein; it’s also happening to Amartya Sen. Personal attacks in the guise of a land scam have forced Sen to transcend the boundary. Such transgressions have taken place in Bengal which has traditionally been more receptive to academics and academicians compared to the rest of India. But Bengal is also showing signs of degeneration where cerebral voices are being shunned by politicians when their opinion is not to the liking of the latter. Sen has thrown himself into this battle to prevent the destruction of constructive politics. In the process, he has also been dragged into an unsavoury contest. We love our great minds. We ruminate regularly on their achievements in dinner-table conversations. But we recoil instantly when these individuals provide inputs concerning constructive social improvement. The way politicians have infiltrated into the sphere of academic eminence over the past few decades is responsible for this decline. The relative silence in the academia regarding the allegations against Sen is another sad reflection of this unfortunate trend. Sen inspires others to disagree and argue. Having been a pursuer of pluralist traditions of knowledge — Indian, Chinese, Greek, Arabic-Persian, African and the West — Sen has been championing the values of dialectical interaction between people and communities as well as between social and intellectual traditions. Indeed, what distinguishes Sen is not the Nobel prize or his numerous honorary doctoral degrees or the books and papers that he has authored that have also been translated into numerous languages across the world. Sen’s most distinguished trait is his ability to respect diverse, differing and contrasting views. He has also been championing the exercise of reason. But there is another — much darker — side to India. Its narrow vision rejects the light of knowledge. Sen represents the shining tradition of academic activism. He isn’t the first and, hopefully, won’t be the last.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
08-01-2021||Opinion||For a new order||The eminently forgettable 2020 is now past. Here is, once again, an opportunity to wish for, if not the best or the better, at least some good. What the twenty-first year of the twenty-first century inaugurates is a decade of struggle towards restoration of normalcy. Clearly, that is a long haul since the world, the nation, and human society seem to have arrived at the unenviable on most fronts. I do not know when in history ‘wishing’ replaced ‘blessing’ and ‘prayer’ and whether that linguistic shift marks the date for humans having replaced gods as the makers of destiny. But if wishing indeed is our self-given prerogative, here is my wish list for the decade inaugurated last week. One — Over the last three decades, the world has become increasingly unipolar. International regulators and institutions have been relegated to a subservient position. Paper-tiger international institutions have no longer the capacity and the will to restrain bully nations or protect and safeguard hapless displaced people and the newly-emergent small economies. The epidemic scale of autocratic regimes over the last decade is in no small measure a result of the collapse of the international order. Let us hope that during this decade, the community of nations forges a fresh idea of ‘order’ that bypasses coercive monopoly. Two — The climatic age named ‘Holocene’, stretching over the last eleven millennia, is decidedly receding into the past. It is being replaced by what scientists like to call the ‘Anthropocene’. The Holocene was marked by the end of the Ice Age and a desirable warming of climate leading to the rise of civilizations. The Anthropocene is marked by the acceleration of human intervention in climatic conditions leading to massive climate changes that can destroy not just human civilizations but also other life species on earth. Scientists generally agree that we have gone past several tipping points in this journey and are recklessly moving closer to extinction. Let us hope that the community of nations comes to an agreement that will spare the future generations the fate of becoming extinct. Three — As a word, ‘globalization’, was highly attractive when it first hit the political discourse. It promised free choice of lifestyles and the possibility of crossing one’s national borders without feeling intimidated. The corporate siege of the idea has ended up creating an unbridgeable gap between the poor of the world and the few rich individuals. It has enhanced the desire for individualism without enhancing the means to retain the individual’s dignity. It has also caused a considerable weakening of the nation state and almost terminated the older idea of State responsibility. We now have governments everywhere that are neither willing to take responsibility of citizens’ health, education, shelter and food sufficiency, nor have the capacity to do so. May the original meaning of ‘globalization’ — expanded freedom for all — be restored in the third decade, at least in a small degree. Four — In our zest for reducing human labour, we seem to have gone overboard by creating artificial intelligence. As science and technology, it is impressive. But as sociology and culture, it is a disaster. A lot of AI is tasked with the surveillance of citizens. The memory chip power used for political gains has already made ‘truth’ look like a poor joke. Artificial Memory has already captivated not just the Natural Memory but also the Natural Imagination. The logic of the cyber world has already started replacing the earth experience of man with fantasy that peoples cyberspace. Let us hope that we have the time to work out new legislation that will protect humans from the attack of the AI. Five — In the Indian context, the breakdown of democratic norms and institutions mandated by the Constitution is a source of worry for anyone who respects the Constitution. Let us hope that the judiciary delivers justice, the Election Commission resumes being fair to all political parties, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the income tax department stop being instruments of suppression of dissent and state governors resume their ‘titular’ role and not be over-active. Let us hope that the armed forces and the police are spared the trauma of being ideologically charged. Let us hope that the institutions created for keeping our democracy safe deliver. They are all creatures of the Constitution and the Constitution itself is given to India by the people of India. Six — The idea of an all-pervasive divinity brings to people in all civilizations the promise of love, peace and happiness. On the other hand, religious dogma creates barriers between communities. The poison of hatred in the name of religion has sunk too deep in the minds of Indian citizens. The neuropolitics of new varieties has made ‘an eye for an eye’ the catchphrase. Despite communal tensions, Indians are known throughout history to be a tolerant people. Let the springs of tolerance available in all Indian traditions — Buddhist, Hindu, Sufi, Muslim, Christian, Jain, Sikh, nature worship — find resurgence. We need them now more than ever before. Seven — The most fascinating aspect of Indian society and culture is their immense diversity. The hundreds of languages we have created and kept alive, the thousands of gods we have conceptualized and worshipped, our diverse geographical conditions and traditions of arts, music, dance, performance and painting, the great diversity of world views that we have together make us Indians. When one of the worldviews we have perishes, a part of India dies in each one of us. At present, almost all of our politics, ideas of development and progress and lifestyles have mounted a severe assault on the diversity that makes India what India is. Let us hope that India manages to survive the assault. Let us hope we do not add to the ferocity of that attack in the name of ‘one nation’ followed by whatever tag, such as ‘one nation, one election’, ‘one nation, one religion’, ‘one nation, one language.’ Let us hope that India bounces back and diversity, federalism, pluralism find their due legitimacy in our thought and action. Eight — My final wish for the third decade of the twenty-first century is the one that Rabindranath Tagore had once wished for us all. Let the mind be without fear. The atmosphere of intimidation and fear is deeply destructive of the human spirit. Let us hope with Gurudev that the narrow walls we have created crumble soon and we all can breathe in freedom. The author is a literary scholar and cultural activist; ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
