09-01-2021||Opinion||Bad decision: Tamil Nadu opens movie theatres||Sir — At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging, one wonders how the Tamil Nadu government took the decision to allow movie theatres and multiplexes in the state to function with 100 per cent occupancy. The Centre has rightly asked the state dispensation, led by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, to scrap the order and to refrain from diluting the guidelines and standard operating procedures outlined by the Union home ministry for dealing with the contagion. According to the ministry’s instructions, only 50 per cent of the seats in cinema halls can be booked, and that too only outside containment zones. It is indeed foolhardy to allow movie halls to function at full capacity. One of the primary ways to combat Covid-19 is to maintain social distancing so that the virus is not able to spread easily from person to person. How is social distancing to be adhered to in a cinema hall, where people are seated so close to one another? I live in Calcutta and recently went to watch a film at a multiplex. Only every alternate seat in the theatre could be occupied. Even this is hazardous, given that the disease is still spreading — especially now that there is a mutant strain of the virus going around that is reportedly even more infectious. But I also understand that businesses have suffered tremendously as a result of the lockdown, as has people’s mental health on account of staying isolated at home all the time. In the light of this, if adequate precautions are taken, proper distancing maintained and strict sanitization protocols followed, then allowing cinema halls to function at half their capacity can be accepted. However, the Tamil Nadu government’s decision was irresponsible and unbecoming of a set of leaders who are tasked with protecting the lives of the people in their state. Sayani Bose,Calcutta Help them Sir — It was heartening to read that the Spanish tennis superstar and the two-time Grand Slam champion, Garbiñe Muguruza, used her off-season time to go for military training on the Spanish island of Mallorca. She may have started the training as an adventure and a way to experience thrills, but she noticed the plight of the migrant population and that was a real eye-opener for her. Political instability and conflict are two of the main causes pushing thousands of people from sub-Saharan African nations to move to Europe by crossing the Mediterranean Sea. However, only a small section of these people are legal asylum seekers; the rest are illegal immigrants. According to estimates by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, as of January 2019, 70.8 million asylum seekers had been displaced worldwide. The current picture is grim, as is the future. Other than civil wars, human rights violations, gender-based violence, economic hardship and climate change are turning people into refugees every day. Sub-Saharan African countries also have a water crisis. In the middle of a pandemic, poor sanitation and lack of access to healthcare services and information and the impossibility of maintaining social distancing in refugee centres threaten the lives of millions of people arriving on European shores. Migration can be reduced by ending wars, increasing trade and development and therefore creating employment. It is good that Muguruza is troubled by the plight of the refugees; one hopes to see her working for their uplift in the future. Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta New role Sir — It was heartening to read that the Western Railway had an all-women crew pilot a goods train for the first time. This is a significant move towards making a job of this sort more accessible to women. They are usually discouraged from entering professions that involve frequent travel, as the burden of domestic duties is inevitably placed upon them. In fact, the latter is surely one of the reasons why the Indian Railways does not have many loco-pilots who are women, even though there is a sizeable number of women employees overall. This progressive move by the Western Railway ought to open the doors to more such opportunities for women. Sakshi Koli,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
09-01-2021||Opinion||Golden calves: New Age of the Indian Cow||In New India, everything is new. Even the foundations of intelligence and learning have to be laid afresh. With this noble aim in mind, the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog has announced a voluntary online examination to encourage Indians’ curiosity about the cow and the superiority of indigenous breeds over foreign ones. The Kamdhenu Gau-Vigyan Prachar-Prasar Examination will be held on February 25, and everyone, from Union education ministers [sic], state chief ministers and education ministers, district education officers, chairmen of gau seva aayogs and principals of schools to the media, non-governmental organizations and cow donors, is expected to be involved in the “mammoth” exercise. The ambition is on a mammoth scale too, and the sense of all-absorbing national importance quite stunning. The RKA has uploaded an extraordinary syllabus for the test on its website — extraordinary in its complete overhauling of the meaning and definition of science and its confidence in heralding in the New Age of the Indian Cow. Strangely enough, the Centre avoided claiming the syllabus; an officer said that the government has not approved it, and that the RKA is an autonomous body. This claim shrouds in enigma, in hindsight, the fact that it was set up by the Centre in February 2019 to upgrade cow resources genetically and improve productivity, while implementing cow protection laws and welfare schemes. Or that is what the finance minister of the time said. So is the government behind the examination or not? The gau vigyan reference material explains, using terms from science, that the “Einsteinian pain waves” set off by the accumulated stress and agony of cows going to slaughter cause earthquakes. A book is referred to: evidently, the three authors are the only scientists that the RKA recognizes. Besides, indigenous gau matas, unlike Jerseys, have gold in their milk, the understanding never to sit in dirt, are emotional, with their ears reflecting intelligence and their tails leading to higher regions of being. Their udders dispense ambrosia in the form of milk, with properties no foreign breed can match. The virtues of cow dung and urine have already been much publicized. These can cure leprosy among other illnesses and have antiseptic powers, while being anti-radioactive and anti-thermal as well. In Bhopal, says the reference material, those who had their walls coated with cow dung survived the gas leak; India and Russia use “shielding” dung in their nuclear power centres. There is much more in the same vein. But questions about the purpose of this exercise are unavoidable. This propagation of pseudo-science and staggering falsehoods masquerading as proven truth comes after widespread objections to the anti-scientific attitude being nurtured by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government. Is this, then, a means of distraction from urgent problems as well as a spur to drive Indians deeper into the morass of Hindutva-dictated credulousness? For certificates and prizes await the examinees; all they need to do is believe in the mantra — bovinity is divinity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
09-01-2021||Opinion||Narendra Modi: wrong image||Narendra Modi’s supporters should be aware that the Indian prime minister’s reputation is being eroded by seemingly casual references in the Western media. Take, for example, Pick of the Week, on BBC Radio 4, in which various presenters choose their personal highlights from the previous seven days. On Sunday, I caught Brian Eno, described as a “musician, thinker, artist and all round good egghead”, suggesting that there was much that could be learnt from 2020: “For a start we have discovered that women tend to run countries better than men do. All of the countries that did really well in this pandemic were run by women. And all of the ones that did really badly were run by very macho men — England, USA, Brazil, Philippines, India — all of those are models of kind of male style government. They really made a mess of dealing with the pandemic. So it would be good if we learnt that lesson that we don’t need macho men any longer to run things — we need people who can cooperate and who are humble in the face of the evidence, who don’t think they can beat it just by being ‘He Men’.” All in one Alan Rusbridger, who was editor-in-chief of The Guardian from 1995-2015, has written an A to Z of journalism which will amuse, entertain and instruct online readers of the newspaper — especially journalists in India. In News: And How to Use It, Rusbridger, now principal of Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, offers his reflections, picking A for accuracy, B for bias, bribery and also Brexit on which he suggests the debate was skewed: “[P]ublic opinion had been shaped over decades of being starved of any positive reasons to belong in Europe.” He is spot on. When you listen to talk radio, you hear members of the public reproducing parrot fashion — “we want to get our sovereignty back” — what they have read in tabloids. The book has C for celebrity, cliché and clickbait; E for experts; F for fact-checkers, fake news and Robert Fisk (some of his contemporaries claim he often made up his stuff); M for mistakes and Rupert Murdoch; P for power without responsibility; and so on through to Z for generation Z or zoomers. On R for royal reporting — and there is fascination with Britain’s royal family across the world — Rusbridger points out: “Out of any beat, royal reporting is a world almost devoid of open or named sources... we have to take it on trust that here are legions of ‘aides’, ‘palace insiders’, ‘friends’ and ‘senior courtiers’ constantly WhatsApping their favourite reporters with the latest gossip.” Although journalism has become an issue of trust, newspapers still remain a powerful medium for shaping public opinion. Rusbridger suggests “journalists need to look into the mirror a bit more and try to see themselves as others see them. The best of journalism will thrive. Maybe we needed a pandemic to wake us up to its importance.” Home is where the heart is Narindar Saroop’s favoured newspaper, The Daily Telegraph, did him proud by devoting generous space to his obituary, pointing out that he had described himself as “an Englishman of Punjabi extraction”. Actually, the full quote, which Narindar had jokingly given me, was: “I am an Englishman of Punjabi extraction who sits on a tiger skin rug, wearing a monocle, eating chicken tandoori and humming God Save the Queen — gentlemen always hum, they never whistle.” After leaving the Indian army in 1952 with the rank of major, Narindar moved to Calcutta to join Yule Catto. This eventually brought him to England. It was rare in those days for an Indian be a serious Conservative parliamentary candidate but he stood in a London constituency — Greenwich — in the 1979 general election. After he got 12,133 votes to Labour’s winning 18,975, Margaret Thatcher, Britain’s first woman prime minister, commended him for putting up “such a good fight against the odds”. She thanked him for setting up the Anglo-Asian Conservative Society, as well as the Durbar Club where cabinet ministers dined with wealthy Asian businessmen. He did the groundwork for the close links that exist today between the Conservative Party and Indian voters, who helped put Boris Johnson in power. Narindar died, aged 91, on December 19. I wish the Tories had given him what he desperately wanted — a seat in the House of Lords.Foreign shores Among friends lost in 2020 is Rini Kakati, who was a sort of unofficial ambassador for Assam in London. She promoted Bihu dance, the plight of rhinos in Kaziranga, and encouraged people to visit Assam and see its lush beauty. Her great triumph was to get Bhupen Hazarika to perform in London in 1999. Rini died suddenly, a septuagenarian, at Gauhati Medical College and Hospital on December 27. Warm tributes were paid to her in a Zoom gathering organized from London by Lalit Mohan Joshi, director of South Asian Cinema Foundation. The BBC’s former Asia editor, Rita Payne, who is herself from Assam, recalled how the Assamese were and perhaps still are marginalized in India. “Rini put Assam on the map here in the UK.”Footnote Imran Khan’s ex-wife, Jemima Khan, stars in the new issue of Tatler, the “British society bible”, for holding the “Best Parties” in country homes. The daughter of the late billionaire, Sir James Goldsmith, bought a £15m mansion, Kiddington Hall, in Oxfordshire, where she hosts “legendary” parties. “Cocktails flow as freely from the enormous bar as the guests (Jeremy Clarkson, Mick Jagger, Gillian Anderson) flow between rooms, burgers in hand,” reports Tatler.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
09-01-2021||Opinion||Missed opportunity||Man proposes, god disposes. Having to cancel his India trip deprives Boris Johnson of the chance of sticking another feather in the cap of his Global Britain project which already claims trade agreements with 63 countries covering merchandise worth £885 billion. India’s loss is greater. The British prime minister’s presence on an auspicious occasion like Republic Day would have enabled Indians to remind Narendra Modi that an active Parliament, a relatively free press and uninhibited public opinion are essentials of democratic governance. The alternative, as Joe Biden, the president-elect of the United States of America, warned the other day, is “insurrection”. It remains just as lawless when the storm troopers are government forces. Johnson and Modi are both at the helm of troubled and grotesquely unequal societies ravaged by the coronavirus. They could have had a lot to discuss if they risked frankness. But the conversation might have tended at times to resemble a fictitious dialogue in which Hendrik Verwoerd, the South African politician who formalized apartheid as an instrument of policy, was asked why he didn’t apply the whip to his opponents. “I did!” he expostulated. “Also the lash and the cane.” Even Verwoerd might seem lily-white compared to two Modi cronies now in the news. Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has been indicted for bribery, fraud and breach of trust. Donald Trump faces possible impeachment or an invocation of the 25th amendment declaring him unfit for office. Neither can compare with a British politician of Turkish descent with a divorced half-Sikh wife whose Indian relatives badger him for “clinky” — their word for Scotch — and who hopes that Modi will reduce import duty on alcohol. He is less keen on Modi’s hope of flooding Britain with more Indian immigrants. That is another talking point. The positives that India and Britain still share are press, Parliament and public opinion. All three have changed vastly in recent years and many of Bagehot’s formulations seem as obscure today as those of Ambedkar. But a government that claims to reflect the wishes of the people and accepts public opinion as the ultimate monarch ignores those three pillars of democracy only at its own peril. The danger is all the greater when leaders delve beyond and below the rational values that hold a modern nation together to seek a common denominator that yields votes by pandering to primal instincts. To take one instance of a healthy interaction, on January 5 three British newspapers — The Times, The Sun and i — called for daily updates on how many people had been vaccinated against Covid-19. As Nick Ferrari, a firebrand radio journalist, said the next day, not only must journalists ensure that the government is “delivering on giving the vaccine” but “it is the media’s job to ask daily how many jabs have been done”. By then Johnson had already pledged to publish daily figures, starting next Monday, January 11. His promise of “maximum possible transparency” — day by day and jab by jab — came within 10 hours of the initial demand. Although not regarded as the most consistent or decisive of politicians, he is expected to keep the promise. Johnson could have assured Modi that his interventions in the Commons, his frequent television appearances and regular impromptu press conferences flanked by medical specialists and civil servants have enhanced — not diminished — respect for his person and position. It was particularly invigorating to watch Britain’s prime minister in conversation with the veteran journalist and historian, Andrew Marr, who interrupted, corrected and contradicted him without giving offence. Time was when India’s leaders were also responsive to the media. When I joined The Statesman in 1960, I was told with some pride that Jawaharlal Nehru had acted swiftly on the paper’s editorial suggestion that the rule requiring income tax clearance for Indians travelling abroad should be abolished. If today’s ruling politicians cannot conceive of such respect for the media’s views, the sad paradox is that neither can many of today’s media personnel. When I expressed doubts in a TV discussion in Delhi about the quality of Indian democracy, the sycophantically shrieking anchor at once began trotting out the number of registered voters, voting booths, ballot papers and so on to overwhelm me with an avalanche of mind-boggling numbers that sustained for him the glory of being the world’s largest democracy. His understanding of democratic governance did not go beyond statistics. Regarding his employers, Lee Kuan Yew rebutted the International Press Institute’s claim that a free press curbs political corruption by retorting that many media houses are themselves corrupt. As for Parliament, the “talking shop” that inspired E.M. Forster’s two cheers, it is to Johnson’s credit that an irritated Labour parliamentarian from Manchester accused the government of wanting “MPs to go back to sitting in parliament permanently”. The House of Commons sat for 40 of last year’s 52 weeks. In contrast, India’s Parliament met for only 33 days — just over four weeks. Johnson could have reminded his host that Parliament is at the core of democracy. Far from being “a frippery, a bauble on the British constitution, it is the British constitution”, as Johnson’s friend and colleague, Jacob Rees-Mogg, leader of the House, told fellow members. “It is at the essence of how our governmental and constitutional system works.” That is supposed to be so in India too. Recalling that Parliament did not sit in 1349 when the Black Death raged in England, the traditionalist Rees-Mogg, bearing the burdens of past ages, added that modern technology enables MPs to carry out fundamental constitutional functions without impediment. Enter Zoom with the Speaker specifying that the rules and courtesies of the House as well as its dress code must be extended to the virtual Parliament. The Lords did better. Peers who attend the red-upholstered chamber are paid £323 per day while those who make only a virtual appearance are fobbed off with a measly £162. The rules don’t say anything about Bame (black, Asian and minority ethnic) life peers notoriously caught out fudging expenses. But members of parliament who settle for Zoom were warned to be mindful of the background: unfortunately for them, the media is not terribly interested in the impressive tomes with which some line the walls of the studies where they take calls. A Modi-Johnson meeting would not have been the first. But it could have been a useful give-and-take between two superb showmen beset with troubles that neither will admit. In spite of all that bluster, Johnson cannot know how 159 pages of export rules will make an impact on exports. Or how the service sector accounting for 80 per cent of the economy will fare since the 1,246-page Brexit divorce settlement hardly noticed it. One of the world’s biggest-ever immunization drives places Britain’s National Health Service under intense pressure. School closure has left the young confused and fearful. Incentives to businessmen leave out millions. These are only some uncertainties, as Scotland threatens to go its own way with people wondering if the six counties of Northern Ireland will join Ireland’s 26, or Gibraltar return to Spain. Brexit was the end of a dream. Modi might have prescribed “cooperative federalism” as the antidote. He lauds it for India’s relatively modest — if official figures are to be believed — pandemic toll. In theory, cooperative federalism might enable Europe one day to regain the vision that inspired the first Paneuropean Union in 1923. In practice, it means a powerful centre blending the authority of president and prime minister and enfeebled limbs that are bludgeoned into obedience. It is not consistent with the democracy to which both prime ministers pay obeisance and of which Boris Johnson would have been a refreshing exemplar in weary India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-91
