10-01-2021||Opinion||Dead man talking ||Death is a great unifier. The experience of bereavement can blur cultural and linguistic barriers. The ways of coping with the loss of a loved one are diverse — in Sudan, people celebrate the dead by dressing in their likeness and dancing; the Torajans of Indonesia have been known to care for and talk to a mummified body months after the person has died. What is common to most cultures, however, is the desire for contact with those who have passed on. It is not surprising that one of the oldest — and perhaps most enduring — means of coping with loss is communion with the dead. In pre-industrial societies the shaman — he survives in ancient pockets of the modern world — served as the crucial link between the worlds of the living and the dead. This link to the shadowy world may have been rendered tenuous by the cold shard of scientific reasoning. But loss does not yield to reason: the desire to communicate with loved ones beyond the grave persists. Even science seems to have taken note of this bond, donning the mask of the shaman in the process. Microsoft has filed a patent, which raises the intriguing possibility of digitally reincarnating dead people as a chat bot. The artificial intelligence bot would use ‘social data’ — images, voice data, social media posts, electronic messages and letters — to build the profile of the deceased and a 2D or 3D model of the person may be generated using images and video data. Essentially, technology would be striving to create digital surrogates of the dead. This copy could exist in a kind of virtual Elysium, able to Skype into family dinners long after a person has died. For the bereaved, this could be a balm for their pain. But the cultural and philosophical implications of science resurrecting the dead are worrying. Loss is integral to life, deepening its meaning for humanity. It is the fear of as well as the experience of loss that, ironically, gives humanity its ability to relate to and hold dear the world, its beings and values. The prospect of immortality could well snuff out this shared joy and spirit of empathy, hurtling civilization towards an unimaginable ennui. Moreover, is it not death that remains the ultimate marker of difference between man and machine? The blurring of lines between science and neo-shamanism raises other interesting questions. Science has long been criticized for its reliance on positivism and empiricism, traits that, while being critical to challenge the irrational, have also made the scientific pursuit immune to the world of emotions. It seems that advancements — AI is one example — are arming science to attain a more humane essence. But the transformation — concession to emotion — can do a lot of damage to the edifice of rationality. Also, an AI chat bot equivalent of the dear departed would, essentially, be equivalent to pulling the wool over the discerning eye. Science’s conquest of the final frontier — mortality — remains incomplete. Unlike the shaman, science will not be able to make the dead — a technological amalgamation of facts and images of a lived life — speak of their new, nebulous world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Humpty Dumpty had a great fall||When a big fella falls flat on the face, the other small, big and middling fellas cannot help but feel secretly thrilled. Last Wednesday’s hurly burly at the United States’ Capitol Hill by Donald Trump supporters even as the Congress was certifying Joe Biden’s victory, did not so much elicit shock and horror as it did a smug satisfaction. In the global arena, this extended way beyond Bully Trump. In the global arena, this was actually about the self-righteous, sanctimonious, global busybody Uncle Sam taking a tumble. Jeer Leaders China did not mince its words. The foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying, harked back to the US reaction at the time of the Hong Kong protests of 2019. Speaker Nancy Pelosi had called the Anti-Extradition Law Amendment Bill demonstrations “a beautiful sight to behold” and remarked that Chinese President Xi Jinping had been “really taking China backward in terms of repression”. Russian President Vladimir Putin, for all his bromance with Trump, pretended nothing had happened --- he wished his constituency Merry Christmas instead on the occasion of Orthodox Christmas Day. But Konstantin Kosachev, who is head of the foreign affairs committee in Russia’s Federation Council, said in a social media post: “The celebration of democracy is over. America no longer forges that path, and consequently has lost its right to define it. Much less force it on others.” Master Class Iran President Hassan Rouhani said, “What we saw in the US last night and today really showed that first how brittle and weak western democracy is, and how weak its foundations are.” Iran and the US have had no diplomatic relations for the last three decades and since 1995 the US has an embargo on trade with Iran. And when Turkey urged its citizens in the US to stay away from crowded places and demonstrations, it was pointed out that this mimicked the tone of US government advisories for its own while visiting Turkey in view of the “terrorism risk”. Pakistan reacted with a rather emphatic congratulation to President-elect Joe Biden on the certification of his win by the US Congress. And in Jeune Afrique, the French-language pan-African weekly news magazine, columnist Damien Glez wrote, “We often look like those we snub.” PM Modi tweeted that he was “distressed”, adding something about how the democratic process cannot be allowed to be subverted through unlawful protests. When a big fella falls flat on the face, the smart fellas take notes from the margins.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Deep impressions||The first female doctors in Indian history leave a deep impression. From the late 19th century to the mid-20th century, these brilliant women carried the zeal of providing medical assistance to their hapless sisters dying during childbirth. Anandibai Joshi got her medical degree from the Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania in 1886 which she attained after showing tremendous courage and fortitude in facing opposition, travelling alone to the United States of America at the age of 17, living among strangers for four years and completing a gruelling medical course. Married in childhood, she had suffered a painful childbirth and the loss of her infant son by the age of 12, which had taken a heavy toll on her health. She passed away just before she turned 22 due to tuberculosis, which worsened during the long sea voyage from America to Bombay. Rukhmabai was the next gynaecology surgeon who had earlier become famous for her refusal to cohabit with her husband as “it was a child marriage and her consent was not asked.” The British court and the conservative Hindu had agreed that kanyadaan means the gifting of a virgin daughter from father to groom; her consent was thus irrelevant. This case was widely publicized in India, England and the US, and was instrumental in the passage of the Age of Consent Act, 1891. Rukhmabai was saved from going to prison by the Sutar panchayat in Bombay after the payment of a hefty fine to the husband. She then went to the Royal Free Hospital in London and became a doctor in 1894. Rashid Jahan was a doctor, communist and writer. Born in 1905 in Aligarh, she studied in Lucknow and Delhi and was at the helm of the Progressive Writers’ Association and the movement led by the Indian People’s Theatre Association. While practising gynaecology, she witnessed the horror of women’s health and presented it through her stories. Women in her stories speak about unending cycles of cumbersome pregnancies and excruciating deliveries as well as of the obligation of wives to satisfy the sexual hunger of husbands. She had made prostitutes heroines of her poignant short stories before Saadat Hasan Manto did. All these women faced societal opposition and derision. Apart from her husband, Anandibai had no emotional ties left in India as her decision to study abroad had turned her relatives and well-wishers away. Rukhmabai came back to Maharashtra but was not welcomed. She accepted a medical position first in Surat and then in Rajkot. She returned to Mumbai only after her retirement. Rashid Jahan was named ‘Angareywali’ and received threats that her nose would be cut off after her stories were published in an explosive Urdu book, Angarey (Embers), 1932. Her father’s school for girls was termed as a house of pleasure. The similarity of their life experiences ends here. Rashid Jahan lived a full life surrounded by a circle of friends, associates and admirers. Her parents and siblings supported her wholeheartedly. She was married to a fellow communist, Mahmuduz Zaffar, and her house became a space for shayaris, plays and stories. Faiz Ahmad Faiz found his communist moorings along with Jahan. Ismat Chughtai adored her and declared, “Rashidapa spoke about everything boldly and loudly. I just wanted to imitate her.” In contrast, our Maharashtrian Hindu heroines lived lonely lives. Even Pandita Ramabai, a dazzling personality, scholar of Sanskrit, the author of High Caste Hindu Woman, had only one friend left in Mahatma Phule. When she converted to Christianity, her circle of reformists disowned her. She started the Mukti mission and the Sharada Sadan ashram near Pune and lived out her life surrounded by orphaned, destitute girls and young widows. Women always pay a severe cost for their choices. Either you live as a ‘good woman’ as society ordains or live a lonely life on the periphery. But not Rashid Jahan. While the conservative Muslim community and Urdu press abhorred her, her family and comrades enveloped her in warmth and humour. The communist value system played a role in this, as did progressive Islam. When I read her biography as also those of other women writers in Urdu, I wondered where the myth of the Muslim woman as victim comes from? Each social group has its archaic orthodox faction and the progressive liberal stream. We choose to focus on one or the other. ‘Why do Muslim girls not marry Hindu boys?’ we are asked repeatedly despite no statistical evidence to prove the claim that Hindu women marrying Muslim men are more in proportion than vice-versa. This is because the debate about Muslim women is currently limited to marriage, divorce — triple talaq — and the hijab/burqa. But surely women ought to have more than marriage and clothes? What about their education, health, mobility? The Sachar Committee report shows us that since 1947, Muslims have sunk lower on all development indices; their employment rates in the formal sector are abysmal and access to education is inadequate. The Ajlaf or lower caste Muslims, who were artisans of once flourishing trades, have sunk lower than Hindu Dalits who, in 1947, were severely destitute and exploited. The rapid communalization of politics and public life has further marginalized and terrorized them. How will Muslim women find the mobility and the courage to make their own choices? B.R. Ambedkar tried to bring the Hindu Code Bill that gave property rights to women along with the freedom to divorce. He thought that with these rights women would gain the confidence to choose their life partners and, in time, dismantle the caste system with inter-caste marriages. The Brahmin orthodoxy in the Constituent Assembly blocked the Hindu Code Bill. ‘What will happen to our sons, if we give property to daughters?’ they asked enraged. Ambedkar resigned and converted to Buddhism. Jawaharlal Nehru then got the Hindu Code Bill passed in a piecemeal manner as the Hindu Marriage Act, Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act and so on. Hindu women benefited from these as well as from access to education and employment. Many expanded their choices to not marry at all or have children. The orthodoxy still wants to curtail them. Thus the attacks on young women drinking alcohol or wearing Western clothes. Hence the wrath against Hindu women marrying Muslim men — how dare they exercise their choices? Especially since, it is alleged, an equal number of Muslim girls are not coming into the Hindu fold. To me this sounds like the ‘exchange of women’ that India and Pakistan organized in 1950. In the mayhem of the Partition, women were the worst casualty: they were abducted, raped or kept in the homes of their captors. Within a few months, some had married their abductors — as is shown in Amrita Pritam’s Pinjar — and had children. Some had already run away with their lovers. Most were certain that they were now too ‘tarnished’ for their families and would only bring ‘dishonour’. As Ritu Menon and Kamala Bhasin write, in the border camps women who did not want to be ‘recovered’ were dragged away from their children to tally the number of women exchanged. So who are these victimized Muslim women that the Hindu right-wing wants to save? In 2017, the Muslim women’s networks obtained a historic victory in the triple talaq case in the Supreme Court. It looks like they decided to save themselves. They are now determined to save the Indian democracy. Remember Shaheen Bagh and several other places where we saw Muslim women in leadership position while Muslim men — young and old — played supporting roles. We saw hijab-clad young women turning their bodies into shields to protect their comrades from police batons. As Amir Aziz put it memorably in his poem, “Chulho se bandh di gayi chingariya mashaal ban jati hai, Gulam ke bediyon ki awaze azadi ki jhankar ban jati hai, isharon se inkilab karti hai, Jamia ki Ladkiyan (the sparks tied down to the hearth become torches/ the sounds of chains of the slaves become the echoes of freedom./ They do revolt with their eyes, these girls of Jamia).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Aaj phir marney ka irada hai||Sui Generis. That would be the sui for me, none else, thank you very much. Is there one available? Anywhere? Anyone? Tell naaa?   Everybody is going sui, sui, sui, sui, sui, as if it were some life-saving mantra whose very incantation would unlock the doors to escape into immortality. Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui, like some jaap, or Uber-yogic exercise recommended by BabaHaramDev as single-window redemption from troubles. Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui... Which sui? Vexing question. The kind of vexing that has triggered a rush of eloquence waxing all about. So much wax, nobody would dare hold a candle to it. It melts and freezes, and turns hard, so hard it sounds like it has taken a position. A position from which it will not budge. Non-negotiable. Unequivocal. Calcified. Here. This one. Nothing else. But there appears to be a small problem. Or many small problems. Those problems are that there is a multiplicity waxing eloquent. Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui. Or, who knows, one or two more suis lying about here and there, or about to be revealed. Which sui? The suis are at war, twisting against each other in order to take precedence over twisting into us. Waxing eloquent and taking positions and getting calcified there, each as righteous as the other, while we are left wondering. Are they meant to sort us out or are they sorting each other, would-be solutions having turned into a parade of problems? Sui, sui, sui, sui, sui... Which sui? How do we get to choose? How should we even know which to choose? Which not to use? Someone, hey one of you, please get up, move your parts and go ask those chaps up there to do a National Register of Suis (NRS) so we have a sense of which sui and which sui not. Get the papers out, come on, they know how to do it. Then we can employ the Sui Amendment Act (SAA), so we know which sui to keep, which to import and which to throw out. Jaaaao! Else, how would we ever know? We have to do this, we have to separate good germ from bad germ, termite from vegemite. Vegemite. Please ensure. God knows what they put into those suis in the labs, am hearing all sorts of things, frightening and heretical things. They put animals in suis? Really? Things from other filthy things? Bovine things and porcine things? And things from things that bat about and crawl and slither? I mean, what the hell is happening? What devilish alchemy do they get up to in those secretive labs? They suck things out of one kind of living-killer things and freeze or fry what they suck out and they inject those fried and frozen things and inject them into other living-killer things. Is that how this is all done? Tauba-tauba. God save us. Let us not have to make choices between sui, sui, sui, sui, sui, sui and sui. Open the coffers overnight. In the morning we shall take count of who put in how much and we will know who values us, and our lives, most. Voila! Solution found. The sui that gives most will be the sui for us, for what better test for the best sui than a sui that stands most firmly by the nation and its leader, the most nationalist sui of all? Have faith in that sui. Get it done. Get that one sui, and we shall melt all others, and kill this murmur of sui, sui, sui, sui, sui. Sui? You know what? You should’ve known from the very start but you didn’t trust yourself enough, you had no faith in Faith. You were not faithful enough. Learn. It isn’t too late, though it is getting late. It is a matter of faith. What can be above faith? No law. No belief system. No logic. No argument. No ideology. No evidence. No technology. No science. If you have faith, you have a sui. If you are faithful, you are doing well, because you found it, your Sui Generis!   Please give advance intimashun So with no or little hezitashun I can get into pozishun To bare my part for vaxinashun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||Restful life: rest cannot replace sleep in its restorative quality||Sir — Research has suggested that rest cannot replace sleep in its restorative quality. Yet, sleep is not always restful. It can rejuvenate bodily functions, but can it restore mental balance? Restful time spent reading, gardening, listening to music or even in contemplation can be a balm for the soul, fortifying a person against the relentless pace of modern life. In essence, both are equally important. In a rush to improve one’s productivity, one should not fall into a vicious cycle of sleep and work. Taking time out to rest is key to not burning out. No amount of sleep can ensure that.Papia Guha, Calcutta Day of shame Sir — It is not surprising that the era of Donald Trump came to a close in a scene reminiscent of the fall of an ill-fated Roman or Czarist empire. The mob that converged on Capitol Hill signed off on a saga of ineptness compounded by ego. Trump’s falsehoods and obstinacy have extracted a steep cost from a proud nation. The common people who bought into Trump’s lies, however, are far less to be blamed than the politicians who promoted Trump with evangelical fervour so as to consolidate power. This egged people on to take to the streets to avenge an imagined voter fraud. Trump’s dreams of a people’s revolution returning him to power became a nightmare for America at Capitol Hill. With his colleagues now deserting his sinking ship and in the face of a severe backlash from every section of the polity, Trump has now conceded defeat in an election he lost long ago by thousands of real votes. The United States of America has lost face in the global arena and the new leadership must repair and reclaim its lost prestige. If Trump creates any further problems, he should be impeached at once. This would underscore that no matter how popular a leader, he cannot cast a shadow either on the democratic accountability of a high office or eclipse an inclusive socio-political ethos that is the very sap of progressive democracies.R. Narayanan, Navi Mumbai Sir — President Donald Trump should be suspended from the party and barred from politics in order to teach authoritarian leaders throughout the world a lesson. ‘Trumpism’ should be given a proper and public burial, otherwise it will raise its ugly head elsewhere. Countries like India are especially vulnerable to the kind of intolerance and divisiveness that led to the attack on the US Capitol. India has already witnessed such an attack which led to the demolition of the Babri Masjid. At least the Trump administration faced a serious challenge from the various institutions of democracy throughout the four years of its maladministration. In India, the pillars of democracy have been uprooted systematically in the last six years. Today there is not a single democratic institution left in India which can stop the government from taking undemocratic steps. Even if the Hindutva forces are defeated by a people’s mandate, who is to say that the self-proclaimed foot soldiers of Hindutva will not choose to do to the Parliament what they did to the Babri Masjid? It is thus important that we support the voices that still dare to speak up for democracy, be it at Shaheen Bagh or on the Singhu border.Shovanlal Chakraborty, Calcutta Sir — No one would have doubted America’s commitment to democracy until this week when thousands of people stormed into the US Capitol to stop the Congress from certifying Joe Biden’s victory in the presidential elections. Such barbarity has blackened the history of American electoral democracy. Reportedly, Donald Trump incited these groups of hooligans to march on to the Capitol to pressurize the rejection of the election results. This is the same Trump on whose felicitation the Indian prime minister spent crores of public money. This raises doubts about the latter’s commitment to democracy. Trump must be internationally reprimanded for his brazen behaviour. One hopes that the Biden administration will usher in a new era of fair play and maintain good diplomatic relations with India.Mrinal Kanti Kundu, Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
10-01-2021||Opinion||RSS in the time of Modi: dominated but happy||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is regarded as the parent body of the wider saffron family, including the Bharatiya Janata Party. The relationship between the RSS and the BJP, particularly when the latter is in power, has been a difficult one to manage. Friction between the ideological parent and the political offspring was common during the days when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was prime minister. Narendra Modi, however, has achieved a rare feat — to dominate the RSS and keep it happy at the same time. The RSS has several complaints with regards to the party organization and the government, but is unable to voice them. The reason is this: Modi has given the RSS so much in terms of ideologically important issues that its leaders cannot muster up the courage to voice even legitimate complaints. Modi has fulfilled the two most difficult dreams of the sangh — building the Ram temple and revoking Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. On the new farm laws, insiders say that even the RSS feels that the agitating farmers’ principal demand for a legally guaranteed minimum support price for their produce is just. The parent body, however, has refrained from putting pressure on the government to make the necessary amendments, if not repeal the laws. At a three-day RSS-BJP coordination meeting early this week, the issue was discussed. However, the RSS leadership left the matter for the government to resolve. “Farmers should sit and hold a discussion with the government to find a solution,” said the RSS joint general secretary, Krishna Gopal, to repeated questions over the RSS’s views on the farm laws and the protests. He did not say anything beyond this. At a time when the netas of various parties are trying to portray themselves as gau sevaks and gau rakshaks, the Bihar chief minister, Nitish Kumar, has uttered a louder ‘moo’ than them. As Kumar and his cabinet colleagues declared their assets on New Year’s Eve, people found out that he owned 12 cows and six calves. His cattle wealth is growing; two years ago, he had just eight cows and six calves. Some said he has more than what the charismatic cowherd, the Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, and his wife, Rabri Devi, possess. That Kumar is a gau bhakt, or cow devotee, is no secret. He has been advocating the protection of the indigenous breeds of cattle and setting up cattle institutes in Bihar. However, none among his retinue was willing to reveal how much milk the CM’s house produces and what happens to it. Some of them did say that Kumar, a vegetarian, consumes milk as part of his diet. It is also used in tea served to the staff working at his residence, officers being summoned as well as visitors. This is unlike the Lalu-Rabri household; the milk of the family’s cattle is reportedly supplied to a posh hotel in the state capital. However, some leaders saw politics in Kumar’s love for cows. “He can project himself as more rustic than Lalu, and more [of a] cow lover than the politicians of the BJP-RSS axis. This is a win-win situation for him. We think only [the] Nationalist Congress Party chief, Sharad Pawar, can outdo him in this,” a leader reportedly said. It is not known yet whether the CM plays with his cows or hugs them, activities which are among the latest wellness and therapy trends in the West. The continuance of Govind Dotasra as the Rajasthan Congress president and the balancing act in the constitution of committees indicate that the party high command has decided to forget the ugly rebellion and fully accommodate the Sachin Pilot group. Pilot loyalists have already been included in the state committees; the young leader himself now may be given some important responsibility at the national level. There is strong speculation about Pilot becoming general secretary with an important state under his charge; he may also become a party spokesperson. With Pilot as a gen-sec sitting in Delhi, the Rajasthan CM, Ashok Gehlot, will breathe easy for the rest of his term. Gehlot was not keen to accommodate Pilot in the state after the rebellion. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wanted to do so and restore Pilot’s pride; the new general-secretary in charge, Ajay Maken, executed the plan to perfection. He is said to have smartly handled factional pressures to keep senior leaders happy while also creating a small organizational machinery, avoiding the lazy formula of appointing dozens of gen-secs and vice presidents. Rajasthan is crucial to the Congress revival plan; retaining power in 2023, just before the next parliamentary polls, will be the most important task for the party. The Congress high command is apparently trying to help prepare its state units in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and West Bengal for the electoral battle ahead. In Assam, Jitendra Singh was appointed the AICC gen-sec and in-charge of the state in September; the leadership has now drafted the Chhattisgarh CM, Bhupesh Baghel, as a senior observer for Assam. These moves have been welcomed by party workers and leaders; now they are wondering what the central leadership is thinking about uniting the state leadership. Most senior state leaders have reservations about the fact that the Congress decided to continue with the state PCC chief, Ripun Bora, even though it suffered setbacks in the polls contested under him. Party insiders say these setbacks are visible to all but the top leadership. The ‘no-confidence’ against Bora saw a letter written to Sonia Gandhi in August, seeking a change of guard, leaked in December. The Congress has also not come up with a narrative appealing to the voters. Elections are all about perception, and party insiders say the Congress is losing the perception battle. “You may win or you may lose but to remain in the game you need the right people with the right ideas — and in time! Hope the high command realizes that [its] job is half done,” said a political observer. The former Karnataka CM, PC Siddaramaiah, is known for his oratory and political skills that immensely benefited the Congress. His knack of getting under political rivals’ skin has a new victim: the CM, BS Yediyurappa. Siddaramaiah said Karnataka would get a new BJP CM ‘very soon’. This has rattled Yediyurappa who has been pulling out all stops to cling to power. Now Yediyurappa supporters are desperately trying to unearth the source of Siddaramaiah’s information and check its veracity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
