11-01-2021||Opinion||Bleak age: India's senior citizens||Is a long life necessarily a fulfilling one? This is a key question arising out of the findings of India’s maiden longitudinal ageing study, the world’s largest-ever detailed survey conducted on the elderly. The United Nations had called longevity one of the most significant social transformations of the 21st century. Indeed, Indians are living longer: the number of citizens aged 60 years and above in India will be 319 million by 2050, three times the estimate of the 2011 census. Indian society is ageing speedily too. But the study also bares the formidable challenges that confront the ageing population. Almost 70 per cent of senior citizens in India suffer from a chronic illness; 20 per cent are battling mental health conditions; 14 per cent experience frequent ill-treatment, including from family members and care-givers; by 2030, 45 per cent of the total burden of diseases — mostly non-communicable — is likely to be borne by the elderly. The implications of these figures become graver in the light of how ill-prepared the elderly are to deal with these problems: only 30 per cent of those from below-poverty-line households receive pension benefits. These findings, though alarming, are not surprising. Indignity is, ironically, a significant part of the lived experience of the elderly in a culture that professes to venerate the aged. The fact that amendments had to be made to the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 to include sons-in-law and daughters-in-law within the ambit of caregivers to the elderly is one indication of the monumental societal indifference. Moreover, geriatric care is still a neglected area in modern medicine. Modernity has brought in its wake in its own problems: traditional support structures, such as those of the joint family, are disintegrating. The resultant price is high: the expenditure of elderly care is ballooning in the absence of concrete models of support. The privatization of care systems — old age homes, nurses and so on are available but at a cost — cannot be the answer; profiteering is the goal of these enterprises. They are neither a feasible replacement for family-based care nor can they be afforded by all sections of the ageing population. There is a case for emulating the community-based care and health services in place in Britain under the aegis of the National Health Service. There is also a need to reimagine the elderly as an economically valuable constituency. Can their vast experience of life and service not be monetized? The resultant economic empowerment could go a long way in making India’s aged population self-reliant and caring for them sustainable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
11-01-2021||Opinion||Open access: new science-tech policy||Might science in its true form stand a chance in India after all? In a welcome move, the Centre has put forth for discussion a draft science, technology and innovation policy under which it would buy in bulk subscriptions of all important scientific journals around the world and make their content freely accessible in India. This move could have positive and far-reaching implications for the pursuit of science and education in the country. For one, publicly-funded research will become legally available to students, members of the scientific community as well as other citizens, a privilege that was hitherto hard to come by given the prohibitive costs of science journals. There are reportedly over 3,000-4,000 high-impact scientific journals, most of which are so expensive that they become the single-biggest item of cost for even prominent institutes. The lack of access to these publications hindered the stimulation of ideas in scientific research. It is to be hoped that the open data policy promotes ground-breaking research, fostering a scientific temper in the process. This is of critical importance, given the concern that the present dispensation is eager to propagate unsubstantiated claims and belief as ‘science’. No less than the prime minister is on record eulogizing ancient India for its accomplishments in genetic research. Second, removing the barriers to quality scientific material and journals would also boost the prospects of pure research in a country where bright minds are increasingly turning away from a career in research on account of the lack of grant opportunities and research avenues. The draft policy also stipulates that women form at least 30 per cent of all decision-making bodies. It is no secret that the pursuit of science — a vocation of reason — is mired in all kinds of social prejudice. Skewed gender representation is one example of the biases. In 2018, women made up a meagre 14 per cent of 2.8 lakh scientists, engineers and technologists employed in India’s research and development institutes. This discrimination is not merely an ethical blot. Lopsided gender and community representation is known to blunt cutting-edge technology. For instance, recruitment systems based on artificial intelligence have been found to discriminate against job applicants with female names. Free access and fair representation would also be consistent with India’s constitutional ideals, which uphold education and equality in all spheres of public life to be fundamental to the health of a democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
11-01-2021||Opinion||Small-state US presidential candidates||Last year’s presidential election in the United States of America was extraordinary in many ways. Joe Biden became the oldest person ever to be elected as president; Kamala Harris became the first woman, that too of African-Asian origin, to win the vice-presidency. Biden hails from Delaware, a small state with 0.29 per cent of the US’s population. It is the 45th largest state among the 50 states that constitute the US. Delaware has only three electoral votes: the minimum number for any state. In India, we often celebrate the success stories of men and women from smaller towns. Biden’s elevation to the White House would be analogous to someone hailing from one of India’s small states — say, Nagaland or Sikkim — beginning his political career as a councillor of a city corporation, going on to become a member of parliament, then getting a place in the Central cabinet and — finally — winning the prime ministership. Of course, the electoral system in India is different: people do not vote to directly elect the prime minister. In this country, someone might be elevated to the highest seat in spite of having little personal appeal among voters. The US, contrastingly, votes to choose its president. Although Biden has been on the national stage for decades — as senator and vice-president to Barack Obama — this election proved that one may reach the top of the US’s political pole in spite of hailing from a small state.Feel included Interestingly, small-state presidential candidates have a terrible track record in the history of US elections. In the 231-year history of American presidential elections, prior to Biden, only six candidates won the presidency among about a dozen hailing from states with fewer than 10 electoral votes. Three of those presidents were war-heroes. Before Biden, Franklin Pierce, who became the president in 1852, held the record of being the president hailing from a state having the minimum number of electoral votes. Pierce was from New Hampshire, which had 5 among a nationwide total of 296 electoral votes at the time. Although Pierce was a small-state politician, he spent a decade in the House and the Senate before winning the presidency. He had also been a general in the Mexican War. If Bernie Sanders, Biden’s foremost competitor in the Democratic nominations, received the nod, the situation would have been quite similar. Sanders, 79, is a senator from Vermont, one of the smallest states in the US. In fact, Vermont is even smaller than Delaware. It is the 49th largest state in the US, home to just 0.19 per cent of the national population, and it also has the minimum number of three electoral votes in the electoral college. Another charismatic leader in the race for Democrat nomination, the 39-year-old Tulsi Gabbard, serves as the US representative for Hawaii’s second congressional district. Hawaii, too, has four electoral votes and is the 40th largest state of the country with 0.43 per cent of its population. Bill Clinton was another small-state politician to win the presidency. During the presidential election of 1992, Clinton was the governor of Arkansas that has only six electoral votes. Clinton fought the election against the incumbent, George H.W. Bush, and H. Ross Perot, both of whom hailed from a big state like Texas that had 32 electoral votes then. With two truly small-state politicians, Biden and Sanders, contesting the Democratic nominations last year and the former eventually becoming the president-elect, can we conclude that American elections are turning inclusive? With a woman of colour also becoming the vice-president, the national character of America could be reshaped and become more representative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
11-01-2021||Opinion||A green new deal||As the dust clears after the US elections, the preferred choice of most of its 160 million voters lies clearly with Joseph Biden for president. Among the issues that Biden faces is the place and role of the United States of America in the ecological challenge that confronts his country and the world at large. Not only does the US have the largest economy and scientific base but it also has, since 1945, on some occasions set the tone for international cooperation, often for the lack of it. The environmental question has been a key theme in the campaign and led to the surge of younger voters to the Democrat cause. It is not about beauty, health and nature as much as a new way of crafting growth to minimize a negative impact on the economy and the ecology. Varshini Prakash, one of the articulate young campaigners and authors, writes evocatively how a Green New Deal is the “common-sense solution”. It is no coincidence that Franklin D. Roosevelt is evoked even in the name. History shows us why. But it also offers caution in reading too much by way of parallel. FDR was not only the president of the US from March 1933 till his death in April 1945 on the eve of victory in the Second World War. He was also the architect of the New Deal, an all-out effort to get the country’s economy on its feet in the wake of the Great Depression. From the start, the New Deal had what would today be called an environmental dimension. In March 1933, in his very first month in office, he called for the creation of the Civilian Conservation Corps, which, without interfering with normal employment, would focus on specific tasks. “[F]orestry, the preventing of soil erosion, flood control and similar projects” were singled out by Roosevelt. The “vast army of the unemployed” would diminish in numbers and also find purpose and direction in the service of the common good of all Americans. The Congress responded positively: after all the Democrats had taken control of both the House of Representatives and the Senate. In his first hundred days, over a quarter of a million men were put to work. The historian of the presidency and its relation to environment, Douglas Brinkley, sees the core task of the early days of the Corps as restoring ecological integrity to public lands. By 1942, when it was finally wound down, the CCC, as it was widely known, had on its rolls over three million men who had planted no less than two billion trees. They also enabled the expansion of state parks, including those in the south in states such as Tennessee, Virginia and North Carolina. Afforestation and landscaping meant hard manual labour, but they also implied a wage of 30 dollars a month and resulted in esprit de corps. The New Deal went even further after the ‘Dust Bowl’ in the Great Plains in 1934 and led to the creation of the Soil Conservation Service, which outlived the CCC. In his book, The Green New Deal, Professor Fred C. Mahler estimates that over 150,000 miles of contour furrows were laid down by the new service that also built over 300,000 check dams in just under a decade. FDR was a hard-nosed politician. In his 1936 re-election bid, he often referred to the work of the Service in planning shelter belts and combating soil erosion in the mid-West. He reached out even further. The jobless planted trees and engaged in public works, the state parks made recreation possible for middle class Americans, while the farmers got price support as well as help to fight soil erosion. FDR and his plans aroused deep animosity among the defenders of the free market. The interior secretary, Harold L. Ickes, had to feistily rebut those who said that the government action amounted to nothing less than a “Bolshevist threat to democracy”. There is no doubt that there were strains in the new rainbow coalition. While many African-Americans were engaged in the CCC, their camps were segregated. This was most so in the Deep South, the former home of the Confederates of the US Civil War. African-Americans did gain enormously from public employment under Roosevelt but it was on unequal terms. The Shenandoah River and the Blue Ridge Valley state parks, developed with federal money, enriched local contractors and voters — all white, of course. Despite the efforts of the First Lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, few women were enlisted in the Corps, which projected masculine vigour as force for the good. The women numbered less than 10,000 and were paid a fraction of men’s wages in the CCC. Roosevelt was a man of his times, but he left a mark on America as on the world as he emerged as a key leader in the war-time alliance against the Axis powers. He led America away and out of isolation to the brink of global power by the time of his death. His environmental as well as his political record has long been claimed by American leaders in the hope of carving out a place in history. It was a Texas Congressman and FDR loyalist, Lyndon Johnson, who in the mid-sixties came up with the slogan of “Great Society” to end poverty and race discrimination in the country. Both had key environmental dimensions manifest in access to clean water and sanitation and the siting of chemical dumps in minority neighbourhoods. But the sad fact is that the last half century and more have seen a return of not just barely-veiled racism but also fiscal conservatism. It is no coincidence that Ronald Reagan, the leader of the New Right, wanted a leaner government and also less environmental regulation. As governor of California, he had long opposed the expansion of the Redwood National Park. Those who have seen one Redwood, opponents chanted, have seen them all. Such ideas found open expression in the Donald Trump years more than ever before. Biden, therefore, has a tightrope walk up ahead. His own victory by six million votes owes much to the students, unions, women and minorities who not only turned out to vote but also mobilized and enlisted voters. A Green New Deal may be watered down by a Congressional leadership which, in any case, was a late-comer to the idea. Further, there will be voices urging against regulation lest it weakens US industry vis-à-vis China or Europe. There are two major differences with the 1930s. FDR not only knew the pulse of his people; he also took charge when his opponents had run out of steam. Until the attack on Pearl Harbor, even he was unable to overcome isolationism but on the domestic front his agenda had taken over the public space. Biden has his work cut out. To reach out to the Rust Belt, working class Americans and do so while wooing business support is hard enough. Is a Green New Deal a bridge too far? The world’s eyes are on Washington. The author teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-90
