12-01-2021||Opinion||Gloomy weather: GDP growth rate grim||The current forecasts for the growth rates of gross domestic product are, expectedly, quite grim. The real GDP, that is national income corrected for price changes, is estimated to contract by 7.7 per cent in 2020-21 compared to a positive growth of 4.2 per cent in 2019-20. The nominal GDP, measured at current prices, is also expected to shrink by 4.2 per cent this fiscal. The contraction in both real and nominal GDP is unprecedented in India’s history. It has never happened before, even though the economy has experienced many shocks and slowdowns in the past 73 years. Part of this can certainly be attributed to the pandemic. However, the policy response to the pandemic in terms of a strict and sudden lockdown has much to do with the magnitude of the contraction. Moreover, the policy response to the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic has been inadequate and misdirected. Instead of boosting aggregate demand, policies were focused on the availability of credit on the supply side. In other words, a more demand-generating policy stimulus would have kept the contraction a little more in check. It is important to note that the Union government’s budgetary proposals are based on the estimated nominal GDP. Hence, the finance minister will have a difficult task fixing fiscal strategies and budgetary schemes on February 1 when the new proposals are placed before the nation for the year, 2021-22. The supply-side strategy has not worked. The financial sector is in a mess, with a lot of confusion regarding the plethora of schemes that were announced in the earlier part of the fiscal year. Unemployment is high. Retail inflation is out of target. Food insecurity looms large for poor Indians. Some industries are on the verge of complete collapse. The core sector industries are shrinking on account of the lack of demand. The finance minister has hardly any choice but to increase the fiscal deficit. There is nothing wrong per se with a hike in the deficit, especially in an extraordinary year. However, much depends on how the additional borrowed resources are spent. If they are spent in areas where mass consumption demand is not affected, like defence spending, for instance, the deficit will not spur growth. On the other hand, if they are spent wisely to boost demand for mass consumption goods like cheap textiles, the deficit can be a way for everybody, both the private and the public sectors, to earn more in the near future. Only then can the economy slowly claw its way out of the deep ditch where it is now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Opinion||Knuckle rap: Centre shows farmers the court||The Narendra Modi government’s strategy of wriggling out of sticky situations — they are usually of the Centre’s making — is quite touching. It simply lobs the proverbial ball to the Supreme Court for deliverance. This came to pass, once again, last week when, after eight rounds of fruitless negotiations with farmers demanding the repeal of three controversial agricultural laws, a haughty government informed the representatives of farmer groups that they could approach the Supreme Court. It is another matter that the farmer unions have remained cold to such a suggestion. Their rationale — the legislations are an outcome of policy formulation — cannot be dismissed. What cannot be dismissed either is the Centre’s brazen reliance on the court to bail it out. This is especially so because Mr Modi and his lieutenants are guilty of pushing through these laws without adequate representative consultation. The Centre opted for the ordinance route, refused to expansively debate the matter in Parliament and then — adamantly — turned a deaf ear to the demands to send the bills to a parliamentary committee. There was — this is typical of Mr Modi — no attempt to reach out to or consider the opinions of the primary constituency — the farmers — that is expected to be affected by the legislations. Force and vilification, two other favoured strategies of the regime, were then employed to stall the protesters. Even that failed to deter the farmers, forcing the Centre to engage in consultations that are yet to break the deadlock. The Centre’s unwillingness to hold itself accountable and turn to the court to give its nod to an executive policy is quite unprecedented. Monday’s proceedings at the court are unlikely to lift the Centre’s spirits. In a stern statement, a bench of the Supreme Court castigated the Centre for its handling of the crisis, taking exception to the attorney-general’s observation of the perceived haste to pass an order. The bench headed by the Chief Justice of India urged the Centre to put the laws on hold, adding that the court would do the needful otherwise. Irrespective of the verdict — it is expected to be passed today — the Centre should pay heed to the court’s stinging observations. Adhering to the time-honoured rituals of consultation would have spared Mr Modi this rap on the knuckle from the court. It cannot be a healthy sign for a democracy when the judiciary has to remind an elected government of the need to hold consultations in order to address the concerns of an aggrieved people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Opinion||The challenges before cricket||There is hardly any game other than cricket that is experiencing numerous basic changes. Cricket now has three championships for three formats — Tests, ODIs and T20s — making it unique. The International Cricket Council has also introduced day/night cricket, four-day Tests, and a World Test Championship to generate more interest in Test cricket. However, none of these measures is bereft of criticism. Changes in the playing conditions during the ‘day’ of a D/N Test are being debated. The four-day Test has become a talking point. The WTC has also been criticized for its itinerary. The itinerary is asymmetric since neither do countries play the same number of Tests — home or away — nor against all opponents. It seems that time constraints and the fear of waning public interest have played a role in this abridged itinerary. The points system has been criticized as well. A two-Test series carries the same weightage (120 points) as a five-Test series. Lastly, the championship involves only nine out of the 12 Test-playing nations (Ireland, Afghanistan and Zimbabwe have been excluded). The ICC had awarded Test status to Ireland and Afghanistan in 2017 but can they withstand the rigours of Test cricket? Their first-class infrastructure and performance in their maiden series leave a lot to be desired. Going by the principle of ‘maturity gradation of a sport’ (John Beech), cricket has entered its post-commercialization phase with the advent of the Indian Premier League and similar franchise-based T10 and T20 leagues. In this phase, not only are spectators willing to pay to watch the game but the players also earn their livelihood by playing cricket as a full-time job. The ‘business’ of cricket — sponsorship, media rights — also flourishes throughout the year irrespective of any ‘season’. European professional football is already in the post-commercialization phase. Fifa, too, has embraced the networked governance model by shunning a hierarchical governance structure in which the bottom of the pyramid is expected to comply with regulations and policies devised by the apex body. The globalization and the commercialization of a sport create competing interests given the increasing role of sports agents, media rights and sponsors. The networked or flat governance model is more democratic by nature; each stakeholder has a say on requirements and policy-making. Fifa has brought on-board the Uefa, media, sponsors, agents, supporters, national boards, governments and even clubs in the governing of football. The International Olympic Committee has opted for a similar approach. Cricket can emulate these footsteps to create an ecosystem where each format has a context and a future, spectators receive their money’s worth and cricketers are well-compensated. In a recent study by the author, the opinions expressed during 2015-18 by cricket-related professionals — past and present cricketers, administrators, coaches, sports journalists and so on — were examined to create a repository of stakeholders’ opinion. Using text analysis, the common viewpoints were extracted from the repository and when they were compared with the actions taken by ICC during the same period, it yielded some major gaps. These are as follows: i) T20 has been a punching bag for the declining interest in Test matches but the influence of one format of the game on another has remained unexplored. ii) It is pertinent to see how cricketers are embracing the increasing volume and variety of cricket. Grooming cricketers from childhood assumes importance in this context. Do we need to start specialization? If so, from what stage? iii) How can the pursuit of money be integrated with quality and integrity in cricket? Unless this is achieved, conflict of interest or even the dilution of ethics cannot be ruled out. iv) The ICC’s 2018 market survey on cricket was a revelation. With the cricket fan count crossing the billion mark, it is imperative to understand their demands and choices. Finally, the ICC needs to work on the proportion of the three formats for each Test-playing and emerging country. Established countries must carry the mantle of Test matches if the latter are to survive, whereas the shorter formats may be played more in emerging countries for its population to develop a taste of cricket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
12-01-2021||Opinion||Troubled legacies||In early 1979, the US-backed Pahlavi regime was overthrown in Iran, bringing Ayatollah Khomeini to power. In November '79, Americans in the US embassy in Tehran were taken hostage; a month later, Soviet troops brazenly rolled into Afghanistan. In America, these events were widely perceived as national humiliations, ensuring that Jimmy Carter — one of the most decent and thoughtful men to occupy the White House — became a one-term president. Forty years ago this month, Ronald Reagan, a B-grade Hollywood actor, a know-nothing and clumsy blusterer, took oath as president of the United States of America. Over the next eight years, Reagan and his Republican Party minders normalized several things that were, till then, only latent in American politics. Chief among these was the acceptance in top Republican political circles that a US president had no need for any great intellectual ability, he could get away with being a TV-friendly ‘face’, a constructed icon and a delivery-vehicle for vote-winning rhetoric, while his shadowy manipulators executed the agenda of the rich and the powerful. Attached to this was the rebooting of naked American jingoism, the motto of ‘My country, right or wrong’, that had taken a much-deserved beating in the 1960s and 1970s. In this, Reagan and his cohorts were helped by the falling of historical dice. As the US government propped up all sorts of brutally murderous gangs — from the Contras in Nicaragua to the Apartheid fascists in South Africa to Zia in Pakistan and, via him, the Afghan mujahideen, which, later, mutated into al Qaida and the Taliban — the Soviet Union began to collapse under its own contradictions and deep-seated rot. By the end of the 1980s, the Soviet game was up and the Reaganites were quick to claim undeserved credit for the demise of the ‘Evil Empire’. If American jingoism was projected shamelessly around the world, the Thatcher-Reagan economic mantra of selfishness and ‘me-first’ was disseminated equally forcefully at home, repeatedly convincing voters that the ‘trickle-down’ theory was not actually a monumental fraud perpetrated on a majority of Americans but a viable economic policy. The great public programmes stemming from the FDR years and the Kennedy-Johnson administrations were ruthlessly shrunk. The idea that civil rights, education, healthcare and economic opportunity should all be increasingly available to the underprivileged of the richest country in the world was relentlessly attacked and dismantled. Alongside this began a set of surreptitious programmes aiming to narrow the voting rights for African-Americans and other historically deprived minorities because the Republicans understood fully well that poor people of colour were unlikely to vote for a party that was aiming to keep them poor indefinitely. When Reagan came to power, the 15 richest Americans made on average 27 times more than that of the bottom 50 per cent. Today, the top 1 per cent makes 81 times more than that of the bottom half of the US population. Such is the absurd momentum of what Reagan and his minders set in motion and so hard has it been to reverse in the 16 years of Democratic presidencies since 1981 (presidencies not often blessed with a Democrat majority House or Senate) that in 2018 the top 400 Americans paid a lower effective tax rate (23 per cent) on their incomes than the bottom 50 per cent (which paid 24.2 per cent). The story, however, can’t be understood only through the lens of economic data. I was newly at my strongly left-leaning liberal arts college in Vermont when Reagan defeated Carter. My campus, often visited by the local activist, Bernie Sanders, went into mourning. I was flummoxed as to how a country could choose an obvious shyster like Ronald Reagan over Jimmy Carter. When I got to America, I imagined I had arrived into one of the most advanced zones of knowledge in the history of humanity. In one sense, this was absolutely true: areas of the US were home to the most complex study of science in the world, the most advanced medical institutions, the most sophisticated and nuanced milieus of social sciences, arts and culture. Yet, it quickly became apparent that a frightening number of Americans across all classes were abysmally ignorant about the world, many of them steeped in archaic beliefs that would be right at home in the most backward village in India; with a shock, I realized that a huge surplus of money and comfort did not necessarily equal being educated or knowledgeable; this last I already knew from many people of my own class at home, I just did not expect to find the same disjunction in America. Twenty years later, by the time the ‘hanging chads’ ‘swung’ the election in favour of George Dubya Bush, I had no reserves of surprise left; I felt only dismay and horror. Al Gore and George W. Bush were both from elite American colleges, but by then I knew that an Ivy League education didn’t matter in US politics. Gore might be the thinking and informed man that he was, but the cloddish Bush had the larger silver spoon and his daddy’s posse of devious back room politicos. The people who had voted Reagan into power and their ideological children had now voted in another ignorant, narrow-minded puppet of wealthy manipulators, even if it was by a questionable, hair-thin margin. Till another silver-spooner took the presidential oath four years ago, I thought Bush Junior was the worst person to have as American president when 9/11 happened. After a week or two of Trump’s presidency, I found myself being grateful Trump hadn’t been in charge in 2001. The sad tragedy is that the mix of the uneducated poor and the privileged cynics weren’t the only people who brought Dubya B and Donald T to power. Even after the devastations of the last four years, 74 million Americans still voted for Trump’s continuation. Among them, for instance, was Brad Raffensperger, the secretary of state for Georgia and the administrative ‘hero’ of the Georgia elections, who, from all evidence, is neither uneducated nor ignorant. They voted for Trump despite the horrific separation of children from immigrant parents; despite Trump’s backing of neo-Nazis and murderously racist police; despite strong indications that Trump had treasonously conspired with Russians to cheat himself into the presidency. The mob that broke into the Capitol on January 6 was, arguably, a fringe of the crazed, stupid people that you find in any country, but it was also the tip of an iceberg that runs 40 million Americans deep, as in the number of Trump voters who believe — on no evidence whatsoever — that the election was stolen from them. Those people and their worldview are the throbbing legacies of Joseph McCarthy, Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, George Bush and Dubya Bush. Anyone who has studied recent American history should stay worried, very worried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
