13-01-2021||Opinion||Low politics in the high Himalayas||For the Nepalese this must seem like the re-run of a show they’ve seen countless times before. Right from 1950 no prime minister has served a full term in office. Parliaments have inevitably been dissolved because of internal disputes in the ruling party of the day. For now the different sides are holding public shows of strength. On Friday Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli held a rally in Dhangadi near the Uttar Pradesh border and on Saturday his supporters had staged a march through Kathmandu. His rivals Communist Party of Nepal (CPN-Unified Marxist-Leninist) are also on the streets and claim to have a parliamentary majority. The immediate trigger of the current crisis was the ordinance promulgated by President Bidya Devi Bhandari on December 15 that amended Nepal’s Constitutional Council Act. This deepened the CPN’s festering fissures and the next day the party’s standing committee passed a resolution asking Oli to withdraw the ordinance. On December 19, Oli met party co-chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ to settle differences. That doesn’t seem to have worked.  The crisis has been building up for some time and has its genesis in the power-sharing dispute between Oli and Prachanda. Oli’s under pressure from Prachanda and other senior CPN leaders like former prime ministers Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhala Nath Khanal to quit either the post of prime minister or party chairman. The Chinese led by their Ambassador Hou Yanqi have been working intensively behind-the-scenes to keep the Communists united. They might have liked a scenario in which a trap would have been likely sprung at the forthcoming winter session of parliament with a no-confidence motion against Oli from within his own party. Some reports have suggested some 90 MPs had already brought in such a motion. Oli’s move to dissolve parliament checkmated this possibility. Inevitably, a split in the CPN looms. The anti-Oli faction has taken the battle to Nepal’s Supreme Court which hears constitutional issues only on Fridays. At the latest sitting one judge, Hari Krishna Karki was forced to recuse himself as he was appointed advocate-general by Oli and is considered close to him. In fact, the prime minister has filled the court and it’s very likely that it will back his dissolution of parliament. But Oli could be on weak ground constitutionally because there’s little room in the present constitution for a prime minister of a majority government to opt for mid-term elections. It’s reckoned that the hearings could last around eight to 10 weeks.  That’s a long period in politics and Nepal could witness much turmoil during this time. There will surely be a crisis if Oli’s rivals win their case and Parliament has to be reconvened. Oli’s position will be almost untenable. Also the position of President Bhandari will become very vulnerable as she has behaved more like a member of the Oli faction of the CPN rather than a bipartisan head of state of a democracy. There is murmuring that Oli may opt for an emergency at some stage. India has taken the line that these political manoeuvrings are an internal matter for Nepal. But there’s no doubt it is monitoring developments closely. India has not really been able to reap the dividends, either politically or economically, of giving its blessings to the Nepali Congress-CPN (Maoist) deal signed in New Delhi in November 2005 which provided the basis for the April 2006 movement, which led to King Gyanendra’s removal. This deal, which brought the Maoists into mainstream politics and subsequently to power, happened primarily because the late Girija Prasad Koirala (GPK) convinced India, that the king, by his coup of February 1, 2005, had violated his commitment to constitutional monarchy and multi-party democracy. Bilateral relations, though, never really stabilised under the full-fledged multi-party democracy. GPK’s passing in 2010 combined with problems in the Nepali Congress and the lack of credible leaders. Besides that, there was the splintering of the Nepal Sadbhawna Party and the Left’s connections with China becoming more obvious as they gained political strength. Nepal-China relations was gradually rising and have risen to 8,848.86m (the new height of Everest as determined by china and Nepal). Meanwhile, India-Nepal relations have been on a roller-coaster ride. There was the extreme high witnessed during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Kathmandu in August 2014.  Then it crashed to the depths during the stoppage of supplies at the border from September 2015. Those who know Nepal well will recall that the one ‘blunder’ India did, which should never have been repeated at any cost, was the blockade of 1989. The Nepalese have never forgotten that and it remains deeply ingrained in their psyche. China’s overt attempts to capitalise on the Left’s rise to power has led to deepening ties between the CPN and the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) much to India’s dismay. A direct result of this CCP influence was the unification of the CPN (Maoist) and the CPN (United Marxist-Leninist) in May 2018 overseen by Guo Yezhou, the vice-minister of the CCP’s International Department. Guo was sent to Kathmandu on December 27 to try and preserve left unity after Oli’s move. China is loathe to let the Left government fall. India, on the other hand, cannot trust any of the Left leaders. They are now ideologically susceptible to Chinese Marxist thought even if their “cadres” wouldn’t be able to spot the difference between Xi Jinping and Mao-Tse-Tung. This is India’s moment of mea culpa of 2005-06 and if not overtly, a course correction is now imperative. It might be smart for India to revisit its earlier doctrine of constitutional monarchy and multi-party democracy and support the restoration the 1990 Constitution. Nepal, as well as the entire Himalayan frontier, is on the cusp of far-reaching change and, India needs to think up innovative ways to check Chinese influence. Keep in mind that the Bhutan king, the 17th Karmapa Lama and the next Dalai Lama will all be youngsters who will have religious ties with Swayambhu and Boudha Nath shrines in Kathmandu. India could recover lost ground in Nepal by looking for a new alternative rather than another unreliable substitute to Oli. Think back to the examples of King Zahir Shah of Afghanistan and Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia. Inevitably, there will be questions about who in royal family India can turn to. While King Gyanendra has been circumspect in his life as a private citizen, the same unfortunately cannot be said for his son, Crown Prince Paras. He has already suffered three heart attacks and his personal life has been such that the Nepalis may not accept him as King. As early as in 2007, when relations between GPK and the Maoists had already started unravelling, in surprising repeated statements, GPK appealed to King Gyanendra and Paras to abdicate in favour of Paras’s son Prince Hridayendra. This, though, was rejected by the Maoists and the monarchy was abolished in May 2008. Could this appeal have been a belated recognition from the veteran leader that he had erred? Prince Hridayendra is now 18. He is descended from the Indian princely family of Sikar, which belongs to the Shekhawat clan. Reports indicate that since the promulgation of the 2015 Federal Constitution, Nepal has seen sporadic demonstrations demanding the monarchy restoration. India shouldn’t block such a development should Nepalis, themselves, want the monarchy to be restored. The religious card should be used like other arrows in the quiver to counter Xi Jinping’s aggressive moves and communist ideology in Nepal. The Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party (RPP) should take the lead for the restoration. This will also remind Nepali communist leaders that it was India who helped them in their quest for democracy. Keep in mind that when the king was around many politically aggrieved leaders would run to him for help. The Chinese may also be reading the tea leaves after Guo’s visit. After all, Chinese realpolitik in Nepal was so fine-tuned at one stage that all official pronouncements would be addressed as “His Majesty” and “His Majesty’s Government”. While Nepal’s kings of the past have been accused of promoting anti-India sentiment and King Gyanendra did not heed India’s advice to continue to “govern” with Sher Bahadur Deuba as his front China never had the kind of sway it has had over Nepal since 2006. India should be very wary of China’s machinations and carefully plan for the future without getting bogged down by any historical baggage. Karan Singh was deputed by the Government of India to cajole King Gyanendra to leave. Maybe it’s time he visited Kathmandu again? S. Ramesh is a former additional secretary, Cabinet Secretariat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
13-01-2021||Opinion||Quiet coup: US Capitol Hill siege||Even as determined Democrats prepare the ground for the impeachment of Donald Trump, the outgoing president of the United States of America, for his alleged role in fanning the grievances of his constituency that, ultimately, led to an unprecedented siege of Capitol Hill by Mr Trump’s supporters, questions are being asked in the global corridors of power and in the academia whether what America escaped that fateful day could, indeed, be called a coup. Those inclined towards a more conservative understanding of an armed insurrection would dismiss this conjecture. After all, political history around the world shows that a coup is usually characterized by an armed, illegal attempt on the part of vested interests to wrest power with the support of segments, if not the whole, of the military. The experiences of coup in nations around the world — Afghanistan, Iran, Egypt, France, England, Germany, Russia, Cuba, Pakistan, Bangladesh, to name only a few — have been more or less consistent with these enduring traits of a forceful ouster of a regime or a leader. But political phenomena can change with time; their understanding must, therefore, keep up with the transitions in their character. At a time when democracy finds itself on the back foot around the world — the Democracy Index estimated in 2020 that over a third of the global population live under autocratic regimes — it would be instructive to note that the implosion of freer polities and freedoms often takes place in a barely recognized, piecemeal manner. Charismatic leaders are getting elected to power in seemingly unfettered elections and then subverting the democratic edifice and its institutions with popular support. India still prides itself as being a relatively young democracy that has, so far, not come under the shadow of a coup. But this is not to suggest that Indian democracy has had a trouble-free existence. Neither is the Emergency the only instance of the trampling of the letter and the spirit of democracy. There is evidence to suggest that the last few years have brought key institutions — the vanguard of democracy — under unimaginable stress. Two features of this erosion are quite discernible. First, there is an ideological mobilization that is used by the powers that be to chip away at the foundations of constitutionalism. Second, and equally worrying, is an effete political Opposition that is complicit in the undermining of the democratic ethic. India, arguably, is no longer a stranger to these worrying signs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Opinion||In order: right to life over religion||At a time when the Constitution appears to many to be under stress, a clarification of the reasoned order behind its directive principles is always welcome. The occasion may be limited in scope, as in the case of the petition in the Madras High Court regarding rituals and festivals in the Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple in Tamil Nadu’s Tiruchirappalli district. The petitioner said that the rituals were not taking place according to sacred texts but on the whims of the Hindu religious and charitable endowments department. He was seeking the high court’s direction to the department to conduct the rituals regularly. In response, the Madras High Court reportedly said that the right to religion was not higher than the right to life. During the pandemic, the court would not interfere if the government restricted rituals in order to protect public health. The Madras High Court alluded to the Calcutta High Court’s earlier order to regulate crowds during Durga Puja for the same reason. It may be recalled here that the Supreme Court had ordered restrictions for Ratha Yatra in Odisha too. By giving primacy to the right to life over the right to religion, the Madras High Court laid bare a certain order assumed by the Constitution. The impact of this is not limited to one temple or one petition alone, but has far wider reverberations at a time when religion is being considered by some as a means to disenfranchise select groups of people. Cow vigilantism is one example of this. The nuanced nature of the Madras High Court’s ruling may also be noted; it indicates the fine line between State and religion that institutions must tread in order to preserve India’s unique brand of secularism. The petitioner had claimed that only religious leaders who knew the shastras could determine how rituals could be shortened, not department officials. Presumably with due acknowledgment of the right to religion, the high court has asked the government to consult religious leaders and, if possible, the petitioner and see if rituals can be conducted without the presence of the public and with hygiene and Covid-19 protocols given priority. The court’s ruling offers a model of harmonious exchange that could well be followed in more spheres than the religious.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Opinion||Love jihad: chasing a phantom in Assam||The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam is planning to bring a law that will make it mandatory for the bride and the groom to disclose information about their religion and income in official documents a month before their wedding. This comes after several other BJP-ruled states have enacted or expressed their intent to implement laws to stop ‘love jihad’ — a pejorative term used by Hindutva groups to berate interfaith marriage. Himanta Biswa Sarma, the most visible face of the Assam government, claimed that the law is “not against love jihad”. But he added to the confusion by saying that the law ‘would be somewhat similar’ to the ones in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. “It would be inclusive of all religions and would empower our sisters by bringing transparency... One will have to disclose not only religion but earning source. Complete family details, education etc. Many a time even in same religion marriage we have found that the girl later finds that the husband is in an illegal business,” said Sarma. “The proposed law will require the man and the woman to disclose their source of income, profession, permanent address and religion in a government-prescribed form a month before the wedding. Failing to do so would lead to legal action against the couple.” Neither Sarma nor any of his party leaders in the state has provided any data on interfaith marriages in Assam, let alone evidence that such a trend is on the rise. So the question is whether the BJP is contemplating such a legislation to polarize Assam in the run-up to the assembly elections scheduled next year. Or was it trying to score brownie points by emulating BJP governments in UP and MP? Gender activists and women leaders in Assam, such as the Congress spokesperson, Bobbeeta Sharma, insist that the ‘love jihad’ phenomenon was unfounded and that it may be a tactic to create communal polarization after the BJP failed to push through the Citizenship (Amendment) Act because of stiff resistance from regional groups that don’t want religion to decide citizenship. They treat migration as an ethnic issue rather than a religious one. Assamese women’s groups insist that trafficking is a far bigger problem than love jihad. “This is something the government should worry about, the urgent need to prevent illegal trafficking of our girls elsewhere in India by luring them with fake job offers,” said Sharma. My own investigations into the trafficking of Assamese women (“Assam’s missing women and the sex trade”) led to interesting revelations. According to statistics officially provided by Assam police, 3,184 women and 3,840 girl children had gone missing in Assam between 1996 and 2007. The figure works out to about two women going missing every day. According to the Bureau of Police Research and Development, trafficking may have reduced with a dip in ethnic conflicts but it remains a serious problem, especially in flood-prone areas that witness substantial annual displacement. Armed conflicts and internal displacement in Assam have contributed to the problem. Nearly half a million people were displaced and lodged in makeshift camps in Western Assam in the 1990s due to large-scale violence involving Bodo tribesmen, Bengali Hindus and Muslims and adivasis brought to Assam from central India by the British to work in tea plantations. Similar displacements took place elsewhere in Assam as well as in Manipur and Tripura because of ethnic conflict. Assam police have been rescuing local girls from brothels in Delhi and Mumbai. In recent times, women have also been rescued from wealthy landlords in Punjab and Haryana. Gender activists say that in these cases, the ‘marriage’ was a ruse and the women were not treated as wives at all. The Bureau of Police Research and Development say that an organized racket of ‘recruiters’ lure women with fake job offers outside the state. Poverty and helplessness forced the women to accept these deals. Gender groups have raised demands for a chain of rehabilitation homes for trafficked girls who have been rescued. They have also asked the police to focus on the menace of missing girls. Instead of chasing the phantom of ‘love jihad’, the Assam government must take concrete measures to stop trafficking and rehabilitate victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
13-01-2021||Opinion||The patriots||We are witnessing a bizarre situation. One comes across instances where consumers want growing of food crops for supplying to the public distribution system, while producers, lured by the apparent gains of shifting to cash crops, are reluctant to do so. The government has to mediate between these conflicting interests. But in India at present, the farmers have no desire to shift from food crops, even as consumers want food crops to be supplied through the public distribution system. There is no conflict of interest among them that the government has to mediate between. And, yet, it is imposing a shift on farmers from food to cash crops that would destroy the public distribution system. Such a shift is precisely what the agricultural legislations aim to bring about. Government economists defending the laws have been emphasizing the benefits of such a shift. The government here is not mediating in a conflict of interests among the people; it has, apparently, its own interest, which it is imposing on the people, on farmers and consumers alike, against which the farmers are agitating in the bitter cold of Delhi. It is a bizarre case of government versus the people at large, not people versus people. Likewise, the farmers are unanimous in rejecting contract farming; and, yet, the government is pushing contract farming through these bills, ostensibly in the farmers’ interest. Again, it is a case not of the government responding to the demand from any section of the people; it has apparently its own interest which it is imposing on the people. But what could be its own interest? While it is obvious that its own interest coincides with the interest of corporates and international agribusiness, the government’s answer would be that it is upholding the ‘national interest’. Corporate interest is thus identified with ‘national interest’. This has been the hallmark of the Narendra Modi regime, and it is symptomatic of the Corporate-Hindutva alliance of which Modi is the architect and which keeps him in power. The bizarreness of the situation is this: even right-wing governments justify their pro-corporate policies by claiming to defend the interest of some section of the people. Margaret Thatcher’s attack on trade unions was defended by her as a means of controlling inflation that trade unions allegedly caused and that hurt large masses of the people. But in India we are seeing the unilateral and gratuitous imposition of a set of measures that no segment of the people has ever demanded, measures that portend the dismantling of the public distribution system, which is opposed by people at large, and against which vast numbers are vehemently protesting; all this just to promote corporate interest. This is unprecedented in a democracy. The government will claim that since it won the 2019 parliamentary elections, it has the mandate to bring in the ‘reforms’ it wants. But this is erroneous for several reasons. First, it is wrong in principle: winning an election does not give the government the mandate to do whatever it likes. Second, this is especially so because the 2019 elections were not fought on the issue of ‘agricultural reforms’. In fact, these reforms never figured in the ruling party’s electioneering, which focused on the Pulwama attack and the Balakot air-strikes. Third, there has been a commoditization of politics where even having a majority in the legislature has lost much significance. Fighting elections itself has become extraordinarily expensive. Causing defections from the opponents before elections has become common and is also expensive. And no matter who wins the election, defections are engineered from other parties for a price to get the required majority to form the government. For all these reasons, the party with the largest amount of money has a clear edge over the others; and since the corporates are the main source of such money, forging an alliance with them becomes essential for coming to power for which they have to be offered a quid pro quo. Hindutva forces, with their communal-polarizing agenda and corporate financial backing, can exercise hegemony in such a world of commoditized politics. The quid pro quo offered to them includes, inter alia, control over peasant agriculture. While corporates as a whole gain from such ascendancy, one segment among them, an upstart segment, usually gains more than the other, more established, segments. Daniel Guérin (Fascism and Big Business) had shown that in Germany in the 1930s, a segment of monopoly capital, engaged in producing armaments and producer goods, had become special beneficiaries of the corporate alliance with the Nazis compared to the older segment engaged in textiles and consumer goods. In Japan, new houses, the shinko zaibatsu, benefited more than older houses like Mitsui from the fascistic regime that came to power in 1931, with which the corporates had close relations. While contemporary India is different from 1930s Germany or Japan, a similar privileging of a segment of new corporate houses can be detected here too. This is attracting the special ire of the farmers. Modi prepared the ground for identifying corporate interest, especially the interest of this nouveau segment, with the national interest by calling the corporates “wealth creators”. He meant the ‘nation’s’ wealth. By this description alone, he raised amassing private wealth into a national service, and those who amassed such wealth into privileged members of the ‘nation’ whose interest deserved the highest priority. It followed that all segments of the population must be made to accede to the demands of these upstart corporates; it is in the interest of the population itself, as wealth-amassing by these corporates supposedly benefits all. The Modi government has thus inverted the concept of the ‘nation’, from an entity identified with the people to one identified with the corporates, especially the nouveau corporates. The agriculture bills give expression to this inversion. This, however, constitutes a betrayal of our anti-colonial struggle. The concept of the ‘nation’ that had developed in Europe in the wake of the Westphalian Peace Treaties in the seventeenth century had been imperialist, non-inclusive (it had located an “internal enemy”), and, supposedly, deserving of apotheosis by the people who were only supposed to make sacrifices for it. By contrast, anti-colonial nationalism in countries like India was a very different sui generis, phenomenon. It saw the nation as being inclusive, of which secularism was an integral part; and it saw the raison d’être of the nation in improving the lives of the people. The concept of the nation implicit in the Modi government’s understanding is the very opposite of this and is closer to the aggrandizing concept of Europe whose logical culmination was fascism. The peasants gathered around Delhi are opposing the Modi government’s world-view in every respect. They are upholding secularism, as is evident from the fact that Hindu, Sikh and Muslim peasants are standing shoulder to shoulder. They are, in their opposition to corporate encroachment on agriculture, denying the identification of the ‘nation’ with a bunch of corporate houses. By standing up for the public distribution system, they are seeing the raison d’être of the nation as consisting in serving the people. The peasant movement is reclaiming the concept of the nation from the Modi government that had hijacked it. The author is Professor Emeritus, Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-89
