14-01-2021||Opinion||Stress rises: RBI red flag on bad loans||The Reserve Bank of India has raised a red flag for the banking industry with an early warning that the stack of bad loans could rise to alarming levels once it starts to roll back the post-pandemic regulatory reliefs that were granted to the sector. In its latest Financial Stability Report, the central bank says that the gross non-performing assets ratio — bad loans as a percentage of total advances — is projected to almost double to 14.8 per cent by September 2021 in a severe stress scenario from 7.5 per cent at the end of September last year. That is bad news for the banking sector, which has operated under the camouflage of a loan moratorium for the six-month period between March 1 and August 31 last year, followed by a standstill period during which banks have been prevented from recognizing fresh bad loans because of a Supreme Court directive. The fear is that once banks start classifying fresh loan impairment, the situation could spin out of control straining their balance sheets and necessitating fresh infusion of capital in the form of equity or perpetual debt to restore capital adequacy buffers. The report says that stress test results indicate that nine banks may fail to meet the minimum capital level by September under a severe stress scenario and four in a baseline scenario. The RBI is juggling several worries at this point: the pressure to adopt measures to boost growth, contain inflation, handle the expansion in government borrowings, and deal with the over Rs 8 trillion surplus liquidity in the system that has put pressure on short-term yields. Borrowing costs have plummeted to a 16-year low, thereby impacting the profitability of banks. This calls for a subtle balancing act as the monetary policy shifts from a focus on liquidity to growth-reviving measures designed to boost consumption and investment. The central bank needs to mull over ways to boost credit growth, which tumbled to 6.1 per cent as of December 18 last year from 7.1 per cent a year ago. There is one other worry that the central bank has articulated: the growing disconnect between certain segments of the financial markets and the real economy. The stock market has been on steroids lately; if the economy is slow to recover, the stretched valuations could blow up into a crisis with dramatic spillover risks for the entire financial system. India struggled to come out of a crisis in the shadow banking sector in 2019; the last thing it needs is a convulsion in the formal banking sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Opinion||Not enough: SC stay on farm laws||The farmer unions have welcomed the Supreme Court’s pronouncement of an interim stay on the implementation of the three legislations that they have been protesting against for a while now. They may draw further relief from the highest court’s assurance that the minimum support price mechanism would remain untouched — for the time being — and that landholdings, too, shall be protected. Yet, it would be presumptuous to argue that this intervention by the court has been able to assuage the existing anxieties. There is some concern with the tricky legal territory that the court is alleged to be treading upon: it is not often that the apex court decides to stay laws without an adequate examination of their constitutionality. But this blurring of the boundary between parliamentary legislation and judicial review would not concern the farmers: their bigger worry lies with the composition of the four-member committee of experts that the Supreme Court has put in place to negotiate between the parties. Each member of the committee — neither experience nor expertise is being questioned here — has been known to be in favour of the three legislations that the farmers are protesting against. This skewed representation would not make it possible for the farmers to engage with the arbiters with ‘confidence’ and in ‘good faith’ as has been the hope of the Supreme Court. The farmers’ rejection of the panel points to the continuation — not resolution — of the crisis. It has been reported that the suggestion of making the committee more representative in nature was rejected by the court, which said that the farmers — none of protesting unions voluntarily pleaded in the case — would have to approach the panel for the sake of a resolution. Such a stance on the part of the court is unfortunate. It is likely to deepen the mistrust that the farmers already harbour. The trust deficit has a context. Sections within the Narendra Modi government have spared no effort to malign the aggrieved farmers: the attorney-general is on record saying that the Centre would verify claims of the protest being supported by secessionist forces. The shocking paternal tone adopted by the institutions — ignorant, innocent farmers being waylaid by extraneous forces — has been a constant and cynical refrain to rob the farmers of agency. Interventions — mischievous or honourable — are unlikely to weaken the resolve of the people who feed the land.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Opinion||Arunachal Pradesh: geography as security||One of the least satisfactorily answered questions in the India-China boundary dispute is how did Arunachal Pradesh become a contested region. China’s claim that the state is South Tibet is probably maximalist posturing. Except for the Tawang-Bomdilla corridor in Arunachal’s western districts, the “Tibetan Buddhist Church”, as Alastair Lamb called it in The McMahon Line: A Study in the Relations Between, India, China and Tibet, 1904 to 1914, had virtually no influence in the rest of the state unlike, say, in Sikkim, Ladakh and Bhutan. Tawang, the birthplace of the sixth Dalai Lama, was indeed under Tibetan control. It was only during the Simla Conference of 1913-14 that Henry McMahon and Charles Bell bargained for its inclusion in India. The reason was that Tawang was too close to the Assam plains. Tibet, in turn, was promised British support in case of Chinese aggression. As anticipated widely, China invaded Tibet in October 1950. The Tibetans took the matter to the UN, but none of its allies, including Britain, the United States of America or India, were willing to sponsor its motion. Ultimately, it was El Salvador, which did the favour. When this desertion became apparent, Tibet actually asked for the return of Tawang. It should also be noted that even though Tawang was politically made to fall on the Indian side of the McMahon Line, it was still allowed to be under the cultural and religious control of Lhasa. However, after China communicated to India its decision to take over Tibet, India in early 1950 decided to end Lhasa’s suzerain influence on Tawang. There is also the legacy of the British frontier administration, which complicated the matter. The most significant is the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation 1873, which created an Inner Line along the base of the hills surrounding the plains of Assam. This line divided British revenue from non-revenue land. While the former were to be administered, the latter were to be claimed, but not administered. Lord Curzon’s Romanes Lecture 1907, titled “Frontiers”, gives more insights into how notions like ‘suzerainty’, ‘protectorate states’, ‘excluded’, ‘partially-excluded’ areas came out from this approach to frontier management. These were territories where the British involved themselves in indirect administration in a calibrated way. The Tibet case stood out. They did not want to take control of it but they did not want other powers extending their ‘sphere of influence’ there. This legacy of boundary ambiguity is now being capitalized by China. But there is a more primal politics shaped by subliminal anxieties. As in Kashmir, the anxiety here is water, once again. Just as all major tributaries of the Indus, including the five that irrigate the fertile plains of Punjab, either originate or flow through Kashmir, all the major tributaries of the Brahmaputra also flow out of Arunachal. Controlling Arunachal can be an important handle in controlling Northeast as well as Bangladesh. The same civilizational threat the Indus valley would feel at losing control of the waters that feed it would also be true of the fertile plains the Brahmaputra irrigates. This is true even of friendly countries: the protest by Bangladesh at India’s proposed Tipaimukh Dam over the Barak is the litmus test to demonstrate this archetypal anxiety in the relationship between any river valley and the hills that surround it. This dynamic can also be seen in the objections from Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh to the demand for a Greater Nagaland. This geography of security needs better understanding in formulating any conflict resolution strategies. Halford Mackinder’s influential Geographical Pivot of History (1904), taken forward by Robert Kaplan in Revenge of Geography, spells this out. Rimland and heartland nations have very different perceptions of security. Island nations are bound by natural boundaries; heartland nations are invariably bound by artificial ones. It is important for heartland nations to have a sense of control over territories immediately beyond their national boundaries. Russia’s extreme response to Nato befriending Ukraine was explained thus. The vast plains that separate Russia from western European powers have always been a source of Russia’s security through history. The futile invasions of Napoleon and Hitler demonstrated this. The British Empire had a curious mix of both psychologies. The friction between Lord Morley in London at the India secretariat and Lord Curzon as viceroy in Calcutta says this loudly. The heartland outlook to security was evident in Curzon’s Tibet anxiety, which led him to invade the monastery State in 1904 when he became convinced it was leaning towards Russia. In London, Morley and his likes dismissed this concern and eventually ended up undoing whatever Curzon achieved. Morley’s letter to Curzon’s successor Lord Minto in October 1906 is revealing: These “frontier men”, forget “the complex intrigues, rival interests and, if you like, diabolical machinations which make up international politics for a vast sprawling Empire like ours...” Ironically, Minto while in London in Morley’s office spoke the same language, but once in India, he, too, began seeing as Curzon did, and expressed his dissatisfaction at the way the Lhasa Convention 1904 was allowed to be usurped by the Peking Convention 1906. It is arguable that if Curzon had his way, the British would have left Tibet, like Bhutan or Sikkim, before 1975.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
14-01-2021||Opinion||Digest the irony||With no end to the pandemic in sight, people have now begun to worry about the different kinds of economic and social effects of Covid-19 more than about the disease itself. An impending food crisis is one major consequence that is causing concern across the globe. The World Food Programme of the United Nations has warned that there could be famines of biblical proportions in some parts of the world. India, too, will be affected since South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa are two regions that house the world’s largest number of undernourished and malnourished people. It is ironic that there is no aggregate shortage of food in the world. The distribution and access to food, however, cause severe distress. In a terribly unequal world, increasing levels of wastage have been accompanied by food scarcity and hunger. Hunger is something more than starvation. It is characterized by multiple features among which the shortage in the quantity of food is one dimension. A shortage implies a deficit in the minimum calories intake required by an average person. There are other dimensions as well. Health experts emphasize the need for a balanced diet in which there are optimum amounts of protein, fat and carbohydrates along with minerals and vitamins. An absence of this balance causes malnutrition that can have adverse long-term consequences similar to undernutrition when there is a shortage in total availability. Experts also point to the importance of the human body to be able to absorb a food for proper nutrition of the body. Importance is placed on the micronutrients that the human body requires to absorb the food it ingests. Any of these inadequacies can cause long-term damage in terms of brain development, chronic diseases, stunting and wasting through poor bodily development like height and weight. These impacts persist throughout a person’s lifetime. Hunger has remained familiar to the world despite the increased production of food, better agrarian technology, improvements in trade and communications, and a reduction in the number of people living in absolute poverty. There are growing concerns about the shortage of food induced by climate change given its effects on the productivity of land. Crop failures due to erratic weather like floods and droughts are another concern. There is wastage too. Rich countries of the world waste enormous amounts of food through large inventories in supermarkets and as a result of excessive purchase by consumers. The surplus food ends up in garbage dumps. In poor countries like India, there is also food wastage because the nation does not have enough storage facilities that can preserve perishable food like fruits and vegetables. According to the Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, the global extent of food wastage annually is of the order of 1.3 billion tonnes, which is approximately 33 per cent of the total food produced for human consumption. This quantum is valued at USD 2.6 trillion, and is deemed sufficient to feed about 815 million hungry people. In India, the wastage, according to government sources, is estimated to be around 16-20 per cent of all produce, especially fruits and vegetables and oilseeds. Set against these kinds of wastage, there are parts of the world where many children go to sleep hungry because they get unbalanced or inadequate diets. This has been the crux of the story behind global hunger. Then the pandemic arrived. Firstly, it seriously disrupted supply chains that reduced the flow of food from the farm and the dairy to the marketplace. Secondly, affluent people who could afford food started to buy in panic; this exacerbated shortages. Thirdly, all of a sudden, a large number of people found their jobs gone, or incomes slashed. This meant that their ability to access food was jeopardized. They had to cut back on quantity as well as quality. Finally, with supply-induced shortages, food prices have begun to rise across the globe. Food inflation is at abnormally high rates from China to the United States of America, from India to Brazil. Those who still have some income left started eating less; those with no income at all had to depend on private charity or on the government to provide food. As the pandemic gets prolonged, the ability of charities and governments to provide support will get weaker. International aid, already lower than last year, will begin to taper off rapidly. There might be a spike in hunger and starvation. According to some experts, the number of deaths from poverty and hunger could begin to surpass the deaths from Covid-19. According to the World Bank, more than 100 million people have already slipped into extreme poverty since March 2020. The WFP estimates that half-a-billion people might slide back into poverty by the time the pandemic ends. International trade normally moves enough maize, wheat, rice and soybeans to feed 2.8 billion people every year. That supply chain is also broken. There is a shortage of migrant workers in certain geographies. The United Kingdom expects to throw out a third of its harvest because of the lack of workers during the harvesting season. The US, in spite of Donald Trump’s paranoia about immigration, has actually eased visa restrictions for temporary help during the harvesting season. Other countries have imposed export restrictions on food grains in an effort to ensure sufficient domestic availability. Out of the 20 worst-hit countries, 17 are in sub-Saharan Africa where the cost of a basic meal has increased to 186 per cent of an average worker’s daily wage. According to Oxfam, 55 million people in 7 countries are facing famine-like conditions. In India, there are now 38,000 relief camps where 16 million are fed on a daily basis. It is estimated that 196 million people in India suffer from food insecurity. In the US, for the first time since the Great Depression, there are food banks where many people are going for the first time in their lives. 2020 had been a remarkably bad year in many ways. The pandemic, the economic collapse, backtracking on climate-change policies, freak weather patterns, forest fires and pests like the locust swarm — all of these do not bode well for the near future. This year may turn out to be a slow-motion replay of 2020. There is no aggregate shortage yet. It is all about reaching food to the right people at the right time and at the right price. However, policymakers across the world appear callous, turning more authoritarian and less democratic. They do not care too much about the weakest. Weakness is something to be abhorred and denounced. Yet hunger affects the weakest most severely. On the other side of food insecurity, one can see an added dose of food wastage by people who can afford food. There are new types of processed food being tried out. Additional food is stockpiled by online orders, new recipes are tried and exchanged, and many people in this economic class complain about putting on weight from eating too much during the pandemic-induced restrictions on physical movements. That is the story of roughly the top 10 per cent. The majority of the remaining 90 per cent remain on the edge of hunger. A few grow fat and rich even as millions of lives are wasted. The author is former professor of Economics, IIM Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
