15-01-2021||Opinion||Double-edged: unpaid domestic labour||It has taken no less than the highest court of the land to reiterate the fact that the value of a woman’s work at home is no less than that of her office-going husband. The Supreme Court’s observation is welcome; the apex court, as is its wont, upheld the moral and constitutional principles of equality and fairness. The court’s wisdom, ironically, has also laid bare an unsavoury reality: that remuneration for domestic work performed by women remains unrecognized and, hence, unrewarded. The implications of this entrenched discrimination are appalling. Research shows that Indian women do the most unpaid care and domestic work out of any country globally, with the exception of Kazakhstan. According to data from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, women in India spend 577 per cent more time in a day on invisible household work than men. Alarmingly, the Covid-19 pandemic has exacerbated these inequalities. Data from the United Nations show that with the closure of offices and educational institutions and work-from-home and online classes becoming the new normal, the burden of unpaid household work and childcare has turned even heavier for women. There can be no argument against recognizing that women’s domestic labour deserves compensation. Yet, even in a hypothetical situation where domestic work is monetized, this kind of affirmative intervention could create a new set of challenges. Households headed by men, be it the husband or the father-in-law, are likely to view the woman as a paid employee, deepening the sense of entitlement that Indian men harbour towards women and their labour. Remuneration for household work could put men off even further from sharing domestic responsibilities since, according to their distorted perspective, women are now entitled to receive payment. Most important, this might lead to the creation of a culture where women choose or are coerced to shun employment outside the home: UN data already show that the increasing domestic burden induced by the pandemic has resulted in the loss of employment and educational opportunities for women. While the idea of compensating housework is noble, it must be accompanied by simultaneous emancipatory policies in relevant spheres. These must include the consolidation of women’s right to inherit property and reside in their marital homes safely as well as demand equal participation from their partners in parenting responsibilities. None of these issues can be viewed in isolation from the matter of recognizing the value of women’s labour at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
15-01-2021||Opinion||Steady steps: plight of the elderly||Sir — As highlighted by the world’s largest-ever survey on the elderly, there are significant challenges faced by senior citizens in the form of chronic illnesses and mental conditions, in addition to frequent ill-treatment by family members or caregivers (“Bleak age”, Jan 11). Advances in medicine have made it possible to postpone death but, in most cases, this postponement leads to prolonged sickness, dependency, pain, and suffering which can be costly both in psychological and economic terms. It is also a fact that in India, most of the elderly are deprived of special care. Not all of the neglected senior citizens can afford social security schemes, making them dependent on factors beyond their control. In many countries in the West, governments play a significant role in caring for the aged, by providing home-care services along with free medication, and having care workers visit and spend time with them. The elderly in India should also have easy access to quality medical care in government hospitals. At present, the youth population in India is high, but in another 25 years, the number of the aged will be higher. There is awareness among people about how to live a long and healthy life, but they must also invest money in healthcare from a young age. Following healthy eating habits is also necessary. People should avoid a sedentary lifestyle and try to remain active as they grow old. Kiran Agarwal, Calcutta Sir — The plight of the elderly in India, especially those who do not come from privileged backgrounds, is indeed worrying. It must be remembered by both the State and families that the elderly are not a burden; their contribution to society throughout their active years must be acknowledged. What better way is there to do so than coming up with a policy that would provide free healthcare to those who brought up the youth of the nation? Young voters should think of their future and demand measures to this end. Shilpa Choudhury,Calcutta  Spread the wings Sir — Just before the transfer of power, the president of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has weakened a century-old law protecting American wild bird species. This could lead to more birds dying after landing in oil pits or colliding with power lines or other such structures. The new administration must make it a priority to undo any decree endangering wildlife. Jhumpa Sarkar,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||Class act: education funding||Learning may be priceless, but education for all cannot be achieved by skimping on funds. And if miserliness also wishes to appear benevolent, the combination can be seriously damaging. The Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre introduced reservations for economically weaker sections in education and public employment through a constitutional amendment. The EWS quota, fixed at 10 per cent, provoked questions: for breaching the 50 per cent cap on reservations, for example, or for shifting the grounds of reservations from historical injustice and lack of representation to welfarism, for giving the higher castes quota advantages and so on. The government, however, ordered educational institutions to accommodate 10 per cent of EWS students, increasing class strengths in such a way as not to reduce the space for the non-reserved category. Yet this is not accompanied adequately by the government’s financial support for the creation of matching infrastructure as regards laboratories, hostel seats or larger classrooms. Neither is there an increase in teaching posts. The institutions are already struggling with teacher-student ratios of over 1:20 when the government’s target is 1:10. The situation is custom-made to lower standards of teaching and cause disaffection among teachers who are being asked to achieve the impossible. Is it indifference, ignorance or a policy of withdrawing from public goods that shapes the government’s thinking about education? In another move, institutions that the government selected as Institutes of Eminence are being asked to have only 60 per cent of regular teachers on their staff. The others are to be adjunct teachers, part-time or visiting faculty: they are paid less and have no gratuity. This is another blow to education. Transient teachers cannot contribute to the building of academic traditions or the improving of standards, while the system leaves students insecure. Regular teachers do much more than lecture; they nurture academic and allied activities, help build libraries, mentor students, preside over admissions and conduct examinations. They alone can supervise research; reducing their numbers will affect research productivity. And what about the profession of teaching? Lack of continuity and low pay cannot be incentives to commitment. The overall damage to the educational sphere would be incalculable. Does the government really believe that a country which pays no attention to its students and teachers can show great progress? Or does it want to wipe out learning?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||At last a blessed moment||Of all the time spent at a hospital, I think the dreariest is the bit spent at the admission and insurance counters. On this occasion at the admission counter, I was again being asked for the details of my identification documents and my mother’s. But unlike on other occasions, I was fully prepared. All my IDs were saved in the photo gallery of my phone. But not very methodically, I realized. I had saved them over a period of time. Whenever I had used an ID, I had taken a photo, but not of all of them together, because I hate looking at IDs and can only have them one at a time, not more. They lay scattered all over. Trying to focus through my face shield, I spotted my Aadhaar card photo on top of a heap of pictures of me — taken by my daughter through Snapchat filters. They were silly, they were grotesque, they were hideous. I was featured with a cat’s face that knocked my chin in and extended my jowls even more, a bunny face and, mostly, as a baby. The baby pictures made me look monstrous. One picture showed me as a bald man. Another with two giant front teeth. When they had been taken I had been annoyed with my daughter for filling my phone up with rubbish. Now they felt different. They were oddly comforting. Instead of mailing the Aadhaar card, I began to scroll down through my pictures, lingering over each of them. Between my Aadhaar and PAN card I found another stash, of random screenshots of Shashi Kapoor, whose beauty never fails to move me. I began to linger over them too. What was I doing? I was at the hospital finishing the admission process for my mother, the gentleman at the counter was glaring at me and asking me for the details every second minute, and others at the counter were also looking at me accusingly, and I was failing to drag myself away from Shashi Kapoor and also from the pictures of a silly, lovely evening that were stacked below. My activities took less time in reality, and are taking more time to be written down, but what I was passing through seemed like an eternity. I was troubled by my own behaviour, although I had made sure that there were no other patients’ families queuing up behind me. It was so silly, but I was paralyzed by joy. I was looking at another world, one which I had almost forgotten, having been snatched away by death, disease, virtual life and endless gloom. That other world was less perfect when I lived in it, but the photographs made it perfect. They were the very antidote to the hospital now. Did Wordsworth feel like me, lying on the couch, focusing his inward eye on the daffodils? Emotions recollected in tranquillity, or in a hospital? The admission process could not wait any more and I began to fill in a series of forms, when there was a commotion on my right. I looked up and saw a miracle. Really. Santa Claus had appeared and was wishing me ‘Merry Christmas’. He was standing at the head of a mini procession of revellers in Christmas colours and at least two angels, in white gowns and white wings, although walking on earth. Each of them offered me and everyone at the counters and all the visitors in the lobby a candy each. The gentleman at the counter told me that they were all hospital staff, Christians, mostly from the Northeast and the South. They had not been able to go home for an entire year, not even for Christmas. This is what they had organized to make themselves, and others, feel good. Santa Claus and the merrymakers moved towards the hospital entrance and seemed to vanish as they had materialized. I felt blessed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||There are grounds for renaming stadiums||Ajinkya Rahane has become the first recipient of the Mullagh Medal. From 2020, every Player of the Match from a Boxing Day Test started receiving the Mullagh Medal, established in honour of Johnny Mullagh, a star from the 1868 Aboriginal tour of England. The Aboriginals of 1868 were Australia’s first sporting team to compete overseas. They have only recently been given their due in Australia’s cricketing consciousness. India, however, is a very long way from celebrating its champions or paying formal tribute to their legacies. A day before Rahane received the Mullagh Medal, a statue of the late Arun Jaitley, the former finance minister and president of the Delhi & District Cricket Association, was unveiled at the Feroz Shah Kotla. The former India cricketer, Bishan Singh Bedi, had protested vehemently, saying Jaitley could be remembered in Parliament as a politician but “not [in] a cricket stadium”. Bedi had many run-ins with Jaitley’s presidency, terming it a “corrupt durbar of sycophants”, and wanted his name to be taken down from a Kotla stand. Bedi also surrendered his DDCA membership. The Kotla has already formally been named the Arun Jaitley Stadium but there appears to be no limit to servility, particularly now that Jaitley Jr, Rohan, has been elected the new DDCA president. Public objection to the Jaitley statue was interpreted as a challenge to the ruling dispensation’s higher standards of stadium nomenclature. In defence of Jaitley’s statue in the stadium, whataboutery101 cited the obscene number of sports arenas — 28 — named after the Nehru-Gandhi clan. Sixteen for Jawaharlal Nehru, seven for Indira Gandhi, and five for Rajiv. Since most Indian stadia are government-owned, their political scorecard is long and distinguished: Rajendra Prasad (three), Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy (two). A rough count of other single-stadium politicians crosses 10. Of the handful of grounds named after athletes, hockey used to be proactive: Dhyan Chand, K.D. Singh Babu and Roop Singh (Gwalior’s cricket stadium). There’s a Bhaichung stadium in Namchi, Sikkim, and Coimbatore’s Kari Motorway Speedway honours the motorsport pioneer, S. Karivardhan. The figure for cricket is zero because the more self-aggrandizing cricket administrators also chose to name grounds after themselves — M.A. Chidambaram, M. Chinnaswamy, S. Wankhede who, in turn, inspired tennis’s R.K. Khanna. Mohali’s PCA-I.S. Bindra stadium was anointed a year after Bindra retired from cricket administration, only to be elected chairman in 2015, which appears to be a ceremonial post. How many statues does India have of its finest athletes? Not Madame Tussauds social media wax works but real ones. Some of the names that come to mind the quickest are those of Dhyan Chand, C.K. Nayudu, D.B. Deodhar and the footballing hero, Gostha Pal, opposite the Eden Gardens. Calcutta also acknowledges Leslie Claudius and Shute Banerjee. Plus there’s Vinoo Mankad in Jamnagar, Gujarat, Sachin Tendulkar in Atarwalia, Bihar, Yuvraj Singh in Ferozepur, Punjab, and Sourav Ganguly in Balurghat, Bengal. That’s only 10 in all and there are no women among them. It is patently clear that our sport is not an engine of or for athletic excellence. In India, sport is a centrifugal force-generator for political power and its allied sycophancy industry. So here’s a thought. Let’s treat the stadia like the politicians treat sport — by cutting across party lines to exercise our love for sport in the most fitting manner. Since renaming, demolishing and appropriation — cities, institutions, programmes — are the policy du jour, what stops the ruling dispensation and their cheerleaders from passing a bill in Parliament to rename every single politico-inspired ground after India’s greatest athletes? One nation, one sports policy: no politics in sport. It will free our sporting venues from their political names and rid us of a 70-year-old habit. In an atmosphere of political disinvestment from sport, the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna also requires a sport-centric title. And while we’re at it, surely the most inappropriately-titled Indian sports award — the Dronacharya — must be renamed. How can an award for coaching be named after a coach who cut off the thumb of a student who secretly studied archery after he was first shooed away by the coach? What kind of coaches are we recognizing? Let’s name the award after a real Indian coaching legend — football’s Syed Abdul Rahim who took India to the 1956 Olympic semi-final and the 1962 Asian Games gold medal. No patriotic Indian sports fan should have any objections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
15-01-2021||Opinion||A troubled prognosis||The drama at the Capitol in Washington obscured the resumption of the intra-Afghan dialogue with the second round between the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan beginning last week. The first round extended for some three months and ended in December with an agreement on the ‘Rules of Procedure’ and an exchange of issues that each side wanted the talks to focus on. How the first round is evaluated in terms of success or failure depends largely on where you stand on what is happening in Afghanistan today. For some, the intra-Afghan process is no more than a sideshow to the main event — what the United States of America will do in the coming months given that it has to have closure on its longest-ever military intervention. For others, that warring Afghan parties are discussing and negotiating ways forward is a huge plus and significant in itself. The differences between the two sides are vast. The Taliban is committed to an ‘Emirate’ as the only legitimate government of the future. This puts in jeopardy the entire Afghanistan project as constituted following the Taliban’s overthrow in 2001. Thus, from the outside, the difference between the two sides appears insurmountable — how do you reconcile an ‘Islamic Republic’ with an ‘Islamic Emirate’? Yet, Afghanistan from the outside is not the same as Afghanistan from the inside. Merely securing an end to the conflict seems to be to many enough of a common ground to smoothen the interface between these two rival, competing, and conflicting ideas of Afghanistan. The road ahead in the second round of negotiations could, therefore, be even bumpier. The area where progress is the least is on the cessation of hostilities and violence. For the government of Afghanistan, a ceasefire is an obvious accompaniment to the negotiations. For the Taliban, this is putting the cart before the horse: the ceasefire can only be the outcome of a successful negotiation. Terrorist attacks in Afghanistan continue and, increasingly, the targets are soft ones — the very institutions and personalities that have emerged as a result of the construction of a new State in Afghanistan over the past two decades. The ‘Rules of Procedure’ on which agreement was reached between the two sides in the first round of negotiations include formal protocol arrangements. It was agreed that discussions must begin with a recitation from the holy Quran and that meetings must have periodic breaks for the five daily prayers. Provisions such as these possibly would not have been the cause of any dispute.  More difficult was the issue of the legal framework that would be used to resolve disagreements during the process of negotiations. The Taliban demand was that this framework had to be based on Sunni jurisprudence. This would exclude the Shia minorities and was an obvious point of contention for the government side. What is significant perhaps is that a way out was found: a joint committee comprising members from both sides would resolve differences that came up. In the protracted negotiations that led to the agreed ‘Rules of Procedure’, what was at stake was more than the positions that each side took with respect to Afghan religious and political traditions. For those concerned about the steady deterioration in Afghanistan’s security and the gloomy forecasts that now invariably accompany most sober analysis of its future, these negotiations are a diversion. The stark reality that confronts the country today is that the Taliban insurgency with Pakistan’s support has gained an upper hand and that this position will progressively strengthen. What will happen in the next round of discussions? It is reasonable to expect some kind of zeroing-in on the principal issues highlighted by both sides — a ceasefire for the Afghan government and an ‘Islamic’ government for the Taliban. Already, there are reports accumulating of the US and others pushing for an interim government to take charge in Kabul to enable a ceasefire to be put in place. It remains to be seen how this works out but clearly some changes in the present architecture in Kabul were to be expected from the time the US and the Taliban reached an agreement on ‘bringing peace to Afghanistan’ in February last year. Alongside this is the concomitant increase in Pakistan’s influence. This is in large part because of the traditional role that Pakistan has played with the Taliban but it also arises from its role in bringing the Taliban and the US on converging tracks. How much this influence will be and how it will play out given the problems Pakistan is facing domestically with the visible alienation of, and protests emanating from, Pakistani Pashtuns are real issues. But these will only surface over a longer time span. Afghanistan’s best-case scenario is that the Taliban is actually negotiating in good faith and will play its part in a future power-sharing arrangement in that spirit. This case rests on the premise that large sections amongst the Taliban are as weary of the constant violence as everyone else and are, therefore, agreeable to reasonable compromises. Mullah Barader, the deputy leader of the Taliban and head of its political office, is seen as a moderate and as someone long regarded as being open to a political settlement on the basis of compromising with the government of Afghanistan. The arguments against are powerful and, primarily, allege that the intra-Afghan negotiations are the outcome of war weariness and exhaustion not so much of the warring Afghans as of the US. Afghanistan’s history is replete with illustrations of the fragility of externally determined agendas. With a new administration on the anvil in the US, how one future milestone is approached may provide some clues. The February 2020 agreement between the US and the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan (the Taliban) specified the withdrawal of all US forces by May 2021. How the new US administration will work with this commitment of its predecessor is also going to be a matter of some weight for what happens next in Afghanistan. Details apart, what stands out also are older continuities from Afghanistan’s recent history. In 1988, Pakistan and the then government of Afghanistan had signed the Geneva Accord — a face-saving arrangement to enable the Soviet Union to withdraw its troops. The agreement was co-signed as guarantors by the US and the USSR. The US premised its signature on this with the condition that the signature did not mean recognition of the government of Afghanistan — one of the signatories. The 2020 agreement with the Taliban is similarly premised on the stipulation that the agreement does not imply recognition. In diplomatic practice, such ambiguities of engagement without recognition are not unusual. Yet, in Afghanistan’s case, they put an additional burden on the already troubled future ahead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-88
