16-01-2021||Opinion||Good riddance: Donald Trump impeached||Sir — The news that Donald Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives earlier this week came as a relief. This impeachment is historic, as it is the first time ever in the United States of America that a president has been impeached twice. In 2019, he was charged with abuse of power and the obstruction of Congress; this year, the impeachment is on a charge of “incitement of insurrection” after the riot at the US Capitol. He had made a reportedly violence-inciting speech at a rally just before the riot; that speech is at the centre of the impeachment charge against him. As the House of Representatives voted 232-196 to impeach Trump, they did so amid tight security. In fact, members of Trump’s own party echoed the Democrats in voicing the need to hold him accountable, and ominously said that there was a “clear and present danger” if Congress were to leave Trump unchecked before the inauguration of the president-elect, Joe Biden, on January 20. Charges of impeachment in the US are serious; it is rarely a process that is invoked unless there is sufficient cause for it. At least five people died in the riot caused by Trump supporters storming into the Capitol building, destroying property and getting in fights with police officers. Now that the vote is in, the Senate is supposed to be holding a trial to prove Trump’s guilt. A two-thirds majority in the upper House will be required to impeach the president. However, it is unlikely that the Senate will convene before January 19, which would effectively mean that the trial will only begin after Trump renounces office on January 20. Had the trial taken place on time, and Trump been proven guilty, he would not have been able to contest the presidency the next time. However, in spite of the unfortunate timing, it would be foolhardy to allow Trump’s crimes to go unpunished, as it would set an unwanted and dangerous precedent. As long as he is held accountable and duly penalized, it will serve as a warning for future leaders who might think like him. Ashish Ganguly,Delhi Sir — Following the January 6 attacks on the US Capitol while Congress met to formalize Joe Biden’s presidential victory, the House of Representatives impeached Donald Trump for the second time. Interestingly, ten Republicans also voted with the Democrats. The House adopted a single article of impeachment — one of the weightiest tools that the US Constitution gives to the Congress, to hold government officials, including the president, accountable for misconduct and abuse of power — voting 232 to 196 to charge Trump with inciting violence and requesting his immediate removal and disqualification from ever holding office again. The vote set the stage for Trump’s second Senate trial since 2019, although senators are not expected to convene to sit in judgment before January 20, when Biden will take the oath of office. Even though time is limited, it is never too late to do the right thing. There is still enough reason to put Trump on trial even after he leaves the White House. The manner in which Trump, under the guise of patriotism, provoked a violent attack makes him deserving of an impeachment. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Well played Sir — It was deeply heartening to read that the New Zealand skipper, Sophie Devine, hit the fastest century in the history of women’s Twenty20 cricket — 100 runs off just 36 balls — in a domestic match. This is a significant milestone because women’s cricket always tends to get sidelined — by spectators, advertisers and brands alike — in favour of men’s cricket, even though women are doing so many exciting things in the sport. Even in India, the achievements of the likes of Mithali Raj, Jhulan Goswami and Smriti Mandhana get overshadowed regularly. It is high time that women’s cricket attracted the same kind of attention and investment that the men’s game gets. Aria Mitra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Opinion||A snack across the universe||A samosa has boldly gone where no jalebi, khakra or kachori has gone before. This deep-fried pastry — one of India’s favourite snacks — was launched into space by a restaurant-owner in Bath, England. Even though the high-flying snack plummeted back to earth — it crash-landed across the channel — this novel operation, it was hoped, would lighten up the mood in these dark times. A careful examination of the history of savouries would reveal that food shares a symbiotic relationship with joy and wonder. For instance, the samosa, apart from being a space explorer, has also been a migrant. At a time when the ‘outsider’ is raising a tempest in Bengal’s tea cups, the Bengali, biting contently into a piping hot phulkopir shingara, would do well to remember that this beloved snack came from a land distant from Bengal and, indeed, India. The samosa originated in the Middle East, tracing its ancestry to the sanbusak, which, by the way, is also the forbear of the calzone of Italy, the coca of Catalonia and the empanada of Central America. Migrants travel in groups; so does food. The potato — can the samosa or the biryani be imagined without it? — began its journey from Latin America, hitching a ride with Portuguese sailors, to reach the subcontinent in the 17th century. Its good friend, the tomato — Italy cannot do without its pomodoro — originated in the Americas too. A study by the International Center for Tropical Agriculture has shown that about 69 per cent of all food supplied to and produced in any country is ‘foreign’. Yet, these edible travellers have been known to make competitors forgive and forget animosity. In spite of the Chinese intrusion, have Indians given up their chai? Even in the Age of Untruth, there is no doubt that China gifted tea to the world. The jet-setting samosa that is making Indians puff up with pride has also been voted Pakistan’s most popular food, along with other Indian dishes like halwa puri and paratha. Food and its journeys are, thus, the embodiment of umbilical cords that have survived geographical, political and cultural purgings. This is not to suggest that fight over food among cultures is rare. Kimchi is a bone of contention between Japan and South Korea; Israel and Lebanon have frequently quarrelled over the hummus; closer to home, both Bengalis and Odias — their mouths drooling — have claimed ownership of the rosogolla. The animosity is understandable. Food serves as the imprimatur of indigenous — bona fide — identity. Yet, a grave new threat has gone unnoticed amidst these raging food wars. As the world gets smaller, food — its texture and smells — has begun to look and taste similar, thanks to the spreading tentacles of a globalized, but unimaginative, market. This industrial, mass-produced strain of refreshments is overwhelming distinct, often local, foods as well as the histories, myths, and stories of migrations embedded in them. Indigenous food — the original migrant — may well survive among pockets of migrant communities that continue to relive memories of what they have left behind through the morsels that survive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Opinion||Different promises: New Year resolutions||People notoriously fail to stick to New Year’s resolutions, and this year it may be even harder. Common New Year’s resolutions each year include exercising more, losing weight, saving money, spending less time on social media, spending more time with family and so on. A job website analyzed Google trends and found that for 2021, the most common resolution across states in the United States of America was to seek therapy. The second common one was to lose weight. Therapy was the top goal in Pennsylvania, Arizona, Connecticut, Florida, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, New Jersey, New York and Tennessee ( notice the lack of any West Coast states here). It is not surprising that therapy trended high this year considering the roller coaster ride that 2020 was. Many people experienced the same things: losing jobs, stressing over a presidential election and binge-watching Netflix. In Alaska, Kansas, Oregon and Washington, “better sleep” trended as a goal for 2021. Dating was a common trend in California, Hawaii, Illinois, Michigan, Nevada and Utah. The new year was rung in without the usual crowds. The Times Square bash honoured the frontline workers who have risked their lives during the Covid-19 pandemic. Las Vegas, New York City and Miami are usually the most popular destinations for New Year’s Eve, but this time celebrations were subdued or cancelled. For the people Martin Luther King, Jr Day is celebrated on the third Monday of every year. Most businesses are closed and the federal government is off as well on this day as people come together to honour and remember civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr. The proposition to mark this day as a federal holiday was introduced in the late 1960s, but did not come into effect until decades later. It was finally nationally recognized in 2000. King’s widow, Coretta Scott King, continued to fight for the approval of the holiday and testified before Congress multiple times. In fact, in Alabama and Mississippi, it coincides with Robert E. Lee Day, which celebrates the life of a Confederate general. MLK’s birthday is actually on January 15, but was designated to fall on the third Monday every year owing to the Uniform Monday Holiday Act that was signed into law in 1968, owing to which federal holidays, including Memorial Day and George Washington’s birthday, fall on a Monday to allow families to travel to visit each other. MLK is known both as a national hero of democracy and a civil rights activist. He fought for equality for the black American community through peaceful protests. He was assassinated at the age of 39. This year, several events have been cancelled owing to the pandemic, impending storms and predicted protests in all 50 states in the wake of the US Capitol riots. The 26th annual Greater Philadelphia Martin Luther King Day of Service will take place on January 18, the largest MLK Day event in the US. This year the theme is the Covid-19 health crisis.Stop the hate After the assault on the US Capitol building, the power and responsibility of social media companies have become contentious issues. There is little doubt that the president, Donald Trump, leveraged Twitter and Facebook to reach his supporters. During the attack, he even posted a now deleted Tweet calling the rioters ‘special people’. But now Facebook, Instagram and Twitter are pushing back. They suspended Trump’s accounts, first temporarily, then permanently, preventing him from tweeting even under other account names. This spurred a debate on free speech, with Conservatives slamming Twitter for obstructing First Amendment rights. However, the amendment does not apply to private businesses such as Twitter or Facebook. In the midst of this, a social media application called Parler, tailored for far-right conservatives, has emerged. Unlike Twitter, Parler allows speech with no monitoring. It became one of the most downloaded apps until the App Store, Google Play store and even Amazon Web Services kicked it off their platforms. Peace over violence Every January, US cities organize and participate in the Women’s March. This year, not only are the marches cancelled owing to the pandemic, but it was prefaced by domestic terrorism at the US Capitol carried out by several members belonging to far-right groups. The Women’s March has been the largest single-day demonstration in the US. The march is completely peaceful with a goal to vent frustrations about inequality and advocate for basic human rights — not only for women but for every individual, regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, gender and sexual orientation. It is in sharp contrast to the events of January 6 in which people also came to protest, but with pipe bombs and zip ties. The fourth annual 2021 Womxn’s March on Raleigh will be a virtual march on January 23, live for 12 hours. The theme is ‘Onward Together’ with a focus on community organization. The Women’s March Foundation issued a statement saying it would be “irresponsible” to organize a march “in the face of these issues and it is imperative to keep our communities safe”. With Kamala Harris becoming the country’s first woman vice-president, there is more to celebrate this year. Footnote If you need some motivation to go get a Covid-19 test done, that motivation could be wine. The City Winery in New York has creatively adapted the new ‘no indoor dining’ policy by transforming its venue into a Covid test zone. The promotion, now expired, gave you a free Covid test with the purchase of a case of wine. It also added a $50 Covid rapid test for anyone who wanted to dine indoors. The promotion was in partnership with Accurex Diagnostic Services, which is overseeing and administering all of the 15-minute rapid tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
16-01-2021||Opinion||Riches and dust||In the third week of January 2020 — exactly a year ago — I was in New Delhi, working in the collections of the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. I first discovered the archival riches of the NMML in the early 1980s, and explored them most fully while living in Delhi between 1988 and 1994. In those years I would spend a couple of days a week in the NMML, exploring its repository of private papers of major (and minor) figures in modern Indian history and digging deep into its holdings of old newspapers. In 1994, I moved to Bangalore. I no longer had daily access to the NMML, and made do with a few trips a year. These were generally in January, April, September and November, thus escaping the brutal heat of summer and the sapping stickiness of the monsoon too. I would book myself for a week or ten days in a boarding house in New Delhi, within walking distance of the NMML. I would reach the Manuscripts Room at 9 am, as soon as it opened, colonize a desk by the window, order my files, and settle in for a concentrated day’s work. Apart from a short break for lunch and two shorter breaks for chai, I would take notes until 5 pm, coming back the next day for more. I have worked in dozens of archives around the world, but the NMML has always been my favourite place to do research in. The reasons were various — the setting, a tree-laden campus rich in bird life, behind the magnificent Teen Murti House; the range of primary materials on all aspects of our history; the capable and helpful staff; the planned and unplanned meetings with other scholars who came to work there. For the past quarter-of-a-century, I have made at least four, sometimes five and even six, pilgrimages each year to this shrine for historical researchers. When I was there last January, I had no clue 2020 would be any different. Then the pandemic set in, and for the rest of the year I was marooned in South India. Even if I had somehow got on a flight to New Delhi, I would have found the NMML shut. Nonetheless, through the course of the year this much-loved archive kept me company anyway. I was finishing a book on foreigners who joined the freedom struggle, based in large part on research previously conducted in the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library. And I was reading manuscripts of younger scholars, these likewise drawing on the collections of the NMML. In the summer and autumn of 2020, I read draft chapters of a biography of the socialist leader, George Fernandes, written by Rahul Ramagundam, and of a biography of the Bharatiya Janata Party icon, Atal Bihari Vajpayee, written by Abhishek Choudhary. I also had several long conversations with Akshaya Mukul, who is working on a new biography of Jayaprakash Narayan. These three book projects have four things in common. First, when published all will be major and perhaps definitive biographies of the individuals concerned. Second, since these books are about important (and controversial) historical figures, they should command a wide readership. Third, the subjects of these books were all opponents (sometimes implacably so) of the Congress and its pre-eminent leader, Jawaharlal Nehru. Fourth, none of these books could have been conceived, researched or written without access to the rare and rich materials pertaining to Fernandes, Vajpayee and JP kept in an archive named after their common political adversary. This was not an accident. Though named for Nehru, the NMML was never intended to be partisan in its orientation. That is why biographers of JP, Fernandes and Vajpayee have to conduct much of their research there. So must biographers of other celebrated anti-Congress (and anti-Nehru) politicians such as Shyama Prasad Mookerjee and C. Rajagopalachari. Unlike many other Indian institutions, the NMML was lucky in the people who built it. Its first two directors, B.R. Nanda and Ravinder Kumar, were outstanding as scholars and as administrators. Working with Nanda and Kumar were a team of excellent archivists who sourced manuscripts and newspaper collections from around India, indexed, catalogued and preserved them, and made them accessible to scholars. Over the decades, thousands of books and dissertations have been written on the basis of the NMML collections. Anyone working with any seriousness on any aspect of modern Indian history had to spend time here. Whether one was desi or videshi, young, old or middle-aged, whether one was a social historian, an economic historian, a cultural historian, a historian of science, a film historian or sports historian, a student of feminism or environmentalism or socialism, one began and often ended one’s research at the NMML. With no disrespect to the other men and women who made the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, perhaps the person who best embodied its spirit and character was a scholar named Dr Hari Dev Sharma (picture). A historian from the Punjab, he joined the place in 1966, shortly after it was established, and worked there for more than three decades. Many of the most important collections at the NMML were acquired through the skill, industry and selflessness of Hari Dev Sharma. These include the Fernandes, JP and Rajagopalachari papers mentioned above, as well as an extensive collection of the papers of Mahatma Gandhi himself. It was also Sharma who oversaw the oral history collections, these often based on interviews with freedom fighters that he had himself conducted. From February to December 2020, while deprived of physical access to the NMML, I kept in touch with this great institution via the manuscripts I was reading. While discussing Fernandes with Rahul Ramagundam, or Vajpayee with Abhishek Choudhary, or JP with Akshaya Mukul, the figure of Hari Dev Sharma often came into my mind. These scholars are all too young to have met the man, although they know that it was archivists like him who made their scholarship possible. I was myself fortunate both to have known Dr Sharma and be a direct beneficiary of his work and his wisdom. Short and stocky, Haridevji was clad always in a kurta-pyjama, coloured white and made of khadi. He came to office riding his own scooter, stoutly refusing a sarkari car. As I write this, I can picture us meeting on a wintry January morning, on the steps of the Library building. I have just disembarked from an autorickshaw, and he has just parked his Vespa and taken off his helmet. As we come across one another this sort of conversation ensues: The Archivist (in Hindi): “Kaho Ram, kaise ho? Bung-lore se kab aaye?”
The Researcher (in Hinglish): “Meri flight kal raat ko pahunchi, Haridevji.”
The Archivist: “Toh is baar kya dekh rahe ho?”
The Researcher: “Main Gandhiji ke disciples par kaam start karna chahta hoon.”
The Archivist: “Tab ao mere saath kamre mein.” Had I not run into Haridevji on the Library steps, I would have proceeded to the Manuscripts Room, shooting in the dark, beginning my research unguided and unaided. Now, having met him and being taken to his office, my time amidst the NMML’s collections would be more profitably spent. I wished to know what Gandhi’s closest followers did after the Mahatma’s assassination, he asked? In that case I must access the collection of the economist, J.C. Kumarappa, focusing in particular on his correspondence with Vinoba Bhave and Mira Behn. Then I should look at the materials on the Frontier Gandhi, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, contained in the papers of D.G. Tendulkar and Kamalnayan Bajaj. And so the stream of recommendatory advice would flow, making the researcher’s task so much easier. Hari Dev Sharma retired as deputy director of the NMML in 1999, and passed away the following year. Ever since, whenever I have entered the NMML I have imagined meeting him, helmet in hand, and his taking me to his room for instruction. However, the last eleven months of 2020 passed without my stepping into my favourite archive at all. I don’t know whether I will see it in 2021 either. Perhaps that is just as well, for in recent years the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library has entered into a steady and probably irreversible decline. The fine archivists who retired were not replaced, while important collections donated by well-meaning Indians remain uncatalogued, gathering dust. Meanwhile, the NMML’s administration has been commanded by its political bosses to disregard scholars and scholarship and, instead, devote its attention to the construction of a hideous new building on the lawns. This is ostensibly a museum to honour all of India’s prime ministers but is — like so many other ugly structures under construction in New Delhi — in essence a monument merely to the vanity of the present prime minister. One doesn’t know in what form or shape the NMML will survive the mayhem of the Modi years. A centre of intellectual excellence, once staffed with archivists like Hari Dev Sharma, once so hospitable and welcoming to scholars of all generations, ideologies and nationalities, has become a sad and forlorn place, bereft of creativity and the capacity for self-renewal. As someone who knew the NMML in its prime, I feel fortunate, in having masses of notes from it that will sustain me for the rest of my life, as well as guilty, since scholars younger or as yet unborn will never be able to draw as deeply from this once great archive as I myself have. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
