17-01-2021||Opinion||So now lend me your tongues||And I may yet lend you my ears. Heard me? We are talking. Are you listening? Come, let’s talk. Flap your ears, my tongue is wagging, and when my tongue wags it can be like a whiplash dipped in... oh whatever, use your imagination if you have one. But don’t overdo it, imagination can take you in prohibited places, places where you think you will talk and I will listen. Haaaah! That’s not happening. Let’s talk. Imagination is not allowed, imagination violates, imagination carries the risk of transporting you away from reality, and that cannot be a good thing. Imagine gorging on khichdi when you are only tucking into the hinds of a roasted leg of lamb. How pathetic would that be, haan? Get it? You are talking, don’t imagine this is a negotiation. I promised talks, but did I promise more? You have a problem? Let’s talk. You want a solution, well that’s another thing. We can talk about it. Talks after talks after talks, what splendid use of time. Meantime, I will go on doing what I do, let’s keep you busy. What is it that’s bothering you? When I have decreed that what is bothering you should not bother you, why are you getting bothered and bothering me in turn? You want to talk? Here is how it will go: Shut up. If you are confused, listen again: Shut up. And if that is not possible for you to do, or beyond your comprehension, hand over your tongue. You heard it. Off with your tongue. I would know what use to put it to. You use it too much. You abuse it. Too much of anything is bad, did you ever hear that said? A louse in your scalp, you pinch it out, or brush it if you are squeamish about pinching and what comes of pinching. But too many lice in your scalp, and you must give your scalp the treatment. You use a mower. Or, what’s it called, yes, a razor; you run a razor over that infested acreage. Too much is too much, too many too many. And if it is too many and too much, both at the same time, well that requires special arrangements. That is who you have become — folks in requirement of a prescription for special arrangements. You talk too much. And you are too many. Far too many for my liking. And you want to talk? This whole unseemly, unholy babble of you? What is the point of the noise? That you might get an opportunity to talk? Because of the noise you make? Get real. I will tell you how. Do you know of a thing called a round? Or rounds? Of being taken round and round? Round upon round? A not so merry merry-go-round? No? Let me tell you. Let me offer you a ride. I will arrange it, a roundtable, a table that goes round and round, you know what I mean, you who seem to know what I mean all the time and keep telling me this is what I really mean and this is what I mean not. Come by some day. We shall talk. I shall arrange a whole committee to talk to you since you love talking so much. You can bring your cities and towns along; your villages too. We’ve emptied enough spaces. In the prisons. Tum bhi kya yaad rakkhoge! Let’s get on with it. Now there’s the committee and they will talk. Talk is what you wanted. Talk is what you shall get. Listen up. I never said no to talks, but let this be clear, I talk, or my committee does, and you listen. The whole point of talks is someone talks and someone listens. No point talking when no one’s listening, is there? And there’s always a point listening when someone’s talking, isn’t there? Let’s talk. You listen, and I shall talk, that’s the way these talks will go. Lend me your ears. Ah yes, your ears too. Understood? Listen to me You sweet nothing Here’s what you’ll get This rat-eaten farthing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
17-01-2021||Opinion||Winter vigils||The time of Covid in India was bookended by two different yet similar winter vigils. The winter of 2019-20 saw sit-ins led by Muslim women in Shaheen Bagh and other places in protest against the Narendra Modi government’s Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The winter of 2020-21 has seen a massive sit-in on Delhi’s border led by Sikh farmers demanding the repeal of the three agriculture Acts rushed through Parliament by the Central government in September. The similarities between these two agitations are instructive, as are their differences. Both movements were protesting laws drafted by a democratically elected government, duly passed by Parliament. Both were, consequently, forms of civil disobedience: the sit-ins happened in public spaces, on major thoroughfares, and called attention to their causes by bringing traffic in their vicinity to a standstill. These were civil society movements, initiated, led and sustained by civil society groups that saw the government’s laws as existential threats to their rights and livelihood. Party political leadership in both cases was conspicuous by its absence. Opposition leaders occasionally signalled their support but they contributed little or nothing to the agenda and the organization of these agitations. Both movements filled a political vacuum created by the massive electoral success of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the consequent disarray in and demoralization of Opposition parties. The absolute majority won by the BJP in the 2019 general election was, for Modi and his party, the curtain raiser for the construction of a new republic based on the Gujarat Model. This consists of a systematically communalized polity, a segregated society where the public subordination of a Muslim underclass consolidates a murderous majoritarianism and a streamlined economy rendered fit for purpose for the ambitions of the BJP’s billionaire cronies. The Shaheen Bagh sit-in was a direct response to the inauguration of this Second Republic. The BJP’s signature triumph has been the political marginalization of Muslims. The Shaheen Bagh vigil was born of quiet desperation: the Muslim women of that neighbourhood were defending their constitutional rights as citizens against the BJP’s bid to smuggle in a religious test for citizenship in the shape of the CAA. The farmers’ protest is a response to the third aspect of this new national dispensation. The commitment of the BJP to the rationalization of India’s economy — and, therefore, its rural hinterland and its agriculture — for the benefit of friendly tycoons is absolute. The failed land acquisition bill in the early part of Modi’s first tenure and now this stalled bid to get Punjab’s farmers to love the stringent discipline of contract farming and the free market are, like love jihad and lynching, essential elements of the Gujarat Model. When the predominantly Sikh peasantry of Punjab refused to buy into this bracing vision of billionaire heaven, the BJP government of Haryana vandalized its highways by digging trenches across them to stop the farmers from marching on Delhi and the stand-off (or sit-in) at Tikri, Singhu and other places began. The Muslim women at Shaheen Bagh and the Sikh farmers on Delhi’s border are religious minorities standing up for causes larger than themselves. The idiom of the posters, the slogans, the songs and speeches at Jamia and Shaheen Bagh through the months of the protest was rigorously republican, centred on the constitutional rights of citizens and the iconic figure of B.R. Ambedkar. Given the near-absolute failure of India’s Opposition parties to stand up for secular citizenship in general and Muslim citizens in particular, the women of Shaheen Bagh and the students of historically Muslim universities like Aligarh Muslim University and Jamia Millia Islamia stepped into the breach and held the line. Their example inspired a remarkable mobilization across India in support of constitutional rights. Punjab and Haryana, the homes of the Green Revolution, were the two states whose farmers were most affected by the Central government’s agriculture laws. Like the Muslim women at Shaheen Bagh, the farmers demonstrating at Singhu and Tikri are defending themselves and, at the same time, making a larger argument about the proper relationship between government policy and the economic future of farming communities. The initiative was taken by farmers’ unions, not by political parties. They were joined by farmers from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and other states who were not Sikhs but it is important to notice here that, as in Shaheen Bagh, the defence of the larger cause — citizenship on the one hand and a vision of rural livelihood on the other — was pioneered by religious minorities standing up for themselves. If the similarities between the two vigils are instructive, their differences teach us valuable truths too. Being a Sikh in India is existentially very different from being a Muslim. Sikhs, even in this time of economic stagnation in Punjab, are, according to the National Sample Survey Office, the richest religious community in India. Muslims are, by nearly every measure, consistently the poorest. Institutionally, Muslims are radically underrepresented in government service, the corporate world, in education and in all forms of salaried employment. Where Muslims are constantly stigmatized as false citizens by parties like the BJP, the Hindu Right has long lauded Sikhs as India’s ‘sword arm’ and Sikhs have traditionally been the backbone of India’s armed forces. These differences account for the differences in the scale and the reception of the two protests. The protesting farmers at Singhu and Tikri numbered in the tens of thousands. The scale of the farmer’s agitation and the logistics needed to sustain it made even as spirited and crowded a sit-in as Shaheen Bagh look small in comparison. The government’s suggestion that its agitating opponents were anti-nationals, perverse squatters inconveniencing blameless citizens, found many takers when it came to Shaheen Bagh and very few when it came to the farmer’s sit-in. Thanks to history and sentiment, the Sikh farmer has always been seen as the salt of the Indian earth. It’s hard to demonize members of a community synonymous with patriotic military service. The BJP tried. Piyush Goyal called them Maoists and Naxals. The chief minister of Haryana and a general-secretary of the BJP made dark allegations about Khalistani infiltration. Every synonym in the BJP’s anti-national lexicon was pressed into service: tukde-tukde gang, urban naxal, Pakistani agents, terrorists, international conspirators, even — this according to Madan Dilawar of the Rajasthan BJP — chicken-eating spreaders of avian flu. The malignant instinct of the BJP to impugn the character and the patriotism of religious minorities has been on display during the farmers’ agitation. However, unlike the full-court press mounted against the anti-CAA protesters, which culminated in brutal, orchestrated communal violence, the Modi government has stepped more carefully with the farmers’ movement for several reasons. It is terrified that it might become a rallying point for peasants from other provinces. Punjab is a border state with a Sikh majority that the BJP recently lost to the Congress and no party can win Punjab in the future if it alienates Sikhs. When Parkash Singh Badal returned his Padma Vibhushan in protest, a tremor ran through the ruling establishment. Also, given the size and the success of the Sikh diaspora and its consuming interest in the Punjab, the Central government has had to mind its manners. The solicitude of the Supreme Court in the matter of the farmers’ agitation, its willingness to exceed its constitutional remit to ‘suspend’ the agricultural laws for the duration of unasked-for arbitration, makes for an interesting contrast with the court’s impatience with the Shaheen Bagh sit-in and its passivity over the question of the CAA’s constitutionality. The court did not, in that instance, suggest expert arbitration nor did it step in to ‘suspend’ the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Even more intriguing is the government’s connivance in the ‘suspension’ of its own laws. The movement inspired by the Muslim women of Shaheen Bagh was stifled by pogrom and pandemic but the farmers’ protests are ongoing. Despite their different trajectories, they teach us a lesson that we would do well to learn: in political cultures beleaguered by majoritarianism, mobilized minorities offer the most reliable resistance to bigotry and reaction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||Other viruses: no transparency||Vaccinating everyone in the country is far from easy. But India’s success in eradicating polio may be matched by the new achievement of inoculating its people against Covid-19. Yet some doubts are casting a shadow on the Centre’s inauguration of the vaccination drive. Narendra Modi’s government has approved two vaccines: Covishield, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured here by the Serum Institute of India, and the indigenous Covaxin by Bharat Biotech. While the Union health ministry insists, with support from some doctors and scientists, that both vaccines are capable and safe, other senior figures in medicine and research have pointed out that efficacy data for Covaxin from Phase III trials have not yet emerged. This lack of transparency is being glossed over by the government with a moral argument: there is no time for niceties when people are dying. But publishing results of Phase III trials are an indispensable part of research procedure; medicine cannot allow shortcuts. Besides, the Centre has not clarified the logic behind the distribution of the two vaccines among states and their hospitals, or given these entities — let alone individuals — any choice. Certain government hospitals in Delhi, for instance, are getting one vaccine while private ones have received the other, and do not know why. West Bengal has almost halved its planned number of frontline health workers to be inoculated in the first round, preserving shots for the second dose which must be of the same vaccine, because the state has no idea which of the two will be sent in the next batch. It seems that the Centre wishes to leave states and hospitals, which will execute the massive job, uncertain. Assurances are only to come from the Centre. When people are anxious and must accept whatever is given, the ethics of the Centre’s approach are questionable. While the urgency is overwhelming, governments must tread a razor’s edge between assured medical protocols and speed. Covishield, for example, has not completed trials in India, although it has been satisfactorily tested abroad. Mr Modi’s government seems to be racing against something other than the virus. Is vaccination against a pandemic a feather in the cap of the prime minister just before elections in certain Opposition states? Not only did he ‘launch’ the drive but he also said that both vaccines were ‘Made in India’. But Covishield was ‘made’ by scientists abroad; it is being ‘produced’ in India. Politicization of a medical emergency exposes the ugliness of contemporary Indian politics. The BJP had promised free vaccines in Bihar before state elections there; now Mamata Banerjee has said that her government is making arrangements for free vaccinations in the state, as has the chief minister of Kerala. The BJP claims that Ms Banerjee is rushing to take the credit, implying, then, that vaccinations are to the credit of the BJP. Scientists have vanished, while political parties expect votes from people for ‘saving’ them. It is a bleak time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||Changing stripes||There is a saying in these parts that when the elephant falls into the pit even the toad will kick it. After four years of enduring US President Donald Trump, suddenly a lot of US-based organisations and institutions have grown a conscience. Perhaps that’s how long it takes to have a judgement in full bloom. In other places, green shoots take longer. A farmers’ intervention? Who can say? Facebook has banned Trump through Joe Biden’s inauguration. So has Instagram. In other headlines — Facebook bans stop the steal phrase, Facebook is blocking events near White House through Inauguration Day, Facebook is tracking a rise in violent rhetoric tied to the US presidential inauguration. Twitter has frozen Trump’s account permanently. Canada-based tech company Shopify shut down Trump’s online merch stores and payment companies Stripe, PayPal and Square have reportedly said they have stopped providing services to individuals and organizations connected to the Washington riot of January 6. Amazon Web Services, Google and Apple Play Stores kicked Parler out — its users had cheered the storming of the Capitol. Deutsche Bank has announced that it is cutting off ties with Trump. He owes it $300 million. And Signature Bank, which is closing two of his personal accounts, issued a statement saying it would not do business in future with any members of Congress who voted to disregard the Electoral College. New York City, the law firm Seyfarth Shaw and real-estate firm Cushman & Wakefield have said they won’t do business with Trump. True, much of it has to do with brand image and business, layers of entwined interests, the obvious comfort of having a legitimate, distinctly different leadership. True, there is a lot of glaring hypocrisy. Check Facebook’s stance in India, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand; think Islamophobic content, think Holocaust denials and Facebook’s delayed reactions, think of its role in the 2017 US elections. Think of all the hate-spreading India-news-related accounts Twitter has never taken note of and then try to recall sane voices that were muted. Angela Merkel called out Twitter on its sanctimonious ban of Trump. “Problematic” is the word she used. But this collective flutter to protect American democracy is not nothing. The US is sure to heal hereafter. In the meantime, remember --- when it really hurts, where it really hurts, judgements will flower. And pachyderms gone rogue will eventually drive themselves into pits. Keep working on the high-kick.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||Tame spirit: the illegal pet trade is difficult to monitor ||Sir — In a recent video, a leopard can be seen prowling on the highway and then proceeding to play with a man. This is highly unnatural — leopards are canny animals and would not walk into a man-animal conflict when the odds are stacked against them. Some experts have suggested that the leopard may have been kept as a pet illegally, making it comfortable around humans. The illegal pet trade is difficult to monitor given that people usually keep the animals caged and hidden in poor conditions inside their homes. Steps must be taken to nip the problem at the bud by keeping stricter vigil on wildlife habitats so that animals cannot be taken captive in the first place.  Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — The order of the Supreme Court, staying the implementation of the controversial farm laws and informing the government unequivocally that it would not take away the citizens’ right to protest, was encouraging. Yet, right off the bat came the request to send women and elderly protesters back. It is difficult to understand the contradiction in terms — are women and the elderly not citizens or are they lesser beings who do not have the right to protest? It could also be argued that this takes women for granted and endorses infantilization of labour by women. What is worse, it reveals an ignorance about farming in India. Women contribute as much to farming as their male counterparts if not more. In fact, the most difficult labour is often the responsibility of women — bending for hours while sowing seeds is just one example. Yet, their labour remains unseen. While the labour of women farmers may not be visible, women are remarkably visible in protests — be it those against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the farmers’ movements, workers’ movements or students’ movement. To participate in any movement taking place in the country is well within the rights of every Indian citizen, which is guaranteed under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. The Constitution does not impose restrictions on participating in a protest on the basis of a person’s age or gender, neither should its interpreters.Jayati Gupta, Mumbai Sir — As was predicted, the rise of the patriarchal, Hindutva politics has been directly proportional to a decline in the status of women in society. The apex court of the country thinks women farmers should sit at home — taking care of the elderly perhaps, who, too, have been asked to return home. The Madhya Pradesh chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, has said that women who go to work will have to register at a police station and will be ‘tracked’ for their safety. Multiple BJP states have passed a legislation that makes a joke of an adult Hindu woman’s right to choice. On the other hand, news of women being raped and then having to marry their rapist or tying a rakhi on them is becoming more and more common. A Hindu rashtra is not just one where Muslims and other minorities are discriminated against. It is also one where the modern woman is ‘tamed’ and brought back into the family, where she lives life at the mercy of her male relatives.Kakoli Das, Calcutta Sir — The ongoing farm protests have raised a host of issues that affect the sector, beyond the laws which are being sought to be rolled back. One issue which deserves sharper focus is the largely unseen role of women in the farm sector. Many women farmers are not even aware of the entitlements they can get from the government as farmers. Owing to their lack of collateral — women own less than 2 per cent of farmland in India — they cannot access credit or navigate bureaucratic waters to get support for the right inputs for their crops. There has to be gender-neutral institutional reform in agriculture for women to get their due. In most rural areas, men still dominate administrative processes which tend to work against women farmers. When a male farmer dies, the lack of access to land records, the aversion to take on powerful male family members, and the lack of awareness combine to exclude women from their right to land and livelihood. M. Agrawal, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
17-01-2021||Opinion||It's daggers drawn between allies JDU and BJP over spiralling crime||Law and order are in a free fall in Bihar. The government led by the chief minister, Nitish Kumar, is unable to control the accelerating pace of heinous crimes and daggers are out between the allies, Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party. A few leaders of the saffron party have been taking regular potshots at Kumar, who also heads the home ministry in the state. However, when Nitin Navin, the BJP member of legislative assembly from Bankipur demanded that Bihar should adopt the Uttar Pradesh model of encounters — a method personally approved by the CM, Yogi Adityanath — to tame criminals, it drew sharp reactions from several JDU leaders. They expressed displeasure within their own circles without going all out in public. A senior JDU leader, who is also a minister in the present cabinet, said that actually it is Kumar’s model that has been adopted by Adityanath. He pointed out that a large number of encounters and arrests of known history-sheeters during Kumar’s first full term between 2005 and 2010 did much to tame crime and criminals who had wreaked havoc during the previous years. However, the minister had no answer when asked what was stopping the CM from taking a similar stand this time around. One JD(U) leader guessed that it was the high incidence of corruption in the police force and their preoccupation with enforcing prohibition that is stopping Kumar. But neither ally seems to be worrying about the actual sufferers — the common people. After Ahmed Patel’s demise, there was much curiosity and speculation within Congress circles about who would emerge as the trusted trouble-shooter for Sonia Gandhi. Patel was the political secretary to Sonia and enjoyed her trust for over two decades. He was also the principal political manager in the party, resolving internal conflicts and advising the party chief on complex organizational issues. Although it is difficult to predict who will take Patel’s place since Sonia has mostly withdrawn from party matters and Rahul Gandhi now controls the organization, the veteran Congressman, Kamal Nath, is being viewed as a key player in the party now. Sonia met him twice, and nobody else, to discuss internal strife and assigned him the critical job of negotiating with the disgruntled senior leaders, known as Group of 23, and restore unity of purpose in the party. The former Madhya Pradesh CM has no doubt acquired a greater stature than other important players like Ashok Gehlot, P Chidambaram and even the old loyalist, AK Antony. Nath was always very close to the family but deliberately kept a low profile, keeping himself away from organizational matters. Close to Indira Gandhi and Sanjay Gandhi, Nath has never fallen out of favour because of his aversion to throwing tantrums and the politics of blackmail. In spite of being the most suitable person to lead the Congress in the Lok Sabha in 2014, Mallikarjun Kharge was chosen instead of him. But Nath did not create any trouble for the party. He was finally rewarded in 2018 when Sonia and Rahul chose him to be the CM of Madhya Pradesh over the more entrenched, Digvijaya Singh, and the impatient, Jyotiraditya Scindia. Come Makar Sankranti political parties in Bihar would vie with each other to throw feasts of dahi-chura (curd-flattened rice) and tilkut (a sweet made by pounding a mixture of sesame and semi-solid sugar or jaggery) in Patna. These would continue well after the festival, and were occasions to hobnob, show solidarity, express annoyance and indulge in politics while gorging on the delicacies. It would also set the political trends for the year. But this time neither the ruling nor the Opposition party has organized them owing primarily to the raging pandemic. But there is another peculiar factor at play — there is no warmth between the ruling allies, while the Opposition, too, is apparently having a dialogue with them in order to become a part of the government. They do not want to damage the delicate balance of power, fearing that ruling coalition leaders currently doing the tightrope walk may trip. A few leaders, though, are organizing dahi-chura-tilkut festivals privately and the Rashtriya Janata Dal has asked its leaders to feed the poor instead of throwing parties. The farmers’ protest has put the Centre in a tight spot. Both the government and the protesting farmers look equally determined not to give in. Accepting the farmers’ demands shatters the prime minister’s image as a strong leader; yet standing his ground too is damaging his image. The farmers are repeatedly exhorting that the laws are meant to benefit big corporates like Adani and Ambani. Recently, students of Panjab University held a puppet show and depicted Narendra Modi as a puppet of these two business houses. Internally, the BJP is worried by this campaign. A similar jibe — “suit-boot ki sarkar” — by the Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi, had led the government to shelve some measures. Modi would not want that image to be scarred again. Even the BJP’s own member, Subramanian Swamy, levelled his guns against corporates saying that their wealth has been growing under Modi. This double attack may be worrying for the ruling party. The Karnataka CM, BS Yediyurappa, is surrounded by dissidents who are unhappy at being overlooked for ministerial berths. Yet to fulfil his promise to the 17 defectors from Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) who helped him back to power, the Lingayat strongman has been juggling BJP loyalists and newcomers who will not settle. Yediyurappa has now warned everyone not to take him lightly. In a clear indication that he will not take things lying down, he has bluntly asked dissenters to go to the Centre with their complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-87
