18-01-2021||Opinion||Spoiled Sport: Racism in sporting culture||Sport serves as the proverbial mirror for social prejudices. This sad truth was reaffirmed — twice — during the ongoing Test series between India and Australia. During the third Test in Sydney, play had to be halted briefly as two Indian players, Mohammed Siraj and Jasprit Bumrah, were subjected to racial slurs by a section of the spectators. Even though action was taken on the basis of Mr Siraj’s complaints — six spectators were ejected from the stadium — the ugliness spilled over into the final Test in Brisbane where Mr Siraj reportedly became the target of racially-motivated taunts, once again. Such incidents — they are a malignancy — have a long history in cricket. From the racial discrimination suffered by Krom Hendricks in South Africa in the 1890s to, in the more recent past, Dean Jones, the former Australian cricketer, referring to the South African cricketer, Hashim Amla, as a “terrorist”, the game’s multicultural roots have repeatedly been targeted by primitive sentiments. This is not to suggest that other sports are an embodiment of the spirit of inclusion. More than 150 incidents of racial abuse were reported in English football in 2020, a spike of over 50 per cent. Ironically, protest against such differentiation has been penalized too. A gesture of protest against police brutality against black people by the former National Football League player, Colin Kaepernick, not only earned him a public rebuke from the outgoing president of the United States of America but also cost him his career in the NFL. The implications of these events are troubling. They highlight the embedded nature of bias in an activity that is meant to foster a sense of fraternity and solidarity across social groups. The pushback against this divisiveness within the ecosystem of sport is encouraging. Calls of institutional accountability are no longer rare in cricket: a former Test umpire has demanded an enquiry into the absence of match officials from ethnic minorities in English cricket. English football has adopted affirmative action to provide equal opportunity to managers from the black community. Laws against racist behaviour are far more stringent. Yet, the enduring nature of racism points to the existence of a worrying chasm that separates the law of a game from its spirit. Racism is not the only manifestation of this gap in sporting culture. In cricket, sledging — it need not always adhere to the contours of sportsmanship — is widely accepted as evidence of fierce competitiveness that makes sporting contests alluring. Sports federations, spectators, advertisers, even the law — the stakeholders of sporting competitions — must be mindful of the gap. Otherwise, the principles of fairness and assimilation would be weakened in sport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Opinion||Second chance: Donald Trump impeached||Once may be an accident, but twice need not be a coincidence. Donald Trump now bears the double ignominy of being the first president of the United States of America to have faced impeachment proceedings twice, but there can be no doubt about the fact that he fully deserves to bear this burden of shame. In 2019, Mr Trump had faced impeachment over allegations of impropriety in his conduct with Ukraine as well as for attempting to obstruct the Congress’s enquiries into the matter. On that occasion, he had been saved by an acquittal in the Senate that was under a firmer grip of the Republicans. The fate of the second impeachment — the outgoing president’s shocking complicity in the mob insurrection that led to the vandalization of the Capitol is the cause — may turn out to be a different affair. The vote to initiate impeachment proceedings in the House of Representatives witnessed bipartisan unity — a rare occurrence in recent times — with as many as 10 members of the Republican Party demonstrating the courage to cross the line, as it were. This could create further momentum and embolden a larger number of Republicans to join Democrats in holding Mr Trump accountable for his misconduct. The growing consensus would certainly encourage Senate Democrats to press for not only Mr Trump’s conviction for his incendiary role in the recent disturbance but also an embargo preventing him from holding public office. There seems to be a view gaining ground across the political spectrum that unless Mr Trump and his dangerous vision are neutered, he may continue to pose a threat to the architecture of American democracy, its ethics and institutions. The anxiety is not unwarranted. Mr Trump enjoys considerable support in the US: his divisive political legacy was potent enough to attract 74 million votes in the last presidential election. The quandary for Republicans concerns their fidelity to morals vis-à-vis populism. But the choice, equally, is between constitutionalism, republicanism and probity in contest against anti-institutionalism, demagoguery and divisiveness — the hallmarks of Trumpism.  Making the right decision — it would lead to the effacement of Mr Trump the politician — could go a long way in eroding the public endorsement of Mr Trump. History has shown that a shift at the Centre can, at times, take the fringe — even a politically robust fringe — along with it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Opinion||Warning bells: discontent in Tripura BJP||The rumbles of discontent in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in Tripura hold a drum roll of warnings for the electorate in Bengal. With assembly elections coming up, the Trinamul Congress in Bengal is pulling out all the stops, following a surge in defections and the BJP’s strident voice growing shriller. It would be worthwhile to take a look at what is happening in Tripura, where the BJP unceremoniously toppled a well-entrenched Left Front government in February 2018. In barely three years, schisms have surfaced in the ruling BJP government. Last month, party workers raised slogans against the chief minister, Biplab Kumar Deb, chanting “Biplab hatao, Tripura bachao” during the visit of the new state in-charge, Vinod Kumar Sonkar. The chief minister had called for “public opinion” at an event to decide whether he should stay, but this was subsequently called off on orders from a Central BJP leader. A veteran BJP leader told me from Agartala on January 14 that given the trend in Tripura, “voters in Bengal should be careful. We had sought change and were swayed by BJP promises. But known thieves are better than unknown dacoits. The Vajpayee-Advani ideology has been replaced by corporate-style politics that is unbearable for veterans like us. The people of Bengal should think twice. The BJP has no chief ministerial face, the leaders are inexperienced and those in Delhi lack knowledge of local culture. Let Bengal not make the same blunder.” Adding to this discordant view, Tripura Congress vice-president, Tapas Dey, said over the phone that the promises the BJP had made on jobs and of implementing the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations had remained unfulfilled. “The people are wary and across society, the feeling is that they were better off under CPI(M) rule,” he said. “Infighting has become rampant, because the BJP cobbled together a ministry with rebels from other parties. Former Congressmen, who are now BJP legislators, are proclaiming the BJP’s misdeeds! There is no semblance of law and order or democratic norms, the chief minister is holding on to 27 portfolios, including health, which is in a shambles,” he pointed out. According to Dey, the Tripura government now outsources work for which local skill is available. “The BJP launched a hugely publicized anti-drugs campaign. Now ganja is out but tablets are readily available. Suicides are on the rise, and like the farmers protesting in Delhi, 10,323 ad hoc teachers who lost their jobs (following a Supreme Court directive, but the BJP had promised to restore these) have been sitting on a dharna in Agartala for over 40 days. Bengal should not make the same mistake,” he stressed. When I visited Tripura for the 2018 polls, I had met Sunil Deodhar, the BJP national secretary considered instrumental in turning the tide of political opinion. Last week, he was ensconced in Tirupati, overseeing by-elections in Andhra Pradesh where he is the party’s co-in-charge. When I asked about the difference he saw in Bengal and Tripura, he said, “In Tripura, the major issue was anti-incumbency, in Bengal there is an additional factor: appeasement of Muslims. While the CPI(M) in Bengal also resorted to Muslim appeasement, they were never viewed by Hindu voters as blatantly pro-Muslim.” A disgruntled voter in Tripura rued that the CPI(M), especially former chief minister, Manik Sarkar, was not turning the current infighting in the BJP to the party’s advantage. “In a similar situation in 1977, erstwhile chief minister, Nripen Chakraborty (at the helm from 1978 to 1988), had been able to catapult the Left to power,” he said. With elections drawing near in Bengal, poll sops are the order of the day, while the lure of lucre will hold centre-stage. After all, this great Indian democracy is a pantomime every state customizes, invariably to its cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
18-01-2021||Opinion||Temporary grief||Convenience is addictive. But after transforming our lives, internet-based technologies are getting to the stage where we have to mind the repercussions of using them. Over the past several months, we’ve seen a convergence of concerns over free speech and privacy on the one hand and the monopolistic practices of communication technology providers on the other.  The communication technology giants, meanwhile, are up against both governments and more rabid users of their platforms. The confrontation promises to persist. Earlier this month, internet users in India were aflutter over what WhatsApp’s new privacy policy meant and what information it was seeking permission to share with Facebook.  It triggered a migration to other messaging services such as Signal and Telegram before people woke up to the realization that the messaging app had been sharing user information with Facebook since 2016. Right-wing Americans who had gravitated to the Parler platform because they thought it was a secure place to share extreme views first found its app abruptly banned from their app stores by Google and Apple and, then, found that their identities would become known after all because its technology allowed data from it to be scraped. And that made them vulnerable to law enforcement action. The rioters who stormed the Capitol in Washington this month had posted some of their plans on this network. In India, the Chinese fintech loan apps available on Google store were eagerly used by many loan seekers who were then driven to desperation and even death when the loan sharks behind them turned nasty. Last week, the Reserve Bank of India ordered Google to take them off the app store. Equally, the tech giants are getting to the stage where they have to watch their backs.  For much of last year, they have been under scrutiny from governments in the United States of America, Europe and Australia. In July, US lawmakers conducted extensive anti-trust hearings on their practices. Then came an October House Judiciary Committee report on the hearings and Google, Facebook, Apple and Amazon were found guilty of alleged anti-competitive behaviour. The Justice Department and 11 Republican attorney-generals sued Google for this. On another front, governments in Australia, France and the United Kingdom have been considering ways to get search platforms to pay fair compensation for journalistic content siphoned off from news media.  In France, a competition regulator has ordered Google to pay a copyright fee to media groups. In December 2020, the Australian government introduced laws to force Facebook and Google to pay media companies for the content they use. Now other platforms have come under renewed scrutiny for their role in fomenting the attack on the Capitol.  The New York Times profiled some influencers on Facebook and showed that its algorithms coaxed many Americans into sharing more extreme views on the platform and rewarding them with likes and shares for their posts.  Whatever happened to Facebook’s much-vaunted oversight committee with names of a range of eminences  from around the world? We have been reading about it since 2018. Facebook responded to the attack on the Capitol by banning the US president from its platform.  He was also banned by Twitter. The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, was disturbed enough by this to make a statement, saying lawmakers and not private technology companies should set the rules governing free speech. Twitter said it acted because of  evidence of new riots planned for January 17, while Facebook said it has, so far, taken down 600 militarized social groups and was banning posts from those saying they planned to take weapons to government buildings. The less charitable ascribed the banning of Donald Trump to his being a head of government who is on his way out.  A statement from the American Civil Liberties Union expressing concern at his being banned from Facebook and Twitter suggested that both were wielding unchecked power “especially when political realities make those decisions easier”. Stock market investors, too, are indignant enough to make their disapproval hurt: Twitter and Facebook paid the price for banning Trump: they ended up losing $51 billion in combined market cap in two days. Facebook saw $47.6 billion erased from its public valuation, while Twitter's market cap dropped by $3.5 billion.  The companies will doubtless rebound, but are discovering that their actions make them vulnerable. India’s response to the practices of internet giants operating here has been mixed. In November last year, the Competition Commission of India ordered an investigation against Google for abusing its market position to unfairly promote its own mobile payments app in this country by showcasing Google Pay more prominently inside its app store on android phones in India.  In 2019, the CCI had also ordered a probe against Google in an anti-trust case for its alleged abuse of the Android phone’s  dominant position to block rivals. Yet, on the issue of privacy practices of social media companies, the government seems sanguine. It was reported earlier this month that the labour ministry was planning to use social media such as WhatsApp for communicating details of salary remittances to workers once its new labour codes come into operation even as a more privileged class of WhatsApp users was creating a shindig about the app’s new privacy policy. Will this not put working class users at risk of data theft and financial profiling, critics are asking. As contentious issues persist and clashes with governments and users grow over such concerns as privacy and data management, last year’s anti-trust actions are leading to talk about breaking up the big companies. This is easier said than done. A report  by the Council on Foreign Relations points out that anti-trust actions have had little success in the past in directly curbing technology companies. Meanwhile, Google is reportedly seeking out new streams of revenue and its next big thing is likely to come from sectors such as cloud computing, transportation and healthcare. Each of these has a massive addressable market and plays well to the tech giant’s strength in AI, says a CBInsights report. Whichever way you look at it, companies such as the ones under scrutiny are too big and too smart to suffer lasting grief. The author is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
