19-01-2021||Opinion||Two faces: Big Tech companies||Facebook’s claim of being the prized jewel in the Big Tech crown is increasingly being undermined by strident criticisms of the social media giant’s conduct around the world. These concerns are not new. Over the years, Facebook has faced criticism on such issues as complicity in data manipulation — the Cambridge Analytica scandal is still fresh in public memory — encroachments on privacy, tacit endorsement of objectionable content and, occasionally, alleged political chicanery. The censure — it is sustained and global in character — should have brought about a change of conduct. Unfortunately, Facebook is yet to come out squeaky clean and its spots, evidence suggests, have to do with selective application of standard protocols and, not to put too fine a point on it, conscience. It has been found that the company stubbornly refused to get rid of inflammatory remarks and comments — some of which were made by the occupants of the highest pulpit of the land — in countries like India, Sri Lanka and Ethiopia in spite of repeated requests by activists and members of civil society to act against these. One of the reasons being attributed to the leeway given to offenders by Facebook is its fidelity to the principle of free speech. Ironically, Mark Zuckerberg’s company did find the courage to stop incitement in the land of the free — it booted out Donald Trump from its platform for his role in abetting the violence in Capitol Hill. Facebook’s obvious hypocrisy in the application of policy has, understandably, caused massive outrage. It is entirely possible that Mr Zuckerberg — he pledged to rid hate speeches from advertisement last year — remains unwilling to rub heads of state in profitable markets — India is Facebook’s gold mine — the wrong way. But the political-corporation nexus is only a partial explanation for Facebook’s inertia against toxic posts. The deepening of democracy in some of the markets that Facebook operates in has not been accompanied by the flowering of a robust culture of accountability. Summons by a parliamentary standing committee — the next meeting is on Thursday — would not be enough for Facebook to mend its way as long as Indian consumers and advertisers remain unconcerned with its duplicity. Institutional scrutiny, an ethical pushback from patrons and demands of accountability by users — all three are necessary — can force Facebook to correct the imbalances in its global policy against hate speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||No chance to touch the skies: health of India's children||Earlier this month, in Maharashtra’s Bhandara, 10 infants died when the hospital they were in caught fire. Hospital attendants safely rescued seven infants. The horrific incident occurred in the Special Neonatal Care Unit of the district hospital in the middle of the night. The infants, between a week and three months old, were either premature or of low weight. They were failed by a divided and bigoted society whose priority has been anything but social and economic equality; a rotten public health system dented further by the burden of the Covid-19 pandemic; an apathetic, self-serving polity for whom infants carry no weight. A self-proclaimed nationalist organization propagating cultural nationalism has begun a campaign to raise donations for a grand Ram temple in Ayodhya. Among the proud donors are those ensconced in constitutional positions — including the president of India. The prime minister has launched the Covid-19 vaccination campaign — yet another photo-op — while the country still does not know the details about one vaccine’s efficacy from the trials. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are into the second month of their protests while those from all over the country steadily join them against the three contentious agriculture laws passed without a debate in Parliament. In the months to come, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry would likely see communal violence until the assembly elections get over. Predictably, new claims and promises would be unleashed. Yet, grieving mothers of rural Bhandara — and countless other young mothers losing their newborns and infants — beg for an answer to a simple question: would this country ever wake up to the horrors of structural inequality and poverty that bring them such pain every day? Earlier, it was Gorakhpur. Today, it is Bhandara. It will be some other place tomorrow. The previous Devendra Fadnavis government in Maharashtra inaugurated the newly built SNCU at Bhandara without conducting a mandatory fire and safety audit in 2015 — because the district council elections were due that year. The present three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government has been lax too, because the district civil surgeon sought emergency funds in May 2020 for installing the fire safe equipment in SNCU, but higher authorities reportedly sat over the file without a shred of remorse. Look at the irony: data show that in two fiscal years of 2018 and 2019, Maharashtra spent, from its treasury, about Rs 400 crore on the healthcare bills of its employees, public representatives and ministers, but failed to sanction a mere Rs 2 crore for fire safety equipment at the SNCU. Such neglect is ubiquitous in India. Close to eight lakh babies die on account of wilful neglect. It is down from 1.8 million average infant deaths in the early 2000s, but our neonatal and infant mortality rates are still far from global standards. That is not all: while the IMR has dropped, India saw a surge in malnutrition among children under the age of five, according to the fifth National Family Health Survey released in December 2020. Millions of children are underweight and severely wasted, indications that their immunity is compromised and their comprehension levels low. The wilful neglect goes on: a new digital India saw millions of rural children drop out of schools in 2020 since they had no access to the internet or gadgets to be in virtual classrooms. How might the seven infants who survived the Bhandara tragedy fare, given their parents’ rural and poor backgrounds? In all probability, they would soon add to the number of stunted and malnourished children and struggle for a decent education. India will make sure they do not get a chance to find their skies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||Traditional and modern medicine: a case for integration||A paradigm for research into traditional medicine called ‘whole systems research’ started to catch on around the new millennium. Its aim was to surmount the difficulties arising out of traditional systems not fitting in with the modern medical research paradigm. It endeavoured to study traditional medical interventions as ones that embraced the complex ‘context’ in which they operated. The potential of traditional systems has often been severely underplayed in the very countries where they originated. India is no exception. Our model of integrating modern and traditional medicine has been one that led to the subjugation of the latter in favour of the former, thereby worsening the existing institutional conflict between them. The goal of integration of the two streams remains distant. The decision to allow ayurvedic postgraduates to perform certain surgeries and the resultant clamour are a case in point. A policy of ‘one nation, one health system’ has, however, been announced. Under this initiative, the government aims to integrate modern and traditional medicine in such relevant aspects as education, research and practice, fostering a two-way exchange. While this is a commendable step, the challenges are colossal. A notable example of integration from the East is China. China went about integrating Western medicine and Traditional Chinese Medicine in the 1950s. Doctors trained in either stream would learn a fair deal about the other as part of the curriculum; clinic practices would include a substantial share of doctors practising the two systems together; nearly every hospital would provide care in both systems in varying proportions. The failure of India’s early attempts at integrating traditional and modern medicine is worth examining. After Independence, some states did initiate integrated courses inspired by the recommendations of the Sokhey, Chopra and Dave Committees, but these attempts were thwarted by partisan and purist interests. The biggest roadblock is likely to be the demand for ‘evidence’ by the modern medicine lobby. However, the demand for evidence should not undermine the considerations of public welfare. The need for evidence should be balanced against other factors, such as the prevailing public satisfaction with traditional systems, cost-effectiveness, and the long-established empirical efficacy and safety of certain interventions. It shouldn’t be forgotten that evidence-based medicine is a recent accretion. Modern medicine has not achieved scientific perfection; nor is all modern medicine backed up by evidence. Then, there are technical challenges. Given that instruction and practice of traditional medicine have increasingly embraced the principles of modern medicine, practitioners of this system are reasonably acclimatized with the latter. But the same cannot be said about their modern medical counterparts. An integrated model would need to educate modern medical doctors about holistic, non-reductionist approaches that are typical of traditional systems. Such a holistic approach endorses interaction between patient and physician. They would also have to be taught about the need to strike the right balance between the disparate approaches. Conceptual incompatibilities between modern and traditional medicine present yet another formidable challenge. Medical education will need to embrace a pluralist paradigm of understanding. This is easier said than done. But successful examples do exist. Evidence from Korea indicates that integrated teaching and practice of both systems by the same individual can overcome problems arising out of such incompatibilities. Needless to say, an integrative model would need a greater share of public funds for traditional medicine as it becomes a significant component of the healthcare agenda. But the rise in investment would need to be justified against the limited evidence of traditional medicine. Financing disparate medicine systems under a universal insurance plan would lead to complexities, particularly in deciding the terms of reimbursement, when both systems are practised together. The task at hand is Herculean; but it could pay off fairly well in several ways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||Positive signs||The year 2021 brings positivity and optimism. There is a lot to look forward to even though the battle against the virus is not yet over. Countries are still challenged by recurrent infections. But effective vaccines discovered late last year have transformed into advancing inoculations in 2021. This heralds the end of the pandemic and a corresponding restoration of economic lives ahead. Backing this are bouncebacks that have mostly surprised by their speed and strength everywhere. These are solid reasons for the positive turn expected in 2021 in spite of the risks and occasional setbacks that may arise. Positive developments in recent months impart a cheerful start. Dominating are the vaccination drives that commenced last December in many countries and in India last week. Inoculating large populations is overwhelming, especially for a big country like ours. The assurance is that the task, once begun, will expand and improve with time in spite of hurdles. The majority population in advanced countries, for example, the United States of America, is expected to be covered by the second half of 2021, and possibly by the third quarter in India. The prospective release of people from their safe barricades to streets, movies, restaurants, travel places and so on has charged the environment. Business and governments can now see suppressed consumer demand un-bottling and revenues restoring ahead. The enthusiasm is layered over mostly good economic news. Post-lockdown recoveries have proved better than expected; growth forecasts have mostly been upgraded with few exceptions. China grew 2.3 per cent in 2020, giving a strong global boost. Then, the US election outcome signalled smoother governance last November. Vaccine and second-round US stimulus hopes are driving up investor sentiments, rallying markets to dizzying heights since, and have spilled over into the new year. With the US now intending to inject more fuel with a $1.9 billion fiscal push, and the growth forecast for China being 7.9 per cent in 2021, the two nations may provide a significant global thrust with their economic heft. The upbeat global factors have been mirrored in Indian markets and asset prices as well. The sentiments are reinforced by genuine economic improvement and a satisfying decline in infections. 2021 begins with a backdrop of a steady upward trend in lead economic and mobility indicators; a much lesser contraction in aggregate output, -7.7 per cent, is now foreseen in FY20 than the double-digit expected before. In synchronization with the rest of the world, India’s return to normalcy is also expected to be continuously spurred on by increasing inoculation coverage, which could free a critical mass of consumers from virus fears. Of special import here is the positive thrust this will give to the services economy, a large portion of which has been pressured by Covid-19, depressing consumption and employment. For all these positives, it is not as if all is hunky-dory. This year does come with risks, pressures and challenges. For example, new Covid-19 variants could resist the currently workable vaccines, require modification and delay progress; present inoculations could stumble; while containing severe, current outbreaks, for example, in the US and Europe, could be tough. Economic risks, too, are several and complex. Rebounding economies could falter, for example, in a double-dip recession, as is feared for the Eurozone this month itself. A major macroeconomic risk has surfaced in the fear of a surprise inflation outburst in response to pent-up demand pressures, triggering 2013 taper tantrum repeat fears in case the inflation forces a monetary retreat by the US Federal Reserve. For emerging economies such as India, this risks a sudden reversal of foreign capital flows with feedbacks to stocks, bonds and the exchange rate. Policies could go wrong; for instance, support can be withdrawn too soon. The pressures are intense because of the risk that the nascent post-pandemic upturns could falter, slow down or even reverse. An oft-observed pattern in usual recessions is that the V-shaped recovery does not immediately return to the former peak; or growth fails to lift further from the peak, either flattening or falling below the former trend. The policy challenges exist, therefore, not only for 2021 but beyond, for the world as whole. This is also the stage when deeper wounds surface, such as permanent damages to the supply side with business closures, job losses and lowered individual incomes from the resulting backward spiral. For India, the policy challenge and pressures are similar but compounded for two reasons. One, unlike most other countries, an adverse public financial position and rating agencies’ fears limited fiscal policy aid at the outset. The post-pandemic recovery context is nebulous at present: real economic betterment is yet to be backed by a matching pick-up on the financial side; the post-pandemic state of bad assets is still to be recognized and exactly known; economic conditions in the large informal economy, which has not been accurately represented in national accounts for a long time, are unidentified; while clear evidence that employments have recovered is to the contrary — unemployed numbers were estimated at 15 million more last December than one year ago. Two, the economy was poor and deteriorating on the eve of Covid-19 last year. The gross domestic product growth then dropped to 4.2 per cent in FY20, the third year in a row. The causes and nature of that prolonged slowdown, if structural or cyclical, remain undiagnosed. Covid-19 overshadowed that decline and discourse. But the problem has not gone away, and has to be dealt with in addition to the challenge posed by the post-pandemic recovery. This is a very demanding task, for it requires abundant policy room that India simply does not have on the fiscal front; the monetary policy side could also encounter constraints from the acceleration of the global rise ahead. These complex objectives will have to be confronted, to start with, by the imminent budget that, hopefully, has them on the drawing board to draft fiscal responses for the next two years at the least. The pressures apart, the positive portents that the new year brings with it are a big cause for optimism and celebration. Let us hope that the two — inoculations against the coronavirus and the emergence from its devastation in 2020 — jointly move only in one direction, which is upwards, this year. It is a lot worth looking forward to. The author is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
19-01-2021||Opinion||Trust first: President donates for Ram Mandir||Asking for contributions to build a temple is not prohibited. The response to the request depends on personal choice and faith. But when the president of a secular country donates over five lakh rupees at the beginning of a drive to raise funds to build the Ram temple in Ayodhya, choice and faith cannot remain personal or private. That the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust had its affiliates launch a nationwide quest for contributions with a donation from the “first citizen” was an exhibition of the drive’s legitimacy, an entitlement above question. Contributions in the cause of faith lose their constitutional innocence — the right to freedom of religion — in certain historical contexts. The Ram temple — the Supreme Court having decided the land dispute — cannot yet be thought of without remembering the demolition of Babri Masjid and its aftermath. While the Trust has been formed by the government, the drive to raise funds is being spearheaded by leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, whose goal is a Hindu rashtra. That the president of India contributed to it — it must have been a carefully judged decision — is a serious blow to secular ideals. Secularism requires that political leaders, public service officials and foremost government personages maintain a distance from religious spaces and rituals in public. This principle had been violated earlier, but now, under the aegis of the Bharatiya Janata Party, fidelity to the majority religion is becoming the marker for loyalty to the country. While other secular countries are striving to separate not just the State but also public institutions from religion — many schools have dropped morning prayers and good wishes for Christmas have changed to wishes for happy holidays — Narendra Modi’s India is bent on identifying the State with the majority religion. The president’s contribution to the Trust comes after the prime minister laid the foundation of the Ram temple at a time when people were dying in the pandemic. It is no surprise, therefore, that the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh should call this a ‘national’ temple. As in West Bengal, where elections are imminent, so elsewhere, contributing to the trust may be seen as loyalty to the BJP and Hindutva. Secularism can be gradually dismantled by actions of the ruling government while its principles remain untouched on paper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-86
