20-01-2021||Opinion||Dark secret: Partho-Arnab WhatsApp chats||Sir — The incriminating WhatsApp conversations that allegedly took place between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and the former chief of Broadcast Audience Research Council, Partho Dasgupta, prima facie point to an unholy nexus between a news channel and those in power and smack of influence peddling (“Chats expose true face of ‘nationalist”, Jan 17). From the transcripts, it seems clear that the television anchor was in possession of classified information and tried to use it to further his commercial interests. Now someone has to accept responsibility for leaking military secrets and compromising national security. The government seems to have been in cahoots with the TV anchor to manipulate public opinion right before the 2019 general election. The remarks attributed to Goswami with regard to the Pulwama attack as well as the retaliatory air strikes are unworthy of a true patriot — the deaths of 40 jawans appears to have been something to capitalize on. The truth has an uncanny knack of coming out in unexpected ways. For instance, these disclosures have revived the debate over how the Balakot air strike had catapulted the Bharatiya Janata Party to power in 2019. There are, of course, no prizes for guessing who the abbreviations, “NM” and “AS”, referred to in the messages in the context of getting things done stand for. Interestingly, rivalry between TV channels makes no difference to the support received by the BJP and the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. TV channels and anchors, with a few honourable exceptions, support the Hindutva-oriented ruling dispensation blindly, albeit without being as rabid as some. It is not clear how all this advances the cause of Indian democracy. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Three days before the Indian air force conducted the Balakot air strike, the TV anchor, Arnab Goswami, allegedly told the former BARC chief, Partho Dasgupta, that ‘something big will happen’, indicating that he knew of the Narendra Modi-led government’s plan about the confidential military action. This was revealed by the transcript of WhatsApp messages — it is part of the supplementary charge sheet filed by the Mumbai police investigating the television rating point tampering case — reportedly exchanged between the two. But here is the big question: how did such highly confidential military intelligence information get leaked to a TV anchor? Such details are entrusted to people who have taken the solemn oath to protect the nation. Should the Official Secrets Act not be invoked against the persons concerned? Is not disclosing secret military information a valid ground for prosecution as it endangers the security and integrity of the nation? This serious breach of national security deserves a thorough investigation, and the arrest of the culprits. Privileged information concerning national security cannot be allowed to be treated as a marketable commodity for the sake of gathering TRPs. It is high time that the ministry of defence issues a statement to clear this ominous cloud and assuage the concerns of citizens. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Safety first Sir — Covaxin, an indigenous vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, obtained clearance for India’s inoculation programme to eradicate the coronavirus. But the government’s silence on the publication of the efficacy data of the Phase-III trials of Covaxin remains frightening (“Other viruses”, Jan 17). Without completing the entire trial process, the vaccine itself may prove to be fatal for the people whose lives it is supposed to save. The insatiable greed for power pushes political leaders to use any event to advance their electoral gains. The prime minister is no exception. He had earlier used the Pulwama attack and the surgical strikes in Balakot to win the 2019 general elections. Now he is not hesitating to use even public health as a weapon to keep his political interests intact. He seems eager to take credit for unleashing the nationwide vaccination programme — the impending elections in some states must have been the reason why scientists were not allowed to complete the trials. Independent scientific research cannot take place on account of interference from the world of politics. Clearly, for governments, power is more important than the lives of the people. Rabindranath Sarkar,Calcutta Grave danger Sir — It is shocking that the standing committee of the National Board of Wildlife has empowered gram panchayats to deal with wild animals deemed problematic as they see fit, even sambhars, hyena, porcupine and nilgai — all protected under the law. It is true that wildlife often poses a threat to human life and property, but this is not a solution to the man-animal conflict. This move will give a free rein to the people to harm wildlife without consequences and abet unregulated killing of wild animals. This would create long-lasting ecological imbalances. The decision should be overturned at once. Sebanti Sen,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||Boys to men: India retains Border-Gavaskar Trophy||India retaining the Border-Gavaskar Trophy — this was India’s second consecutive Test series win Down Under — can be compared to the fable of the phoenix. Having been humiliated in the opening Test where Virat Kohli’s men were bundled out for 36 in the second innings, India, under the able leadership of Ajinkya Rahane, the stand-in skipper, have risen from the ashes of shame, much like the proverbial phoenix, to create cricketing history. Facts will suggest that this is a history to be proud of. India has become the first country to beat Australia in Brisbane since 1988; India’s successful run chase also smashed an older record at the same ground. Yet, these feats are not enough to capture the courage and resilience shown by India’s young cricketers. Taken together, the total number of Tests played by India’s rookie bowlers at the Gabba was — astonishingly — four. Their inexperience was a direct fallout of injuries sustained by multiple regular players. But the young men turned adversity into an opportunity, playing as a unit — the triumph was possible on account of contributions from several cricketers — to beat the Australians in their own den. The unity, grit, skills and morale shown by this young league of extraordinary gentlemen makes this one of the finest moments in Indian cricket. History, however, is not made in one day. It is a cumulative process. India’s formidable bench strength — a second-string side took the field in Brisbane — is the result of the foresight of the Board of Control for Cricket in India that has invested heavily not only in infrastructure, coaching, tournaments — the Indian Premier League has yielded riches — but also in the raw potential of youth. There is a lesson here for leadership in other fields: belief in and imparting of skill to the youth can have a transformative impact on the nation as a whole.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||Baton passed: Biden becomes US president||With Joseph R. Biden taking over the mantle of the presidentship of the United States of America, there is hope — within and outside the US — that America would reclaim its seat at the global high table, once again, under its new president. Indeed, if the executive orders of Mr Biden and his administration are an indication, the days of the pursuit of a contentious protectionist policy that was the hallmark of Donald Trump, Mr Biden’s predecessor, are well and truly over. Rescinding the ban on travel from some Muslim-dominated nations, rejoining the Paris pact, extension of pandemic-induced limits on evictions and student loan payments and so on — each element of Mr Biden’s policy agenda is an unambiguous rejection of the toxic insularity that had been institutionalized by Mr Trump. There are, of course, formidable challenges, principal among which is the economy. Mr Biden has announced a substantial relief package to mitigate some of the pain inflicted on the economy and employment. It is hoped that such a spirited and humane intervention would also be witnessed in healthcare — the other area of concern in the US — that is reeling under Covid-19. What cannot be denied is that Mr Biden has inherited a deeply sullen and divided US; racial and ethnic fires, allegedly stoked by the previous dispensation, need to be doused. Mr Biden’s substantial political and administrative experience — he is truly a product of the Capitol Hill culture — could be useful in neutering these challenges. The unprecedented crises — economic, social and medical — may have prompted Mr Biden’s team to resort to the executive route. But he must not refrain from attempting to revive the famed — but now fraying — bipartisan spirit to confront the hurdles and heal divisions. Mr Biden’s desire for representativeness has led to the inclusion of a number of Indians in ‘Team Biden’. New Delhi, too, would be hoping to benefit from this spirit of inclusion at the diplomatic level, thereby augmenting a partnership that has shown a remarkable resilience to rebound even after occasional hiccups: Narendra Modi’s personal investment in Mr Trump would count among these. In Mr Biden, New Delhi may well find a seasoned, reliable ally to chart the choppy waters marked by global economic decline, a lingering pandemic and — most notably — the implications of an assertive China. Defence technology, security, trade — a bone of contention between Mr Trump and New Delhi — and climate could well be the fulcrum of the new Indo-US relationship. But there is also a case for India to emulate the US’s robust institutions — the judiciary and the media — to serve as checks and balances for its own democracy which, at the moment, lacks a credible Opposition. One possible source of tension could be India’s worsening performance in human rights and religious intolerance — issues on which Mr Biden may demand greater accountability. New Delhi must be mindful of this blip on the radar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||New Year tragedy in Pakistan||The year, 2021, started on a tragic note for the Shia Hazara community in Pakistan. Eleven coal miners belonging to the Hazara community were killed in a gruesome attack on January 3 in Mach, Balochistan. The Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack. The Hazaras are a peaceful people but also one of the most vulnerable communities in Pakistan. They are routinely targeted and killed by sectarian outfits on account of being Shia. In 2014, the Human Rights Watch published a report about the Hazaras titled, “We are the Walking Dead”. The title sums up their helplessness. After the latest attack, the Hazaras protested with the bodies of the deceased for a week in the freezing cold of Quetta. All they wanted was for the prime minister to visit them and give them some sort of assurance. Imran Khan, on the other hand, said he wanted them to bury their dead first and he would visit them only then. He said the prime minister of a country cannot be blackmailed like this. Khan faced a backlash for his statement but he didn’t budge. Eventually, the beleaguered Hazaras had to bury their dead. And only then did Khan visit them. He told the families of the slain Hazaras that they need to understand that things are different for a prime minister. “When I was a regular citizen I came to visit you. No one can guarantee that an incident doesn’t happen in the country. So that’s why I sent messages to bury the deceased and said that I will come to offer my condolences. But when you make it a condition, it will set a precedent.” He told them that the government and the entire nation stand with the Hazaras. We have heard so many the world over give the example of New Zealand’s prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, when she consoled the local Muslim community after the Christchurch mosque attack. She was praised for her compassion, her humanity. This is how a community that has seen a terrible tragedy should be consoled. Unfortunately, the Hazaras couldn’t even get a comforting response from their government. An agreement was reached between the Hazara community and the government but we don’t know how much of it will be implemented. The only thing we know is that the Hazaras don’t feel safe even now. Hopefully, some day, they will be safe. A persecuted community that has buried hundreds of its loved ones who have been killed in terrorist attacks, a people that has families which have lost all their male members, a community that is ghettoized and is constantly living in fear, can hardly blackmail anyone, let alone the prime minister of Pakistan. Victims cannot blackmail anyone, nor do they want to. All the Hazaras wanted was empathy. All they were asking for was solidarity and a message that the State will look after them. But all they got was a label of being blackmailers. Many justifications were given by members of the government for this statement but no justification can be given because there is none. Let’s hope the Hazaras can some day live in peace and without any fear. Talking about hope, the year, 2021, will see a roll-out of the coronavirus vaccine in many countries around the world. Pakistan is yet to procure the vaccine although the special assistant to the prime minister on health, Faisal Sultan, told Dawn that Pakistan’s target is to procure it in the first quarter of the current year. Being a developing country with a struggling economy, it is understandable that there are financial strains when it comes to vaccinating the entire populace. Last year was a tough one for people around the globe. Travel restrictions, economic downturn, mental health issues and much more followed as a result of the pandemic. But what is needed now is an investment in the future — a future that we must secure by investing in scientific research and technology. There are many lessons here to be learnt. Given how a pandemic led to a worldwide emergency, we must now focus our energies on healthcare, research and science. So far, we lag behind many countries around the world. It will take decades for results to materialize but start we must. We hope that this year will be different. That humanity has learnt some important lessons about how the healthcare sector around the world needs a boost and more investment. We hope that 2021 will be a year of peace and not war. The only war we need is a war against poverty. Is it too much to hope for? The author is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
20-01-2021||Opinion||The WhatsApp nation||In an era of relentless privatization, nationalization has become a bad word. It is synonymous with populism — Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalization drive — economic failure — the continuing misery of Air India — and the spectre of totalitarianism — the impending takeover of Alibaba by the Chinese State. But instances of nationalizing successful private companies for extraneous, often political, ends have meant that the original logic of nationalization has been lost. Certain companies performing critical public functions must work for the benefit of the public — if they don’t, then governments must step in to the breach. However, as I argue in this piece, this need not necessarily be by taking over ownership and control of the company. In India, WhatsApp is a public utility. Messaging friends, calling family, reviewing work documents, buying milk and vegetables — everything takes place on this single app downloaded by over 400 million Indians. Moreover, it’s free. This has meant that Indians consider the app an intrinsic part of their daily lives. This is why WhatsApp’s change in its privacy policy that states that all users would have to accept certain terms and conditions or would have to stop using the service came as a rude shock to many. It highlighted in one fell swoop salient facts that every user knew but often preferred to overlook — that WhatsApp was a private corporation and was owned by Facebook, a company whose recent record of safeguarding user data is questionable. The changes to the privacy policy themselves are of three kinds. First, WhatsApp will collect greater amounts of data, including time, frequency and duration of interactions. Second, chats with business accounts can be read by third parties to provide targeted advertisements. Third, data collected by WhatsApp will be shared with Facebook and other Facebook companies to design their products and improve services. Earlier users could opt out of such sharing, an option which appears to have been taken away. None of these changes affect end-to-end encryption on all personal messages, which continues as before. WhatsApp has now confirmed that these changes have been deferred by three months. This deferral is on account of misinformation that has spread in the wake of the changes. In the company’s view, the changes solely pertain to communicating with business accounts. It will use the three months to better communicate their meaning and implication for users. In May, however, once the three months are up, the new policy will still remain a take-it-or-leave-it for users. As far as the changes themselves are concerned, they appear to be pretty mundane and, ordinarily, should not have set alarm bells ringing. Communications with businesses online, typically all online purchases, involve personal data of the user being shared with the company. A cursory look at an Amazon account, for example, will not only show previous orders but also suggestions made by Amazon on the basis of user search history. Saving searches to improve targeting is no different in substance from processing messages sent by individuals to WhatsApp business accounts. But to say that this is all that the privacy policy update is about, as WhatsApp has done, is misleading. There are significant changes to the information that WhatsApp will collect, how it will share such information, and what these changes signify. It’s another matter that the information that is collected by WhatsApp in terms of metadata, such as frequency of calls, or group names and profile photos, is no more or less than the industry norm. The Faustian bargain that everyone enters into while transacting on the internet and paying through one’s data is not unique to WhatsApp. This is a larger question on whether a supposedly ‘free’ internet, where payment is disguised as harvesting of personal data, is a business model that works for the benefit of the user. WhatsApp is merely following this norm and it cannot be singled out for this. Neither can it be singled out for its intention of sharing information with other Facebook companies. The very purpose of Facebook acquiring WhatsApp for a whopping $19 billion was to ensure greater integration with its suite of products. It can hardly be faulted for seeking user permission for data sharing that will make such integration successful. Despite the mundane nature of the changes, that they have created such a storm can only be explained by the fact that WhatsApp is perceived as performing a public function, even though it is a private corporation. And when such a corporation privileges commercial gain, a combination of dismay and shock is understandable. At its core, WhatsApp provides a service that has become essential to life as we know it. Typically, such services have come to be regulated as public utilities over time. This entails rules that ensure that the corporation works in the interest of its real stakeholders, the people, and not just its shareholders. For a long time, it was thought that the optimal way of ensuring this was by nationalizing it — the State taking over ownership and control of the corporation. But State ownership of WhatsApp is neither necessary nor sufficient to tether the corporation to public benefit. In fact, this would be a remedy that is worse than the disease. However, the undesirability of State control should not detract from the need for State regulation. In fact, in the context of private corporations that perform essential public functions, nationalization must be redefined to mean three fundamental tenets of regulation. First, WhatsApp must be subject to a statutorily prescribed privacy policy. This privacy policy should prevent harvesting of data for any purpose other than the purpose for which the individual is signing up. So when an individual provides his/her personal data to WhatsApp, he/she does it for being able to send and receive messages and phone calls, not for Facebook to provide recommendations on what she should watch. Data processing should be limited to this purpose. Second, WhatsApp should be subject to a principle of non-discrimination — it should not provide premium and non-premium versions based on the users’ ability to pay, failing which they are compelled to allow greater harvesting of data. The service must be equally available to all, without conditions. Third, all data of Indians, whether metadata or otherwise, must remain in India. This will ensure a basis for jurisdiction of Indian law enforcement and courts were things to go wrong. This list isn’t necessarily exhaustive but only the starting point of a wider conversation on nationalizing WhatsApp in the modern era of privatization. The noise around WhatsApp’s privacy policy is not only about what it means for user privacy — most users will be happy to accept the changes, whether willingly or otherwise, as they do with a range of other applications. It is primarily a testament to the centrality of WhatsApp in our lives and a call for a democratically elected State to respond wisely. To not do so would signal the rise of the nations of Silicon Valley supplanting the nation states of today. The author is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
