21-01-2021||Opinion||Losing point: RTI and bona fides of the enquirer||Accountability is often found to be elusive in India’s administrative culture. So the Right to Information Act was welcomed with high hope when it came. According to Section 6(2) of the RTI Act, 2005, the member of the public seeking information need not offer reasons for his query. Recently, however, the Delhi High Court ruled that a disclosure of interest in the information sought would be necessary in order to establish the bona fides of the enquirer. Otherwise, the response may cause injustice to the persons about whom the query is being made. In other words, the court ruled in favour of the accountability of the RTI applicant to prevent ‘roving and fishing’ enquiries. Many administrators would welcome the ruling, because replying to broad-based RTI queries often eats into other work, although the law has an extensive list of issues on which public institutions are not obliged to give out information. The RTI Act is a reminder of the obligations of transparency and accountability of public institutions in a democracy. The last is the operative term: it is the people’s right to demand accountability of public institutions. This right is inscribed in Section 6(2) of the Act as in others — being a citizen comprises the bona fides, reasons are not required. The disclosure of interest would make injustice to the applicant more of a possibility than that to the subjects of the query, who or which are protected from injustice by the prohibitions enshrined in the Act. Since such disclosure is not required by the Act, it is puzzling that the Delhi High Court, after pronouncing the need for disclosure of interest, should impose a hefty fine on the RTI applicant who had petitioned against the Central Information Commission. The court in its wisdom made its ruling in a particular case, but if disclosure of interest were to become a condition for an RTI applicant, not only would the purpose of the law be lost or diminished but people would also refrain from seeking information under it. The fine is forbidding enough. It is unfortunate that the RTI Act has already been perceived as damaged by the Narendra Modi government’s decision to control the tenure and allowances of information commissioners. The gradual erosion of people’s rights bodes no good.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Fight ahead: Mamata to contest from Nandigram||Sir — In a move that observers have described as a masterstroke, Mamata Banerjee, while addressing a rally at Nandigram, has announced that she will contest from that constituency against her bête noire, Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s biggest weapon against the ruling party, Trinamul Congress (“Mamata takes Nandi by the horns, to contest from game-changer soil”, Jan 19). Some political analysts feel that this time Bhowanipore, the home turf of the chief minister, would not be the best seat for her to contest from as the demography of the area has changed. The BJP has also made considerable inroads into the Bhowanipore assembly segment. This has led to a decrease in TMC’s vote share in the area in recent polls. The BJP was reported to have pushed back TMC by 496 votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in ward number 73, which used to be the chief minister’s stronghold. Perhaps this explains Banerjee’s jitteriness and her subsequent decision to contest from multiple seats. Accepting the challenge Adhikari has asserted that he will leave politics if he cannot defeat her by 50,000 votes. Time and again, Adhikari has said that it was he who led the land movement in Nandigram as a son of the soil. In East Midnapore, members of the Adhikari family have a massive support base. The district’s Kanthi and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats are represented by the former TMC legislator’s father, Sisir Adhikari, and his brother, Dibyendu Adhikari. Reportedly, no one from the Adhikari family was present at Banerjee’s rally. It is evident that Banerjee won’t be able to give much time to Nandigram before the polls as she is, ultimately, the face of all 294 assembly seats. It is up to the local leaders to tackle everything. It would be a cut-throat battle for the Nandigram seat between the son of the soil and of the charismatic chief minister. It is too early to predict who will have the last laugh. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — With her sudden announcement to contest from the Nandigram constituency for the upcoming assembly elections, Mamata Banerjee has turned the battle between the TMC and the BJP into a personal fight between herself and the former TMC leader, Suvendu Adhikari. Winning Nandigram will be a tough job for Adhikari now, given Banerjee’s image and overall popularity with the masses. Nevertheless, Banerjee’s challenge is bound to force Adhikari to spend most of his time in his home district and Nandigram in order to ensure the BJP’s win in that crucial seat. This would mean that he will not be able to work for the saffron party in other districts as much as the BJP would like. The Adhikari family has been the local custodians of East Midnapore for the TMC since the party was formed in 1998. Perhaps Banerjee’s decision will help the party strengthen its ties with the East Midnapore voters independent of the Adhikaris. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — The manner in which Mamata Banerjee announced that she has decided to contest from Nandigram, besides Bhowanipore, was inspiring. It was crucial for Banerjee to attend the rally in Nandigram after the departure of Suvendu Adhikari. She has had the time to observe the impact of Adhikari’s defection to the BJP and has now stepped forward to help tide over the crisis that the party is facing. It is natural for the BJP to feel threatened by Banerjee’s announcement and consider it to be a populist move. The chief minister’s presence in Nandigram is without a doubt an endeavour to regain some of TMC’s lost hold over the district and ensure rural votes for the elections. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — With the assembly polls right around the corner, the political situation in Bengal is rapidly heating up. The chief minister’s decision to announce her candidature from Nandigram is certainly a bold move. Only time will tell if it bears fruit. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta Ray of hope Sir — It was wonderful to read that over 5,600 birds were recorded during a count conducted at Santragachi Jheel last week. The counting — it was done by a team of seven — found that the number of avians at the waterbody is higher than the last five years. Some of the species that were spotted include the Northern Pintail, Gadwall and Ferruginous Pochard. Over the last few years there has been a considerable drop in the number of migratory birds visiting Calcutta owing to increased air pollution. Unless there is a marked improvement in air quality, this number might just remain a fluke. Meera Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Weak privacy policies in India||Are privacy and choice rights that Indian citizens can claim? The Supreme Court, in 2017, had upheld privacy to be a fundamental right. Yet, the domain of privacy remains besieged, and this macabre theatre of the lack of privacy and the alleged whittling down of consumer choice is unfolding, most noticeably, in the digital domain. WhatsApp, for example, announced and then deferred new service rules pertaining to data harvesting and users’ privacy. The growing concerns with the proposed changes are manifest in two institutional responses. The Delhi High Court has said that the use of the app is “voluntary” and asked citizens to exit the platform if they are worried about the new terms and conditions; the Centre, meanwhile, has asked WhatsApp to withdraw its privacy update in deference to data security. It has also asked why the platform has a lenient policy update for European countries, raising, once again, suspicions of differential treatment. The Delhi High Court may have upheld the sanctity of the principle of choice by pointing out to citizens that they have the option to use other apps. However, certain conditions make this ‘switch’ difficult for consumers. For one, WhatsApp has a dedicated subscriber base — over 400 million people use its services in India. The popularity of this particular platform — it is famed for its user-friendliness — combined with enhanced reliance on digital communication on account of a raging pandemic implies that WhatsApp is unlikely to witness a loss in public patronage. The Centre’s concern with data privacy is welcome: but the onus of protecting the privacy or data of users cannot be put on social media companies alone. In an age where data, metaphorically speaking, is the new oil, India is yet to design a comprehensive data privacy law. Worse, there are worries about the efficacy of the personal data protection bill — it is still being debated in Parliament — with its critics raising concerns over such provisions as the exemptions given to the State to access personal data, segmentation of data into specific categories, the need for consent for age-specific users to use internet-enabled services that may lead to disenfranchisement as well as the questionable skills of India’s Data Protection Authority personnel. The Centre’s advocacy on citizens’ data privacy will ring hollow unless it takes steps to iron out these creases in India’s yet-to-be-rolled-out data protection framework.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Indo-US relations: play the strategic game smartly||Spoiler alert. There is a scene in the popular Netflix regency drama, Bridgerton, where Daphne is trying to convince the Queen that it was love at first sight for her and the Duke. Then the Duke corrects the record: it was initially a strategic decision on their part to pretend to be in love, he informs the Queen, though he had now truly fallen for Daphne. That is a little like the state of the relations between India and the United States of America today, after the administration of Donald Trump — he left office yesterday — declassified its strategic documents for the Indo-Pacific region, outlining the rationale for America’s attraction to India. New Delhi has for long argued that its relationships with other nations, especially the US, are not about containing any third country. It rightly does not like to be seen — or even mistakenly interpreted — as working on behalf of any other country. It is no one’s Team B. But the declassification of the US strategy document eliminates that fig leaf, explaining clearly that America’s primary reason for its increased alignment with India is to “counter Chinese influence in South and Southeast Asia and other regions of mutual concern”. Sure, you might say, we always knew that. We did. But the declassification of a policy that is still in place ties India’s hands each time it wants to resort to its stock reply on China — that New Delhi is not part of some grand conspiracy to contain Beijing’s growth. It is also a smart ploy by Trump’s team to reduce Joe Biden’s negotiating room with China. By outlining a series of military steps to strengthen the defence capabilities of the US’s partners and allies in the Indo-Pacific, the now-public document makes it difficult for Biden to try something different without risking criticism that he is “weak” on China. By itself, this is all an inconvenience, nothing more, for India and Biden. But here is the twist. While some believe Biden might retreat a step or two — no more — from Trump’s directly confrontational approach with China, it is likely that we might see a role reversal when it comes to US-Russia relations. Though the Trump administration maintained and enforced tough sanctions against Russia for its interference in the US democratic process in 2016, those moves never really had the full-throated backing of the White House. That, along with broad bipartisan support for India in the US, has so far allowed New Delhi to avoid sanctions for its purchase of the S-400 missile defence system from Russia. But US officials have warned India that time might be running out. For Moscow, the S-400 deal with India, agreed upon by President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is a litmus test of whether New Delhi truly still retains an independent foreign policy. Finding a way out of this crisis without either upsetting Russia or attracting sanctions was never going to be easy. Attempting to do so without suggesting that Washington somehow holds the strings to New Delhi’s foreign policy will be even harder. That is not all. Both Biden and the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, have pitched the idea of a group of 10 democracies — the United Kingdom is calling it the D10 — that will brainstorm and develop common global positions. The implicit focus of the group? China and Russia. New Delhi is thrilled to be a part of the D10 — the US, the UK, Germany, Japan, France, Italy, Canada, Australia and South Korea will be the others — but would have been careful about avoiding criticism of Russia. Now every move India makes in such a grouping will be seen by Moscow and Beijing through the prism of whether it aids US interests in the Indo-Pacific region. It is tempting to think that India should just give up this game of shadows and openly acknowledge itself as a US ally with shared interests against China. After all, Beijing is hardly being friendly with New Delhi as is. Why bother about China’s sentiments? That is a dangerous trap, mostly because it only increases India’s dependence on one country — the US — that itself is far from predictable or reliable. And I do not mean just the past four years under Trump. Veteran Indian diplomats have not forgotten how Barack Obama, and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, sprung a surprise on the world by announcing their climate deal just before the Paris agreement was to be finalized. After that, it was almost impossible for others like India to resist the pressure to sign on to the deal. So what is the way forward? New Delhi could turn the discomfort of the declassified document into a weapon to explain to the Biden administration why India needs to be even more careful about perceptions. It could use the situation to buy itself greater strategic space instead of watching it shrink. Ultimately, this is not about proving anything to Russia, China or any other nation. This is about India’s strategic identity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
21-01-2021||Opinion||Evolutionary process||The efficacy of competitive politics in a parliamentary democracy is invariably linked to the health of its political parties. At the extreme end is the United States of America where a two-party system has defined the political landscape since the mid-19th century. Although individuals have occasionally broken the mould in state elections, no formation outside the broad-based Republican and Democratic parties has endured. Political fights based on either individuals or issues are, more often than not, carried out within parties — a reason why it is often difficult to distinguish between a moderate Republican and a moderate Democrat. No doubt there are moments when the polarization between parties is sharp and seemingly unbridgeable. In recent times, for example, there is an energetic conservative movement within the Republicans that would have no place in the Democratic camp. Likewise, there has been a sharp spurt in identity concerns within the Democratic Party that has, at best, triggered a sharp reaction in the Republican camp. However, despite the disruption occasioned by Donald Trump, the broad architecture of competitive politics has endured the storm. A broadly similar pattern — with an older ancestry — can be discerned in British politics, except that the ideological and cultural divisions between the Conservative and Labour parties are sharper. The attempts by the Liberal Democrats, the Greens and the parties on the extreme Right and Left to inject a greater measure of choice to the electorate have not made any significant headway. However, the spectacular growth of the Scottish National Party has added a regional dimension to British politics — something that was hitherto confined to Northern Ireland — and even put a big question mark on the future of the United Kingdom. The old pattern of Conservative versus Labour, with the Liberal Democrats making patchy interventions of consequence, has, however, persisted in England. What is also significant is that despite the UK’s four-decade cohabitation in the European Union, the pattern of competitive politics that can be traced back to the mid-Victorian era has endured. A feature of political life in the Anglophone democracies — that also engulfs Australia, Canada and New Zealand — is the relative fixity of political allegiances in the political class at least. People encounter life having made a political choice based on political orientation, family tradition or neighbourhood and these remain broadly unchanging. The real electoral contests involve securing the support of not more than 15 per cent of the electorate — those who are described as the ‘floating voters’. In public life, a stigma is attached to those who switch parties. Had it not been for the exigencies of the war with Germany and the inability of the traditional Tory leadership to tackle the challenge of Hitler, Winston Churchill would never have become prime minister. That was because the political class couldn’t digest his mid-career defection from the Liberals to the Conservatives. Till he proved his mettle as an inspirational wartime prime minister, Churchill was never regarded as ‘one of us’ by the Tory establishment. Every nation forges its own distinct political traditions over time and often through a process of trial and error. Yet, countries that trace their political institutions to the Westminster model share a common disdain for shifting allegiances. A moral opprobrium is often attached to those who switch parties, even if the change is dictated by real political differences. This is also true of India where the post-1947 party system is still in a process of evolution, despite seven decades of competitive politics. The dominance of the Congress as a broad-based movement for national independence ensured that many of the ideological currents in politics were encapsulated within it. True, many of the stalwarts of the erstwhile Congress Socialist Party broke away and formed their own party and the Hindu nationalists assembled under the banner of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh. Yet, the character of the Congress as a broad church was largely unaffected until the split of 1969. Apart from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the Akali Dal that had definite socio-cultural moorings that were located in pre-1947 politics, even regional impulses were subsumed within the Congress. Competitive politics, including the belief that the mighty Congress could be effectively challenged, began with the 1967 general election. There were two broad trends. First, there were the regional parties such as the Utkal Congress, the Bangla Congress and the Bharatiya Kranti Dal of Charan Singh that mounted a challenge to the Congress. Subsequently, N.T. Rama Rao forged the Telugu Desam Party on the strength of wounded pride of Andhra Pradesh, the Shiv Sena championed the cause of the Marathi language and culture, including a dose of Hindu pride, and the Asom Gana Parishad grew out of the anti-foreigner movement in Assam. The regional parties acquired national importance once it became clear that an effective challenge to the Congress at the national level could only be mounted by a coalition of non-Congress parties. Secondly, the parties that based their politics on the strength of ideological convictions also increased their following. After 1980, the Jana Sangh regrouped under the banner of the Bharatiya Janata Party and chose to reach people outside the fold of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh parivar. The Communist Party of India (Marxist), having earlier overshadowed the parent Communist Party of India, created a formidable base for itself in West Bengal, Kerala and Tripura. And, finally, the Bahujan Samaj Party made a mark for itself on the strength of subaltern identity politics. The real challenge before the parties that sought to take advantage of the slow disintegration of the Congress was the process of aggregation. It was the BJP that approached this issue with dexterity. By 1980, it was clear to the sangh parivar that in order to emerge as an alternative pole of politics, it had to shed all insistence on ideological purity. While it was necessary to bring people together on the basis of a loose commitment to Hindu cultural identity, it was equally necessary to keep its doors open to those who were looking for a more stable home at the national level. This meant courting political activists from both the Congress and the regional parties. Addressing a Trinamul Congress meeting in Purulia last Tuesday, Mamata Banerjee hit out at those who had left her to join the BJP by arguing that “politics is a solemn ideology and philosophy and one cannot change these things everyday like clothes.” The chief minister’s anger at the defectors was understandable but less so was her assertion that her party was — like the communist parties —based on firm ideological convictions. The reality is that the TMC was founded as a splinter from the Congress by those who felt that a more frontal anti-CPI(M) approach was necessary in West Bengal. Subsequently, it teamed up with the BJP because it needed national backing for its fight. This alliance broke once the TMC acquired a critical mass and started reaching out to Muslim voters. After the TMC swept the state polls in 2011, it slowly reinvented itself as a party of Bengali sub-nationalism bound by a loyalty to Banerjee. When the latter commitment began eroding and the BJP emerged as the principal Opposition, the TMC began to show cracks. There was nothing remotely ideological in the whole process. It was merely a step in the evolution of a new all-India party with a Hindu nationalist core but stitched together by aggregating political impulses. The process isn’t unique to West Bengal; it has been experienced before in Assam, Tripura, Karnataka, Bihar and even Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. One national party is on its deathbed. The BJP under Narendra Modi is emerging as its successor. The party system in India is in a process of constant evolution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-85
