22-01-2021||Opinion||Screens on fire: regulation in the OTT and digital space||Regulatory framework exists in the print media, with the Press Council of India serving as a watchdog for the medium. Television content is also monitored by a complicated ecosystem that accommodates both institutional and independent regulation. Surprisingly, digital media — over-the-top platforms are turning out to be a popular and profitable segment within it — has, it is alleged, been given considerable leeway in the matter. Over the years, there has been very little regulatory intervention in this space. This, however, changed with the Central government issuing a notification in November last year, bringing digital and online media platforms under the aegis of the ministry of information and broadcasting. The Centre’s intervention was based on a two-fold logic. Complaints about content dished out by digital services are not uncommon: for instance, the I&B ministry is on record stating that it has received a number of aggrieved petitions that allege that the web series, Tandav, which is streaming on Amazon Prime, has hurt religious sentiments. Secondly — and more importantly — the Centre’s move could also have been mandated by the need to create a level playing field for all kinds of media to uphold the principle of fairness. That some form of regulation is necessary in the OTT and digital space cannot be disputed. But a problem is likely to arise when regulation becomes an excuse for surveillance that is, critics say, both political and ideological in nature. Tandav, once again, is a case in point. Even though the makers of the web series agreed to delete the objectionable scenes, its director, producer and writer as well as a functionary of the OTT platform had to move court for relief. This may have been necessitated by the intimidation that was unleashed with numerous first information reports filed in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Strikingly, the I&B ministry issued its summons even before the first FIR had been filed. The outcome of all this is likely to be undesirable for creativity and commerce. Creativity would undoubtedly bear the brunt of such interference. Ideally, consumers — are they not adult citizens? — should be trusted with the freedom to choose or reject what they are shown. The economic potential generated by OTTs — they are a source of employment and revenue in these difficult times — could also be marred by overreach. The Centre’s decision to study OTT models in other countries is welcome. But it will not bear fruit if needless scrutiny is prioritized over sensible regulation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Known good: efficacy of Covid vaccines||The need for inoculation against Covid-19 as soon as possible cannot be denied. But no vaccine should be administered without the recipient’s trust and conviction that are based on full information about its efficacy. Only then can there be informed consent; its absence regarding the two vaccines being administered across India is disturbing. The Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, a national association, formulated the requirements that would set at rest the doubts and fears of concerned citizens. The forum stated that all data pertaining to clinical trials of both vaccines should be made available to scientists and healthcare workers so that they can make informed choices. The data from Phase III trials should be transparently presented as and when they become available, and the decision to grant emergency use authorization could then be reconsidered. Since it is Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine, that has not completed Phase III trials but has received EUA, the thrust of the forum’s statement is clear. But Covishield — the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine — too has only completed its trials overseas, not in India. The Centre-directed system of inoculations has exacerbated the problems caused by urgency and has made nonsense of informed consent. What is the point of telling someone that a vaccine has not undergone its Phase III trials, for instance, and is in ‘clinical trial mode’ if the person has no option? The system now compels a person to accept what is being given; refusal means there is no guarantee of a second chance, let alone inoculation with a vaccine of choice. Clinical trials require volunteers. If people must take whichever vaccine comes their way — or none at all — there is nothing voluntary about it. Consent seems to have been hijacked by the Union government; it decides who is to get what. Such a situation also raises fears of penalties: a ban on air travel without vaccination, for example. Many experts are wondering why the government did not wait for the indigenous vaccine to complete trials before release. It would be deplorable if this were a case of misplaced nationalism. Even if it is the most efficacious vaccine in the world, it must be proved to be so. Declaring both vaccines ‘equal’ at this stage, without permitting people to choose or even consent, increases fear and distrust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Shell shield: parking black money overseas||The parking of black money overseas is not a new phenomenon. In 2016, the Panama Papers leak led to the allegation of prominent politicians and celebrities from India parking funds in offshore companies as clients of Mossack Fonseca. In 2015, at least 1,100 Indians could be identified with secret bank accounts in HSBC Geneva. In October 2014, the Centre submitted to the Supreme Court a list containing the names of 627 people who held such accounts in foreign banks in 2006; the names were revealed by the French government. Interestingly, September 30, 2015 marked the end of the 90-day ‘compliance scheme’ for the declaration of offshore assets and accounts, resulting in 638 individuals declaring assets worth Rs 37,700 million. As per the norms of the Reserve Bank of India, no Indian could float an overseas entity before 2003. In 2004, individuals were allowed to remit funds of up to US $25,000 annually under the Liberalised Remittance Scheme. The limit stood at US $2,50,000 from June 2015 onwards. It was only in August 2013 that individuals were allowed to set up subsidiaries or invest in joint ventures under the Overseas Direct Investment window. Dirty secret The Panama Papers leak exposed entities that were not involved in any trade or service. These companies, named ‘shell’ or proxy firms, exist on paper and are different from dormant and defunct entities. The share capital of such a company is not proportional to its revenue; the bank balance does not match its revenue; transactions become untraceable to conceal profits, payment or receipt of bribes, terrorism financing and tax obligations. Mossack Fonseca, headquartered in the tax haven, Panama, advised clients across the world on how to hide their identity to avoid taxes. The Black Money Act of 2015 enabled the government to enter into agreements with other countries for the exchange of information, recovery of tax, and avoidance of double taxation. But uncovering the identities of these clients still required skilful investigative effort. Shell companies were allegedly created in large numbers in 2016 in India at the time of demonetization in Calcutta and Surat to assist those who owned banned currencies. In Surat, those involved in money-laundering adopted a technique called ‘layering’ that made it possible to conduct multiple transactions involving several entities, making it difficult to expose the money trail. Costly silence Section 248 of the Indian Companies Act, 2013 empowers the government to deregister a company if it has failed to commence its business within one year of its incorporation or has not conducted any business for two continuous years. A Task Force on Shell Companies was constituted in February 2017 under the chairmanship of the revenue secretary and corporate affairs secretary. The Securities and Exchange Board of India imposed trading restrictions on 162 listed entities in 2017. The minister of state for corporate affairs informed Parliament in December that year that 2,26,000 companies had been struck off from the register of companies. Later, another 14,848 registered firms were deleted in January 2019. There should be a seamless flow of information among the ministry of corporate affairs, the income tax department and the enforcement directorate to identify shell companies. Surprisingly even after being overhauled in 2013, the Companies Act, unlike the Securities Act in the United states of America, remains silent about naming shell companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Nehru and Bose: not quite parallel lives||Subhas Chandra Bose was born on January 23, 1897. Netaji was one of the most charismatic leaders of the Independence movement who, before the saga of the Indian National Army, was twice the president of the Indian National Congress. Bose, who started his political career as a protégé of Deshbandu Chittaranjan Das, became, along with Jawaharlal Nehru, the most popular leader of the country’s youth. In 1928, the Nehru Report, prepared by Motilal Nehru — he headed a committee of an all-party conference to prepare a draft for the Constitution of free India — was made public. It was presented on the assumption that the new Constitution will be based on Dominion Status. This was opposed by the young radical group of the Congress headed by Nehru and Bose who were propagating full independence. However, when it came to the choice of the president of the Congress session at Calcutta, Bose not only supported Motilal Nehru but also went to the extent of saying nobody else would be acceptable. He wrote to the elder Nehru on July 28, 1928: “I cannot tell you how disappointed the whole of Bengal will feel if for any reason you decline the Congress Presidentship… we can think of nobody else who can rise to the occasion.” Jawaharlal Nehru was elected president of the next session at Lahore where the resolution of ‘complete independence’ was passed and January 26 (later Republic Day) declared as Independence Day. The decade of 1930-40 saw four stalwarts of the Congress as presidents of the party: Sardar Patel, Jawaharlal Nehru, Netaji and Maulana Azad. Of all these leaders of the Congress after M.K. Gandhi, no two leaders were as close to each other than Nehru and Bose till the latter fell out with Gandhi in 1939 which also adversely affected his relations with Nehru. Both Nehru and Bose had their vision of India lit up by the idea of socialism. Both laid emphasis on centralized planning, heavy industries and State ownership of key industries. The deep ideological affinity they shared turned into a strong personal bond. When Kamala Nehru died in Lausanne in February 1936, Bose, already in Europe, reached there before she breathed her last and helped Jawaharlal make the funeral arrangements. Before Kamala died, the presidentship of the 1936 Congress session at Lucknow had been offered to Jawaharlal. Within a few days of her death, Bose wrote to Nehru on March 6, 1936 from Austria: “Among the front rank leaders of today, you are the only one to whom we can look up to for leading the Congress in a progressive direction. Moreover your position is unique and I think even Mahatma Gandhi will be more accommodating towards you than towards anybody else.” After Bose was elected president of the Congress in 1938 for its 51st session in Haripura, Nehru, after a strenuous election campaign tour of the country, left for Europe where he propagated India’s case and got the opportunity to acquaint himself with the situation that was leading towards the Second World War. On October 19, 1938, Bose wrote to him: “You cannot imagine how I have missed you all these months… you have been able to do such valuable work during your stay in Europe... several problems will await solution till you are back.” The newly-elected Congress president, who had offered Nehru the chairmanship of the proposed National Planning Committee, repeated the offer: “Hope you will accept the Chairmanship of the National Committee. You must if it is to be a success.” The relations between Nehru and Bose continued to be cordial even after the latter was re-elected as the Congress president in 1939. When differences arose between the Mahatma and Bose on the constitution of the CWC, the latter sought Jawaharlal’s advice and wrote to him on April 15, 1939: “Will it be possible for you to run up here for a few hours? We could then have a talk and I could have your advice as to how to proceed next?” Jawaharlal not only travelled from Allahabad to Manbhum in Bihar to meet Bose, who was bedridden, but also wrote to Gandhi on April 17: “I think now, as I thought in Delhi, that you should accept Subhas as President. To try and push him out seems to be an exceedingly wrong step.” But despite Jawaharlal’s best efforts, the differences between the Mahatma and Bose could not be resolved. It had become extremely difficult for Gandhi to reject the advice of his colleagues in the right-wing, led by Patel, who were determined not to compromise with Bose. Ultimately, Bose resigned from the Congress, formed his own party — the Forward Bloc — and the rest, as they say, is history. Lest it be forgotten. Netaji named one of the brigades of his INA ‘Nehru Brigade’. After he died in an air crash in 1945, Nehru ensured that his widow, Emilie, was given life-long financial assistance by the Congress. With West Bengal elections around the corner, there will be attempts to distort history and exaggerate the differences between Bose and Nehru. Yes, there were differences, but only 1939 onwards. The differences were restricted to views on fascism and the relationship with Gandhi. Nobody could have put it better than Rudrangshu Mukherjee who, in his book, Nehru and Bose: Parallel Lives, writes: “Subhas believed that he and Jawaharlal could make history together. But Jawaharlal could not see his destiny without Gandhi. This was the limiting point of their relationship.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
22-01-2021||Opinion||Playful imagination||The late scientist, C.V. Seshadri, and I spent hours discussing the idea of alternatives in dhabas and cafes around his laboratory in Chennai. Professor Seshadri, infinitely curious about inventions and alternatives, claimed that the signal for alternatives becomes obvious when a mode of thinking as a mode of living fails as a paradigm, a discourse as well as a mode of storytelling. I was thinking about Seshadri’s heuristic as I was analyzing the current regime’s performance. The media have surrounded the regime with a penumbra of inanity and banality that masquerades as competence. But as one probes, one finds the crisis of the regime at three levels as it boasts of the new normal. The regime has failed as a paradigm, as a nation state and as a model of development. As a discourse of democracy, it has become ironic. As a mode of storytelling, it is almost autistic, its main characters performing like inarticulate brands. The nation state has destroyed the pluralistic, civilizationally syncretic view of India in its intolerance of difference. Its models of development have not been inclusive of tribe, peasant, or craft. Its decision to erase the handicraft and handloom committees is a clear expression of its indifference to craft as a way of life. As a democracy, it has turned populist and majoritarian, suppressing dissent and difference. It has begun erasing the margins and destroying nature. Extinction has become an accompaniment to genocide. As a narrative, the regime practises erasure, erasing the language of plurality and dissent. Development as a unilinear narrative becomes a destruction of storytelling and of the story. The regime has little sense of plurality as it wants to reduce the nation state to a master text of Tulsi Das. The sheer variety of interpretation in the oral imagination is threatened. Deeply and fundamentally one creates a mediocre, majoritarian regime fusing past and future mechanically. As the regime fails as paradigm, discourse and narrative, one senses that the time for storytelling has come. The regime’s abiding sense of banality is not only a symptom of the persons and of the persona associated with it. It is also a failure of ideas, a loss of diversity and plurality. As a majoritarian democracy, it lacks a theory of plurality and remains caught in the polarity of majority versus minority. By reducing itself to an electoral imagination, democracy is turning arid. The violence and suffering of development lack a language beyond cost benefit where the refugee, the displaced, the migrant disappear within policy narratives. Democracy needs to rethink itself at an epistemic and ontological level. It needs to ask what knowledge systems are based on and what is the political epistemology of modern democratic systems. Secondly, to think this way, it has to go beyond the impoverishment of the linear time of development where even sustainability appears as an oxymoron. Thirdly, democracy needs a new imagination to confront forms of collective violence — genocide, extinction, triage, obsolescence and erasure. Memory and an ethics balancing memory and innovation have to be invented to understand technological violence. The list of shortcomings, from concepts to a sense of mediocrity, has reached a saturation point. The time for an imagination of alternatives has arrived. But there is a ritual prelude to it. Firstly, one needs a new imagination and an argument for diversity. Diversity multiplies the Other, creating a new understanding of coexistence and difference. Dialogue becomes essential and dissent welcome. Diversity has to move to plurality, from the recognition of difference to the dialogue of difference. One has to comprehend that the monolithic, the monologic, has no sense of difference. Worse, as Alfred Wallace, the evolutionist, pointed out, a science at a moment of hegemony is threatened from within itself. It is for the scientist to invent alternatives to sustain the ecology of pluralism. Today, the future has become a subject of expertise. But most futures tend to be extrapolations of the present or celebrations of technology. The future must challenge the technological hubris and one can do it through the creation of alternatives. An alternative imagination emphasizes that there are plural answers to the future. Simultaneously, the past is reconsidered as a bundle of unexplored possibilities. As time becomes plural, so do the answers to the many questions. For example, town-planning does not work according to the arrogance of Haussmannic master plans but pluralistically, catering to the diverse imaginations of the city based on livelihood, lifestyles and life chances. Here the Dalit understanding of a city as a sensorium is considered as valuable as the antiseptic technocratic view of the city. The migrant is as much a stakeholder as a real estate operator. More critically, each is seen as a producer of knowledge and not merely as a consumer of the dominant form. The city thus becomes a corpus of knowledge forms where the wisdom of the slum challenges the prudence of a gated city. The dialogue of knowledge systems extends from medicine and urban planning to education, the body and ethics. The alternative imagination does not evaporate before experts but becomes a trustee of vulnerable and variegated knowledge. Uncertainty and plurality have to work together in the new knowledge society. As a friend put it, democracy and the future acquire a new set of cognitive dancing shoes. A sense of alternatives also cuts down violence as a possibility and as a solution. A sense of alternatives, creating an availability of diversity, allows different forms of livelihood to coexist, even seeking a mutuality through difference. One does not erase a defeated knowledge or an alternative way of solving something as obsolescent, deemed as subject to erasure, or as something to be museumized. Alternatives are more life-giving in their realization that economic efficacy is a limited language. One does not seek a pre-emptive closure of life forms the way the government does when it declares weaving a sunset industry although it involves 13.5 million people. Such obsolescence-inducing industries have little sense of nature, or of the sacred or of multiple time. Development is an ideology of institutionalized or formalized obsolescence, which erases the tribe or the craft or domains of agriculture by reading them as obsolescent or outdated. In erasing these worlds, it impoverishes the possibility of an alternative imagination even developing. One needs the world of alternatives not just instrumentally but because such frameworks sustain the heuristics of play in a society, inventing possibilities. Democracy in the age of development has lost its sense of play. Even children use concepts as if they are in uniform. Playfulness allows for the sacred and learns to go beyond the monolingualism of power and efficiency. Childhood acquires a different magic and history a sense of emergence and surprise. An episteme of alternative imaginations allows for the play of secession as a pluralistic imagination. Playful secession alters the greed of federalism, allowing for panarchy. Panarchy is a concept that argues that different levels of scale require different conceptual solutions. Panarchy challenges the hegemony of hierarchic systems adding to plurality an ontological necessity. The region rather than the nation becomes an answer to cultural and ecological difference. One realizes that it is not just that totalitarianism has become more ruthlessly inventive and coercive but that democracy has, in the meantime, become more pompous and arid. One needs to alter the imagination of democracy cognitively so that it goes beyond the formally political or organizational and caters to language, time, ecology and culture. Democracy as a 19th century shibboleth can easily be usurped by populism and majoritarianism. Democracy needs new imaginaries, new metaphors, to survive. For that, it has to invent itself beyond current possibilities. Our regime today is an assortment of mediocrities. A dream of alternatives can create the democracy of the future. In fact, if M.K. Gandhi were here today, he would say, ‘democracy like Western civilization would be a good idea.’ We have to reinvent pluralistically and playfully. The author is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
