23-01-2021||Opinion||Will the vaccines protect us from new strains of the novel coronavirus?||It was just a year ago, in December 2019 that we first got to know about this new guest to this planet, the novel coronovirus SARS-CoV-2. During the last 13 months scientists worldwide have accomplished an unbelievable feat. This is for the first time that not one but several vaccines have been approved for an infection which started just a year ago. It’s true that scientists haven’t had enough time to fully characterise the nature of protection and especially the duration of protection offered by the vaccines, as the passing of time is the only way to derive that kind of data. Nevertheless, a number of these vaccines have been meticulously shown to induce an efficacious immune response against the virus and till the time they were followed up in the respective phase 3 trials they offered recipients considerable protection from natural infections. Most vaccines are designed to target the spike protein of the virus. For example the Oxford vaccine Chadox1 nCoV-19, or its Indian avatar Covishield, uses an adenovirus and introduces the SARS-CoV-2 spike gene into it. The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine BNT162b2 and the Moderna vaccine mRNA-1273 use modified RNA molecules encoding spike protein encapsulated in sub-microscopic bags made of lipid. These vaccines are expected to train the recipients’ immune system to recognise this protein and to mount a response in the form of producing antibodies to it, which can block the spike protein of the virus during a natural infection and prevent the virus from infecting human cells. The vaccines are also expected to generate a potent T cell repertoire, another arm of the immune system, which can also recognise the virus and eliminate the infected human cells, to stop propagation of the virus within the body. Unfortunately at the same time, just a year from first encounter with the virus, on December 21, 2020, health authorities from United Kingdom published a technical briefing document that reported cases of infections in southern England by SARS-CoV-2. But there was an alarming change: this was a different strain of SARS-CoV-2, or the so-called ‘UK strain’.
A number of other strains have also been notified from different parts of the world. Mutations in viruses are very common. Replication of a virus inside human cells involves copying the genetic material with random accumulation of errors, which are largely corrected by inherent proofreading mechanisms. When these fail the errors stay back as mutations. For RNA viruses, like SARS-CoV-2 (with its genetic code being written on a molecule called RNA), the proofreading mechanisms are characteristically weaker and the chances of such errors are greater. The only notable change in the UK strain was an increased transmission, causing the infection to spread more rapidly. This is also scary as a faster spread of infection means a rapid influx of patients that can potentially overwhelm healthcare facilities. But for India the rate of accumulation of new cases has declined considerably so this should not create much of a problem for some time now. Available data assert that the mutations in these new strains are not enough to make the virus change the way it affects the human body or cause disease. But a more recent report has raised concerns about a slightly number of case fatalities. The final word on this is not yet out and will come only after a larger study is available. There’s no evidence yet to indicate a change in severity of the symptoms or outcomes. But a number of mutations encountered in these new strains of SARS-CoV-2 affected the spike protein. And this has raised concerns about the efficacy of the available vaccines against the new strains. As I explained the vaccines primarily are expected to generate antibodies to spike, as it was in the original strain. Whether these antibodies may fail to recognise the mutated spike is the question. Let me explain a little bit why it may happen. The spike protein, like any other protein, is made of a chain of molecules called amino acids. Imagine you have a necklace of coloured beads on your palm. You close your fist and the necklace folds onto itself in a complex structure. Now imagine that there are rules that ensure even in that apparent free-form complexity only specific coloured beads can only come close to each other, thus restricting shape options for the folded necklace. Proteins are similar necklace-like molecules with chemicals called amino acids as the beads. The immediate environment of the protein molecule (especially water present in the immediate environ) acts as the closed fist. Now if a few beads are removed or changed in colour, its shape also changes. Antibodies do not recognise the actual sequence of amino acids in a protein. They actually recognise the surface elements or topology, e.g. specific grooves, folds, loops or pockets on a protein. Any change in this surface topology of spike could result in the antibody not recognising the protein. Of note here, not only vaccines, the much used convalescent plasma therapy is also based on this recognition of viral proteins by antibodies that block its function and thus prevent the virus from infecting human cells. Mutations reported in the new strains do change the sequence of amino acids in SARS-CoV-2 spike. More importantly some of these changes affect a part of the protein which is usually targeted by the neutralising antibodies, known as the receptor binding domain or RBD. For example strains reported from UK and South Africa both have a mutation called N501Y (in simpler terms the 501st amino acid is changed, as per my allegory the bead in that position has changed colour) in that crucial part of spike protein. The South African variant has additional mutations E484K and K417N in the same region. A variant reported from Brazil was found to have mutations for both N501Y and E484K. Thus it raises the concern of substantially changing that crucial region of spike, so as to modify its structure and surface topology. Will the antibodies fail to recognise this changed face of spike? There are indeed chances this could happen. A similar phenomenon has recently been reported in a study, where scientists found that in the case of another coronavirus (called 229E), neutralising antibodies present in convalescent plasma against earlier strains failed to show activity against later strains. In the case of SARS-CoV-2 too, with the Brazilian E484K variant it has been shown that plasma from convalescent donors, who recovered from infection with the original SARS-CoV-2 virus, was less efficacious to neutralise LATER variantS. Fortunately for the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine we have relevant data available that shows the N501Y mutation cannot evade the immune response to this vaccine. Similar data generated with the other vaccines will be more reassuring and needs to be generated. These mean that even if vaccines are there and we are really excited about that, we should be vigilant and keep on following the protective drill of social distancing and mask usage. On the other hand, major effort should go into sequencing a large fraction of new cases for detecting any new variants that may arise. More importantly, independent research efforts should be taken up to monitor the recipients of all different vaccines, so that any case of vaccine failure (reinfection in a vaccine recipient) is notified. A comprehensive post-vaccination immune monitoring will also help us gather valuable insights on the nature of immune protection these different vaccines are capable of offering, especially in terms of duration of such protection and vulnerability of that protection to new variants, if any. Dipyaman Ganguly is a physician scientist and immunologist at the CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Calcutta. He is actively engaged with research on patients with COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||The Covid Effect: Screen and the world||It is called “The Covid Effect”. A company that tracks the use of digital devices by children of four to 15 years of age found an enormous increase in screen hours not just from pre-lockdown times but from month to month too, as the year of the pandemic wore on. Relaxing limits on screen time just a little would have been natural for parents at first when schools closed; things got more difficult after that. Youngsters of all ages continued to stay at home and have lessons online while parents often worked from home as well, juggling housework and office within the same confines. Family togetherness has its charms, but they can wear a bit thin when there is too much of it — and nothing else. Amid a change in work-life equations and social isolation that started abruptly yet began to seem endless, it was inevitable that disciplining children for turning to the screen to talk to friends, to play or amuse themselves would no longer be possible. Or even fair. The virus caused more than the deadly infection. There had already been serious worry and bleak research findings about addiction to digital devices and social media among children and young adults. From disrupted sleep patterns to hurt egos, from anxiety and depression to diminishing attention spans and reliance on constant mood-boosts — the harm was both physical and mental. In spite of the new routes of creativity and widening horizons of knowledge that the online world can offer, for children closeted with the screen for most hours of the day for months on end, some of the damage feared earlier seems unavoidable. A certain attenuation of the free-ranging imagination is also a possibility with the attention fixed on a quickly responding screen. Additionally, staring at it also means straining the eyes while confinement puts an end to strenuous outdoor games. Enforcing old physical habits, such as going to school again, playing together, going cycling, swimming or climbing, may not be too difficult when the pandemic passes, as youngsters may be longing to be freed of fear and isolation. But mental habits are not as easy to break. The feedback from digital devices may seem much smoother, more predictable, and less troublesome than from real-life situations in which interactions with other people and dealing with immediate tasks turn out to be too challenging to be worth bothering about. The quasi-protective shell offered by the screen is dangerous to developing minds and personalities. But again, the fact that young minds are impressionable is also the reason for hope. They can be made to change — with grown-ups consciously helping them to do so — or they can wish to change themselves. The screen generation is also a wise generation in many ways. The worries and the research come from adults who have made a fair mess of the world. Youngsters might yet show them their place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||True power: Kamala Harris takes oath as first woman vice-president||Sir — The inauguration ceremony of the 46th president of the United States of America was historic in more ways than one. Not only did Kamala Harris take oath as the first woman vice-president — as well as the first person of Indian and black origin to hold that office — but Amanda Gorman, also a black woman, became the youngest poet to perform at a presidential inauguration. Her powerful poetry recital enthralled the audience present as well as viewers around the world. One hopes this appreciation of diversity and recognition of women and people of colour continue to be reflected in the policies framed by the new US administration. Alicia Rozario,Mumbai Miracle workers Sir — The Indian men’s cricket team scripted history by soundly defeating the Australians in their own backyard at the Gabba in Brisbane. By doing so, it won the Test series 2-1, and retained the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. This series win will always remain memorable for India’s gallant fightback after having suffered a humiliating defeat in the first Test of the series at Adelaide. In that match, the team achieved the dubious distinction of getting bowled out for the lowest-ever score of 36 runs in the second innings. Cricket pundits all over the world had written India off for the rest of the series, with many predicting a 4-0 result in Australia’s favour. Moreover, after the debacle at Adelaide, the skipper, Virat Kohli, flew back to India on paternity leave. The captain’s baton was passed on to Ajinkya Rahane. Meanwhile, many of the front-line players suffered injuries one after the other, thus ruling out their participation in the rest of the series. India was truly playing with what many called its ‘B-team’. However, Rahane, who is known for his calm and composure, marshalled all his available resources into recovering from the first Test. He himself scored a century in the second Test at Melbourne, and led the depleted team, mostly comprising rookies, from the front to win the Test and level the series. Hanuma Vihari and Ravichandran Ashwin batted resolutely throughout the fifth day of the Third test at Sydney to ensure a draw. The series-deciding fourth Test had a thrilling finish for India. Shubman Gill’s elegant batting, Cheteshwar Pujara’s grit and fortitude, Washington Sundar’s fightback, Rishabh Pant’s intelligent blending of aggression and caution and, crucially, the steely determination of Mohammed Siraj and Shardul Thakur helped India end Australia’s 32-year-long stint of being unbeaten at the Gabba. This was one of India’s finest overseas wins. Tapash Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — Team India stunned the world with its act at Brisbane. Even staunch supporters of the team would not have expected the miracle that unfolded, especially after India’s abject surrender at Adelaide. Perhaps the team was not adequately prepared to play the pink ball in a day/night match, which is what the Adelaide Test was. However, the Indians slowly got their bearings, and by the time they reached Sydney, the series became more competitive. The icing on the cake was the victory at the Gabba. The team, written off as underdogs, had 328 runs to get. The players rose to the occasion: Washington Sundar and Shardul Thakur did not waste the opportunity given to them and put up an all-round show. Both T. Natarajan and Mohammed Siraj were impressive with their bowling of the new ball. There is no substitute for hard work; a combined team effort helped the men reach a tough target. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — India’s incredible victory at the Gabba — known till now as the ‘fortress’, since Australia had not been defeated there for over three decades — was deeply satisfying not just because of the stellar quality of cricket played by a ‘B-team’ but also because they served as fitting responses to the spectators at Sydney and Brisbane who made the Indian cricketers, especially Mohammed Siraj, targets of vile racial slurs. Visiting teams to Australia — and, indeed, minorities residing there — are no strangers to such racist abuse. One hopes that Cricket Australia and the Australian government will pay heed to this. Aniket Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||Rich pickings: Wisden 2021||Wisden 2021 will be a collector’s item. For a cool assessment of the just concluded India-Australia series, I turned to Lawrence Booth, editor of Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack. “The 2021 edition comes out in early April,” he tells me. “I am still editing it.” He will be grateful that the “thrilling” India-Australia series has provided him with so much drama in a year notoriously short of first-class cricket. The cricketers’ bible, rich in statistics and match reports, is now brought out by Bloomsbury — Wisden 2020 cost £55. Still, I suspect the 2021 edition will become a collector’s item for Indians to be bequeathed as a family heirloom to be savoured by generations. I still have an evocative photograph that I took of the late Dicky Rutnagur, doyen of cricket writers, with shelves packed with past copies of Wisden. “I thought India’s win was one of the most remarkable in Test history,” Booth sums up. “They were completely written off after being bowled out for 36 in Adelaide, especially with Virat Kohli going home on paternity leave. And they then suffered a miserable run of luck with injuries, not to mention the racial abuse from spectators in Sydney. To then chase 328 at Brisbane, where Australia had not lost since 1988-89, was nothing short of miraculous. Hats off to them!” I expressed surprise that Steve Smith was not banned again for roughing up Rishabh Pant’s guard on the final day of the Sydney Test but Booth is more relaxed: “I wasn’t greatly bothered by what Smith did. I think it was more of a nervous tic than anything, though he’d be better off not attracting any kind of adverse attention after the sandpaper fiasco.” Role model Priyanka Chopra, now famous for being famous, has come a long way since 2000 when the 18-year-old won the Miss World beauty pageant at the Millennium Dome in London — I know because I was there and interviewed her the following morning. Earlier this month, The Sunday Times Style magazine put her on the cover: “The Power of Priyanka. Can the former Miss World change the face of Hollywood? (Yes, she can!)” No wonder British Indian girls see her as a role model. Incidentally, it was alleged in a separate news story that PC had broken Covid-19 rules in London by going to a hair salon but she convinced the police that getting her hair done was essential “work” before filming.What not to wear Dicky Rutnagur once told me that for the first day of the Lord’s Test, he would pay due reverence to the status of the game and the hallowed turf at the “home of cricket” by putting on his best suit and tie. I mention this because the BBC’s cricket correspondent, Jonathan Agnew provided “live commentary” of the England-Sri Lanka series from the attic of his home in Belvoir, Leicestershire. That he was doing so for Test Match Special on Radio 4 in his dressing gown itself became a talking point. “Lord Reith,” said an outraged listener, referring to the BBC’s very first director-general, “will be turning in his grave.” At 4.15 am on a bitterly cold and dark morning in England, Agnew did not pretend he was in warmer climes: “We are scattered here and there bringing you commentary of this series from Galle but not in Galle because all media have been banned from travelling there... and naturally I am here in the Belvoir. We do, of course, have pictures from Galle — we can bring you all the news of what’s going on there.” Here is Lawrence Booth on sartorial trends: “I hope broadcasting from bedrooms is not the future, and I suspect it won’t be, if and when the world returns to some kind of normality.”Risky waters The United Kingdom is lucrative territory for Bollywood, where the Hindi film industry is promoted as glamorous and seductive. Unsurprisingly, many young British Indian girls dream of making it big in Bollywood. Assisted by her mother Rabiya Khan, London girl, Nafisa Rizvi Khan, taking the name Jiah Khan, got her first break in her late teens, and soon after starred opposite Amitabh Bachchan in Nishabd. A harrowing three-part drama on BBC TV, Death in Bollywood, ponders whether her death in 2013 was suicide or murder. Rabiya blamed Jiah’s boyfriend, Sooraj Pancholi: “My daughter has been killed — my first suspect has been Sooraj Pancholi.” Sooraj insisted he was innocent, revealing that Jiah had told him she had been raped in London when she was a teenager. Paul Cheston, Evening Standard’s court reporter, confirmed that the case came to the Old Bailey, where her alleged assailant, “the son of a very, very wealthy business mogul”, was acquitted after the defence produced letters written by Nafisa, indicating “there was a relationship” between the couple.The programme showed what appeared to be a newspaper report: “Soon afterwards, she slashed her wrists. She attempted suicide again by taking pills, and had to be taken to hospital to be resuscitated.” What the documentary did establish is that British Indian parents should discourage children, especially girls as vulnerable as Jiah who are not backed by dynasty heavyweights, from taking risks in Bollywood.Footnote Even Churchill College, Cambridge, which is named after Britain’s great wartime prime minister, has launched a “year-long programme... to engage with the facts surrounding Sir Winston Churchill’s words, views and actions relating to empire and race”. Many British people fear his reputation is being shredded by his academic enemies. On February 11, there is an invitation to “[j]oin Professor Priya Gopal in discussion with Professor Kehinde Andrews, Dr Madhusree Mukerjee and Dr Onyeka Nubia”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
23-01-2021||Opinion||Resistance map||As the last year winded towards its end, two sets of events defined the state of the country. One was the series of attacks on mosques in Madhya Pradesh, where Hindutva mobs set out to terrorize Muslim communities encouraged by a tame police force. The second was the ‘love jihad’ law passed by the Uttar Pradesh government that was followed by scores of arrests of young Muslim men on flimsy charges. At their base, both are products of the pervasive Islamophobia that has reached epidemic proportions in our country. The reason the Bharatiya Janata Party finds it politically beneficial to ramp up its anti-Muslim campaign and Opposition parties are meek to challenge it is that Islamophobia has gained popular acceptability. The constant drib of Islamophobia injected in our societal bloodstream since, at least, the Ramjanmabhoomi movement has now become an ever-accelerating spurt, spread by a formidable apparatus composed of the dominant political party, the mainstream media, social media, and millions of sangh parivar karyakartas. To counter it, the moment requires us to go beyond op-eds and social media posts and build an anti-Islamophobic movement. In the absence of any serious countervailing force to check it, rising Islamophobia will not only lead to the further brutalization of Muslim citizens but also serve as the fuel to eat away at the remains of our democratic freedoms. Yet, unlike an anti-caste movement, we have never had an anti-Islamophobic movement. The Ambedkarite movement has transformed our political culture over many decades to the extent that every political party is pushed to swear by Ambedkar and take rhetorical positions against the oppression of Dalits. But there has never been a similar programme to reverse anti-Muslim prejudice, with its own tools, vocabulary and iconography. This partly explains why even the anti-CAA movement, although it did take some hesitant steps to address Islamophobia, often fell back on Ambedkarite and nationalist symbols — with resistance articulated through cries of ‘Jai Bhim’ and the ubiquitous portraits of Ambedkar on the one hand and the national flag and the Constitution on the other. Even the concept of Islamophobia has rarely made an appearance in our public discourse, couched under the broader rubric of communalism. The stated answer to communalism has historically been a staid secularism, guarding the encroachment of strident religion into the public sphere, while largely leaving society alone to its prejudices. To the extent society is addressed, it is in the form of glib bromides about being ‘Indian first’ and Indians being ‘brothers and sisters’. This passive, anodyne, largely elitist concern for secularism has been shown to be impotent to halt the steady march of Hindutva and anti-Muslim prejudice. In the same way an orientation of caste agnosticism can never be the answer to casteism, which requires an active stance of anti-casteism, an inert secularism cannot be an answer to the all-pervasive Islamophobia. Hence, an anti-Islamophobic movement becomes necessary. What will such an anti-Islamophobic movement look like? For one, the article calls for a movement more of the civil society than of political parties. Opposition political parties will always be constrained by the logic of votes until anti-Muslim prejudice starts to wane in society. Fundamentally, Islamophobia is based on a bundle of stereotypes and prejudices against Muslims that have established deep roots in our culture. To reverse this, one would require concerted participation of prominent members of the Hindu civil society that shapes culture — journalists, academics, lawyers, writers, intellectuals, and artists. There are six steps secular civil society actors can take to build the foundation of an anti-Islamophobic movement. First, recognize the extent of India’s Islamophobia problem, its deep roots, and discard the myth of a uniquely tolerant Hinduism. In her book, My Son’s Inheritance: A Secret History of Blood Justice and Lynchings in India, the historian, Aparna Vaidik, argues that many Indians (including liberals) are indifferent to Hindutva violence against Muslims and Dalits because their privilege prevents them from seeing it. “This violence is invisibilised because it comes secretly embedded in our myths, folklore, poetry, literature, and language. Moreover, what keeps us from seeing the violence, especially caste violence and the abuse of minorities, is our privilege,” Vaidik pointed in a recent interview. In place of the narrative of minority appeasement, which even many secular intellectuals have lent credibility to, civil society actors need to bring ‘Hindu privilege’ and the issue of intolerance in the Hindu community to the front and centre of the public discourse along with a belated recognition that Hindutva is not a fringe movement and that it is now the mainstream Hindu political philosophy. Second, since Islamophobia is a problem of image, its antidote lies in Muslim visibility. In order to present a real image of Muslims, the country requires more Muslims in leadership positions in civil society organizations. In academia, media, NGOs, publishing, art houses, there needs to be an active effort, including affirmative action, to diversify these spaces by including more Muslims. In place of words eulogizing secular India, there needs to be concrete actions to ensure that Muslims get a seat at these tables proportionate to their numbers and have a voice in how they are run. A preference can be given to backward class and caste Muslims to ensure that these benefits are not monopolized by elite Muslims. Third, the representation of Muslims in art needs to undergo a fundamental transformation. Movies and literature need to junk hackneyed tropes like the ‘good Muslim/bad Muslim’, ‘nationalist/traitor Muslim’, ‘skullcap wearing Muslim fundamentalist/terrorist’. These tropes serve to underscore the insidious tension between the Indian nation and Muslim identity. Along with it, the tokenistic and stereotypical portrayal of the ‘Muslim shayar’, the ‘hot-headed Muslim friend’ and the ‘Muslim criminal’ need to be replaced by a realistic portrayal of ordinary Muslims. In the America of the 1990s, particularly with films of black directors such as Spike Lee, a realistic picture of the Black experience was provided to a mainstream audience of millions of Americans who had, heretofore, only seen them through the prism of crime, drugs and violence. Similarly, literature around the everyday experiences and challenges of Indian Muslims needs to be encouraged and translated into local languages. If Premchand’s “Idgah” is all that most Hindi-speaking Indians are acquainted with in terms of Muslim characters, it’s a problem. Fourth, the much-diminished liberal end of journalism needs to adopt an anti-Islamophobic stance in presenting news of crimes against Muslims. In the case of ‘love jihad’, the media-fuelled the myth by not explicitly presenting it as a concoction of the right-wing. In beef-lynchings, even the supposedly liberal media harp on the alleged crime of Muslims — whether or not they ate/transported beef, rather than presenting it as an unequivocally shameful act of terror. Fifth, secular Hindus must not merely proclaim the virtues of secularism in their echo chambers; they can start working on their families, and then maybe their neighbourhoods. Hindutva is not a Hindu-Muslim problem; it is a Hindu problem that needs to be fought in Hindu spaces. Starting points can be the family and neighbourhood WhatsApp groups that are rife with Islamophobia. Even decent people baulk at contesting Islamophobic messages on message groups to avoid ‘pointless’ confrontations. One of the reasons Islamophobic prejudice has skyrocketed in the public sphere is because it has broken free of the shame associated with it. This shame can be reconstructed, one courageous intervention — digital or face-to-face — at a time. Sixth, a new Muslim intelligentsia must emerge, and must be encouraged to emerge, which can define the vocabulary and iconography of resistance to Islamophobia. We saw the seeds of this younger, more assertive, intelligentsia during the anti-CAA movement where young students and activists faced down the apparatus of State repression to organize an unprecedented nation-wide movement. Now, many of these students and activists find themselves in jail. We don’t find civil society clamouring for their release in the way it has got behind the ‘safer’ movement of farmers. If we are serious about fighting Islamophobia, the first order of action would be to tirelessly work for their release. The reversal of Islamophobia is not just in the interest of Muslims; it is in the interest of all Hindus who are invested in the democratic freedoms of this country. However, merely participating in conclaves about secularism in elite spaces and harkening back to an imagined secular India won’t reverse Islamophobia. It would require concrete actions. The aforementioned steps can be a start. The author is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-84
