24-01-2021||Opinion||Going bananas over fruit||Harry Houdini is no longer the unparalleled master of the vanishing trick. The Bharatiya Janata Party in Gujarat believes that it has pulled off a Houdini. The chief minister, Vijay Rupani, has renamed the dragon fruit as ‘Kamalam’, in the hope that this sleight of hand would purge this fruit of its symbolic connection with China — the fire-breathing mythical creature has had, in the public eye, the ‘Made in China’ tag embossed on it for ages. The disdain of Mr Rupani’s party for history is well-documented. There is now evidence that the BJP scoffs at geography too. The dragon fruit originated in Mexico, not China; the alteration of geographical borders by China could not be prevented under the BJP’s watch either. The failure, so far, to re-establish the status quo has forced the BJP — none should doubt its muscle-flexing or patriotism — to do the next best thing: indulge in futile, comical efforts to erase Chinese imprints, real or imagined, from India. Having run out of Chinese apps to ban, the party has now taken upon itself the formidable task of purifying the world of fruit. The party must march on undeterred, ridding other species of the purported Chinese signature. Why not rechristen the dragonfly next? Bengal, which is in the BJP’s political radar, could well figure in the scheme of things. Would Calcutta’s Chinatown be renamed Kamalnagar in the future? The belief in the power of new names to obfuscate inconvenient historical facts or narratives is neither novel nor new: it is a shared political trait. In recent times, the BJP has gone about renaming Allahabad to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai Junction to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Junction. In this, the BJP may have simply taken a leaf out of its political adversaries. The Congress changed Connaught Circus to Rajiv Chowk; among other renaming ceremonies that Bengal witnessed during the Left Front’s reign, Harrington Street in Calcutta, where the American embassy is situated, underwent a rather symbolic transformation into Ho Chi Minh Sarani. Yet, history is a resilient creature and the mere change of name is not enough to erase symbiotic connections that have been nourished over centuries. The dragon and the elephant, in spite of epochs of bitterness, share such bonds. Would New India agree to give up its beloved cup of chai, China’s most enduring gift to the world? Getting the Bengali to throw away a plate of chow mein could prove to be equally challenging for the BJP. Instead of trying to rewrite history, there is a case for greater investment — both in terms of scholarship and diplomacy — in old connections that are the embodiment of shared histories. The BJP is desperately trying to prove that it is a disciple of Rabindranath Tagore. This great man had the vision to recognize the importance of fraternity that transcends political and geographical boundaries. Cheena Bhavana at Visva-Bharati is a testament to the need of maintaining the intercourse of culture and friendship especially during times of strife. The fraternity that is the outcome of such a syncretic vision could go a long way in keeping the dragon away from the door.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||How Nitish Kumar won over Sikhs and Delhi cut Yogi to size||It was the 354th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th and last guru of the Sikhs, and the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, went to offer prayers at his birthplace, Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib, popularly known as Patna Sahib. The pilgrims present there from different parts of the country and abroad were happy to see him as a devotee, and they expressed it with chants of “Jo bole so nihal...” Kumar, on his part, did his best to abide by the customs and partook of food at the langar (community dining) at the gurudwara. After he left, several senior Sikh leaders from Delhi and Punjab asserted that Bihar’s chief minister has become the cynosure of the eyes of all Sikh people across the globe by the way he fabulously organized the 350th birth anniversary of the guru in 2017. One of the religious leaders went a step further to say that the event had made Kumar more popular than the prime minister, Narendra Modi, among Sikhs. “If he becomes the prime-ministerial candidate and contests the Lok Sabha elections from anywhere in Punjab, he will win hands down. He must give it a thought,” the Sikh leader confided, as others nodded in unison. Of course, good deeds last long. The steady rise of the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, seems to have generated anxiety in a section of the current regime. They fear that the saffron-robed monk could emerge as the top choice to succeed Narendra Modi. In the Hindutva brigade, he is already a favourite. In election-bound states, Adityanath is the most sought-after campaigner, drawing large crowds. Recently, he even executed a law against inter-religious marriages, known popularly as the ‘love jihad’ law, that many other states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party are implementing. But the confirmation by the Central Bureau of Investigation of the gang rape and murder of the Hathras victim has come as a big setback for the government, as the state police had claimed that no rape had taken place. In the power corridors of Delhi, the CBI’s probe report has been seen as a politically-loaded move to cut Adityanath to size. Now it is no secret under whose control the premier investigating agency functions. How difficult is it to reform the Bihar police? The chief minister, Nitish Kumar, has learnt it the hard way. With the state slipping down the dark alleys of crime and the police failing miserably in checking it, mediapersons reportedly found the men in khaki, including the director general of police, SK Singhal, avoiding them by not even taking their phone calls. They complained about it to Kumar, who promptly spoke to Singhal and asked him to respond to their calls. Soon, the government also issued a notification giving out the landline and mobile numbers on which the DGP could be contacted. But what happened next came as a shock. Those who called the mobile number reportedly found out that a stenographer was receiving the calls and he would neither give the message to the police chief nor would there be any call back. Some of the callers gave the stenographer a piece of their mind about how the DGP was a public servant and not a feudal lord in some medieval state. A few people also apprised the chief minister of the situation, but nothing changed. A top politician pointed out, if the chief minister cannot reform the DGP, how could he be expected to improve the law-and-order situation in the state? Meanwhile, Singhal got confirmed for a two-year stint as the DGP after receiving the nod from the Union Public Service Commission. But the state continues to earn infamy over increasing crime and brazen criminals. The chief minister of Chhattisgarh, Bhupesh Baghel, did make an impression during his first visit to Assam as one of the senior observers tasked by the Congress leadership to manage and coordinate the state assembly elections to be held in April-May. The arrival of the man who had delivered Chhattisgarh to the Congress in 2018 saw the announcement of the much-awaited grand alliance of six parties, including the All India United Democratic Front, against the ruling BJP. But party insiders were most impressed by his frontal attack on the ruling dispensation, something they felt was necessary for the challenging electoral battle ahead. In his short but pointed speeches, one of which was made during the announcement of the grand alliance, he tried to turn the tables on the BJP’s ‘what-did-the-Congress-do-in-60-years’ narrative by reportedly asserting that whatever the BJP-led Centre is ‘selling’ today, from airports to railway stations, was built during the Congress regime, not by the relatives of the BJP leaders. Baghel also marketed the Chhattisgarh model of development, claiming that it was better than the Gujarat model promoted by the BJP. Baghel has made a good start, senior Congressmen said, but impressing the electorate, keeping the faction-ridden state unit together and coming up with a solid narrative to counter the BJP will surely be a different ball game. Dravidian politics has always had an impact in Karnataka and not just because of shared borders, culture and cuisine. Dravidian political parties have often tested waters in Karnataka which has a significant Tamil-speaking population. Now that VK Sasikala, a close associate of former chief minister, J Jayalalithaa, is ready to walk out of Bangalore jail after her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets case, even commoners in the BJP-ruled Karnataka are closely watching her move. While she cannot contest in elections for six years, she would certainly play a vital role with her breakaway Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam. With Rajinikanth dropping his political entry, the BJP is reportedly trying to forge an alliance with her party to lure her supporters in Karnataka. The chief minister of Karnataka, BS Yediyurappa, and the Union home minister, Amit Shah, were found to admire one another during the latter’s recent visit to the state. The Lingayat strongman likened Shah to no less a person than Vallabhbhai Patel. Shah returned the compliment by affirming Yediyurappa’s leadership. Patting each other’s backs has had an immediate effect in silencing those trying to replace the septuagenarian with a Hindutva hard-liner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||All you who bleed tonight||We await your return. Bleeding, or having bled to degrees that there is no more blood to bleed any more. That’s quite all right. They also serve who can no longer serve. We have our ways, we can infuse purpose into those you believe have lost purpose. Trust us. We will find uses. We have become good at it. Didn’t you hear? You thought you’d been rendered worthless? Ungainly acrid fuming piles that nobody could make any sense of anymore or even wished to? A mangled mass of soot and grease that required removal from the scene so life as it was before could resume? No. How could we let that happen to this thing that we adorn with words like ultimate and supreme and such other superlatives, how could we permit it to pass without impact and import. We won big on you. Consider yourselves the receptacles of limitless gratitude, we shall put it all there, in those boxes, and around them. And then we shall conduct them with all the fanfare that we feel we owe you. Have no worries, you had your uses. Come to think of it, you could not have been more useful. What were you there for, after all, hain? You signed up for this. We sent you away for this. We wrote lyrics for this. We set those lyrics to rending tunes for this. We commissioned nightingales to sing along those tunes for this. We learnt how to cry to that song and to the lyrics and the tunes they were set to for this. Just for this. You did well. So well. You have all of those things. But this is not the end of it. There is more. Do not lose heart. Oh, solemn apologies, not heart, oh no, that is already lost, lost in that mangle. Spirit? Right. Spirit is the word. That which is contained in the soul, which in turn is contained in the Message. The Message which tells us the things that should be foremost with you, wherever you are, if you still are. But you must be. Or so the Message says, it is all there in the Jeeta. You cannot be destroyed, you are eternal. The same cannot be said about what became mangles, but that too the Message tells us. It is of no use, what becomes a mangle. Bother not. Do what needs to be done, worry not about what will come of it. What will come of it, let me worry about. Do your duty, become mangles. The consequences are not for you to worry about. They will be taken care of. There will be rewards, we are here to put them on the mantel. We won big. You see? You did what you had to, that is what matters. This is, oh you, your part on the eternal stage. There is theatre and there are theatres. And there lie the differences. There lie too some among us, between our theatres and your theatre. Your uniforms do not sweat. Our uniforms are not dry. And let me tell you why. Tear a falcon’s wings apart and stitch them to your flanks; flap them all you can, and see if you can fly.Theatres. Theatre. There’s a difference. There are many differences, more than merely one. Our theatres, they aren’t there for the show. No lights. No intervals. No audience. No applause. Only curtains. And those curtains are so wet, they come to fall to no plot, they just fall, as is where is; our curtains are wet, our curtains are heavy, often so heavy they fall under their own weight, and they fall all the time, around us, with us, and once they have fallen, we are no longer there to tell it’s curtains. It is you, usually, who take over. It is you who begin to stage the drama, I become a prop, a thing of the purposes of your stage. We sweated. We bled. Our uniforms are wet. And our tears have run dry. You stand on your stage, crying; that theatre is yours. The colours and stripes I wore You stain ’em with your sordid lie Who they blew, who they tore Currency, no more, for you to buy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||Dear Siraj...||The anatomy of abuse is bewilderingly simple and the same, on field and off it. It all boils down to a deep suspicion of any kind of difference, which inevitably erupts when The Different threatens the supremacy of The (Perceived) Regular. The first recorded cricket match in Australia was possibly played in Adelaide in 1854. Aborigines of the Poonindie mission vs Students of the Collegiate School of St. Peter. Poonindie is a small township in south Australia. In the aboriginal settlement at Coranderrk, northeast of Melbourne, they played cricket. In the 1870s, when British naturalist H.N. Moseley paid a visit, he remarked that the aboriginals were “incorrigibly lazy” but he said of the “cricket party” --- "The men were all dressed as Europeans: they knew all about Mr W.G. Grace and the All-England Eleven.” And in the paper Racism and Sport in Australia, Colin Tatz writes that the players of New Norcia Mission in Western Australia were nicknamed “the Invincibles” though coached only by a local grazier. Unlike Poonindie, Coranderrk, New Norcia Mission, merchant Daniel Matthews, who managed the Cummeragunja reserve on the Victorian border, did not encourage the aboriginals there to play cricket. His biographer wrote he was aware that prowess in the sport was turning out to be their passport to the white man’s world, “even to the white man’s respect and friendship” and he couldn’t have that happen. In 1865, Harry Bullocky and Johnny Cuzens became the first aboriginals to play inter-colonial cricket, notes Jon Gemmell in his paper All White Mate? Cricket and Race in Oz.  They had represented Victoria against Tasmania. Aboriginal players were also the first Australians to tour England in 1868. One of them, all-rounder Johnny Mullagh, was known as the “black W.G. of the team”. He played over 40 matches in England. The aboriginal cricketers of Deebing Creek Reserve won a major trophy in 1895 and then played the National Cricket Union in Brisbane. This is how achievements of aboriginal cricketers were reported in the press. The South Australian Register in 1854: “Charlie and the two Sams (aboriginal cricketers) are not ignorant of the usages of society: they handled their knives, their forks and their spoons in a way which would do no discredit to men of a superior race!” The Australasian wrote in 1866: “It has been proved that the black fellow has an extraordinary readiness for picking up knowledge of the game, however deficient he may be in other respects.” And when Eddie Gilbert was selected for Queensland, the Brisbane Daily Mail wrote that he may be a black man, but he was different from the rest. Historians note that in a match between the Ginninderra Station and the Duntroon Station in 1861, the Duntroon captain objected to aboriginal player Bobby Hamilton opening the batting with white man William Davis. And when the great Mullagh travelled with the Harrow team to Apsley, the captain suggested that he eat in the kitchen instead of the dining room. Fast bowler Gilbert faced so much racism on field that Gemmell says this isolation affected his game --- “he bowled at the stumps because so many catches were dropped”. One November in 1931, in Gabba, Don Bradman faced five deliveries from Gilbert. Bradman was with the New South Wales team and Gilbert with Queensland. On the fifth delivery Bradman got out. In his 1991 PhD thesis, Thom Blake wrote, “Probably no single ball bowled in the history of cricket has had as important socio-cultural ramifications.” Dear Siraj, it has always been about black and white, but never quite black and white. Be well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
24-01-2021||Opinion||The inner eye||His wife heavily gravid and going to deliver any moment, barrister M.K. Gandhi picked up pen and paper on May 21, 1900, in Durban, Natal, South Africa for ‘public work’. This time it was to draft and send a felicitatory cable to Queen Victoria (1819-1901) on the monarch’s 81st birthday. Herself a mother of nine and sceptical of husbands’ concern for wives, she might well have addressed to the thirty-one-year-old the remark famously (if without authentication) ascribed to her: “We are not amused.” And added the other comment of hers: “Being pregnant is an occupational hazard of being a wife.” Already a celebrity in that British colony as an advocate for the rights of Indian South Africans, with no distinction being allowed between them and any Briton there, Gandhi’s sending that message was about good politics. But he being the man that he was, it was also, essentially, his own style. The writing of this message done, he then wrote to the Natal government to forward it to London, not forgetting to do another thing typical of him. He remitted Pound 1 to the authorities towards transmission charges. In less than a year, Victoria was to make him put pen to paper again. When news came on January 22, 1901 of the monarch’s death, British Indians in Natal sent a cable to the royal family “... bewailing the Empire’s loss in the death of the greatest and most loved sovereign on earth.” This was, it need hardly be explained, Gandhi writing. And it was also to lead to Gandhi doing what he was to become known for: hitting the street. “On the weekend following,” he records, “a great procession was taken out in Durban from West Street to her statue and a wreath placed there, M.H. Nazar and I carrying the wreath on our shoulders.” Going further, some four weeks later, in March, he had an address on the reign of Queen Victoria delivered to Indian children in the Town Hall, Durban, and a memento distributed to each of them. This comprised a photograph of the late Queen and an extract from her Proclamation to the people of India of 1858 at the top, six dates in her life from her association with India at the bottom, a map of India (1901) showing it as a British possession and her remark, “I will be good,” when she was informed at the age of twelve that she was the future Queen of England. His equation with the raj was going to have a complete metamorphosis. But the respect in which he held Victoria was not going to change. He was to continue to not only hold her in esteem, but publicly state that position on more than one occasion, perhaps most famously at the National Language Conference held in Calcutta on December 30, 1917. Lokamanya Tilak, presiding, spoke in English. When his turn came, Gandhi said (speaking in his own not very practiced Hindi): “It would be a great advantage if Lokamanya Tilak would speak in Hindi… Even Queen Victoria learnt Hindi.” On June 27, 1947, he said, “If an English girl of seventeen could become the British Queen and later even Empress of India there is no reason why a Bhangi girl of robust love of her people and of unimpeachable integrity of character should not become the first President of the Indian Republic.” One hundred and twenty years after her death, it is worth reflecting on the respect in which the raj’s future and most formidable adversary held its most celebrated monarch. Three reflections emerge, on the roots of this respect and their relevance today: first, a Head of State is part of its architecture but also above it, levitating, almost, in a space that exculpates her or him from its actions’ minutiae. A ‘robust love of the people’ and ‘unimpeachable integrity’ make the occupier of that office the nation’s conscience. Not a carping, nagging trouble-maker, but an honest counsellor, unafraid because unimpeachable as to motives and means. Queen Victoria respected the prime minister’s powers and her own constitutional position as explained by Walter Bagehot. But she never doubted what she so uniquely enjoyed: influence. In a letter to Lord Salisbury dated May 27, 1898, she wrote: “The future Viceroy [of India] must… not be guided by the snobbish and vulgar, over-bearing and offensive behaviour of our Civil and Political Agents… not trying to trample on the people and continuously reminding them and making them feel they are a conquered people.” Not trying to trample on the people is not policy. It is not a directive. But it is a nostrum and one that, coming from the monarch, cannot but inform the State’s attitude to the people. And who are those? Not the ruling race, not the demographically or politically powerful but, in a country like India, all of them as a peoplehood. Equality and secularism are about letting no community feel it is a subject denomination. Second, Victoria’s statue on West Street, Durban and her statues in Bengaluru, Chennai and Calcutta remind us, timeously (to use a South African phrase), of her respect for language and cultural difference. The handsome one in Bengaluru’s Cubbon Park, sculpted by Thomas Brock, bears inscriptions that date back to its installation at the hands of the visiting Prince of Wales — the future George V — in 1906. They are in four languages — English, Kannada, Tamil and Urdu. The raj in its imperial and colonial astuteness and correctness knew the need for balance among the different language communities in its territories. And, of course, of Victoria’s desire to ‘not trample’. Gandhi perhaps had an exaggerated notion of Victoria’s learning of Hindi (Hindustani, more accurately) but he was exactly right about the reasons for her wanting to do so. She wanted to be on a proximate, if not the same, wavelength as her Indian subjects. At least in her own mind. Third, the statues stand, in their own quaint way, for what may be called Victoria’s federating spirit. What? An unapologetic royal standing for federalism? Strange as that may sound, it is so. She is unlikely to have studied the evolution of federal theories, or derived conceptual lessons from the American Civil War. And her 63-year-long reign (1837-1901) coincided with some of the raj’s most egregious acts against the people and the institutions of India, notably, during the governor generalship of Lord Dalhousie when princely state after princely state was outrageously annexed to British India and, in an act that has etched itself into India’s collective memory, the Koh-i-noor, a palladium of Indian sovereign pride, was snatched from its lodgement in the Punjab and presented to the Queen as a token of India’s submission to the raj. And, yet, there was in her instincts, if not quite a touch of Asokan remorse, still, a conscience about what Britain had done in India as an imperial and colonizing power, especially post-1857. That — a conscience about deeds done that should not have been done by its political class — is silent in India today. It is asleep. It snores. We do not need lessons in political morality from a regime that took control of India without any justification, ruled over it without any compunction, and left it only when continuance had become untenable. But behind that truth the example of a Queen who had an active inner monitor with which ‘to encourage and to warn’ her government and guide her people is of value today. And this, because that monitor needs to be applied not just to the government of the day but to something even more trampling of peoples’ feelings — the ‘vulgar, overbearing and offensive’ majoritarianism that has spread among us as a society.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
