25-01-2021||Opinion||On target: scope of money bills||A judgment may have a history that is not easy to disentangle. Not every Indian citizen was enthusiastic about the Aadhaar project when it was instituted. The scheme was legalized through a money bill in Parliament, presumably because the Lok Sabha can pass a money bill even if the Rajya Sabha disagrees with it. The definition and scope of a money bill are detailed in the provisions under Article 110 of the Constitution, and questions were raised regarding the Union government’s use of a money bill in this instance. In 2018, however, the Supreme Court in a majority judgment upheld the constitutionality of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 although it quashed provisions that made the Aadhaar link mandatory for bank accounts, school admissions and mobile phone connections. The dissenting voice in the 2018 five-judge bench was that of the judge, D.Y. Chandrachud, who had reportedly called the passage of the Aadhaar law in a money bill a fraud on the Constitution and liable to be struck down. But in another majority judgment this month, a five-judge bench dismissed a batch of seven review petitions challenging the 2018 judgment, not having found in them grounds for review. Again, the dissenting statement came from Mr Chandrachud, who reportedly felt that a larger bench was needed to hear the petitions, since the verdict being challenged came from a five-judge bench too. Mr Chandrachud said that the review petitions were pending when a case that raised similar questions regarding the Finance Act, 2017 — relating to tribunals — being passed as a money bill was heard. It was referred to a larger bench. The petitions, therefore, should have been kept pending till the larger bench had decided on the other case for, presumably, inconsistency in judgments regarding the scope of money bills would have serious consequences “not just for judicial discipline, but also for the ends of justice”. For the layperson, these ends would mean consistency: without that nothing can be fair or just. So the confusions around the last Lok Sabha’s use of the constitutional provision of the money bill that the Supreme Court in its wisdom has upheld in two majority judgments must be cleared up by constitutional experts for the sake of the government’s credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Great shame: Jai Shri Ram at Netaji's birth anniversary ||Sir — It is shameful that on the occasion of the 125th birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose, the chief minister of his home state was insulted by her own people at a programme organized by the Centre. First, it was not a political rally, but an official event organized by the government. Second, it was the birth anniversary of Bose, not a religious occasion. So the only motives to utter “Jai Shri Ram” could be to provoke the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, and to stop her from speaking. In doing so, the people also insulted Bose. It is disgraceful. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — The visit of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to West Bengal on the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose is more a political stunt than paying respects to the freedom fighter. Modi was joined by the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, and the state governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar. The prime minister was greeted with chants of “Jai Shri Ram” instead of Bose’s famous slogan, “Jai Hind”. But in the case of Banerjee, the religious chant was uttered with the intention of not allowing her to speak. Banerjee rightly stood up for the state and reminded the audience that one should not insult one’s guests. She reminded the Modi government of a basic lesson in civility that most Indians are brought up with: “Atithi devo bhava”. People expected the prime minister to condemn the boorish behaviour of his supporters or at least apologize to Banerjee. But to our utter disappointment nothing of the kind happened. Even the governor, who makes a big hue and cry about propriety in the way dignitaries are treated, did not say a word. Instead, he encouraged the crowd when they greeted him with “Bharat mata ki jai”. In his speech, the prime minister gave the impression that Bose would have been proud of India’s achievements today. But Bose would have been disgusted with today’s India where communal hatred is rife and farmers are dying on the streets. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The commemoration of the 125th birth anniversary of our country’s pride, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, was celebrated magnificently in most places except at the Victoria Memorial Hall, where the rowdy crowd misbehaved with the chief minister of the state. This is an insult not just of Mamata Banerjee, but also of Bose. As a result of this uncouth behaviour, Banerjee did not deliver her speech. Bose would have been embarrassed and utterly ashamed about being associated with such an event. The slogan, “Jai Shri Ram”, is a religious one connected with the majority community; it should not be used to gain political mileage. The Centre should have ensured that such an incident did not take place at an event organized by it. Banerjee did the right thing by not speaking. If we want to see our nation attain the heights of success and glory, we should rise above the narrow divisions of caste, religion, race and language so that we, as one nation, can feel proud of ourselves. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Sir — The stoic silence of the prime minister when a section of the audience raised slogans of “Jai Shri Ram” at the Victoria Memorial Hall to stop the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, from speaking has left us astonished. How did the prime minister or the cultural ministry allow such a thing to happen? The incident will no doubt mar the image of the Bharatiya Janata Party and be an eye opener for the people of Bengal, who will think twice before bringing such a party to power in the state. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — Even supporters of the BJP in Bengal are ashamed of the incident at Victoria Memorial Hall. But I am glad it happened. It is a glaring example of the difference in culture that Mamata Banerjee has spoken about time and again. In spite of her differences with the government, Banerjee attended the event to respect an invitation issued to her on behalf of her prime minister. The way she was treated is evidence of the sorry culture of hooliganism patronized by the BJP. Moreover, the governor of the state — usually a stickler for treating holders of high office with great respect — stayed mum when the chief minister of his state was insulted. This proves his partisan nature. The prime minister, who never misses an opportunity to brag about ‘Bharatiya sanskriti’ sat by and watched one of his esteemed guests, a people’s representative, being insulted. Is this what Bharatiya sanskriti has taught him? Arindam Bhaduri,Calcutta  Spot the error Sir — The owners of an upscale eatery in Pakistan have had to apologize for a video which shows them mocking their manager for poor English. This is a trait shared by many a people across the border in India too. Those who are privileged enough to have received English education in a country where there is widespread illiteracy, seem to enjoy mocking wrong spellings or grammatical errors on posters, hoardings, and so on. People also upload photographs of such slips on social media. One wonders how these same people would feel if asked to string together two correct sentences in any vernacular language. Jharna Sanyal,Bhagalpur, Bihar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Untrustworthy: Farmers and the Modi govt||It is in the nature of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party to blame others for its own bunglings. Typically, the Union agriculture minister, Narendra Singh Tomar, has passed the buck on to an “external force” that has apparently prevented the resolution of the ongoing agitation by farmers against three contentious legislations. Mr Tomar’s search for a scapegoat is understandable: the farmers are on record saying that the yawning trust deficit between Narendra Modi’s government and the agitators is the principal reason behind the continuity of the protests. It is this inability to believe in an elected government that has prevented the farmer unions from even accepting the Centre’s offer of keeping the laws in abeyance for a certain amount of time. This assurance — the “best offer” the government could come up with — has also led to speculation whether a constitutional provision exists that empowers a government to keep its own laws in abeyance. The real issue, however, is the trust gap, and the Centre has itself to blame for it. Neither Mr Modi nor his government felt the need to adopt a consultative mechanism to pass these legislations in the name of reform. The ordinance route was preferred and, then, the laws were rushed through in Parliament by a voice vote ignoring legitimate demands to send them to a Select Committee. This show of force and the dismissal of reservations eroded the trust for the powers that be. The vilification of protesting farmers by a sustained campaign aided and abetted by the government and its favourite ally — large segments of a passive media — has vitiated the atmosphere further. Meaningful negotiation has been a casualty in the process. It is a democratic government’s responsibility to attempt to win back the trust it has lost. Superficial gestures — visits to gurudwaras by the prime minister — are unlikely to fetch dividends in this respect, especially since Mr Modi has, so far, shown no urgency to be involved in the lengthy negotiations with the aggrieved constituency. Another, equally relevant, aspect of the crisis has commanded minimal attention. This concerns the hubris that accompanies a massive political mandate. There is no doubting the fact that India returned Mr Modi to power willingly. The robustness of that mandate seems to have made him impervious to the fact that a democratic government remains accountable to each segment of the population, big or small. The indifference to the anxieties and sufferings — more than 140 farmers have died in the course of these protests — can prove to be costly in the long run.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Stroke of luck: Biden's race to presidency||Joe Biden is thrice-blessed. Not only did he win the Democratic nomination and then the presidential election, but as a result of the events of January 6, he has taken office when the Republican Opposition is in utter disarray and likely to stay that way for a long time. None of that was foreordained, or even very likely. “Just days ago the press and the pundits had declared this candidacy dead,” Biden marvelled about a year ago after winning the South Carolina primary election by a landslide. It had been dead, too, until African-American voters in South Carolina gave him their overwhelming support. It was the first primary he had won, and it put him back in the race. Three days later Biden won 10 out of 14 states on Super Tuesday and practically wrapped the nomination up. But if South Carolina had scheduled its primary even a few days later, he would have gone into Super Tuesday as a ‘loser’, and probably been written off. So he got lucky once, but it was a bad year for a Democrat to be running for the presidency. Donald Trump was mocked and loathed by the rest of the world and by almost exactly half the US population, but Trump’s ‘base’ didn’t care and the US economy was in excellent shape. The US media were doing their best to make the presidential race look exciting, because that’s what they were going to have to talk and write about through most of 2020. But the fact is that incumbent US presidents running for re-election when the economy is good almost always win. Biden’s second stroke of luck came some 40 days before he won the South Carolina primary, when the first case of Covid-19 showed up in the United States of America. By March it was running wild, but Trump, aware that his re-election depended on a booming economy, avoided taking any public health measures that would slow it down. Trump’s refusal to back anti-Covid measures like stay-at-home orders was driven more by electoral concerns than ideology: stall the economy and he could lose the election. But, of course, mass death would also stall the economy in the end, so he couldn’t win. He ended up with a crashed economy, around 4,00,000 Covid deaths, and a lost election too. And then, incredibly, he gave Biden another gift: the assault on the Capitol by his followers around three weeks ago. Biden was facing a grim time in office, with at least 70 per cent of Republican voters and a majority of Republicans in the House of Representatives seduced by Trump’s ‘Big Lie’ that he really won the election by a landslide, and that the Democrats had somehow ‘stolen’ it. It was Adolf Hitler, not Joseph Goebbels, who gave the technique that name, but it still works. “In the big lie there is always a certain force of credibility,” Hitler wrote in Mein Kampf, “because... in the primitive simplicity of their minds [the great masses] more readily fall victims to the big lie than the small lie, since they themselves often tell small lies in little matters but would be ashamed to resort to large-scale falsehoods.” “It would never come into their heads to fabricate colossal untruths, and they would not believe that others could have the impudence to distort the truth so infamously. Even though the facts which prove this to be so may be brought clearly to their minds, they will still doubt and waver and will continue to think that there may be some other explanation.” That is what Biden faced three weeks ago: a nightmare time in office with the ‘Big Lie’ rampant and Trump its proud purveyor. And then suddenly Trump, in his manic determination to hold on to power, sent his mob off to try a foredoomed coup in the ‘Temple of Democracy’, as American commentators pompously call it. End of game. Trump is discredited even among a modest but significant proportion of his own base, and a growing number of Republican office-holders are in rebellion against the party’s subservience to the Tangerine Tyrant. Biden’s years in office will be enlivened by a vicious Republican civil war, quite likely ending in a permanent split on the American right. Which will give Lucky Joe time to do some useful stuff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
25-01-2021||Opinion||Steady course||In a previous piece in this newspaper, penned a couple of days after election night in the United States of America, I had maintained that irrespective of its outcome, India-US relations would remain on an even keel. This was due to several factors. The strong bipartisan consensus in the US on this relationship, built painstakingly by both sides over two decades, was based on shared values and converging interests. This resulted in a general continuity of policies despite changes in government. Joseph R. Biden was personally known to many of us not only as a prominent proponent of the India-US strategic partnership but also for his moderate centrist orientation and for his ability to reach across the aisle as well as buttonhole some of his own party colleagues for forging bipartisan consensus. Despite the diametrically different personalities, perspectives and styles of functioning of President Biden and his discredited predecessor, it was evident that there would be strong elements of continuity in the India-US relationship since it had remained relatively insulated from major policy reversals in the previous four years. As in the past, I am sure we will continue to work towards preserving bipartisan consensus by maintaining close ties with both parties at the federal and the state levels. Biden is aware that he will require Republican support for appropriations and legislative initiatives, given the 50-50 balance in the Senate and the wafer-thin, six-vote Democratic majority in the House. This should help him rein in the Progressive Caucus in the US Congress and reach out to moderate Republicans. Of course, while endeavouring to find common ground, both Republicans and Democrats will keep an eye not only on the next presidential elections but also on the crucial mid-term elections in 2022. Both parties recognize that whether or to what extent Trump remains relevant or not, Trumpism will survive for long. In the pursuance of the immense challenges he is faced with, Biden and his team are undoubtedly aware of the wisdom of the Shakespearean saying, “the evil men do lives after them; the good is oft interred in their bones.” He would thus have to balance the need of repudiating and reversing or reviewing some of his predecessor’s policies while continuing and building upon other policies. Biden’s goals of reuniting the nation, restoring trust in democracy and ensuring racial justice and religious harmony must be balanced with the need to address the anxieties of a large number of middle-class Americans who resent their social and economic marginalization over decades. The extent of his success could be determined on his finding the right balance and integrating these into US economic and foreign policies. Under the Trump administration, India-US defence and security cooperation had undoubtedly accelerated. Long pending “foundational” agreements were signed. India was designated as a Major Defence Partner and, subsequently, accorded the Strategic Trade Authorisation STA-1 status. These made US arms sales to India more competitive and will facilitate greater inter-operability between the armed forces. Regional cooperation was strengthened in the Indo-Pacific framework. The Quad of Australia, Japan, India and the US was resurrected. For the last two years, there were regular 2+2 meetings of foreign and defence ministers. Intelligence exchanges were raised to new levels. Earlier this month, the previous administration declassified and released the US strategy document for the Indo-Pacific. This was announced partly as a legacy document and partly as benchmarks for the Biden administration. The Indo-Pacific construct helps us to strategically leverage our unique geographical location and the overlapping interests of India and the US. It does not encompass our land boundary with China, or cover Afghanistan and our other neighbours. Its near-exclusive focus on the maritime domain in joint military exercises is another definitional constraint. Those who found invocations of democracy and human rights in the strategy document ridiculous in the light of the recent undermining of and violent assault on democracy in the US did not, however, see any contradiction in applauding the series of actions taken against China on grounds of human rights violations and the undermining of democracy in Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Taiwan. The recent US Senate confirmation hearings of the incoming administration’s principal foreign and defence policy aides attracted some attention. Since the hearings largely dealt with contentious issues, India figured in passing and in a favourite light. As in the past, all answers on the issues affecting us were minutely dissected, particularly the observations reportedly made on Pakistan-Afghanistan. Some inferences on altered policies are premature since such customary policy reviews after changes of government are yet to commence. The continuation of a tough approach to China was evident, as was the desire to refrain from escalating tensions. It remains to be seen to what extent the Biden administration will moderate the recent changes to traditional policies on Taiwan and whether it will be more open to greater coordination and cooperation with China on issues such as climate change, intellectual property rights, environment and labour standards and securing greater market access for US firms. A further hardening of the US policy on Russia, which seems to be on the cards, will pose numerous problems for us. The enhancement of security and defence cooperation in recent years was not matched by corresponding progress in India-US trade and economic cooperation. As with its other allies and close partners, Trump took several unilateral steps to pressurize India to reduce its bilateral trade surplus with the US, including in agriculture where we have more than a 2:1 trade surplus. The Biden administration will be less confrontationist and more consultative in its approach, but we should not expect any substantive change in US positions. The signing of the envisaged “mini” trade deal of around $10 billion is highly unlikely, particularly in view of our farmers’ protests and US concerns with data localization. We should start talks on India-US and India-EU FTAs, recognizing that neither may materialize in the near future. In the meantime, it may be worthwhile to review the efficacy of some of our own policies, not in terms of the US or any other partner but in terms of our own interests. These could cover the compatibility of import substitution and high and constantly changing tariff and non-tariff barriers with export promotion, innovation and global competitivity. The Biden administration’s change of direction from that of his predecessor’s unilateralism towards multilateralism has been universally acclaimed. The US has rejoined the Paris accord on climate change. For decades, climate change has been linked to national security and international trade. Covid-19 is accelerating the linkage between global pandemics and climate change. The US may pursue WTO reforms for inclusion of environmental and social security standards while upgrading trade-related IPR norms and even reviewing the continuation of common but differentiated treatment of developing countries like India. Biden has expressed interest in the US joining the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership after aligning it to some of the higher standards of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. China is reportedly among those also interested in joining the CPTPP. If this happens, India, which stayed out of the low-ambition RCEP, will be totally isolated. However, the extension of the Trade Promotion Authority beyond July this year looks unlikely. Those who rightly criticize Trump for pulling out of the TPP often choose to forget that Barack Obama had secured TPP approval in the Congress with overwhelming Republican support and amidst Democratic opposition.  The author is a former ambassador to the US||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-83
