26-01-2021||Opinion||Roller coaster: volatile stock markets||The stock markets have turned excessively volatile in the past few days. The sensex crossed a 50,000 point threshold last Thursday before tumbling by over 1,800 points in two subsequent trading sessions, raising serious questions about whether retail investors have the stomach for such a violent roller-coaster ride. They have been through this before: between mid-January and end-March last year, the market capitalization of the Bombay Stock Exchange sank by almost 30 per cent to Rs 113.48 trillion as the Narendra Modi government ordered a severe lockdown to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The markets have bounced back since — largely front-running the government’s commentary on the pace of the economic recovery — and the market capitalization of the BSE has since surged to Rs 194.35 trillion. For the first time ever, the putative value of the 4,722 companies listed on Dalal Street is almost equal to the size of the Indian economy. Earlier this month, the National Statistical Office had projected that the nominal gross domestic product would shrink by 4.2 per cent to Rs 194.82 trillion this year. What explains this sense of euphoria in a handful of company stocks when the rest of the economy remains in the doldrums? There is a strong suggestion that an asset price bubble is starting to build up in equities as the market mavens bet heavily on a strong economic recovery this year. This implies that there is a need to brace for bouts of correction as investors scoop out profits with every surge in the front-line indices. Several brokerages believe that bullish sentiment has peaked although they are still playing down the likelihood of bear market risks over the next year. Bellwether stocks of the leading companies have been rising as they start to post strong quarterly earnings but it would be facile to suggest that this is in any way indicative of the overall health of India Inc. Back in September, a panel appointed by the Reserve Bank of India had identified 26 stressed sectors in the economy with retail and wholesale trade, roads, textiles and engineering among the hardest hit. The latest financial stability report put out by the central bank suggested that gross bad loans could surge from 7.5 per cent to 13.5 per cent by September 2021. Such dire prognostications do not augur well for the trajectory of the market indices that will wobble every time bad news washes over the bourses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Important legacy: Larry King no more||Sir — The demise of Larry King — the talk-show titan known for having interviewed eminent personalities from all walks of life — marks the end of an era. King hosted CNN’s Larry King Live for 25 years and was a great listener and a fair interviewer. He was unbiased and did not take sides politically; his subjects could thus speak openly about their lives on camera. As news media become more and more politically motivated, there is much to learn from newsmakers like King, who was fair and ethical in his approach and allowed his guests to speak their minds. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta Steady decline Sir — There is no doubt that creativity is under assault in India (“Screens on fire”, Jan 22). The web series, Tandav, a political thriller with startling resemblances to recent events in the country, is the latest film in the cross hairs with several first information reports having been filed against the makers. It is unfortunate that the people involved have been forced to issue an apology and scenes have had to be snipped in order to appease a certain section of society. One of the most commonly used excuses for policing art by the Hindu-right has been that of hurt religious sentiments. This is deeply disappointing. Censorship of content on such subjective grounds is a serious offence against cinematic art. International platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney Hotstar have been able to explore uncharted territory in Indian entertainment because they have, so far, been free from governmental control and rigid censorship of content unlike films produced for theatrical release. People must understand that some of the content on these platforms is meant for an adult audience, who have the freedom to choose what they want to consume. Political leaders in New India often encourage such moral censorship against artists whose work does not fit their agenda. This can only result in an Orwellian control of thought processes. Viewers can always choose to switch off channels if they feel offended by any content in particular. The government must take care not to intervene in matters pertaining to freedom of speech and expression unless it is absolutely necessary. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Since the outbreak of Covid-19, online streaming platforms have become the primary source of entertainment for many people, leading to a massive surge in their user base. The increased use of these platforms has led the government to bring all such services under the purview of the information and broadcasting ministry. The digital media space has been mostly unregulated in India. But a certain degree of regulation is necessary, especially at a time when sensitive videos and fake news can travel far and wide quickly. One hopes the authorities will address the grievances of the consumers in a fair manner. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Party first: 'Jai Shri Ram' at Netaji event||Like the separation of the realms between the proverbial Church and the State, a clear, inviolable line should segregate the government from the party in power in a democracy. Unfortunately, Indian democracy has witnessed the convergence of this line on numerous occasions. The function hosted by the Union ministry of culture at the Victoria Memorial — the prime minister was in attendance — to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, unfortunately, did not prove to be an exception either. A section of the audience started chanting “Jai Shri Ram” — the Bharatiya Janata Party’s signature war cry — when it was the turn of the Bengal’s chief minister to speak, forcing Mamata Banerjee, an invitee, to politely remind the audience of the need to maintain decorum by recognizing the difference between a government programme and an event organized by a political party. During his address, the prime minister did not utter a word about the unacceptable behaviour of the supporters of his party. Silence need not be golden; Narendra Modi’s refusal to condemn this kind of conduct may be interpreted as tacit endorsement. Indeed, in the course of his address, Mr Modi did not hesitate to draw specious parallels between Bose — one of the tallest icons of poll-bound Bengal — and the achievements of his government, adding a distinct political flavour to an occasion that, probity demanded, remain apolitical. Of course, the ambitious BJP is not the only violator of such ethics. Ruling parties in India have always used their leverage to not only exploit public functions but also institutions and even constitutional offices for political gain. The sorry spectacle of governors chirping the tune of the government of the day is a case in point. Under the BJP’s watch, the integrity of some of democracy’s other minders — the media are an example — has been compromised, turning these institutions into cheerleaders of the party in power. The perverse compulsions of competitive politics offer an explanation of this erosion, the consequences of which can be fatal for a democracy. The resultant hegemony — political and cultural — leads to the silencing of dissenting voices that, too, are integral to the template of democracy. Intimidation and the worrying blurring of boundaries between government and party, history would show, has coincided with authoritarian regimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Climate change: from Paris to Glasgow||The Paris climate agreement completed five years recently. One can still remember Prakash Javadekar, India’s environment minister, saying, “All our demands have been met; we are going to call a press conference soon.” About half an hour after, a sulking Javadekar admitted at that press conference that India had accepted the agreement in the larger global interest despite its demands not being fully met. Javadekar’s flip-flop reflects the ‘success’ of the Paris agreement. The agreement was a first-of-its-kind legally-binding emission cut document encompassing all countries. But its decision to permit a five-year emission holiday to major countries — the emission cut began in 2020 — was criticized. Moreover, the extent of the cuts was to be voluntarily decided by the nations themselves. Five years down the line, global reports have pointed out that the world is still on course for a three-degree temperature rise by the end of this century with the industrialization era temperature as the benchmark. The Paris treaty had clearly stated that the temperature rise should be kept limited to two degrees, or even 1.5 degree if possible, if the world is to survive climatic impacts in the long term. The alarm bell has started to ring, from the Sunderbans to San Francisco. In the Sunderbans, one of the poorest regions in India, millions are at risk on account of a combination of high- intensity cyclones and a record rise in sea levels. San Francisco, home to those with arguably some of the highest salaries in the world, has more than 20,000 households and 13 miles of highway at risk of permanent inundation due to sea-level rise. Clearly the risk, albeit buffered by varying patterns of resilience, is universal. Already, Covid-19 has shown that the world can be brought to its knees by a microscopic virus: climate change can do a lot worse. The Paris agreement in its present form is not good enough to save the planet from climate change. The world needs to have an improved, pragmatic and expedited agreement to deal with the emergency called climate change. Some countries have announced deeper emission cuts, even zero-emission targets. These should become effective within another three to four decades. But we need to set targets for years, not decades. The global stocktaking of emission reduction should be preponed from 2023 to this year’s Glasgow summit. The prickly issue of historic responsibility concerning emission must be reconsidered; developed economies had forced its deletion from the Paris agreement. The need of the hour is to shift from bigger, dramatic, long-term emission reduction targets to smaller, decentralized ones; let cities and even neighbourhoods have their respective targets that can be embedded in local development planning. Apart from making emission cuts easier, such a mechanism is likely to forge collective ownership and responsibility to combat climate change in a sharp contrast to the current top-down approach. That evening in December in 2015 in Paris put the world on the right path. But the globe has been taking baby steps. It is now time to quicken the pace in Glasgow by setting aside narrow interests and geopolitical divisions so that the world can be saved from destruction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||Indian media’s inflection point||Many science historians attribute ‘what goes up must come down’ to Isaac Newton, and this must be running in the minds of the protagonists whose WhatsApp conversations got leaked recently. The conversations revealed India’s new norms in creating influence rents (as some management scholars like Gautam Ahuja and Sai Yayavaram term it in their research). It also gives you a glimpse of how government affairs in today’s India are managed by corporate professionals evoking Old India’s Niira Radia tapes. These leaks also come in 2021, just when a global data privacy policy shift of WhatsApp saw millions in India alone switch to Telegram and Signal, forcing WhatsApp to stall the shift for the time being. It also displayed that as potential ‘information autocracies’ flourish and perpetuate, boundary conditions emerge as leaks, ultimately reaffirming the Newtonian hypotheses. The leaks are not in their structural character either new or unexpected, especially to economists and political scientists who study information autocracies. Sergei Guriev and Daniel Treisman discuss them in their 2019 Journal of Economic Perspectives article citing many cross-country examples, among others, Alberto Fujimori’s imagocracy (as they called it in Peru), perpetuated through State-sponsored manipulation of compromised media using the facilities of chief operating officers (if one can call them that) like Vladimiro Montesinos of the Fujimori regime. The Wikipedia page on Montesinos talks about Vladi-Videos and reminds us how in September 2000, Peruvian television broadcasted a video of him bribing an Opposition Congressman, Alberto Kouri, to support Perú 2000, Fujimori’s party. The video caused Fujimori’s remaining support to collapse. He accepted the resignation of Montesinos. He then announced the dissolution of the National Intelligence Service in Peru and went for new elections, in which he would not run. Shortly thereafter, Montesinos sought political asylum in Panama. In the following months, some of the most infamous Vladi-Videos were released showing various amounts of bribes with varying purposes across many channels. It is unclear if India’s own Vladi-Videos moment, albeit in the era of social media, involved money or would result in repercussions. What is clear is that trust, which was at an all-time low in India preceding the pandemic, would suffer even deeper cuts. Large sections of the Indian population today feel left out, be they farmers, migrants, minorities and young students, not to mention the citizens of Kashmir. A depleting economic future reaffirmed by morbid GDP figures further darkens this situation. Amidst all this, the current government has also decided to engage in vaccine nationalism and hubris, permitting the launch of inadequately tested vaccines at the expense of its already stressed out healthcare workers. The leaks could hence be a small ripple in India’s world of blood, sweat and tears. But one thing is clear; this could be an inflection point for the compromised cohorts within the Indian media and their role in protecting the already manipulated and wilting Indian democracy, which seems to be on its way to becoming an imagocracy. Writing in 2004 in their Journal of Economic Perspectives paper, John McMillan and Pablo Zoido asked the question as to which of the democratic checks and balances — Opposition parties, the judiciary, a free press — is the most forceful? They used the Peruvian example and quantified the checks using the bribe prices. Montesinos, they found, paid a television channel owner about 100 times what he paid a judge or a politician. “By revealed preference, the strongest check on the government’s power was the news media,” concluded McMillan and Zoido. While the monetary implications from the WhatsApp leaks and other related transactions may remain unknown, these are certainly going to be a statement on India’s media ecosystem, be it television, social media or text messaging platforms. New equilibriums are expected to emerge with evolving tastes in privacy and related preferences hereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
26-01-2021||Opinion||New possibilities||History constantly forms constellations of circumstances. Within the constant of these ever-changing constellations roils the constant of human struggle, first for survival and then for that thing called happiness, which one could perhaps call enhanced survival or, to use current jargon, value-added existence. What the luckier among us almost always fail to perceive — or, if they do see it, too easily suspend the understanding of — is the fact that most humans want the best possible life for themselves and their loved ones right now and not at some speculative, deferred moment in a ‘later on’ that no one has ever seen. This is where the greed-crazed impatience of capitalism is predicated on constantly convincing the poor and underprivileged to be patient and more patient, to stick within the laws laid down for them, to play by the rules they have not made, to not revolt, not be violent, not make demands. This convincing is managed via an ever-shifting array of confidence tricks which employ everything from nationalism and religion to pseudo-scientific theory and the blinding flashes of new technologies. This much was more or less mapped out in the 19th century by Karl Marx. Among the very few major things he did not see coming was the devastating impact human technology and mass consumption would have on the very vital organs of this planet. Recently we’ve seen various efforts at changing the lenses through which we look at history. People have taken periods with which we are familiar and put different grids and narratives on them, accordioned them differently in their analyses. For example, there are articles explicating how Donald Trump is only the worst irruption so far of the unholy alliance that the Republican Party formed with right-wing Christian fundamentalists a few decades ago, with far worse still likely to come. Then there is the whole examination of how modern European and American democracies came about. The argument goes that these democracies were something that the countries of the Occident needed to create or expand in order to contain the internal reverberations of the Industrial Revolution and modern capitalism, as a domestic counter-balance to the empires they were imposing on other parts of the world. Now that manufacturing has been outsourced to other parts of the world, a domestic working class that genuinely participates in the process of democracy is an irrelevancy in America-UK-Europe; governments that protect the rights of these workers are an impediment to profit and the maintenance of control; it is now much more advantageous to hollow out democracy and the sharing of power and decision-making processes, and move to an international network of oligarchies that control things regardless of archaic national borders. The models of democracy that we’ve become used to in the last 70 or 80 years are, or were, essentially 20th-century phenomena that are now rapidly petering out. A third Rubik’s Cubing is specific to India, with writers such as Vinay Sitapati suggesting that had Godse not murdered Gandhi, we would have had a Hindutvavadi regime in power much earlier. Sitapati’s argument is that a Hindutva raj was always on the cards but the huge revulsion that people felt towards the killers of Gandhi actually gave the Congress (and the essentially elite notion of a secular nation) a much longer lease of life than could have been expected. Thinking out of the box is always useful. One may agree or disagree with the various new modellings of our recent past, and with the conjectures and speculations about the future these modellings lead to, but perhaps the thing to borrow from these is the ability to think and say things previously regarded as unthinkable or unsayable. Perhaps history will see what is going on in the United States of America as a series of low-level, criss-crossing civil wars, between Caucasians and people of colour, between coast and interior, between the urban and the rural, civil wars that last the best part of a century from, say, 1960, after which the ‘United States’ that emerge are unrecognizable as the nation that existed from 1776 for nearly 200 years. Perhaps this transformation from megalith ‘country’ to a loose north American federation will also be accompanied by the disintegration of Russia and China as we know them now, rendering the very idea of superpowers archaic. Were this to happen, it is highly unlikely that our subcontinent would continue to stay distributed under the current national dispensations. Perhaps future historians will look back and see that the formation of nations in 1947 was but a phase that followed the departure of the British from our shores, a period of pomp and mass self-delusion, complete with Republic Day parades, rampant jingoism, periodic wars and constant, fevered sabre-rattling, but one that could not outlast the tectonic pressures of history, of the grotesque ethnic, religious and political tribalisms unleashed by the competing elites who had captured control of the different countries. They may also conclude that it was the ecological disasters this politics helped create that finally wiped away our coastlines and electric-fenced borders with impartial ferocity. Furthermore, they might arrive at the reading that had even one or two of these post-colonial nations managed to give genuine power to their masses and established an equitable society, this might not have happened so easily. Obviously, looking at our past differently also enables us to see new possibilities in our future. However, examining darker new takes on our history doesn’t mean we need to paint what is yet to come with the same darkness and pessimism. National borders may well be rendered less relevant in the near future but it might not be a small cabal of virtual trillionaires that controls the lives of the humans on the planet. One can imagine perhaps a less streamlined contraption of a network, a far less oppressive, far more egalitarian jugaad that replaces the tatters of the old Westphalian model. In this time, when we are being bombarded with so much that was previously unimaginable, we could reasonably conjecture that what we are undergoing is the extremely painful birth-turbulence of the new, perhaps slightly more benign constellations that await us or maybe even ones that we can forge ourselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
