27-01-2021||Opinion||Ballot blues: voting facilities for migrants||Is the idea of equality governed by dubious variables in India? This question must be raised in view of the concerns highlighted by three former chief election commissioners with regard to providing voting facilities to migrants within India. A solution was proposed last year for overseas voters; the Election Commission said — and has reiterated since — that it is ready to provide the option of electronically transferable postal ballot voting to non-resident Indians, a move for which the government would only have to amend the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961. But the impediments that confront India’s migrant population have not elicited such concern. This is surprising, given that adult franchise is a defining principle of Indian constitutionalism; the ability to vote with ease must be extended to all citizens, including overseas and internal migrants. Yet, in the 2019 elections, a third of all eligible voters did not cast their ballots, and most of them are believed to be migrant workers. A former CEC pointed out that while overseas migrants are being allowed to vote from their countries of residence, and the Indian armed forces have the right to cast their ballots while serving away from their voting constituencies, such a facility has not been extended to internal migrants. This essentially means that the latter have to journey back to their home states to vote. A large segment of this population is underprivileged; the additional expenditure of travel during the time of the pandemic — a survey found that in 2020 stranded migrants had to pay several times more than normal fares to go back home — may discourage them from exercising their franchise. The paucity of a clear legal definition of ‘migrant worker’ also gets in the way of identifying the segment for voting facilities. To this end, data from the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 — it requires all establishments hiring inter-state migrants to be registered — could be used to create a comprehensive database as well as a legal identity. Organizing the logistics to extend voting facilities to a mobile population will have its own challenges. But this cannot be an excuse to not make voting facilities accessible to citizens — particularly because voting holds out the hope of empowerment. It is one of the few ways in which a disenfranchised population in an unequal and polarized polity like India can stake claim to the idea — and practice — of inclusion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
27-01-2021||Opinion||Unclear picture: Netaji portrait at Rashtrapati Bhavan controversy||Sir — The controversy regarding the portrait of Subhas Chandra Bose unveiled at Rashtrapati Bhavan — some argued that it does not depict the national hero but the actor, Prosenjit Chatterjee, who played Netaji in a Bengali biopic — is amusing. While the biopic maker tweeted a picture of the freedom fighter on the basis of which the portrait was made, it is not surprising that the Central government’s knowledge of Bengal’s culture is being doubted. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders regularly display their ineptitude in this regard. Rajashree Ganguly,Calcutta Ask questions Sir — In a recent ruling, the Delhi High Court sought the disclosure of interest from an applicant who had petitioned against an order of the Central Information Commission under the Right to Information Act in order to establish his bona fides (“Losing point”, Jan 21). A hefty fine was also imposed on him. However, such disclosure is unnecessary according to Section 6(2) of the RTI Act, 2005. This ruling — passed as verdict in a particular case — could be harmful for a democracy that mandates transparency and accountability when it comes to public institutions. Many offices are now likely to cite this ruling to act against public disclosures, although several public institutions are already exempted from giving out information under this law. This will also discourage RTI applicants for fear of reprisals. The Central government has now become the de facto master of information commissioners by assuming the power to decide their tenure, status, salaries and other terms and conditions. This threatens impartial action on the part of the office. For a strong participatory democracy, the RTI Act serves as a weapon. In the recent past, several controversial court judgments have been viewed with scepticism even by eminent judges and legal luminaries. Citizens once again look forward to a strong, unbiased judiciary to fall back upon as a last resort. This matter should thus be reconsidered. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The Delhi High Court’s ruling that an applicant who seeks information under the Right to Information Act should disclose his or her interest in it is unfortunate, and will further weaken the principle of transparency embedded in the law. The court’s ruling is not in agreement with the letter and spirit of the RTI Act. Section 6(2) of the Act clearly states that an applicant making a request for information is not required to give any reason for doing so. It is surprising that the court has issued this order when the position has been made clear by many rulings in the past, including those by the Supreme Court as well as other high courts. Since the right to information is a fundamental right, it cannot be constrained by the conditionality of disclosure of motive. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The Right to Information Act encourages public offices to practise transparency and honesty. It should not matter whether a person has a personal interest in the information sought or if the query has been made in public interest. Public offices — apart from the ones exempted from the law — should be answerable to the people. It is true that a spate of enquiries, many of which may not seem important or urgent, can slow down the administration, but public offices must be equipped to deal with such a problem. They should remember that their primary job is to serve the people, and responding to their queries is a part of that. Pradip Sahoo,North 24 Parganas Turn the page Sir — It is unfortunate but true that owing to the emerging mediums for entertainment, the habit of reading appears to have decreased significantly among a section of the people, especially the younger generations. Under such circumstances, it was wonderful to learn that a school in Calcutta has set up a street library — by installing a stocked bookshelf — outside its gate (“Street library outside school”, Jan 25). People can pick up books, read, and then return those any time they please as the shelf is not under lock and key. The library will surely be a boon for people in the locality who love to read but cannot afford to buy books or get membership in a proper library. This initiative to promote the habit of reading is undoubtedly praiseworthy. One only hopes that this noble mission undertaken by the school is successful. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Opinion||Hope and fear: RBI estimates negative GDP growth||The Reserve Bank of India has estimated India’s gross domestic product growth to be a negative 7.5 per cent. The National Statistical Office estimates it to be at a negative 7.7 per cent. Despite these grim estimates, the RBI is optimistic about a quick turnaround, described by analysts as a V-shaped recovery. In fact, in a recent report, the RBI has dubbed the V as vaccine-driven recovery from Covid-19. The RBI’s optimism stems from some strong evidence about the economy’s performance: non-financial as well as financial businesses are now making positive operating profits and net profits, the purchasing managers’ index is above 50, implying an expansionary mode for business, and exports and imports are picking up. As expected, healthcare, food processing and financial sectors are witnessing some initial public offerings by firms and goods and services tax revenues are on the rise. There are areas of concern as well. The government’s tax revenues have fallen while expenditures have soared because of the essential stimulus package provided by the government. The gross fiscal deficit for the first half-year 2020-21 was 14.5 per cent of the GDP, and is estimated to be 10.4 per cent of the GDP in the second half-year 2020-21. Industrial output is still volatile and is yet to show a steady increase across the board. Within industry, the core infrastructure sectors are not doing well in terms of output growth. Prices have been rising, particularly the rate of inflation in food and food-processing areas, contributing to headline inflation that is crossing the tolerance limit of the RBI. The dazzling performance of the stock market is indicative of an irrational exuberance. Finally, there is uncertainty over whether there will be another wave of Covid-19 or not. Going forward, both monetary and fiscal policies will be under stress. Once the Supreme Court passes its verdict on the fate of the latent non-performing assets of the banking sector, NPAs may see a sudden jump. The transmission of any monetary policy accommodating economic growth will be stymied. Not only that, it will mean additional financial stress for households and firms. On the fiscal front, the fears of a large and rising fiscal deficit along with the compulsions of boosting aggregate demand will be a central challenge in the upcoming budget for the finance minister. Beyond these policies, international trade can be an important engine of growth. If the second wave of the pandemic leads to a further fall in demand and commodity prices, that engine, too, will not be of use for sustaining recovery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Opinion||The Mahatma and the camera||The camera was there in London, photographing Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the suit-clad young lawyer; it followed him to South Africa and, finally, to India, where he became among the most photographed persons of his time. Significant events and movements that he spearheaded, his fasts and public meetings were an integral part of the emerging discourse of an anti-imperialist India. As photographs, reports and discussions of these became available via newspapers, calendar and poster art, they helped iconize the man and his message in the popular imagination. And, yet, at the moment of death, photographers, known as well as unknown, were absent. The Dandi salt march of 1930 and its aftermath were among the Mahatma’s most ambitious and physically taxing campaigns. Following the historic ‘Purna Swaraj’ (Total Independence) resolution passed by the Indian National Congress at its Lahore session in December 1929, Gandhi decided that it was time for sustained non-violent action. The salt tax, one of many oppressive economic measures for generation of revenue, gave government monopoly over the sale or production of salt and violations were punishable by law. Thus, on March 12, 1930, with 79 hand-picked followers, all men, Gandhi started on a 24-day campaign of what the art historian, Sumathi Ramaswamy, has evocatively called ‘ambulatory disobedience’. Sarojini Naidu and a few other women joined later — somewhat against the Mahatma’s wishes. On April 6, after days on dusty roads punctuated by measured rest and time for reading and writing, Gandhi lifted a fistful of clayey mud embedded with salt crystals from the sea at Dandi on the Gujarat coast. He was greeted with vociferous cheers — but no camera shutters clicked: that historic morning, for some inexplicable reason, no photographer was present. Thus, the iconic photograph of the Mahatma, with Mithuben Petit behind him, was apparently taken three days later, at Bhimrad, some thirty miles away. Gandhi’s entourage must have realized that as the moment at Dandi remained visually unrecorded, it had to be re-enacted and memorialized carefully by a photographer who remains tantalizingly anonymous. There was nothing serendipitous about the photograph as its composition, timing and who should be in it must surely have been decided by Gandhi and his staff. The events arising out of the march continued well into the 1930s providing many 'photo-ops’ not only for the Mahatma but also for several others, known and unknown. His name echoed in homes and hamlets and many women and men became short-term heroes, organizing pickets and rallies and picking salt from seashores in all three presidencies. Newspapers were quick to carry reports and photographs, contributing to a much-needed and reliable Dandi archive. By this time, it was clear that the Mahatma and his staff had become fully aware of the power of the image and when, in 1936, his grand-nephew and camera enthusiast, Kanu Gandhi, joined the Sevagram staff, a Rolleiflex was swiftly organized for him. Kanu got to work, photographing the quotidian and the dramatic, the deeply private and the ostentatiously public, such as the one of the Mahatma sitting cross-legged at his desk, caught in mid sentence with Subhas Chandra Bose looking at him intently. A pensive Kasturba looks on. Then there were iconic, though sometimes overused, images of important public meetings, discussions with Jawaharlal Nehru and so on. Kanu’s privileged position allowed him some liberties — he could photograph his grand-uncle shielding himself from the sun with a pillow on his head, working late into the night by the light of a small lamp, waving at crowds from the inside of a railway compartment. Yet, he too had to abide by very clear instructions on how photographs were to be taken — no camera flash bulbs and frontal images only on rare occasions. In 1947, Mahatma Gandhi spent many months in Noakhali, the scene of a series of bloody riots between Hindus and Muslims. Kanu Gandhi recorded him walking through the villages, speaking of the need for peace and harmony. And, as on the instructions of his grand-uncle he had stayed behind in Noakhali, Kanu was not there to take photographs on that fateful January evening — a fact that he must have deeply regretted. The feeling was shared by Homai Vyarawalla, Margaret Bourke-White, Henri Cartier-Bresson and countless others who had been photographing the Mahatma a few days — if not hours — before. When the three fatal shots rang out, as at Dandi, no camera shutters clicked. The absent camera made way for other artistic imaginings of the assassination, the grieving, and the martyrdom (see Sumathi Ramaswamy’s Gandhi in the Gallery). Yet, photographic absence at the moment of death is more than made up for by Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi’s lived presence in countless images, some of which were discussed, enabled and choreographed by him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
27-01-2021||Opinion||Healing verse||One line you didn’t hear in Joe Biden’s big-hearted inaugural address was one of his favourite bits of Irish verse — a yearning for the rarest of convergences, when “hope and history rhyme”, by the Irish Nobel laureate, Seamus Heaney. Throughout the monumental tragedies of his life — the loss of a wife and baby daughter in an auto accident, the death of a son to brain cancer, and his time in the cellar of political despair after two unsuccessful presidential campaigns — Biden has returned to the healing power of Irish poetry. On Tuesday, as he gave a tearful goodbye to Delaware by quoting James Joyce, Biden said his colleagues in the Senate used to kid him for always citing Irish poets. “They thought I did it because I’m Irish,” he said. “I did it because they’re the best poets in the world.” He may have to revise that assessment after listening to the uncommonly wise Amanda Gorman, who followed in the footsteps of Robert Frost and Maya Angelou at the inaugural podium. Her poem, “The Hill We Climb”, was medicine for a sick nation. But Biden should not put on the posterity shelf the young poet’s stirring lines — “For there is always light/ if only we’re brave enough to see it/ if only we’re brave enough to be it” — or Heaney’s call for the near impossible. Why not reverse the political aphorism and govern in poetry after campaigning in prose? As he took the oath in front of a Capitol that only days before was under the siege of a mob of the misinformed, in a country deadened by a pandemic, the oldest man ever elected president should remember that in the home of his ancestors, poetry is the language of politics. Biden is known for his empathy, his lingering at the rope line to hear one last story of a life taken too early, his tendency to tear up when recalling a loved one who’s died. But he also has something that leaders from Nelson Mandela to Abraham Lincoln had — a belief in the power of why not? That’s the province of poets, not policy wonks. Heaney was thinking of Mandela, newly released from prison as apartheid crumbled in South Africa, and the centuries-old hatreds clinging to Northern Ireland, when he wrote “The Cure at Troy,” and the stanza oft-quoted by Biden: “History says, Don’t hope/ On this side of the grave./ But then, once in a lifetime/ The longed-for tidal wave/ Of justice can rise up,/ And hope and history rhyme.” Biden is aiming big, with a $1.9 trillion rescue package. He plans $1,400 cheques for most Americans, subsidies for childcare, and aid for renters facing eviction. He has submitted a plan to offer 11 million undocumented immigrants living in the United States of America a path to citizenship. The new president wants to raise taxes on corporations, strengthen labour unions, expand Obamacare with a public option, stall the existential threat of climate change and spend $2 trillion on energy and infrastructure. On Day 1, he rejoined the community of nations that have agreed to the Paris climate accord. He envisions a Rooseveltian campaign to get 100 million Covid vaccine shots into the arms of Americans in his first 100 days. There will be ramped-up testing, contact tracing and mobilization of at least 100,000 people to conquer the virus. It’s a full plate, with long odds. For starters, how does a president who sees the essential goodness in everyone deal with a party whose base doesn’t even believe in the legitimacy of his presidency? How does he bring the conspiracy theorists back to planet earth and cool the tribal passions that fuelled the insurrection on January 6? If Biden and the Congress succeed at the big ideas, and not just the reversal of wrongful executive orders or unpopular legislation, he will be fondly remembered, even if he serves only one term. What’s more, he may even be able to bring enough fresh air into our toxic political atmosphere to realign things. If he fails, well, I’m sorry to remind you that most Irish poetry is rooted in despair, in a country whose currency for centuries was misery. Still, in Ireland, poets have moved the masses to uprisings and greatness — most notably, the Easter 1916 rebellion that eventually helped lead to a free Ireland. Thus, on Wednesday, the first message from the Irish president, Michael D. Higgins, to Biden contained a quotation from the poet, John O’Donohue — “Unfurl yourself into the grace of beginning”. In his struggle to overcome his stutter, Biden famously recited the poems of William Butler Yeats in front of a mirror. He has used Heaney’s aspirational lines again and again — in a viral campaign video, in his acceptance speech last summer at the Democratic National Convention, and at a 2013 meeting on the US-Korea relationship in Seoul. There were flashes of words that could stand as poetry in Biden’s inaugural address. He lamented the “[l]ies told for power and for profit”, and said, “Politics [doesn’t have to] be a raging fire...” The most memorable line was a simple one, that “[w]e must end this uncivil war” that pits Americans against one another. If he’s lucky, a commodity oversubscribed to the Irish, Biden will catch a “longed-for tidal wave” that could usher an age when poetry is not without power. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-82
