28-01-2021||Opinion||Peasants vs state: critical distinctions hold the key  ||What happened in Delhi on Republic Day was almost an inevitability, brewing not least because of the Centre’s dismissive response to what has come to be known as the farmers’ movement. The business of apportioning responsibility can come later. First, however, we have to focus on a critical element of what’s been going on – the almost universal representation of the agitation as a ‘farmers’ movement’. Once we’ve unpacked that misleading description, we have to focus on, second, what the impugned farm laws are all about. And, finally, we have to see how these laws could affect different sorts of ‘farmers’. First off, ‘farmer’ is a catch-all category; it could be substituted by ‘agriculturist’, which is also a meaningless category because it fails to make critical distinctions. In other words, anyone who ‘farms’ – which is itself a concept open to disputation – is a farmer. ‘Peasant’ is the category more usually associated with studies of agrarian society. And agrarian, or peasant, society is deeply stratified. Let’s do a 101. If we stick to four categories – large peasant, middle peasant, small and marginal peasant, and landless labourers – we will have covered peasant society. The classification of peasants in terms of landholding varies – for instance, according to the government’s criteria a large ‘farmer’ is one who has over 10 hectares (ha) of land; a middle peasant 4-10 ha; a semi-medium peasant 2-4 ha; a small peasant 1-2 ha; and a marginal peasant below 1 ha (https://pib.gov.in/newsite/PrintRelease.aspx?relid=188051). One hectare equals about 2.5 acres. Since this classification could vary, the important thing is the functional roles of peasant classes in the agrarian economy. The rule of thumb is that large peasants sell a preponderant portion of the grain they grow – that is, they cultivate for the market. Medium and semi-medium peasants also cultivate for the market, selling most of whatever grains they grow. Obviously, proportions are inflected by landholding size – 2-10 ha (around 5-25 acres) constitutes a pretty wide spectrum. Small peasants cultivate for subsistence, often having to supplement even their grain requirements, which is almost universally true for marginal peasants. The supplementary work undertaken to make ends meet differs widely, including through migration. The point now is how the three contentious farm laws affect different peasant classes. We are dealing with the three laws that are primarily contentious. The three laws passed last year were the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The first piece of legislation effectively abolishes the monopoly of trading in mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs), thus allowing for trade in agricultural produce in general anywhere, without being regulated by APMCs or other authorities. Any entity can engage in trade both within a state and between states. The second establishes legal conditions for contract farming, which involves a cultivator entering into a pre-cultivation agreement with a given entity specifying crops to be grown, prices, etc. The third significantly decontrols the magnitude of stocks of, among other things, agricultural commodities that can be held by an entity, by diluting the conditions under which the government can regulate stockpiling. Before we get to the three laws and the opposition to them, we must take note of another significant, non-negotiable condition stipulated by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the apex body of farm unions, which is fronting the movement. This condition, unconnected to the primary demand for the repeal of the laws, is for legislation to mandate procurement of agricultural produce at a minimum support price (MSP). As of now, there is no statutory guarantee for procurement at a given MSP. If a legal guarantee is provided, there are two options: either, the government would have to buy the entire marketable surplus of the 23 crops currently on the MSP list; or, it would have to force private traders to buy at the minimum guaranteed price as well. The former is obviously the more feasible proposition though it would entail an increased financial commitment. There is also a dispute over the formula for calculating MSP, with peasant unions agitating for the implementation of the formula proposed in the M.S. Swaminathan reports and the government fudging. Without going into those somewhat complex details, it is obvious that MSP is more important to farmers who grow huge marketable surpluses than small and marginal farmers who consume most of their produce, especially given that MSP covers seven cereals, five pulses, seven oilseeds and four commercial crops, rather than, say, vegetables, which small farmers sell in the market. It is no surprise, therefore, that the ‘farmers’ movement’ is being spearheaded by presumably rich peasants from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, the laboratories of the Green Revolution of the late 1960s, who grow huge marketable surpluses, rather than those from, say, West Bengal, Bihar or Odisha, who don’t. Does this mean that this movement is, as some apologists of the farm laws have argued, essentially a rich peasant affair and that in reality semi-medium, small and marginal peasants are not participating in the stir because they will gain rather than lose if these laws are implemented? The simple answer is: No. Let’s get back to the three laws. What the agitators are saying, reduced to its basics, is that they are designed to facilitate the takeover of the agricultural sector by the corporate sector. The amendment to existing legislation on regulating stocks of essential commodities is the weakest link. In a country where hoarding and price-fixing already shafts producers and consumers alike, without big players being significantly involved, the suspect nature of this amendment is a no-brainer. As for allowing unregulated trade, it’s hardly a stretch to imagine that once corporates get into the game, a lot of small traders and merchants are going to get elbowed out. It’s not as if today’s middlemen don’t exploit farmers and consumers, but the establishment of monopolistic conditions, economic logic assures us, will make matters worse. The smaller the participant in the market, the worse will be his or her plight. The large peasants’ fears will apply more massively to semi-middle, small and marginal farmers. Deregulation in Bihar, implemented by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar in 2006, has been disastrous for peasants. It is sometimes assumed that contract farming is necessarily beneficial to peasants with small holdings because it assures them the necessary inputs and guarantees a market. Where big corporate entities are involved, this hasn’t been the case. Small peasants have very little bargaining power against those whom they contract with (or will). Once tied to particular arrangements, with regard to crops to be grown, input sources and supplies, and other details, whatever wiggle room they have, will go. This has been the experience throughout the developing world where contract farming exists on a significant scale – Mexico, Nigeria, Thailand and India for example. In best-case scenarios, it has been a mixed blessing. Between them, the laws relating to trade and contract farming could cause de-peasantization on a significant scale – that is, the conversion of small and marginal peasants to landless labourers because of the loss of their land. Which is why what happened on 26 January was not a surprise. The government has been stringing the agitators on for a couple of months. Over a hundred agitators have died of various health-related causes, sitting around in the biting north Indian winter, rendered worse by a longer-than-usual spell of wet weather. Is it a stretch to imagine that those with more to lose in the sense that they have less to cling to will go on the offensive? (Suhit K. Sen is a freelance journalist and an independent historian)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Ready bias: media trials in India||The freedom of the media cannot mean undue licence. This message was conveyed strongly this month by two high courts. The Delhi High Court reportedly said that the presumption of innocence, a basic tenet of Indian jurisprudence, must be protected to maintain the dignity of the courts and not be jeopardized by the media. This came in response to a plea from Umar Khalid, detained under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, which claimed that media reports of his alleged confession of involvement in the Delhi riots would prejudice a fair trial. He had refused to sign the supposed disclosure statement. The court said that the media had the power to mobilize the thinking of numerous people; unless they discharged their duty with care and caution, their biased representations could result in media trials. It rebuked the media for not clarifying that confessions to the police are not admissible as evidence. Reporters should know this, and the media’s duty would be to educate people unaware of the law. It also condemned assumptions in phrases such as ‘anti-Hindu riots’, since all communities had been affected by the violence. Media trials can be prevented by the media’s self-regulation, according to the Delhi High Court. These not only go against a cardinal principle of the law in a democracy, but also hurt the dignity of the accused, thus violating their guaranteed constitutional rights. A variant form of this concern, with regard to an innocent person whose reputation can be destroyed, was stated by the Bombay High Court in its scathing criticism of media trials in response to public interest litigations against prejudicial reporting after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Satiating a thirst or competing against rivals cannot excuse unregulated media trials, the judges said in effect, and provided an ‘indicative but not exhaustive’ list of what reports must not do during an ongoing investigation. The list, ending with a warning that violating provisions of the programme code and other media regulations would lead to contempt of court, is most valuable when much of the media seem to have surrendered fair and meticulous reporting in favour of sensationalism and, possibly, of pleasing certain political elements. In their condemnation of medial trials, the two high courts have provided a stern corrective urgently necessary in these times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Changing tide: protest against arrest of Alexei Navalny||Sir — The arrest of Alexei Navalny, one of the most prominent critics of the Russian premier, Vladimir Putin, has left the country in a disarray. Navalny, who gained a massive following for exposing the corruption within the government, called for nationwide protests after his detention. Soon unauthorized protests were held across the country with more than 3,000 people arrested. The support for Navalny is a testament to the growing clamour for governmental transparency and accountability in Russia. It is the duty of all democratic nations to extend their support to the dissenting Russians. Aveek Saha,Calcutta Ray of hope Sir — There is no doubt that the newly sworn-in president of the United States of America, Joe Biden, is a capable leader (“Four turbulent years end”, Jan 21). Unlike his predecessor, Donald Trump, Biden is considerate and humane, and will serve the nation to the best of his abilities. On the inauguration day, Biden struck a chord with his audience through his powerful and emotive speech. His stress on the importance of democracy, and a fervent call to end the “uncivil war” plaguing America indicated that he is best suited to repair the damage done by the Donald Trump administration. His idea of peace is not separate from the notions of justice, equality and liberty and his assertion that the “dream of justice for all will be deferred no longer” is a testament to his firm belief in racial equality and his resolve to act to that end. The flurry of executive orders that Biden signed on the first day in office, such as making masks mandatory on federal grounds, rejoining the Paris climate change accord and the World Health Organization, lifting the travel ban on several Muslim majority countries and halting the construction of the wall on the US-Mexico border, among others, were a clear repudiation of Trumpian policies. It is hoped that the Biden administration will serve in a transparent and accountable manner as is expected from one of the oldest democracies in the world. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The American president, Joe Biden, lost no time in reversing the controversial decisions of Donald Trump, whose policies over the years have thrown the country into chaos. It is unusual for a head of state to issue 15 executive orders on the first day in office. Through his swift action, Biden has sent out a strong signal that he fully intends to repair the damages of his predecessor, under whose watch the country’s diplomatic relations with several nations have deteriorated. His decision to rejoin the Paris climate accord, reverse the travel ban on people from certain Muslim-dominated countries and the termination of the construction of the wall on the US-Mexico border will go a long way in cementing Biden’s status as one of the most important presidents in American history. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — Joe Biden, the 46th president of the US, has inherited a deeply divided nation as witnessed by the events preceding his assumption of the Oval Office. It is important to remember that in spite of criticisms, over 70 million Americans voted for Donald Trump. The unprecedented violence witnessed at the Capitol on January 6 indicates that the next four years are not going to be a smooth ride for Biden. He seems to have started on a strong note by passing 15 executive orders on his first day in office. He will, however, need the cooperation of the Republicans to heal the deep chasms within the country. There is a long way to go before America can regain its credibility as a democratic nation. Bal Govind,Noida Divisions within Sir — In his article, “Resistance map” (Jan 23), Asim Ali has rightly stated that the meekness of the Opposition parties in combating the divisive rhetoric of the Bharatiya Janata Party has led to the increase in Islamophobia in India. It is a matter of shame that both Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi had welcomed the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. We must, however, remember that it would not have been possible for the BJP to polarize the country along religious lines unless a large section of the population already believed in the party’s bigoted ideas. It is because of our failures that the saffron brigade could flourish in India, bringing into question the ideals of secularism enshrined in our Constitution. The menace of communalism can only be contained if strong laws are put in place and swift action is taken against the perpetrators. But with innumerable lawmakers at the helm spewing vitriol against minority communities, there is little chance for the situation to improve anytime soon. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Flames rising: Delhi R-Day chaos||A nation that has, over the years, thundered with the echoes of the beloved slogan, ‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan’, witnessed, on Republic Day, disturbing images of the farmer and the security men turning against each other. Unprecedented clashes took place between farmers who, for months, have been protesting against three contentious agrarian laws and the police in parts of India’s capital city on the occasion of a tractor rally that was meant to coincide with the Republic Day celebrations. Farmer unions must shoulder their part of the blame. Several protesters broke through checkposts and, most damagingly, deviated from pre-scheduled routes to lay siege on parts of Delhi, including the Red Fort, drawing an aggressive response from law-keepers. There was a clear lack of coordination among the unions and their failure to rein in or be aware of the presence of rogue elements must be condemned. But it also takes two matches to light a fire. The Union home ministry’s preparation for the rally was far from adequate: policemen found themselves outnumbered by farmers at some spots. Of greater concern is the allegation by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — it represents 41 farm unions — that vested interests are at work to discredit their movement. This claim, too, must be investigated impartially. Mayhem has no place in a democratic protest. Tuesday’s violence thus has the potential of sullying the image of the protesting farmers. There are even signs of fissures in their solidarity. It is possible that these developments would lessen the pressure on, and even please, the Narendra Modi government. After attempting to stonewall, defame and wear down the protesters, the Centre is now in a position to claim the moral high ground that it had lost. It is this battle of attrition between the government and the aggrieved farmers that constitutes the sorriest sights of Indian democracy today. There are well-established protocols of resolving a crisis in a democracy. The Centre, armed with a brutal electoral majority, did not pay heed to these codes of deliberation while enacting the set of laws in the first place. Its attempts at resolution, the farmers allege, have been insincere. The farmer unions, too, are on uncertain territory after the flare-up. The escalating bitterness on both sides means that the flames of the farm laws would continue to simmer in the near future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||A case for Dalit journalism||This is the 150th year of Sooryodhayam, the first Dalit journal in Tamil. It is also, arguably, the first Dalit journal in India. As India celebrates the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, it is not known that Dalits in Tamil Nadu had started a journal in the same year as his birth. The mainstream history of Indian journalism gives little space to Dalits. The need to recover the history of Dalit journalism is, therefore, a pressing task. The apathy of historians apart, this task is complicated by the unavailability of sources. Back volumes of most 19thcentury Tamil journals are unavailable. We have to rely on colonial records to glean information about them. In the case of Sooryodhayam, not a single issue has survived. Here too, we have to rely on colonial documents. Given that for Madras Presidency, the Native Newspaper Reports begin only from 1872, this becomes further complicated. But from colonial records we know that Sooryodhayam was published from Pudupet, Chennai, and that its proprietor, publisher, printer and editor was one Pandit Thiruvenkatasamy who was described as ‘a Hindu Pariah’. The general opinion about Sooryodhayam was that “this journal had an influence among the lower classes” —“lower classes” being a euphemism for Dalits. Apart from this information, the great Tamil intellectual, Pandit Iyothee Thass, wrote that, “Even before Reverend Percival’s effort [the editor of Dina Varthamani and Professor of vernacular literature, Presidency College, Madras], there was a journal called Sooryodhayam, which was published by an Adi-Dravida, Pandit Thiruvenkatasamy. He also published several books such as Siddhar Gnana Kummi, Theraiyer Vaithiyam Ainooru, and Dhanvinthiyar Nigandu.” We know that Dina Varthamani was started in 1855. If Iyothee Thass is right, then Sooryodhayam’s origin will be pushed back further. How unique was this considering the perception that Dalits did not have a robust intellectual tradition? During the late 19th century, many Dalits gained access to modern education owing to the efforts of the colonial government and the Christian missionaries. ‘Panchama’ schools were started by the Director of Public Instruction. The Education Commission constituted by the Government of India in 1882 made a full-fledged study of the socio-economic conditions of the ‘Panchamas’ and identified some major economic and social factors responsible for their backwardness. The commission recommended “that no boy be refused admission to a Government college or school merely on the ground of caste”. Colonial efforts apart, the Dalits in Tamil Nadu had a traditional learning system where Tamil literature, epics, and classical texts were taught in Thinnai schools. Pandit Iyothee Thass was among those who learned through such traditional schools. Iyothee Thass claims that during his time hundreds of Dalit scholars existed in and around Chennai. This intellectual tradition bore fruit in the changing media ecology of British India. Records show that Dalits published over 50 journals between 1869 and 1943 although copies of only a few have survived. These journals touched upon all spheres of life; they propagated anti-caste thought, criticism of Brahminism, Buddhism, writings against everyday caste oppression, education for Dalits and women, representation of Dalits and minorities in government jobs, prohibition, atheism and so on. Dalit journals also published Tamil fiction in the form of stories and serials, moral stories, and the retelling of Tamil literary texts. Some humour journals were also run by Dalits. Maha Vikata Duthan, started by B.A.A. Rajendram Pillai in 1886, was one such journal. In politics, Dalits questioned the claim of the Indian National Congress to be the sole representative of Indians. Arguing that self-rule would lead to Brahmin rule, they stressed social transformation rather than political transformation. Dalit journalism’s vibrancy during this period not only contributed to debates within India but also extended offshore to reach the diaspora. The history of Dalit journalism also points to diasporic networks in production as well as in reception. Adi Dravidan was started in Colombo by migrant Dalits from south Tamil Nadu. Pariyan, Tamilan, Bhooloka Vyasan had a good number of subscribers from Rangoon, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Fiji, Mauritius, Singapore, Malaysia and Tanzania, where Tamil people, especially the lower castes, had migrated to for jobs. Another important aspect of these journals was the participation and contribution of non-Dalits. Although edited and published by Dalit intellectuals, significant content contributions were made by non-Dalits. J.S. Kannappar, the editor of Dravidan, the pre-eminent daily of the non-Brahmin Justice Party, penned many articles in Adi Dravidan. Swapaneswari Ammal, the first woman editor of a Tamil journal, wrote extensively in Iyothee Thass’s Tamilan. M. Masilamani Mudaliyar was another important contributor to Tamilan who wrote a series of articles refuting the authority of the Vedas. M. Singaravelar, the first communist of South India, contributed to Tamilan. P. Lakshmi Narasu, the author of the Essence of Buddhism that influenced B.R. Ambedkar, was another important contributor to Tamilan. This rich history of Dalit engagement in the public sphere and the circulation and spread of ideas that challenged the dominant discourses are missing in mainstream histories. These vibrant Dalit voices shatter the myth of an ignorant community awaiting saviours from outside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
28-01-2021||Opinion||Potted philosophy||It is entirely possible that three days from now, on February 1 — Budget Day — the Union finance minister would assure the nation that she has spotted the green shoots of economic recovery. But green shoots — of the literal, not the metaphorical, variety — have been sprouting since March 2020, the month India was locked up hastily by its minder. The pandemic, there is evidence to suggest, led to a strange, global bloom. This proliferation of public interest in gardening led Ferns N Petals, India’s most prominent retailer of flowers, to witness an unprecedented surge in demand for herbs and plants such as giloy, tulsi and jade. Meanwhile, lettuce, coriander and beetroot were striking deep roots in Britain. On March 16 last year, the day the British government ordered patrons to avoid pubs, Suttons Seeds struck gold, selling seeds of lettuce, coriander and beetroot. The same month, on the other side of the Atlantic, Burpee Seeds and Plants, the firm that germinated in Philadelphia in 1876, witnessed its highest ever sales. By May, market research by GlobalData had found that gardening had become the second most popular recreational activity — second only to watching television — during the lockdown, beating cooking, reading and — astoundingly — sex. ‘Gardening Movements’ are not novel. In a piece for the Earth Island Journal, Jennifer Atkinson, an intrepid researcher of gardening in the US, has argued that the phenomenon — the unexpected mushrooming of gardens — has, more often than not, intersected with periods of social transformation with attendant collective anxieties. The dawn of industrialization, she writes, led to the flowering of urban gardens; the obnoxious Jim Crow era encouraged Black people to take to, and reimagine, gardening as a refuge; ‘Guerrilla Gardening’ — growing gardens on plots that are legally inaccessible — has become a popular contemporary strategy for the greening of greying landscapes as well as for energizing community and environmental fraternities in an era that is being made to watch, helplessly, the eerie unfolding of the Anthropocene. Getting one’s hands dirty with soil and trowel, Atkinson believes, resonates with a deeper meaning. In the time of Covid, a time that has precipitated the experiences of social and physical isolation, gardening has become an unconscious expression of the human urgency to confront its fear of a creeping disembodiment. Awakened, momentarily, from its entrancement with a different, dangerous bloom — the upending of reality and the concomitant impoverishment of sensory encounters by the virtual — green-thumbed humans have transformed gardening into an allegorical shovel to dig deep into the recesses of the memory of a time in which the primordial cord with the natural world was yet to be cut. Even Jean-Jacques Rousseau, a man of reason, was not dismissive of the symbolic potential of gardening. In his stimulating piece, “Beans and Melons: Rousseau’s Vegetable Garden”, Jérôme Brillaud attributes the following quote to the enlightened Genevan: “If the study of plants purges my soul that is enough for me, I do not desire any other pharmacy.” Rousseau, however, did confess in Confessions that he was no gardener. But that could be because, as Brillaud shows, he used kitchen gardens — beans and melons were Rousseau’s thing — as sites of philosophical experiments. Indeed, gardens and gardening can be, Vivian Swift noted in Gardens of Awe and Folly, far from demure spaces. They have, over the years, served as sites of radical, if inadvertent, social experiments, some of which even attempted to alter the status quo. For instance, leafing through the pages of the rather somnolent Instructions in Gardening for Ladies (1840), one may be lulled into believing that Jane Webb Wells Loudon was attempting — rather dourly — to put readers to sleep. But Lady Jane is asdeceptive as the garden. For the discerning reader would soon realize that hidden amidst those dull instructions on ‘sowing’, ‘fixing’ and ‘covering’ seeds was a code: Mrs Loudon was actually encouraging women to enjoy gardening independently, out of the sight and the supervision of men, even though she took care to inform her pupils that the vapours arising out of damp earth could have unhealthy consequences “under women’s skirts”. Concealed among flowers and earthy scents is, always, the alluring possibility of the garden being a space for renegotiating gender relations. In Gender and the Garden in Early Modern English Literature, Jennifer Munroe echoes Loudon by arguing that the transition of the garden from a unit of subsistence to an arena of aesthetics led to the kindling of intense tensions in gender relations. Perhaps it is apt that the setting of The Luncheon on the Grass — in which Edouard Manet challenged the politics of class as well as of the gaze by depicting a nude woman looking away from her conversant, male companions, towards the viewer — resembles a rather resplendent garden. The garden, the fruit of gardening, isn’t benign in other ways too. In its gentle rhythms — a leaf falling, unhurriedly, in the breeze, a butterfly or a bee gliding from one flower to another, light dripping from a silvery gossamer web — the garden endures as a philosophical site celebrating the antithesis of express modern living. Calcuttans have an additional reason to ruminate about gardens because annus horribilis — 2020 — happened to be the bicentennial year of the foundation of the Agri-Horticultural Society of India. Our man Rousseau despised horticulture. Botany, he believed, shared a symbiotic relationship with philosophy because of its encouragement of reflection, while horticulture, Rousseau thundered, “offer[s] the soul no solace”. But William Carey, the founder of the AHSI, had foresight — the AHSI contributed to the widening of India’s pedagogies on gardening, agriculture and patterns of food consumption. Even Rousseau would have to concede that the expansion of the frontiers of knowledge need not burden the soul. As gardens recede from public spaces, the AHSI, a delightful sanctuary of mellow light, long silences, plants — mundane and exotic — and birds, that strives to keep out the cacophonous sounds and ugly sights of metropolitan life, could be the perfect ambience for contemplation. Would the Covid-induced bloom of miniature gardens, now sprouting on unfamiliar, but intimate, turfs — terraces, windowsills, even kitchens — be enough for humanity to renew its elementary, but fraying, relationship with nature and the wondrous web of life?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
