29-01-2021||Opinion||What we can learn from our children  ||And you of tender years Can't know the fears That your elders grew by And so, please help Them with your youth (Teach Your Children _ Graham Nash) The young outnumber the old in today’s India, which like most parts of the world, is living through a time chequered by deep divisions. Fact, fiction, half-truths. Nationalism pitted against patriotism. We go through intermittent waves of outrage, often conveniently selective, amidst a sustained campaign of othering those who yearn for sanity; those who want to believe and look for some sense, truth even, in the madness that surrounds us all. But then, what is truth today? That what we see on television, read in newspapers and websites, or latch on to on twitter and WhatsApp forwards as mere reflections of what we want to believe? Or is there the other ‘truth’, the unsullied one, the old-fashioned one that we know deep down to be real, the kind we don’t need ancient scriptures and holy books to tell us about? And just when we thought that the ‘truth’ had been buried for good, a teenager from Texas held up a beacon for us to see, as did a bunch of school kids in Calcutta, doing a deep dive into the introductory words of the Constitution to remind us what they stand for. Jackson Reffitt assumed his father was planning “something big” in the lead-up to US President Joe Biden’s oath-taking. So, what did he do? He alerted the FBI even though he didn’t know what exactly his father, a gun-owning member of a far-Right militia, was going to do. He found out, like the rest of his country and the world, via television images on January 6 when rioters stormed the Capitol in Washington. Two days later his father returned home and warned him: “If you turn me in, you’re a traitor. And you know what happens to traitors. Traitors get shot.” We don’t know how Jackson might have reacted immediately after the threat. After all, it’s not normal for an 18-year-old to be faced with a death threat from his own father. Yet, Jackson’s later conversations reveal a self-assured young man, full of hope and faith in the inherent goodness within everyone. “I am afraid for him to know,” he said, unsure whether his father knew he’d turned him in. “Not for my life or anything, but for what he might think,” he clarified in the hope that his relationship with his father could be repaired. “It’ll get better over time. I know we will.” For Reffitt Senior, who was subsequently arrested, the lesson has just begun. He’s lucky he has his son as teacher. In Calcutta, a group of children not older than Jackson, had their own lesson to impart at school. On the eve of India’s Republic Day, they got together to celebrate the Constitution, the document the nation bequeathed itself 71 years ago. The focus was on secularism, liberty and “we the people”, the three words with which the Preamble begins. India has to be a “secular society”, not just a secular state, said a 17-year-old during the online programme. If the raison d’etre was to take the Preamble out of textbooks and have the children talk about it as a living document of ideas and ideals, the effort was well worth it. For it was the elders back home who were forced to take note when a class XI boy articulated them in succinct prose. The most important aspect of secularism, he noted, “is mutual respect, acceptance and inclusion of every person in society despite religious beliefs”, his understanding coming from an earlier personal experience of having his tiffin thrown away because he had brought a chicken sandwich to a “vegetarian school.” Amid the trying circumstances we were faced with, long before the pandemic, schools across the country have not shied away from meaningful discourse on ideas that matter. From a Third Theatre-style play on the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir to a pictorial depiction of human rights violations, these endeavours have done so much more than keep school children occupied during the lockdown. It’s as though Reffitt in the US and the young adults of our country have together, unbeknownst to each other, spoken in unison. As the world lurches towards self-defeating extreme intolerance from one day to the next, these boys and girls have planted their own flag. One that flutters in the sky to remind us elders of our miserable failings, telling us that the choice between right and wrong is easy if we want it to be.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
29-01-2021||Opinion||Honoured: Quazi Sajjad Ali Zahir||Public functions often attract their fair share of attention. Republic Day is not an exception. This year, eyebrows were raised by the depiction of religious symbols in the tableaus rolled out by some states. January 26, after all, was the day when India embraced a Constitution that sought to uphold the principle of secularism. There has also been talk about some of the choices made by the Centre when it comes to the recipients of civilian awards. This year, an activist associated with an organization that reportedly enjoys the patronage of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh was conferred with the Padma Shri, the nation’s fourth-highest civilian award, in spite of her association with the endeavour of religious conversion. But this is not to say that the Centre got everything wrong when it came to bestowing national honour. There can be no disputing its decision to award Quazi Sajjad Ali Zahir with the Padma Shri. Mr Zahir, one of the two luminaries from Bangladesh who were honoured by India, is not only a veteran of the Liberation War of 1971 but has also spent much of his life educating citizens about the importance to remember and learn from periods of genocidal turbulence. New Delhi’s gesture must be applauded on two counts. First, this is a pragmatic decision in political terms, signaling to Dhaka and the world India’s resolve to deepen — and smoothen the creases in — the ties with its neighbour in the east. Second, there is also a certain degree of poignancy about the selection. Mr Zahir’s recognition, quite pertinently, coincides with the week in which Auschwitz — an enduring symbol of the horror of genocide perpetrated by Nazi Germany during the Second World War — was liberated. Mr Zahir’s life and work and India’s recognition of both are a testament to the need to educate citizens and mobilize collective resistance against oppression of every conceivable kind around the world. This is because genocides, much like a virus, have a propensity to return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
29-01-2021||Opinion||Moment of glory: Narayan Debnath awarded Padma Shri||Sir — While there were no malls, multiplexes, cable television or smartphones in the 1970s-80s, children growing up in Bengali households at the time had unique cartoons in comic books as their companions. They had Batul the Great, Handa-Bhonda, Nonte-Phonte as well as characters illustrated in the detective stories penned by Swapan Kumar. These cartoons are still etched in the minds of their readers, as is their creator, Narayan Debnath. This year, Debnath has been named as a Padma Shri awardee. Although a belated move, the committee must be congratulated for officially recognizing this extraordinary cartoonist. Subhayu Saha,Murshidabad Wrong turn Sir — It is unfortunate that the farmers’ protests in Delhi went out of control (“Flames rising”, Jan 28). The incident that took place on Republic Day is a blot on this agitation, which had thus far largely been peaceful. Everyone must condemn violence. The clashes and the hoisting of a flag by protesters at the Red Fort will result in a number of people losing sympathy for the farmers. That this happened on Republic Day is a shame as it is the day when India officially became a republic and the Constitution came into force. The Constitution has given us the right to protest but violence must be shunned. In most cases, agitators are emotionally charged; it is more likely for a large crowd to get carried away, often culminating in incidents of mob violence. Then, of course, starts the blame game. But as keepers of law and order it is the duty of the authorities to make sure that such things do not happen. It is therefore also a failure on the part of the Delhi police and related agencies that the protest could not be managed. The Central government should conduct a thorough enquiry into this incident. C.K. Subramaniam,Navi Mumbai Sir — The violence that erupted during the tractor rally in New Delhi on Republic Day as part of the protest against the three farm laws is unfortunate and could have been avoided by undertaking better-planned strategies. Not only has a farmer lost his life in an accident but several police officials have also been injured. On a positive note, one must acknowledge that the authorities upheld the constitutional right of the farmers to protest by granting them permission to proceed with their tractor rally even on an occasion like Republic Day. The police commissioner, S.N. Srivastava, must be commended for his efforts to keep the crowd in control without resorting to brutality, although there were some instances of baton-charge and use of tear gas. I have been witness to several peaceful protests by farmers in the past. Strictly speaking, there was no need to use symbols of farming activities, such as tractors, at the rally, this could have avoided the accident. A long, peaceful walk down the permitted route would served the purpose better. It is time for all the parties concerned — farmers and leaders alike — to get the situation under control. The farmers should once again approach the government with the core issue. This could stop further escalation of the conflict. P. Senthil Saravana Durai,Mumbai Sir — It was noble of the farmers to take moral responsibility for the mayhem during the Republic Day tractor rally. Now one must wait for the home minister to apprise the people of the reason why there was inadequate security even when the Centre was fully aware of the potential numerical strength of the agitators at the rally. J. Sengupta,Calcutta Sir — Violence must be condemned unequivocally. At the same time, it must be highlighted that the events that took place on Republic Day are being misrepresented by some on social media in order to incite hatred against the protesters and diminish public sympathy for the farmers. It is wrong to claim that the farmers replaced the Indian flag at the Red Fort. The flag that was raised was not Khalistani either. Yet such allegations are being spread like wildfire, to a large extent by the supporters of the ruling dispensation at the Centre. The crisis that the farmers are facing with respect to the farm laws and the larger problem awaiting them if the laws are not repealed must not be forgotten because of a rally gone wrong. A thorough, impartial investigation must be undertaken so that the people know the exact details of the incident. People must not confuse mutual clashes with one-sided violence. It is true that the conflict between the police and the protesters was unwarranted. But the size of the rally was no secret; the security planning should have been better. Sourabh Gupta,Jamshedpur Sir — The chaotic turn of events during the farmer’s rally is unfortunate. It should not have been allowed to happen. Violence in any form needs to be condemned. The farmers were given a designated path to hold the rally after the Republic Day ceremony was over. But the storming of the Red Fort and the unfurling of a religious flag was unwarranted. One person was reportedly killed in an accident related to a tractor. The farmers have also lost the sympathy of a section of the people. Their demand for the repeal of the three contentious laws has also lost significance. A high-level probe should be ordered and the culprits should be brought to book. A march to Parliament on Budget Day was on the cards for farmers. But it has now been called off. In the future, care should be taken to avoid violence. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — The eruption of violence at the tractor rally has certainly tarnished the image of the farmers’ protests. The blame for the incident lies with the leaders who mistakenly assumed that there would be self-discipline on the part of the protesters. But the incident also raises other questions. Why did the Delhi police allow the marchers to take a route other than the one decided upon? The videos being circulated show that there was little police presence at the Red Fort to stop protesters from hoisting their flag on its ramparts. The police is thus as much to blame as those who perpetrated the violence. The culprits must be put behind bars at the earliest. Above all, those who incited the violence have done the farmers — who were already trying to steer clear of malicious government propaganda — great disservice. S.S. Paul,Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
29-01-2021||Opinion||Narrow scope: sex crimes against children||In India, where the prevalence of sexual crimes against children is no secret, citizens look to the judiciary as a beacon of hope. It was thus a relief that the Supreme Court stayed a perplexing judgment by the Bombay High Court, which had ruled — that too few days before National Girl Child Day — that groping a child without “skin-to-skin contact” would not amount to sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The court deemed it fit to acquit the accused on the grounds that there was no ‘specific detail’ as to whether he had removed the victim’s clothes. The interventions by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights — it asked the Maharashtra government to file an urgent appeal against the controversial judgment — and, now, by the apex court are justified on several counts, not least of which is the problematic reading of the law by the Bombay High Court on which it based its acquittal order. Under Section 7 of POCSO, sexual assault comprises acts with sexual intent, including those involving non-penetrative physical contact with a child. This provision was necessary to broaden the archaic definition of sexual assault under Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, which still equates rape with the outdated notion of penetration. In a nation that treats sexual crimes against minorities with shocking indifference, a regressive legal reading of legislations can be profoundly disheartening. Already, the prevailing culture of shame and silence, augmented by parental unwillingness to teach children to differentiate between good and bad touch, puts minors at risk. Judicial ambiguity on the matter could add to the existing, formidable challenges, the poor conviction rate being one. According to the National Crime Records Bureau in 2018, there was an 18 per cent jump in registered POCSO cases in 2017, but convictions at the end of 2016 stood at a mere 28 per cent. Tardy legal proceedings — ironically, POCSO was enacted to hasten prosecution — give the accused time to intimidate victims and their families into withdrawing complaints. The reluctance to prosecute deepens when the accused is a family member. In 2020, a special POCSO court was told that 80 per cent of the accused were known to the victims, with a majority of them being relatives. The signals sent out to a vulnerable constituency from institutions tasked with protecting it are as dismal. In 2018, several young girls were found to have been sexually assaulted for months in a shelter home in Muzaffarpur. For too long, the onus of identifying and disclosing sexual crimes has been on the victim, even though POCSO seeks to correct this inversion. The reluctance of victims, guardians and investigative bodies to pursue justice will only grow in the light of judicial misreadings of law and crime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
29-01-2021||Opinion||How to shred a fabric: the Assam Repealing Act||Things are falling apart in Assam. The state is being made witness to a manufactured breakdown of the plurality of Assamese society and its tolerance for difference. Fascism and chauvinism of various kinds have constantly worked to fill the lives of minorities with fear, intimidation and humiliation. There is evidence that institutions and laws of the land are being moulded to suit the majoritarian interest. One example of this kind of intervention is the Assam Repealing Act, 2020. The ARA was passed in the state assembly last month. It repeals the Madrassa Education Provincialisation Act, 1995 and the Assam Madrassa Education (Provincialisation of Services of Employees and Re-organisation of Madrassa Educational Institutional) Act, 2018. The ARA violates a number of constitutional safeguards designed for minorities, such as Article 26, Article 29, Article 30, Article 330A and Article 330B. It is true that these articles are not absolute in nature and can be challenged based on public order or morality. That they are challenged and compromised, as is evident from ARA, is suggestive of an erosion of democratic principles. The silence and the lack of political opposition to the weakening of minority rights tell us something about the changing contours of political sentiments in India. ARA violates Article 26, which reserves the right of minorities to establish instructions for religious or charitable purposes. Article 29 aims to conserve distinct language, script or culture of minority groups in the Union. The ARA violated this article by denying the right of minorities to learn in their mother tongue. Article 350A and 350B relate to linguistic minorities in the Union. By dissolving the government funding for madrasa institutions, the Assam government has potentially withdrawn from investing in the rights of a significant political and linguistic minority in the state.Things fall apart The ARA puts in perspective the debate that took place in the Constituent Assembly on December 8, 1948. Many members of the assembly thought that granting minority rights would amount to appeasing minorities and would create grounds for communalism. Such a thing appeared ‘anti-secular’ in their eyes. In response to the demand made by Maulana Hasrat Mohani to reinstate Urdu as a medium of instruction in schools, a member of the assembly told Mohani that ‘he may go to Pakistan’ instead. Pandit Thakur Biswanath Das and Pandit Govind Ballabh Pant were in favour of the removal of Urdu as the medium of instruction in schools. Other members, such as Z.H. Lari, Begum Aizaz Rasul, Kazi Syed Karimmudin, Maulana Mohani, Mihir Lal Chattopadhaya and Pandit Hriday Nath Kunzru, offered their vigorous defence of the right of minorities to receive education in their mother tongue. The former education minister of India, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, was also of the opinion that education in secondary stages should be in their mother tongue. Azad was acknowledging a universally accepted fact pertaining to the benefits of a child learning in its mother tongue. Those ideals are far removed from the philosophy of the current education minister of Assam, Himanta Biswa Sarma, who stressed the fact that madrasa education was initiated by the Muslim League in Assam and, hence, the need to repeal it. Things fall apart when minorities find themselves discriminated against by the State, by the bureaucracy, by dominant groups and culture. The proposed National Register of Citizens and the enactment of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act have put minorities under severe duress. The ARA should be read in the same spirit and materiality in which the NRC and the CAA were given life by local and national cultural nationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
29-01-2021||Opinion||Seductive narratives||We, human beings, are story-telling animals. The ability to create narratives to help make sense of who we are, where we come from, where we may (or may not) be going, what we need to do to get there, how best we may do the things that need to be done (and avoid those that we ought not to do) and so on and so forth, is — as far as we know — not present in any other species of animal. Who we are is shaped by, and crucially depends on, the stories we hear, discuss, tell, and retell. In his 1936 essay, “The Storyteller: reflections on the works of Nicolai Leskov”, the noted critic, Walter Benjamin (1892-1940), had made a distinction between the story and the novel. The former he saw as fundamentally social, leading to thought and discussion; the latter he characterized as being essentially solitary, and far too preoccupied with information, rather than with what he characterized as “counsel” — a kind of practical social wisdom that stories can impart, but novels cannot. In this, Benjamin was echoing the words of his contemporary, Thomas Stearns Eliot (1888-1965), who had lamented, “Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge? Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?” in his 1934 poem, “Choruses from “The Rock””. “In every case,” asserts Benjamin, “the storyteller is a man who has counsel for his readers. But if today “having counsel” is beginning to have an old-fashioned ring, this is because the communicability of experience is decreasing. In consequence we have no counsel either for ourselves or for others. After all, counsel is less an answer to a question than a proposal concerning the continuation of a story which is just unfolding. To seek this counsel one would first have to be able to tell the story. (Quite apart from the fact that a man is receptive to counsel only to the extent that he allows his situation to speak.) Counsel woven into the fabric of real life is wisdom.” Although the novel, too, takes its raw material from ‘real life’, its essential quality is solitude, and isolation. “The novelist has isolated himself. The birthplace of the novel is the solitary individual, who is no longer able to express himself by giving examples of his most important concerns, is himself uncounselled, and cannot counsel others.” For Benjamin, “If the art of storytelling has become rare, the dissemination of information has had a decisive share in this state of affairs… Every morning brings us the news of the globe, and yet we are poor in noteworthy stories. This is because no event any longer comes to us without already being shot through with explanation. In other words, by now almost nothing that happens benefits storytelling; almost everything benefits information.” The problem with information, as both Eliot and Benjamin realized, is that it is useful as long as it is new; stories, on the other hand, remain valid for as long as they are told and retold. That is the source of their power; and that is also why our most successful storytellers are those who are able to create narratives that are concerned less with facts and more with ‘counsel’ — even if such counsel is often at odds with the facts as we know them. The mob which stormed the US Capitol on January 6 was least concerned with whether the story that enraged and inspired them to act (‘this election was stolen’) was based on accurate information, just as those who claim an eternal and unending conflict between Hindus and Muslims to justify their demands for a Hindu rashtra in our own country could not be bothered with a shred of evidence to the contrary. In both cases, the actors are guided by their own retelling of the stories they have been fed and encouraged to make their own — the ‘wisdom’ and ‘counsel’ that Benjamin wrote of so eloquently having been turned into the inspiration for their own acts of violence against those whom their stories classify as villains (opponents of Donald Trump, Muslims). They are merely carrying out, in deeds as well as words, the continuation of stories that are still unfolding. In Benjamin’s vision, the storyteller belongs to “the ranks of the teachers and sages. He has counsel — not for a few situations, as the proverb does, but for many, like the sage... This is the basis of the incomparable aura about the storyteller... The storyteller is the figure in which the righteous man encounters himself.” Yet he must have been aware that the power of the storyteller, and of the story, could be used for radically different, unrighteous purposes: for dividing instead of uniting or reconciling, for demonizing those who were different from those being told the stories, for encouraging the story’s listeners to carry forward the tale themselves — often at great cost to others unlike them. As a Jew who had been forced to flee a Germany where the new, divisive, vicious stories propagated by the National Socialists had taken firm hold among the (non-Jewish) populace, it seems unlikely to have been otherwise. When we take this into account, it becomes possible to read “The Storyteller” as a melancholy epitaph for a time when human beings lived richly social lives, and the storyteller was the repository of a lived, embodied wisdom that could, at least in theory, benefit everyone by bringing, in Benjamin’s evocative words, “soul, eye, and hand… into connection”. When thus contextualized, his essay can also be read as a cautionary tale of how isolated modern human beings, lacking authentic social selves, and bereft of real social interaction, can all too easily fall prey to the phantasmagoric stories spun by demagogues and rabble-rousers. We live in a time when, on the one hand, human connection has become increasingly attenuated (a process intensified and accelerated by the ongoing pandemic), and, on the other, terabytes of information wash over us, through electronic and other means, on an hourly basis. Seeking to make sense of ourselves, and the world we live in, we take refuge in, and seek comfort from, stories that claim to make sense of our increasingly confused and chaotic existence. The power of the story has never been as strong, or as seductive, as now. Sadly, though perhaps inevitably, those peddling the most attractive stories are less intent on giving us counsel for leading richer, fuller, more connected lives, and more concerned with holding on to power and fulfilling their own narrow political agendas. To combat this, perhaps the only way lies in reclaiming our stories from those who would use, abuse, and manipulate us for their own selfish ends, even as they claim to speak for all (or a majority) of us. The women of Shaheen Bagh, and the farmers still encamped in protest in our nation’s capital — to take but two examples — have sown the seeds of the kind of new, humane, social and collective stories that we need at this hour. It is for us to retell their tales, inaugurate discussion, reopen dialogue, and continue a story that is still unfolding if we want to fulfil the true task of the storyteller. The author is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-81
