30-01-2021||Opinion||Another rosy picture for the Modi govt||As far as the latest Economic Survey is concerned, the past does not pose much of a problem for the Narendra Modi government. India and the world have been living out a pandemic. Explaining past policy failures, therefore, causes little embarrassment to the Centre. Therefore, the estimated 7.7 per cent contraction in India’s annual growth rate in gross domestic product is unlikely to be viewed as a failure. Under the present circumstances, it is perhaps more important to analyse the Economic Survey with an eye on the upcoming Union budget. It contains tell-tale hints about the economic policy framework that the Central government is expected to adopt. The fiscal deficit for the financial year, 2021, had been predicted to be 3.5 per cent of GDP. It will clearly be much higher. The Economic Survey does not address the issue at all. Instead, it focuses on the combined primary deficit of the Centre and states — the difference between the fiscal deficit and interest payments — and estimates it to be 6.8 per cent of GDP. This implies that the Union budget would announce a monstrous fiscal deficit of the Centre alone, let alone the states. How will this deficit be financed? Higher taxation of the rich is one obvious policy choice. However, the chief economic adviser has clarified in no uncertain terms that this route will be avoided. Instead, he indicated that borrowing would be the way out. Borrowing is justified with reference to India’s soon-to-improve growth rate vis-à-vis new interest payments. The growth rate is expected to be higher than interest payment obligations, which leaves a balance to finance government expenditure for growth. Such growth, the Economic Survey says, would increase the “pie” available for the poor without inconveniencing the rich. Going by the Economic Survey, the Union budget would be easy on taxation and spare at least the super rich. Is borrowing the right path to follow as far as India’s credit rating is concerned? The Economic Survey points out that India is the fifth-largest economy in the world. Yet, credit rating agencies do not award it an AAA rating, the way China was treated in the past. On the other hand, India’s foreign exchange reserves are adequate to pay off its private as well as public debts without any problem. More borrowing could, therefore, be announced by the budget along with less taxation. The Economic Survey suggests that this will not merely help India grow faster but also remove inequalities since the larger pie will be enjoyed by a larger number of people. This larger output will be available as early as FY 24, and this will only require a short-term forbearance by the population. The long term looks rosy, except, of course, for John Maynard Keynes’s famous repartee that in the long run everyone will be dead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Opinion||New worry: Covaxin efficacy||Sir — While the roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccines in India is certainly a cause for celebration, a lot of people are worried about elderly family members getting the shots. This is because there is still uncertainty about the efficacy data of Covaxin, created by Bharat Biotech. There are fears that the vaccine, the full effects of which are not known yet, could trigger adverse responses in senior citizens, who already have weakened immune systems. The loss of loved ones to the coronavirus already takes a mental toll; it would be a crushing blow to lose a parent or a grandparent after a vaccination. The government must ensure that the vaccine is absolutely safe for old people. Indira Basu,Calcutta Be careful Sir — It was distressing to read that the former Indian skipper and the president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India, Sourav Ganguly, had to undergo another angioplasty so soon after his first procedure a few weeks ago (“Sourav in hospital after discomfort”, Jan 28). He was admitted to the hospital after complaining of chest pain, and had to have two more stents inserted to remove blockages in two coronary arteries. While it is a relief that his condition is reported to be stable, it is important for his doctors to closely examine all his health conditions so that a recurrence can be avoided to the extent possible. Ganguly has a lot of responsibilities on his shoulders; few have the ability to take the fortunes of Indian cricket forward like he does. In order to ensure that he is able to carry out his duties to the best of his abilities, he must take care of his health first. It is no secret that Ganguly is revered in West Bengal; the people of the state would be distressed to hear news of his health deteriorating. One wishes Ganguly a speedy recovery. It is to be hoped that he will take some rest and prioritize his health from now. Iqra Husain,Calcutta Sir — Sourav Ganguly’s achievements as a cricketer, captain, commentator and television personality are admirable; now, he is at the helm of the administration of Indian cricket. His admirers among the cricket-loving public were expectedly worried when the news of his second angioplasty came to light. Heart disease statistics in India are high; the only way to minimize risk is to take care of one’s health in terms of diet, exercise, sleep and timely medication. Fans of Ganguly and, indeed, lovers of Indian cricket will be hoping that the BCCI chief recovers well and is able to lead from the front again. Angad Sodhi,Calcutta Right demand Sir — The Congress was right to demand that Amit Shah be sacked as Union home minister following the violence that took place on Republic Day. It is quite interesting to note that the Delhi police, which is under the home ministry, is allowed time and again to beat up peaceful protesters mercilessly — as was witnessed repeatedly during demonstrations against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the national capital last year — but is strangely inept in containing situations where violence might best serve the government’s interests. Shah does not care about protecting citizens; he only cares about furthering his party’s divisive agenda. He should be removed from his position. Akhila Chopra,Delhi Sir — Amit Shah’s successive failures on multiple fronts as home minister makes the Congress’s demand for his sacking understandable. Shah is known for his chest-thumping about ‘defending’ the nation and Indians — or, at least, those that would be considered Indians under the divisive CAA. And yet, the unrest on Republic Day spoke volumes. The Centre is quick to blame the farmers for the ‘violence’, but does not security fall under the purview of the Union home ministry? Shah also mysteriously failed to ‘contain’ the violence in Jamia Millia Islamia university in 2019 and the Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2020. His ham-handedness when it comes to maintaining law and order and his telling silence must be taken into account given that he occupies such an important position in the government. Safdar Shadab,Railpar, Asansol||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Opinion||In celebration: America welcomes President Biden||After Joe Biden was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States of America, most of the country is revelling in the stark contrasts between him and Donald Trump. Many people rejoiced through street art, murals and memes. In New York City, the sign at the 46th Street Station on the M and R lines in Queens was altered on Inauguration Day from 46th Street to ‘46th Joe’. The street artist, Adrian Wilson, did something similar at the time of the deaths of personalities like Prince, Aretha Franklin and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. The Prince and Franklin Street stations were changed for the singers, while the 50th Street station was modified into Ruth Street. In Soho, the sign for Thompson Street in the SoHo neighbourhood of Manhattan was changed to ‘Trump Gone St’, and a one-way sign above it was altered to read ‘Gone Away’. Over in Florida, Biden will join Disneyworld’s Hall of Presidents. New robotic figures are added to the attraction every time a new president takes office. Many recent presidents even recorded their own speeches. While it is not a thrilling theme park ride, it aims to provide information about American history through the talking animatronic figures. The evening of the inauguration started with a prime-time televised special, Celebrating America, hosted by Tom Hanks and featuring celebrities such as Eva Longoria, Bruce Springsteen, John Legend and Justin Timberlake. It aimed to “showcase the American people’s resilience, heroism and unified commitment to coming together as a nation to heal and rebuild” according to the presidential inauguration committee. Salute the heroes Black History Month is celebrated throughout February. It is a time to celebrate black culture and the heroes, inventors, artists and creators from the black community who have contributed to American society and culture. The idea of a black history month originated in September 1915, half a century after the Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery in the US, when the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History, dedicated to researching and promoting achievements by black Americans and other people of African descent, was founded. By the late 1960s, ‘Negro History Week’ had evolved into Black History Month on college campuses until President Gerald Ford officially recognized it as such in 1976. As a celebration of Black History Month, Apple has created the ‘Apple Watch Black Unity Collection’, a limited-edition watch that features the words, ‘Black Unity’, on the back. Apple said that members of the black creative community worked with it to create the watch as a tribute to the fight for racial justice. The band has the phrase, “Truth. Power. Solidarity.” etched onto the enclosure.The watch face uses the colours of the Pan-African flag: red, green and black. Marvel will be releasing seven comic books with different covers featuring its most popular black superheroes, including Miles Morales, Blade, Black Panther, Iron Heart, War Machine, Storm, Falcon and the new Valkyrie. Barbie has also announced the release of a new Barbie doll as part of its ‘Inspiring Women’ doll series: Dr Maya Angelou. A spokesperson said that the doll highlights Barbie’s “commitment to spotlight more Black role models who are female”. Easy tests There is now a vending machine that dispenses Covid-19 at home testing kits. But the price tag is steep. From the health company, Wellness 4 Humanity, they will cost about $150 per kit and are slated to be launched in New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Boston and Dallas. Customers can choose between two types of tests. The Rapid Antigen At-Home Test Kit provides results in 15 minutes, with no shipping or laboratory work required, and is said to have ‘97.4 per cent accuracy and 100 per cent specificity, meaning false negatives are unlikely’ according to a press release. The At-Home Saliva Test, meanwhile, is done through a saliva collection, instead of the more common nasal swabs. Customers receive their results within 48 hours, with 99 per cent accuracy, through a mobile app. In the meantime, the San Diego campus of the University of California has also launched Covid-19 vending machines for their students. All students living on campus are required to take a test once a week. Have a drink Businesses are struggling as the Covid-19 pandemic rages on. Some have had to shut down completely while others struggle to get by with business loans. There are also those who have tried to get a little creative. The American Airlines group, unable to serve wine in-flight, is now offering to deliver it to your doorstep instead. The company is aiming for $40,000 in sales through its Flagship Cellars programme this quarter. Customers can choose from collections of mixed wines, build a custom box or purchase a monthly $99.99 subscription for three wines, including delivery, the airlines said in a statement. Many restaurants offer cocktails to go or liquor delivered to your doorstep. But only one has created a mobile bar cart. The Maybourne Beverly Hills in Los Angeles has set up a service where a masked bartender will be pushing around a bar cart. He will then set up the cart at a distance and walk you through a menu of cocktails from the Maybourne Bar. Each service lasts 45 minutes to an hour, and each customer will receive one round of cocktails and another bottled cocktail for later, in keeping with LA’s to-go cocktail regulations. The delivery also includes food, such as cheese crisps, nuts and olives. According to several studies, alcohol consumption and sales have significantly gone up during the pandemic. Footnote Donald Trump has flown off to Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. However, there are reports that the resort has been gloomy, with members walking out after Trump’s election loss. On top of that, residents are not too keen to have Trump as a neighbour. They sent a letter to the Town of Palm Beach and the US Secret Service complaining that Trump has violated a 1993 agreement he made with the town that says Mar-a-Lago, his private social club, cannot be used as a full-time residence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
30-01-2021||Opinion||Without artifice||The American writer, Louis Fischer, is best known for his book, The Life of Mahatma Gandhi, which Richard Attenborough drew upon while making his award-winning film of 1982. Fischer’s book was published in 1950, two years after Gandhi’s assassination. Eight years previously, he had written a much slimmer (and now far less well known) volume titled A Week with Gandhi. This was based on a visit Fischer made to India in the summer of 1942, in the course of which he had conversations with Ambedkar, Savarkar and Jinnah in the great city of Bombay, before travelling to Sevagram to speak with that village’s most famous resident. In a striking passage in this book, Fischer wrote: “[Jinnah] talked at me. He was trying to convince me. When I put a question to him I felt as though it had turned on a phonograph record. I had heard it all before or could have read it in the literature he gave me. But when I asked Gandhi something I felt that I had started a creative process. I could see and hear his mind work. With Jinnah I could only hear the needle scratch the phonograph record... But I could follow Gandhi as he moved to a conclusion. He is, therefore, much more exciting [for an interviewer] than Jinnah. If you strike right with Gandhi you open a new pocket of thought. An interview with him is a voyage of discovery, and he himself is sometimes surprised at the things he says.” This ability to listen and learn, this willingness to change his views if confronted with contrary evidence, emphatically set Gandhi apart from the other politicians of his time, as well as of ours. He was constantly questioning his own presuppositions, while constantly engaging with his colleagues and his critics. Consider in this regard Gandhi’s views on race, caste, and gender. In each of these domains, over the course of his life, Gandhi discarded the reactionary prejudices he once held to embrace more egalitarian positions. Racism runs deep in Indian culture, as manifest in the still widespread tendency among males to look for brides with ‘fair complexion’. Growing up in Kathiawar, Gandhi had unquestionably accepted racial stereotypes. That is why, in his early years in South Africa, he made a series of disparaging comments about Africans whom he saw as distinctly inferior to his fellow Indians. Over time, however, Gandhi came to see Africans in a far less pejorative light, thus to hope — as he put it in a public speech in Johannesburg in 1908 — that “all the different races [would] commingle and produce a civilisation that perhaps the world has not yet seen”. By the end of his stay in South Africa, Gandhi had moved from being a racist to becoming a non-racist. His views were to evolve further. In the last decades of his life, he was a principled and consistent anti-racist. He was in touch with African-American activists, hosting them in his ashram in Sevagram, while urging that they adopt non-violent satyagraha to combat racial prejudice in their country, as indeed they went on to do. So long as he was living in South Africa, Gandhi had kept the struggle of Indians separate from that of the Africans themselves. But in retrospect he came to see this as unwise. When a delegation of Indians from South Africa visited him in 1946, Gandhi told them they must “associate with Zulus and Bantus” too. The “slogan today,” remarked Gandhi, “is no longer ‘Asia for the Asiatics’ or ‘Africa for the Africans’ but the unity of all the exploited races of the earth.” In his autobiography, Gandhi talks of defying his Modh Bania community to travel overseas. However, a broader understanding of caste discrimination eluded Gandhi until his return to his homeland in 1915. Travelling around South India, he was dismayed by the ill-treatment of Dalits. He resolved to oppose untouchability, although at this stage he was reluctant to mount a direct challenge to the caste system itself. In the 1920s, inspired by the followers of the remarkable social reformer, Narayana Guru, Gandhi lent his influence to a campaign for temple-entry, mobilizing Dalits and caste Hindus to worship together. In the 1930s, provoked and challenged by the great emancipator of the Dalits, B.R. Ambedkar, Gandhi began to adopt more radical positions. He now advocated affirmative action, inter-dining and, finally, marriages between Savarnas and Dalits. Through his engagement with critics and on the basis of his own experiences, Gandhi came to recognize that as a system of separation, segregation and discrimination, caste had no reason to exist at all. Over the course of his life, Gandhi comprehensively shed the racial and caste prejudices of his youth. His moral evolution with regard to gender was less complete. Nonetheless, it was not insubstantial. In his domestic life, Gandhi was a typical Hindu patriarch. He might have remained that way in public too had he not encountered two independent-minded European women in South Africa. These were Millie Graham, the wife of Gandhi’s friend and housemate, Henry Polak, and Sonja Schlesin, who worked with Gandhi in his law office. Accustomed to seeing women as submissive and subordinate, it was while sharing a home with Millie and an office with Sonja that Gandhi came face to face with women as autonomous moral and social agents. These experiences led to Indian women (among them Kasturba herself) participating in a major satyagraha that Gandhi organized in 1913. After his return to India, Gandhi was at first inclined to keep women away from nationalist politics, fearing that a deeply conservative society would react with hostility to males and females coming together in the public sphere. Again, two exemplary women encouraged him to adopt a more progressive stance. These were Sarojini Naidu and Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. Naidu became president of the Indian National Congress in 1925 at a time when there were no women in leadership roles in the political parties of Europe and North America. Chattopadhyay played a prominent part in the Salt Satyagraha. Later, during the Quit India movement of 1942, hundreds of female activists, many of a socialist bent, led strikes and protests and spent time in jail. In the event, female participation in the Gandhian movement was far more widespread than in any other anti-colonial struggle in Asia or Africa. Race, caste, and gender are three fundamental axes of social discrimination. That is why I have focused on them here, tracking the evolution of Gandhi’s views in this regard. Yet he was continually learning and growing in other spheres as well. Take, for example, his attitude to science and technology. In his 1909 book, Hind Swaraj, Gandhi comes across as a Luddite technophobe. However, he was to substantially modify his views in later years. Two successful operations conducted on him by surgeons — one Indian, the other European — put paid to his once dogged hostility to modern medicine. Encounters with scientists like C.V. Raman encouraged a healthy appreciation of the methods and procedures of modern science. It was surely not an accident that he titled his autobiography, “The Story of My Experiments with Truth”. Gandhi was experimenting with truth while he was on the train and when he was in the ashram, when he was by himself and while he was in conversation with others. Louis Fischer, writing in 1942, thought that the capacity for self-examination and self-critique that was such a hallmark of Gandhi’s character was conspicuously missing in his most celebrated rival, his fellow Gujarati, Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Writing in 2021, I might say that it is also conspicuously missing in the most powerful Indian now alive, Gandhi’s fellow Gujarati, Narendra Modi. In his little book of 1942, Louis Fischer observed that “[p]art of the pleasure” of interviewing Gandhi was that “he really opens his mind and allows the interviewer to see how the machine inside works”. In this regard, Gandhi was quite unlike other Indian politicians who sought to “bring their ideas out in final perfect form so that they are least exposed to attack”. Fischer was writing as a journalist who spoke to his subjects in person. However, for the historian, whose work rests on interrogating documents (both printed and unpublished), this is among the greatest pleasures of studying Gandhi as well. In his words and actions, there was no propaganda, no subterfuge, no covering up of tracks, no spin, no attempt to present oneself in a flattering light. Reading Gandhi, researching Gandhi, is to encounter a human being whom his followers claimed to be pure and perfect, a Mahatma even, but who knew himself to be fallible and flawed.  ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
