31-01-2021||Opinion||Master of the war cry||West Bengal is still reeling from the surprise invocation of Ram on Subhas Bose’s birth anniversary celebrations at Victoria Memorial Hall. Now in war, the war cry and its rhetoric is no less important than the weaponry. The cries might fall on the ear as ululations, whoops, hisses, but they are wrapped in some primeval way with the senses and the sentiments. There was the rebel cry from the American Civil War. And “hurrah” was used by Danish and German forces in the 19th century. Ei ei oh is a Japanese war cry and hooyah was used by the US Navy. War cries must have involved a certain art, for in his epics even the great Homer identifies Menelaus as “master of the war cry” and Diomedes too. Careful study of battle orations from the middle ages has revealed a certain pattern in coinages. They seem to have shrewd psychological and managerial reasons. And as history is testimony, it is easier to bring together large numbers in the name of a common god and thereafter proceed to instruct, urge, appeal and charge in his or her name. So there is Allahu Akbar, Har Har Mahadev, Deus Vult or God wills it and Odin owns you all --- Odin is a god in Germanic mythology. The Homeric battle cry of alala is not some random assemblage of words either but an invocation to a Greek goddess of embattled genealogy, quite literally. Alala has a father, Polemos, who is the personification of war; an aunt, Envo, who is a war goddess; and her uncle Ares is a war god. War cries are not just meant to solder constituencies, they also remind one of the consequences of not warring or failure. There is a good deal of equivocation too. The inevitability of death is cushioned with a promise of a glorious afterlife. Merdeka atau Mati, meaning freedom or death, was used during the Indonesian war of independence. The Argentine General Jose de Saint Martin popularised the chant, Seamos libres, que lo demás no importa nada!... Let's be free, nothing else matters! There is the Norwegian cry of Til Valhall or To Valhalla. In Norse mythology, those who die in combat end up in Valhalla. Right now, Bengal is rife with cries. And yet it is not a war situation, just a democracy situation. God save the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
31-01-2021||Opinion||Shared bonds||Sir — While businessmen routinely default Indian banks and get away with it scot-free, it was interesting to note that the Economic Survey, once again, listed the Rs 300 crore that Pakistan allegedly owes India as pre-partition debts. Pakistan, too, is apparently owed Rs 560 crores, primarily on account of assets held with the Reserve Bank of India pending transfer. It is not surprising, though, that the two countries choose to hold on to these so-called debts instead of writing them off as non-performing assets. Shared roots cannot be severed with a stroke of the banker’s pen. Biswadeep Chatterjee,Calcutta Nature at home Sir — Uddalak Mukherjee forces us to think about what it means to garden in hard times and why is it that humans might turn to the garden or to plants — as a shelter, a refuge or a productive space — under straitened conditions (“Potted philosophy”, Jan 28). Gardening is engrossed in the everyday: in diurnal and seasonal rhythms, in the weather, and in minuscule changes that occur on a creeping (rather than a sweeping) timescale. As such, gardening, although it is a form of toil, can feel leisurely and intimate, its cares diminished in the face of grander passions, griefs and problems. As a mode of leisurely labour, gardening thus implies a construction of identity, aligning the gardener’s fruitful ordering of the land with productive subjectivity. While human intervention in the garden seeks to control and regulate production and consumption, such control is always contested by the non-human agents — plants, animals, insects, soil, wind, rain, sunlight and so on — of the garden. The actions of the latter variously influence abundance or paucity, destruction or growth, surfeit or sufficiency. Gardens are idealized, yet ever-incomplete, utopian sites that are never fixed or finished: there is always some weed growing where it should not, always some spot lying fallow and there is always work to be done. So even though the gardener aspires to nurture the conditions of utopia, this idyll will remain forever unattainable. Michael Pollan famously argued in Second Nature that “gardening... gives most of us our most direct and intimate experiences of nature”. Yet, nature in the garden is not quite the same as nature in the wild. The garden is usually bounded, local and frequently private, where wilderness is associated with sublimity and grandeur, rather than freedom and expanse. Thus while the urban gardener is solicitous of nature, he is also at ease with the ambiguity of his essential predicament: though he lives in nature, he is no longer strictly “of nature”. A.K. Sen,Calcutta Sir — The article, “Potted philosophy”, by Uddalak Mukherjee made for enjoyable reading, especially for people like me who love to spend time with plants. One of the few good things to have happened during the lockdown is that many people started gardening, so much so that it has now become a favoured hobby. I have personally seen many people who created gardens in empty spaces that had been lying in neglect for years. Even those who do not have access to open spaces placed pots and plants in terraces and verandahs. This trend will not only make our planet more beautiful and green, but will also go some way towards reducing pollution levels and letting people breathe fresh air. Sourish Misra,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Congratulations to Tamil Nadu cricket team, led by Dinesh Karthik, for reaching the finals of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy for the second consecutive time. The team has been on a roll, winning all seven games that they have played. But Tamil Nadu should not get complacent; Baroda, the team that will go up against Tamil Nadu in the finals, too, has had a smooth run. One sincerely hopes that Karthik and his boys will not repeat the mistakes of 2019-20, which cost them the finals against Karnataka by a single run. We wish the Tamil Nadu team all the best for the finals today. N. Mahadevan,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
31-01-2021||Opinion||BJP has big plans for its RS member Bhupender Yadav||The Bharatiya Janata Party is busy grooming Bhupender Yadav, its Rajya Sabha member and in-charge of Bihar, to be the next Yadav leader of the country. He is being guided, coached and coaxed to project himself as the top leader of the community that is present in sizeable numbers in many states, especially in the proverbial cow-belt that includes Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Gujarat. Bhupender has also accepted the party’s orders and keeps flying often along the Bihar-Delhi- Gujarat route. “Big leaders like Lalu Prasad, Mulayam Singh Yadav and Sharad Yadav are now in the twilight of their political careers. They will leave a vacuum once they retire from politics and our party wants Bhupender to be the one to fill it,” a senior BJP leader from Delhi revealed. He also said that the party had previously thought of cultivating the Bihar leader and minister of state for home affairs, Nityanand Rai, but he did not quite make the cut. However, Bhupender’s journey is going to be an uphill task, with Mulayam’s son, Akhilesh Yadav, and Lalu’s younger son, Tejashwi Yadav, in the fray. Both are building on their political capital; both are young, energetic and fast gaining the necessary experience of the rough and tumble of public life. Sharad’s daughter, Subhashini Yadav, has also entered politics. JP Nadda recently completed one year as president of the BJP which, as its leaders claim, is the ‘world’s largest’ political party. Although Naddaji, as he is respectfully addressed, has been trying hard to step out of the shadow of his predecessor, Amit Shah, he has not succeeded yet. In important matters, Shah continues to have the final say, according to insiders. Many top party leaders still rush to Shah before meeting Nadda. In key election-bound states like Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu, Shah is still believed to be playing the role of chief strategist. Whispers in BJP corridors have it that one big reason for Nadda’s failure is that he has chosen to tread the very same path as Shah. “There is nothing new, nothing that he can call his own”: this is the refrain among sections of the party. Shah had used the post of party chief to emerge as the second most popular face of the party after the prime minister, Narendra Modi. While that is too tall a dream, Nadda has been working round the clock, travelling across the country, addressing not only party workers and the general public but also ‘eminent citizens’, an idea launched by Shah. All this, however, is still falling short of pulling him out of Shah’s shadow. People close to Nadda feel that a victory in Bengal could catapult him to the top. Wresting Bengal is quite a tall order, but even if it happens, the lion’s share of the credit will go to Shah. The ongoing farmers’ protests at different locations across Delhi’s border with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh comprise almost every colour of India’s society and philosophy except the narrow, communal perspective of the sangh parivar. If older men can be found listening to gurbani on their mobile phones in one corner, Buddhist monks can be seen discussing the Central government’s obstinacy in another camp. Amid the noise of sloganeering, idle chatter, folk songs and cooking activities, loudspeakers keep blaring speeches of trade unionists and farm leaders throughout the day. One afternoon, a farm leader who is a trained Communist was explaining from the dais how those indulging in politics in the name of Lord Ram had none of the virtues of the great man. “Ram is known for morality and sacrifice, not for power-lust and deception. [The] Modi government is like the Kauravas, who refused to give even five villages to the Pandavas. You all know the consequences. The same battle is unfolding now. The farmers will fight this Mahabharata [sic] for their rights. This will be a fight against the corporate-backed Kauravas [who are] not willing to hand over even five villages to the Pandavas.” There are also elderly men from Haryana narrating fascinating stories from Hindu religious texts to highlight how irreligious the government’s obduracy is. By sticking to the new agriculture reform laws, the BJP may have created lakhs of independent campaigners against its politics. With 22 ministerial positions vacant in Bihar and the cabinet expansion long overdue, the berth hopefuls from the ruling National Democratic Alliance are going all out to appease their deities and stars. Several leaders from the BJP and the Janata Dal (United) — the party of the chief minister, Nitish Kumar — have become more devout and regular in saying their prayers. Some have given up non-vegetarian food, some have even stopped eating onions and garlic. While many are running to temples and dargahs, others are consulting astrologers. Given that there is no certainty as to who will get a break and no indication about the exact date of the expansion, leaders and legislators are continuing with their efforts to please the divinities. A few veteran BJP leaders who were ignored during the government formation in November last year are now banking on their good equations with Kumar and cajoling him to pressurize their party to accommodate them in the cabinet. A berth-hopeful legislator vented his frustration thus: “I just hope that the expansion takes place soon. Taking [a] bath early in the morning and sitting for prayers is an ordeal in this harsh winter and to top it, I have to eat bland food. This is going on for the last two-and-a-half months. If the situation continues, the cabinet may be expanded, but I may not survive to see it.” Some BJP leaders speak like officials of Central investigative agencies. Party leaders in Kerala have often surprised people with the consistency with which they ‘predict’ the impending actions of such agencies, prompting the state’s ruling Left government to question the source of their information. Now the Karnataka BJP chief, Nalin Kumar Kateel, is said to have made a similar ‘prediction’: his Congress counterpart, DK Shivakumar, who had spent time in Tihar jail in a money laundering case, will return to prison. Shivakumar seemed unshaken, but his supporters are worried.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-79
31-01-2021||Opinion||Let us now praise some villany||We are like that only. We praise villainy; we prostrate before villains; we prefer villains; we poll for villains and then we put them on the covers of our magazines. Villainy Wins!! Three cheers for villains!!! Look at yourself, look into your head if you have one of your own, tell yourself the truth if you can. And tell us who’s your preferred one. Tell us it’s not a villain. Or The Villain. The one who swept the poll and the one you put on the cover. Villains are, often, who we secretly want to be but haven’t the trick or the temerity to become, isn’t it? Everybody likes a villain, the one you can’t become but would want to. Oh, what power. What privilege. What a thing of pride. To be the villain. To exude villainy, to be the centre of the aura that everyone’s apprehensive to even approach. You walk and everything around scatters away, a magnetic repulsion. What a thing to be. And why not? Why be shy? Badi baat hai, not everybody’s cup of tea to be a badmaash, or mug of coffee. Villains are a thing; you don’t get them every day. How long has it been since Mogambo? Or any such with a hat for a face and a knife for a nose? But they are not like that anymore. They are different. They don’t have to wear hats or brandish knives. They simply say things. And sometimes they don’t say things. And that is how they come to be known for their villainy. Sometimes they also do things, who knows, they must be doing things but they do those things in a way that everybody knows they have done it but nobody can tell for sure. You know one when you get one. Villain, I mean. And when you get one, well, well, turn pussy, get into the well and pray Tommy Stout doesn’t come around to pull you out. It’s the truth. Why not say it like it is? The fellow is a villain, and it isn’t easy being around one. More so when we have nothing to match him, and so he rules the street, or gali, or para, or pradesh, or the entirety of who we are, or whatever. Admit it. Accept things as they are. Go. And on your way in feel free to even salute and scrape. It’s a good survival strategy, endorsed by our elders. Paani mein reh ke magarmachchh se bair? Not easy to take on a magarmachchh, in the waters or outside. Magarmachchh hi magarmachchh se bair le sakta hai; we know, we have been told, story of our times, isn’t it? But to be a magarmachchh? Want to be? Like that? Feared and loathed? Assumed awake and plotting even when they might be genuinely snoozing on the excess of a gory meal grabbed, chewed up by reeking teeth, and gulped down that reeking gullet? A creature that repels more things than merely trust? A creature that is, well, not exactly what you’d want to set out to be, right? I mean you’d still want to be called Tiger. Or Lion. They are beasts of prey too, they grab and gulp and they too never brush their teeth. But you’d still not mind Tiger or Lion. But magarmachchh? Yes? No. That settled then, not magarmachchh. Not like this one. But what is one to do? He’s there. Everywhere. All the time. He can’t be missed, or be given the miss. He is watching you, surveying your behaviour, assessing what you might deserve, a snap, a bite, a killer blow with a whiplash of that jagged tail, what? Have a crew that can take him, put him away? No? Then it may be simpler, consider yourself fortunate, you’ve been spared a scare. And a few scars too. But you are lucky not to have to contemplate any competition. Now don’t lose time, hurry up and secure your future. Give in. Give up. Sing the sordid song of sycophants and be done with it. All shall be well once you are on the side of the villain and the villain is on your side. There will be no more anything or anybody to be afraid of because you have become part of the horror, friend of magarmachchh. Masterji jooz to aalwayz say Oh lissan you there, kaun hai bey Donkey ban, joo joosless fallow Whooz is lathi usi ki bufallow.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
31-01-2021||Opinion||Reading amidst flames||The public library is no longer a sacred site for only those who seek the light of knowledge. In this digital age, libraries have shifted shape and responsibilities. Digitization — not to mention book piracy — has ensured that books and knowledge are just a few mouse clicks away. The pandemic, with its attendant restrictions on gatherings, spelt further doom for the public library. The survival of the library meant that it had to transcend its identity of being a mere repository of books to become a site of congregation where people can gather to reclaim a sense of community. This is perhaps why libraries have witnessed a resurrection at protest sites around the world. An open library has been set up near the Ghazipur border in India by protesting farmers; a ‘people’s library’ — it contained over 5,000 volumes of books as well as magazines and newspapers — had also been created during the Occupy Wall Street movement, not to mention a similar exercise in Hong Kong during the pro-democracy movement. Yet, in spite of this change, one of the foundational functions of the library remains the same: it remains a fount of knowledge — knowledge that is feared by repressive regimes because reading, thinking citizens are known to have independent minds that help them challenge authoritarianism. That has also made libraries and, indeed, the pursuit of knowledge the target of political regimes. It is sad enough that governments are indifferent to the potential of public libraries. Some three years ago, Uttar Pradesh, a populous state and, allegedly, the new laboratory of religious orthodoxy, had only 75 public libraries, not all of which were supported adequately. New India has also seen the rise of dangerous strands of anti-intellectualism that has coincided with the political ascendancy of Hindutva. No less than the prime minister himself has asserted the primacy of physical strength over intellectual prowess, purportedly suggesting that hard work is more important than Harvard. The periodic desecration of libraries — from Nalanda in the past to, in more recent times, Pune’s Bhandarkar Institute — is symbolic of the antipathy that forces of bigotry and obscurantism harbour towards knowledge institutions. The Post-Truth era has saddled the library with additional tasks. The circulation of books, which, in turn, leads to the dissemination of reliable information, can be a powerful deterrent against the falsities being spread through digital and electronic media. Again, books strive to restore the balance between text and image in a society that remains enchanted — often fatally — with the dominance of the visual culture. Equally important is the role of the library in democratizing learning in a deeply iniquitous society. Usually, the best of campuses are exclusive preserves of the privileged. Academia is also burdened in terms of pedagogy with a peculiar dullness, forcing people to seek out alternative and often specious sources of knowledge. By bringing books closer to readers, especially an aggrieved people, libraries are serving as the proverbial bridge to connect thought with everyday struggles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
31-01-2021||Opinion||Farmers’ day out||Deep into the Republic Day parade’s telecast, the news ticker on my television screen read, “Violence in North West Delhi”. Urban Indians understand city geography in terms of class, not cardinal directions, so I had no idea where this violence was happening. Then it became clear that the authorized march-past had segued into an alternative peasant parade. Instead of tanks trundling down Rajpath, our screens filled with tractors turning into Delhi. One of the side-effects of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s domination of Indian politics is the besieged desperation that marks the reactions of desis who oppose its brazen communalism. Every assembly election feels like a drawn-out Test match, thanks to multi-phase polling. Every campaign of popular resistance seems like a lopsided war with citizens dug into trenches trying to face down Narendra Modi’s juggernaut, the Hindu rashtra that he has fashioned in his own image. The interesting thing about the farmers’ protest against the Central government’s agricultural laws was that for once these political roles seemed reversed. Large-scale mobilization in Punjab and Haryana had seen tens of thousands of farmers mass on Delhi’s borders; it was the Central government and its policemen who seemed besieged as they dug trenches across highways to keep the farmers out of the capital and then hunkered down, hoping to see them off. So, on January 26, when this contemporary take on trench warfare morphed into a more mobile confrontation, it became a political contest tailor-made for television. As sections of the tractor rally turned off the agreed route and headed towards the heart of Delhi, news television’s prime time artists snapped into their flak jackets and became (with one or two exceptions) the ruling party’s war correspondents. Up to that point, it was possible for even a critic of the government to debate the wisdom of this tractor breakaway. While the official parade was over, the prospect of protesting farmers being set upon by tense policemen or vice versa was a worry. You could be simultaneously concerned about a confrontation and sympathetic to the idea of farmers asserting their right to assemble and demonstrate in their nation’s capital. But watching the coverage, it was hard not to take sides. One embedded reporter had been chasing the tractor procession, microphone in hand. Every so often, he told his viewers that it was wrong to describe the demonstrating farmers as protesters because they were actually anarchists or terrorists. Then, greatly daring, he approached one of these anarchists and asked him a question. The strapping young protester ignored the question but took the mike anyway and made the most of his moment on prime time by calling out his political enemies with an audible obscenity. Terrified, our war correspondent snatched the microphone back and rushed away, complaining like an outraged uncle that the protest had been hijacked by “drunkards” and “drug-addicts”. When the tractors reached the Red Fort, the tractor parade seemed to turn into a carnival as jubilant protesters clustered around the August 15 lectern in what looked like the final scene of a movie called Farmers’ Day Out. And then, when a protester shinned up a flagpole and flew the Nishan Sahib, the next day’s headlines practically wrote themselves. ‘Religious Standard Flies on Nation’s Ramparts’ was the general drift of the social media reaction. Opposition politicians and non-feral anchors felt compelled to distance themselves from this unforced error, this own goal, this unpardonable trespass on the sacred ground of India’s secular nationhood. Or words to that effect. ‘I have been a staunch supporter of the farmers’ protests but this...’ was the throat-clearing preliminary to many triangulating tweets. You might have been forgiven for wondering where these hem-raising secularists had been earlier in the day when a massive float featuring a model of Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir had been a much-touted part of the official Republic Day parade. The majoritarian triumphalism of that tableau was staged on the central vista, the stretch of road on which the republic had been celebrated for over seventy years. And yet it went unremarked in the flank-covering stampede to censure the improvised flag-hoisting. But even as you rehearsed these arguments in your head and called out the patent hypocrisy, you realized that there was something decadent about your voyeuristic solidarity. 24x7 news television has made politics a competitive spectacle. If elections are Test matches that go on for days and weeks, this Republic Day confrontation had been successfully turned into a One Day International with a result required by close of play. Given the channels telecasting this particular contest, there was only ever going to be one winner. To rehearse arguments about hypocrisy or to defensively grade the kisan-police skirmishes on some scale of comparative mayhem was to be sucked into a trap. This was the trap of believing that this massive, months-long mobilization against the State, this sustained act of civil disobedience, could be discredited or vindicated in a single day. If there’s one lesson we ought to have learnt during Modi’s ascendancy, it is this: the revolution won’t be televised; reaction most certainly will. Too many of us have become virtuosos in the fine art of frantic spectatorship. Real political solidarity isn’t complicated; it means organization, fund-raising, making plausible arguments in a language people can understand, picking sides in politics as it is, not as it ought to be, and then actually participating. The main reason the sangh parivar runs the pageant on Rajpath today is because it has done all of the above for a hundred years. It is past time that its opponents did the same. The lesson of Shaheen Bagh and the great kisan sit-in on the capital’s borders is that civil society movements that capture the national imagination need both party-political allies and self-evident, ready-made ways in which sympathetic citizens can support them. Without such networking and engagement, even sustained forms of civil disobedience are likely to remain self-limiting, single-issue spectacles, forever being broken on breaking news. There is nothing that the gargoyles who anchor news channels would like better; we shouldn’t oblige them. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-80
