01-07-2021||Chandigarh||INLD expects OP Chautala’s release from Tihar on Friday||Former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, who is serving a 10-year prison term and is out on parole, will reach Tihar jail on Friday to complete formalities for his release, INLD state unit president Nafe Singh Rathi said on Thursday.The Delhi government had last month passed an order granting a six-month special remission to those who have served nine-and-half years of their 10-year prison sentence to decongest jails in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.According to officials, since the 86-year-old former chief minister has already served nine years and nine months of his sentence, he is eligible to get out of prison.Chautala was jailed in 2013 in a teacher recruitment scam case. He was on emergency parole since March 26, 2020, due to the Covid pandemic and was scheduled to surrender on February 21, 2021. However, his parole had been extended by the high court, a senior jail official had said earlier.As on February 21, he had two months and 27 days of jail time left which has been counted as remitted. He will be formally released whenever he surrenders before the jail authority, the official had said last month.“Accompanied by his grandson Karan Chautala (son of Abhay Chautala), former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala will reach Tihar jail on Friday morning to complete paperwork for his release,” Indian National Lok Dal state chief Rathi was quoted as saying in a party statement.“After completing the paperwork and signing the release form, he will leave for his Gurgaon residence,” he said, adding INLD party workers from all over Haryana will reach the Delhi-Gurgaon border to welcome their leader.Claiming that a new era is set to begin in Haryana politics, Rathi said people from all sections of the society in the state are eagerly waiting for the release of the INLD supremo.OP Chautala, his son Ajay Chautala, and 53 others, including IAS officer Sanjiv Kumar, were convicted and sentenced in the case of illegal recruitment of 3,206 junior basic teachers in 2000.They all were sentenced to varying jail terms in the case by a special CBI court in January 2013.Kumar, the then Director of Primary Education in Haryana, had initially exposed the scam after he filed a plea in the Supreme Court. Later, he was also found to be involved in the scam during a CBI probe.Apart from the Chautalas and Kumar, Chautala’s former Officer on Special Duty Vidya Dhar and political advisor to the then Haryana CM Sher Singh Badshami were also given 10-year jail terms.The others who were given 10-year jail terms are Madan Lal Kalra, Durga Dutt Pradhan, Bani Singh, Ram Singh and Daya Saini. Apart from them, one convict was handed a five-year jail sentence and the rest 44 were given four years of imprisonment. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inld-expects-op-chautalas-release-from-tihar-on-friday-276772
01-07-2021||---||Booked for rape, Hooda’s PSO faces suspension||Rohtak, July 1Jitender Kumar, a personal security officer (PSO) of former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, faces suspension after being booked on charge of raping a nurse employed with the Health Department.DSP (Women) Susheela Devi said a notice had been issued to Jitender to join the investigation, adding that the process to place him under suspension had also been initiated.The complainant had alleged that Jitender came in contact with her while his father was admitted to a hospital for treatment of Covid. He started coming to her home to enquire about his father’s health.On one such visit, Jitender allegedly raped her at pistol-point and threatened her with dire consequences in case she revealed the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/booked-for-rape-hoodas%C2%A0pso-faces-suspension-276726
01-07-2021||Five farmers injured||Farmers and BJP workers clash in Ghazipur||Farmers and BJP workers clashed during an event organised by the saffron party. Both sides accused each other of provocation. The SKM said five farmers were hurt.Plot to quell stirYet another plot to quell the stir. They (BJP men) misbehaved with the farmers and damaged vehicles. Such tactics have been employed in the past too. JS Bajwa, SKMAgitation is politicalThe stir is political. Congress is supporting the farmers to malign us. Incidents like rape, murder and disputes with locals have taken place. ML Khattar, Haryana CM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-and-bjp-workers-clash-in-ghazipur-276688
01-07-2021||---||Councillors walk out at Karnal MC meet||Karnal, June 30The General House meeting of the Karnal Municipal Corporation remained stormy following a walkout by councillors, including the Deputy Mayor. They were demanding a progress report on the agendas passed during the past two-and-a-half-year of the current House. After the assurance of Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, the councillors got pacified and joined the meeting except Councillor Yudhveer Saini of Ward15.16 agendas presented, 15 passedIn the meeting chaired by Mayor Gupta and presided over by Commissioner Dr Manoj Kumar, 16 agendas were presented. Except one agenda, the remaining was passed by the House during a marathon meeting.After the death of a councillor, the number of councillors has been reduced to 19. Of them, 14 councillors were present. Surprisingly, the representatives of three councillors were also allowed to sit in the House, who raised the voice of their wards and nobody objected to it. As the meeting started, Deputy Mayor Naveen Kumar along with councillors Yudhveer Saini and others demanded a report card on the progress on the works. They created ruckus and walked out. The Mayor directed the officials to submit a progress report in one month. “We are team members and working for the development of the city. I have asked the officials of the KMC to submit a progress report ,” the Mayorsaid .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/councillors-walk-out-at-karnal-mc-meet-276560
01-07-2021||---||Yamunanagar civic body passes 66 proposals||Yamunanagar, June 30As many as 66 proposals were passed in the Municipal Corporation General House meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Mayor Madan Chauhan.The MC had distributed the agenda of 53 proposals among councillors several days ago. Out of the 53 proposals, 52 proposals were passed, but one proposal was kept pending for the next meeting of the House.Thereafter, with the permission of the Mayor, 14 more proposals were presented at the meeting and all those proposals were also passed. A total 66 proposals were passed at the meeting.Devender Singh, councillor of Ward 4 presented a proposal for the construction of a shed at a cremation ground in Buria town and construction of concrete road leading to the cremation ground at Bhagwanpur village. Calling it an issue of public interest, the Mayor accepted his proposal and announced to give Rs 25 lakh each for all 22 wards for the development of cremation grounds.The Mayor said that shops and kiosks of meat from twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri would be shifted to the meat market. He said decorative lights would be installed from Payara Chowk to Nehru Park, Mateshwari Ahilyabai Holkar Chowk to Bhai Kanhaiya Sahib Chowk, Bilaspur road, Jhandha Chowk and PWD rest house, Jagadhri.The meeting was attended by senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Sharma, Deputy Mayor Rani Kalra, MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh and all councillors.One pending for next meeting||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-civic-body-passes-66-proposals-276561
01-07-2021||---||Faridabad: Retrenchment of contract health workers resented||Faridabad, June 30 Activists and members of the Sarva Karamchari Sangh (SKS), Haryana, a leading government employees’ body, staged a demonstration outside the office of the Civil Surgeon here today in protest against the alleged retrenchment of hundreds of health workers employed on contract basis in the past one year. Claiming that the retrenchment was being done on behalf of contractors, despite the assurance given by the Health Minister and the Director-General for retaining the services of contractual workers., Subhash Lamba, president of the sangh, said while the action on the part of the authorities concerned to hire and fire in such a manner was wrong, he said removal of large number of workers from the job, without any reason was unjustified and had resulted in large-scale unemployment and resentment in nearly every district in the past one year. He said while an 11-point demand letter addressed to the Health Minister was handed over to the Deputy CMO, Rajesh Sheokand, he said the employees would be forced to intensify the agitation if the demand of readjustment or reemployment was not met soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-retrenchment-of-contract-health-workers-resented-276562
01-07-2021||---||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta names committee members, special invitees||Chandigarh, June 30Members of six committees and special invitee have been nominated by Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta for the remaining period of the year 2021-22.According to a press note, Jaiveer Singh has been nominated as a member of the Committee on Estimates whereas Mohammad Ilyas has been nominated as a special invitee on the Public Health, Irrigation, Power and Public Works (Building and Roads) Committee. Mamman Khan and Rakesh Daultabad have been nominated as special invitee on Committee on Education, Technical Education, Vocational Education, Medical Education and Health Services.Similarly, Sita Ram Yadav has been nominated as special invitee on the Government Assurance Committee, Bishan Lal Saini on the Petition Committee and Narender Gupta as Special Invitee for Local Bodies and Panchayati Raj Institutions Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-names-committee-members-special-invitees-276563
01-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: RTA crackdown on overloaded vehicles||In order to deter the plying of overloaded vehicles, the regional transport authority (RTA) seems to have gone on a challaning spree.As per the data procured, the department has issued 2,150 challans, imposing fines of over Rs 5 crore since November last year, of which 357 challans of over Rs 1 crore were issued in the June only (till June 28).An official said besides being a major cause of accidents, the overloaded vehicles damage roads. Many a time, overloaded vehicles overturn on national and state highways, causing traffic jams. Secretary, RTA, Kurukshetra, Urmil Sheokand, said, “Overloaded vehicles pose a serious threat.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-rta-crackdown-on-overloaded-vehicles-276564
01-07-2021||---||Haryana CM launches app for availing govt services||Chandigarh, June 30Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today launched the “Jan Sahayak Aapka Sahayak” mobile app for Government to Citizen (G2C) and Business to Citizen (B2C) services. He also announced a scheme for providing ownership rights to urban local bodies (ULBs) property holders.Single platform applicationAddressing a press conference, the CM said the app was a single platform for availing government services, emergency helplines and other services which included information on tenders and jobs and payment of bills.The helplines included 112 for emergency calls, 100 for police, 108 for ambulances, 101 for fire, 104 for health, 1091 for women, 1098 for children and 1075 for Covid.One can file a complaint on CM Window or request for FIR or an RTI application through the app.For giving ownership rights to property holders, Khattar launched the “Mukhyamantri Shehri Nikay Swamitva Yojana” portal. Those having houses, shops of the municipality on a lease or rent basis for the past 20 years can get ownership rights by registering on the portal.The process of inviting applications will start from July 1. The occupiers will get a maximum of up to 50 per cent discount on the present collector rate.Khattar said, “Since the announcement of this scheme till date, data of as many as 16,000 applicants is available with the Urban Local Bodies Department. As the process of inviting applications is beginning from July 1, this number is likely to increase. Hence a weekly plan for staggering the applications has also been made under which the process of accepting applications would automatically be blocked after 1,000 applications.”On farmers’ agitation the CM said that those who were agitating on the Haryana borders were not farmers.“Farmers have no objection to three farm laws. It (the agitation) is political. Punjab is going for elections. The Congress is supporting them to malign us.”On the Khori Gaon Basti colony, he said 1,400 families residing there were voters of Haryana. “These families will be provided flats in Dabua Colony at the prescribed rate. For this, arrangements will be made so that they can easily get a loan from banks,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-launches-app-for-availing-govt-services-276565
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak PGIMS to get genome test lab||Health Minister Anil Vij said directions had been given to set up a Genome Testing Lab at Rohtak PGIMS. Genome tests of all RT-PCR samples are being done. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-pgims-to-get-genome-test-lab-276566
01-07-2021||---||Former Haryana CM Hooda moves High Court in corruption case||Chandigarh, June 30Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, challenging Panchkula CBI Special Judge’s order vide which charges have been framed against him and other accused.The petition, filed through counsel Arshdeep Singh Cheema, is listed for hearing before Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the High Court on Thursday.Cheema has sought directions for setting aside the impugned order dated April 16 passed by the Special Judge in an FIR registered on April 5, 2017, for cheating and criminal conspiracy under Sections 120-B and 420 of IPC, besides provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Directions have also been sought to acquit Hooda of all charges levelled against him, in the “interest of justice”.The stay on proceeding of the case before the CBI Special Judge, during the pendency of the present criminal revision petition, was also sought||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-hooda-moves-high-court-in-corruption-case-276567
01-07-2021||---||3 murders rock Kurukshetra; 5 held||Kurukshetra, June 30Three murder cases rocked the Thanesar block of Kurukshetra district on Wednesday.While two murders were reported late on Tuesday night, another was reported early in the morning.In the first case, 23-year-old Pawan Kumar was stabbed to death, while in the second case, 43-year-old Amarjeet was found dead in a nullah. In the third case, Ravikant (36) was found dead in his fields.Meanwhile, the police claimed to have solved Pawan and Amarjeet’s cases with the arrest of five accused.In the first case, Vikram, a resident of Lakxman Colony of Thanesar, stated that his younger brother Pawan used to work as a labourer. Around 8 pm last night, they got information that his brother was attacked and was taken to Civil Hospital, where he died.In the second case, Amarjeet (43), a resident of Kirmach village, was found dead in a nullah near Jashan guest house near NIT last night.Hardev Singh stated “My brother Amarjeet had left his house around 4 pm yesterday on his two-wheeler but didn’t return. His mobile phone was also switched off. Later while searching we found Amarjeet lying dead in a nullah near a guest house.”In the third case, Deep Chand of Amin village said that at 2 am, his brother Ravikant had gone to release water in his fields. “Around 4.45 am, I made calls to my brother, but he didn’t respond. When I went to check my brother, I found him dead,” he said.In Amarjeet’s case, the accused and the victim were consuming liquor last night at a guest house and a verbal spat broke out between them, which took an ugly turn and they killed Amarjeet with a knife.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-murders-rock-kurukshetra-5-held-276568
01-07-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Builders violating construction norms: Gurugram residents||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, June 30While the Covid’s second wave kept the authorities busy, there has been a spurt in the construction of floors and flats allegedly in violation of building bylaws in the HSVP sectors here.The new housing trend, which has considerably changed the character of the HSVP areas, has left residents, especially in Sector 14, 15, 17 and 31, up in arms. They have approached the authorities, alleging no on-ground review or a survey, leading to violation of building bylaws and encroachment on common green areas and pavements in sectors.According to the HSVP norms, prior to starting construction on a given plot and eventually getting an occupancy or completion certificate, one has to get a building plan approved. Subsequently, a property gets registered and basic amenities such as sewerage and water connections are provided.It has been found out that “kothis” are pulled down and floors are constructed without seeking the approval and then in alleged connivance with certain officials, the occupancy certificate is obtained.Sources claim there has been an increase of 20 per cent in occupancy certificate seekers of builder floors in the past two months and a majority of them have violated the norms of the covered area ratio.Also, many of them had got constructed more than two flats and even two to three duplexes in bigger plots in Sector 17-A.“Our section has more than 25 new flats constructed in the past three months. We have approached the authorities, seeking action against the owners,” said Suresh Dahiya, a Sector 17 resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/builders-violating-construction-norms-gurugram-residents-276569
01-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Awareness programme by Kurukshetra University||Development programme for teachersFaridabad: JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has been organising an online one-week professional development programme for its newly joined faculty members, which is designed to bridge the gap in quality research and teaching skills that are required to get students' learning outcomes. As many as 60 participants from different teaching departments of the university are attending the programme. The Vice-Chancellor of Himachal Pradesh Technical University, Hamirpur, Prof SP Bansal was the chief guest in the inaugural session. The session was presided over by Vice-Chancellor of JC Bose University Prof Dinesh Kumar.Mobile radio communicationKurukshetra: The third international conference on mobile radio communications and 5G Networks, (MRCN-2021) concluded at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology, Kurukshetra University. Dr Nikhil Marriwala, the organising secretary of MRCN-2021, informed that a total of 250 research papers were received, out of which 49 papers were accepted, registered and were presented during nine parallel sessions in two days, with an acceptance ratio of 19.6 per cent. He also informed that all accepted papers would be published by Springer Nature in their prestigious series "Lecture notes in networks and systems".College principal given farewellKarnal: After a career of 38 years in teaching and administration, Dr Rekha Sharma on Wednesday retired as the principal of Pt Chiranjilal Government College, Karnal. She was also the member of the executive council, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. During her tenure as the principal she propelled the institution towards innovation and reforms through her visionary planning and meticulous execution. She was given farewell by staff members of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/awareness-programme-by-kurukshetra-university-276571
01-07-2021||The slow pace of construction work of the Palwal flyover undertaken to give free passage to vehicles moving on NH 19 has inconvenienced residents as well commuters. Started in 2017 and estimated to be completed by mid 2019||Work on main flyover at Snail’s Pace in Palwal||Jaya Chaudhary, PalwalGlitches in the newly created I-T websiteThe existing website of Income Tax Department, incometaxindiaefiling was closed from June 1 to June 6 for the purpose of simplifying the same. Now, it has been replaced with a new website named as incometax.gov.in. wef June 7, 2021. Despite of the lapse of more than three weeks, the new website is not working properly . In my view, there was no shortcoming in the earlier website and in the name of simplifying, the site has been made more complicated.KB Deswal, GurugramStray cattle feed on plastic wasteDespite the efforts by the district administration and animal activists, there are several stray cattle in the town which are roaming around on the streets and feed on the waste thrown by people. Shockingly, the cows also feed on the plastic waste, which causes choking and proves disastrous for the animal. There is an urgent need for the administration to take note of the excessive use of plastic, despite ban by the authorities.Arun Sihag, HisarPower cuts worry for Badshahpur residentsResidents have been promised power 24X7 in Badshahpu town, but for the past three years, there have been frequent power cuts. The situation has worsened this year. In the area we live in, the power cuts are for 4-6 hours every day. Even if we get power, the voltage is too low and appliances are damaged. We have met the SDO several times, he asks us to adjust for a few days.Vikram Kumar, BadshahpurIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-main-flyover-at-snails-pace-in-palwal-276575
01-07-2021||Rohtak||6,000 bags of mustard missing in Kalanaur, state warehousing corporation in-charge booked||An in-charge of the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation’s warehouse in Kalanaur has been booked after it came to notice that 6,512 bags of mustard were missing from there. An HSWC official said the bags were worth more than Rs 1.5 crore.The accused, identified as Rajesh Grewal, has been booked. He has been missing ever since a committee formed by the HSWC inspected the warehouse on May 2.“The HSWC had procured mustard last year. In all, 8,239 bags should have been in the stock but, when the warehouse was inspected on May 2, only 1,727 bags were found,” said Rajesh Disodia, manager at the HSWC’s office in Kohlawas, Charkhi Dadri.Investigation officer Satish Kumar said, “A police team today took into custody the record pertaining to the mustard stock. The mobile phone of the accused continues to remain switched off. His location cannot be ascertained.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-000-bags-of-mustard-missing-in-kalanaur-state-warehousing-corporation-in-charge-booked-276582
01-07-2021||---||Army Havildar hits on-duty cop in Ambala Cantt, booked||Ambala, June 30The police have booked an Army Havildar after he allegedly hit an on-duty police head constable at the Capitol Chowk in Ambala Cantonment.The suspect has been identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Himachal Pradesh. At present, he is posted with 24 Grenadiers in Ambala Cantonment.As per information, the incident took place on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday when the suspect had a scuffle with head constables Krishan Kumar and Kuldeep Singh of the Regiment Bazaar police post in Ambala Cantonment.In his complaint, Krishan Kumar stated that they were at the Capitol Chowk when they observed that an uncontrolled car was coming from the Military Hospital side. The suspect, who was drunk, stopped his car and started abusing them. He hit the head constable on his face and neck, after which he started bleeding.A case has been registered against Anil Kumar under Sections 186, 332, 353, 427 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code at the Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/army-havildar-hits-on-duty-cop-in-ambala-cantt-booked-276365
01-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana launches AC-on-subsidy plan, ties up with three firms||Haryana Power Minister Ranjit Singh today launched the first-of-its-kind “demand side management-AC scheme” in the state for the domestic consumers to ensure energy saving.Under the scheme, 1.05 lakh ACs will be made available to the people at a discounted price. Those interested would have to apply by August 24.Projected savingsEvery new AC will save 657 units of power annually when compared with an old 3-star AC, resulting in annual savings of up to Rs5,000Load reductionThe move aims at reducing domestic power consumptionThe minister said the power department had tied up with Daikin, Blue Star and Voltas companies that would provide power-saving split ACs (1.5 tonne capacity) at discounted price to the people.Govt incentive to state residents Rs2,000 on a new AC and Rs4,000 on exchange of an old one in urban areasRs4,000 on a new AC and Rs8,000 on replacement of an old one in rural areas1.05 lakh power-saving ACs will also have special discount on price by manufacturersDomestic consumers would also have the option of buying ACs in exchange for old ones. Besides discount and exchange offer by the firms, the state government will also provide subsidy on new ACs.To apply for ACs under the scheme, people can visit the electricity department’s web portal https://acreplacementscheme.uhbvn.org.in.In urban areas, Rs 2,000 subsidy will be given on buying a new AC, while the benefit will be of Rs 4,000 on the replacement of an old AC. In rural areas, Rs 4,000 subsidy will be given on every new AC, while Rs 8,000 benefit will be available on the replacement of an old one. Consumers will also benefit in terms of savings on their electricity bills because of the power-saving ACs.Every new AC will save 657 units of power annually when compared with an old 3-star AC, resulting in annual savings of up to Rs 5,000. These ACs will come with 10-year warranty on compressor and one-year warranty on other equipment. The installation of new ACs will also be free.PK Das, Additional Chief Secretary, Power Department, said the aim behind the scheme was to reduce domestic energy consumption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-launches-ac-on-subsidy-plan-ties-up-with-three-firms-276412
01-07-2021||Faridabad||Aravalli forest land: Protesting Khori residents lathicharged||The police today used force to disperse residents of Khori village who gathered here in protest against the impending demolition of illegal structures on 172 acres of Aravalli forest land.A clash ensued after some youths on being stopped to enter the protest venue pelted cops with stones. The police resorted to canecharge and detained some protesters. Locals claimed 30-35 protesters were injured in the incident.Over 400 booked for holding gatheringFollowing the incident, people staged a dharna, which was joined by BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni.Addressing the gathering, Charuni said the government should ensure rehabilitation of the residents prior to demolition as the colony was more than 30 years old.The leader said, “We will wait for the government response till Sunday before chalking out the next move.” Sources said two of the four persons detained were released later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aravalli-forest-land-protesting-khori-residents-lathicharged-276438
01-07-2021||Vibha Sharma||AI-based grain quality check in Punjab, Haryana mandis||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, June 30Aiming to bring transparency in the time-consuming and subjective method of quality assessment of grains brought to the mandis, the Centre is testing technology to ensure that the process is carried out in a quick manner without any scope for subjectivity or human intervention.FCI officials say pilot projects were initiated this wheat procurement season in some ‘mandis’ in Punjab and Haryana by a start-up working in developing simple solutions for mandi-level quality checks. “It is a work in progress. They are trying to get all quality refractions measured through machines instead of human analysis. The AI-based software is able to identify the refractions but has not reached acceptable levels of accuracy so far. Based on experience, they are working on improvements in the equipment for further testing during coming paddy procurement season,” they said.The current quality-testing is a time-consuming process and also has certain levels of subjectivity. “The FCI is working with start-ups for developing a simple and handy testing equipment which can be deployed in mandis operated by government agencies for foodgrain procurement,” they said.Pilot projectA pilot project was initiated during the wheat procurement season in some ‘mandis’ with an aim to ensure quality assessment of grains in a transparent manner without any scope for subjectivity or human intervention||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ai-based-grain-quality-check-in-punjab-haryana-mandis-276554
