02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana sees 15 more fatalities, 76 fresh cases||Haryana on Friday reported 15 more Covid-19 related deaths, which took the cumulative toll to 9,461, while 76 fresh cases pushed the total count to 7,68,800 in the state, according to the health department’s daily bulletin.The latest deaths include two each from Hisar and Gurgaon districts, it said.Meanwhile, among the districts, Gurgaon and Palwal reported 14 and 10 cases, respectively.The total active cases in the state are 1,293. The total recoveries so far are 7,58,046 and the recovery rate is 98.60 percent.The cumulative positivity rate is 7.63 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-haryana-sees-15-more-fatalities-76-fresh-cases-277268
02-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Honour killing: Rohtak victim’s kin live in fear, all five accused are out on bail||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 1A stone’s throw from the city limits, Bahu Jamalpur came in news when a 20-year-old youth of the village, Ankit Balhara, was battered to death allegedly by kin of a 16-year-old girl in November 2019. His murder allegedly in the name of honour did not end his family’s misery. Nearly two years later, his family members live in the shadow of fear and gloom. The accused are, currently, out on bail.Want justice, not compromiseWe don’t want the case to end in a compromise. We are hopeful that the court will ensure justice to us. Victim’s uncle and complainant2019 brutal murder of 20-year-oldAnkit used to go for coaching classes for competitive exams to the city. The girl, a resident of a nearby village, was known to him and the two were spotted together by the girl’s family.Vazir Singh (50), father of Ankit, said they were yet to come to terms with the tragedy. “We have nothing to look forward to anymore. Ankit not only assisted me in agricultural work but also did all household chores. Simultaneously, he was preparing for competitive exams and used to go to Rohtak city for his coaching. He wished to join the Army,” said the distressed father while sitting alone on a charpoy at his house in Bahu Jamalpur village.While Ankit’s mother prefers to remain confined to the house, his father spends his day sitting on the charpoy outside. Pain writ large on his face, Vazir said the family used to celebrate festivals and Ankit’s birthday with enthusiasm but now all those festivities had become a thing of the past. “Children are the festival of every parent. Parents can be happy only when their children are with them. Ankit has gone, leaving his memories. We pray to God to provide us justice so that his soul can rest in peace,” he added.Vazir said Ankit’s younger sister Kirti, who studies in Class XII at the village school, missed her brother as he always supported, encouraged and guided her.“Kirti is now fulfilling the responsibilities of a son. We want her to pursue higher studies but are worried about sending her away from us. She is all we are left with,” he said.Sub-Inspector Jaswant Singh, Investigation Officer in the case, said all five accused got bail from the local as well as the high court. Ankit’s uncle and complainant in the case Sikander said the crime could have been averted had the accused intimated them about their concern. “Though we are scared for our safety, we are hoping this will not end in a compromise. We are hopeful that the court will ensure justice to us,” he added.One of the accused, when contacted, said their family had made no contact with the boy’s family. “We want law to take its course and there is no question of approaching anybody while the case is on,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/honour-killing-rohtak-victims-kin-live-in-fear-all-five-accused-are-out-on-bail-277057
02-07-2021||Gwalior||Ready to talk to farmers, but not on repeal: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar today said the three central agriculture laws would bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers, and made it clear that the government was ready to hold talks with the protesting cultivators, except on the demand for repeal.Tomar claimed most parts of the country, most of the unions as well as farmers supported these laws.His statement comes a day after BJP workers and anti-farm law protesters clashed in Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, in which some people from both sides suffered injuries.The Agriculture Minister was speaking to reporters during an event at an agriculture university here. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ready-to-talk-to-farmers-but-not-on-repeal-narendra-singh-tomar-277034
02-07-2021||---||Haryana gets 280 constables||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-gets-280-constables-277016
02-07-2021||Aditi Tandon||20 Congress MLAs meet Vivek Bansal, seek ‘due importance for Bhupinder Hooda’||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 1With Punjab infighting yet to be resolved, the Congress on Thursday saw its Haryana front open up as 20 party lawmakers sought organisational changes, along with a due role for former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the state.The MLAs met AICC Haryana in charge Vivek Bansal in the Capital to flag what they described as “an urgent need for course correction and revamp in the state unit to strengthen the organisation”.‘Need for course correction’The MLAs met AICC state in charge Vivek Bansal in the Capital to flag what they described as “an urgent need for course correction and revamp in the state unit to strengthen the organisation”. They are learnt to have expressed concerns that with the electoral base of the Congress depleting across states, the party needed to strengthen its base in regions where it had hopes of victoryThey are learnt to have expressed concerns that with the electoral base of the Congress depleting across states, the party needed to strengthen its base in regions where it had hopes of victory.“Our agenda was to demand that former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda be brought back to the helm of affairs in the state and be asked to steer the party,” a senior party MLA told The Tribune.Asked if by “due role for Hooda, they meant the position of state unit president,” an MLA said, “yes”. The incumbent state chief is former minister Kumari Selja.When contacted about the agenda of the meeting and the simmering anxieties in Haryana, Vivek Bansal said, “The MLAs said that due importance be given to Hooda in the state. We discussed the impending zila parishad elections. The MLAs had some other grievances also which they voiced, but they did not ask for leadership change. They said Hooda be given due importance.”The Haryana Congress reorganiSation has been pending for long with the MLAs noting that they have fought all elections since the 2014 general elections without any organiSation.The lawmakers are learnt to have said that the Congress must act in time to consolidate its gains in Haryana in view of the BJP being on the back foot due to farmers’ agitation.“Since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, we have been contesting without an organiSation in Haryana. The party’s base needs to be strengthened and for that to happen, Hooda must be brought back at the helm,” another MLA said, noting that even in the last state election, the party stopped short of winning the state and wrested 31 segments.Besides, the 20 MLAs also urged Vivek Bansal to ensure that district coordinators being named in the state were not people who had actively opposed the sitting lawmakers. “We said that undermines the elected representatives and does not serve the organiSation well,” said an MLA.Among MLAs who met Bansal today were Aftab Ahmed, Bharat Bhushan Batra, Bishan Lal Saini, Dan Singh Rao, Geeta Bhukkal, Indu Raj, Jagbir Singh Malik, Raghuvir Kadian, Shakuntala Khatak, Rajinder Joon and Subhash Gangoli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/20-congress-mlas-meet-vivek-bansal-seek-due-importance-for-bhupinder-hooda-276834
02-07-2021||Rohtak||Booked for rape, former Haryana CM’s PSO faces suspension||Jitender Kumar, a personal security officer (PSO) of former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, faces suspension after being booked on the charge of raping a nurse employed with the Health Department.“A notice has been given to Jitender to join investigation. The process to suspend him has also been initiated,” said DSP (Women) Susheela Devi.The complainant alleged that Jitender came in contact with her while his father was admitted to a hospital for the Covid treatment. He started coming to her home to enquire about his father’s health.On one such visit, Jitender allegedly raped her at gunpoint and threatened her with dire consequences in case she revealed the matter.An FIR was registered against Jitender, a sub-inspector, under Sections 354, 376 and 452 of the IPC and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at the Women police station in Rohtak. As per police sources, Jitender has been served the notice to join the probe in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/booked-for-rape-former-haryana-cms-pso-faces-suspension-276835
02-07-2021||---||HC stays trial court proceedings against Bhupinder Hooda, AJL||Chandigarh, July 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed trial court proceedings against Haryana’s former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Associated Journal Limited (AJL) in a case regarding the allotment of a plot in Panchkula to the AJL.P’kula plot centre of controversyThe directions by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came after preliminary hearing on two petitions filed in the matter by Hooda and AJL. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and RS Cheema with counsels Arshdeep Singh Cheema and Tarannum Cheema appeared before the Bench through video-conferencing on the petitioners’ behalf.Hooda had moved the High Court, challenging Panchkula CBU Special Judge’s order, vide which charges were framed against him and other accused. Among other things, Hooda had sought directions for setting aside the impugned order, dated April 16 passed by the Special Judge in FIR registered on April 5, 2017, for cheating and criminal conspiracy under Sections 120-B and 420 of Indian Penal Code, besides Prevention of Corruption Act.Directions were sought to acquit Hooda of all charges levelled against him, in the “interest of justice”. Stay on proceeding of the case before the CBI Special Judge, during the pendency of the present criminal revision petition, was also sought.The controversy revolves around institutional plot number C-17 in Sector 6, Panchkula. Allotted by HUDA to AJL in 1982, it was taken back in 1992 as construction was not carried out in 10 years. The appeal and revision filed by AJL against the resumption of plot were also dismissed by HUDA administrator and Haryana’s financial commissioner (town and country planning) in 1995 and 1996. However, when Hooda become the CM in 2005, he allowed the re-allotment of the plot to AJL.After Khattar came to power in October, 2014, an FIR was registered by the state vigilance bureau into alleged irregularities in the allotment “causing huge financial loss to HUDA”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-stays-trial-court-proceedings-against-bhupinder-hooda-ajl-276836
02-07-2021||---||Amid Twitter row, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar joins Koo||Chandigarh, July 1With the BJP government at the national level embroiled in a face-off with the microblogging platform Twitter, many politicians from the saffron party are joining its Indian substitute Koo.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar is the latest to join the Indian microblogging social networking platform, which enables the users to interact in their mother tongue.Using handle @manoharlalbjp, Khattar said, “My first Koo on India’s first microblogging platform! Let’s connect to share our ideas, thoughts and suggestions!”With two million followers on Twitter, Khattar is one of the most-followed leaders from the Haryana region.Welcoming Khattar on Koo, Aprameya Radhakrishna, founder and CEO, Koo, said, “In the last four months, Koo has had the privilege of welcoming the Chief Ministers from nine Indian states on our platform, including Himanta Biswa Sarma (Assam, @himantabiswa), Jairam Thakur (Himachal Pradesh, @jairamthakurbjp), BS Yediyurappa (Karnataka, @bsybjp), Shivraj Singh Chauhan (Madhya Pradesh, @chouhanshivraj), Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan, @gehlotashok), Biplab Kumar Deb (Tripura, @bjpbiplab), Tirath Singh Rawat (Uttarakhand, @TirathSinghRawat) and Yogi Aditynath (Uttar Pradesh, @myogiadityanath). They are all active on Koo in their respective languages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-twitter-row-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-joins-koo-276837
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||15 more die, 85 new Covid cases in Haryana in 24 hours||In all, 15 deaths and 85 fresh cases have been reported in the state in the past 24 hours.Two deaths each were reported from Gurugram, Hisar, Panipat and Kaithal while one each from Fatehabad, Jind, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra.With 127 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the active cases have come down to 1,380. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-more-die-85-new-covid-cases-in-haryana-in-24-hours-276838
02-07-2021||Sonepat||Ghazipur border clash: Register our plaint, Samyukt Kisan Morcha to UP Police||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Thursday demanded that the Uttar Pradesh (UP) Police should register a case on the complaint lodged by the protesting farmers about Wednesday’s incidents at the Ghazipur border.Ghazipur clash It was in fact with the active connivance of the BJP-led government and the police that the BJP-RSS goons were able to organise their provocative event close to the protest site in Ghazipur where farmers have been protesting since December 2020.The complaint of the BJP workers was registered by the police while that given by the farmers has not been lodged. In response to this, protests have been organised in many police stations in UP, demanding that the SKM complaint be registered.Besides, the SKM also raised objections over the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement about the farmers’ movement and condemned it. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ghazipur-border-clash-register-our-plaint-samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-up-police-276839
02-07-2021||---||Eleven IAS, 34 HCS officers transferred in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 1The Haryana Government today transferred 11 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and 34 Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officers.Managing Director (MD) Haryana Seeds Development Corporation (HSDC) and Commissioner Karnal Division, Sanjeev Verma, has been given the additional charge of MD of Haryana Seed Certification Agency.IAS Ajay Singh Tomar has been given the charge of Commissioner MC Yamunanagar and District Municipal Commissioner of Yamunanagar, while Dharamvir Singh has been the posted as Commissioner MC, Panchkula.Commissioner MC Panipat Ram Kumar Singh has also been given additional charge of District Municipal Commissioner Panipat.Akhi Pilani is now SDO (Civil) Bahadurgarh, while Ankita Chaudhary is SDO (Civil) North Gurugram.HK Meena has been transferred as SDO (Civil) Ambala Cantonment and Estate Officer for Land Management of Government Land in Excised Area, Ambala Cantonment.Niraj has been posted as SDO (Civil) Naraingarh, Vaishali Singh is new SDO (Civil) Palwal and Anand Kumar Singh is transferred as SDO (Civil) Safidon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eleven-ias-34-hcs-officers-transferred-in-haryana-276840
02-07-2021||Karnal||Karnal man murdered||A 45-year-old man — Vinod Kumar — was allegedly murdered in his Sangohi village  in Indri block late on Wednesday evening. The accused has been identified as Sonu of the same village. Old enmity is said to be the reason behind the murder. The incident took place around 9 pm when Vinod was walking in a street and he was attacked by Sonu with a log. He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead, said Parveen, victim’s brother. A murder case has been registerd against Sonu and  he is in police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-man-murdered-276841
02-07-2021||---||Bhiwani, Sonepat districts get full coverage under water mission||New Delhi, July 1Bhiwani and Sonepat districts in Haryana have attained complete coverage under the Centre’s Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) on account of which 11 of 22 districts have been fully covered under the scheme.Rs 1,152 cr allocated by Center for schemeand Rohtak.The Centre has allocated about Rs 1,152 crore in the current financial year to the state for the scheme’s implementation. Out of it the first tranche of Rs 257 crore has been released.Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria lauded Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar for getting JJM implemented in right earnest.“These seven districts have already achieved more than 98 per cent coverage,” Kataria said, and added that so far, more than 94 per cent of the rural population in Haryana had been provided with piped drinking water at their houses.The other nine districts, which have all ready attained complete implementation of the scheme are Gurgaon, Faridabad, Ambala, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Panchkula, Panipat and Rohtak.The JJM aims at providing piped drinking water to every rural household in the country by 2024. The aim behind it is to provide 55 litre water/per person/per day.Kataria lauded Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar for getting JJM implemented in right earnest. “Although the Haryana Government has committed to complete the JJM in the entire state by 2022, much ahead of the national deadline, it seems it will achieve the target by 2021”, Kataria said.The Centre has allocated about Rs 1,152 crore in the current financial year to the state for the scheme’s implementation. Out of it the first tranche of Rs 257 crore has been released.Seven more to follow||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-sonepat-districts-get-full-coverage-under-water-mission-276842
02-07-2021||---||Inform state HQs before leaving dists, Haryana DCs told||Chandigarh, July 1 The Haryana Government has asked the deputy commissioners to inform the state headquarters before leaving their districts for official and private visits outside their jurisdiction. An order issued by the Chief Secretary on Thursday asked the deputy commissioners to inform him along with the Chief Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister and the Divisional Commissioner concerned before leaving their stations for any official/private visit outside the district. It noted that “it had come to the notice that many deputy commissioners sometimes spend the nights outside the jurisdiction of their districts without the prior approval of the competent authority”. The government has taken a serious view of their absence from districts, the order added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inform-state-hqs-before-leaving-dists-haryana-dcs-told-276843
02-07-2021||---||Irked over power cuts, Kaithal residents try to enter DC’s home; case filed||Kaithal, July 1Infuriated over the long power cuts in their colonies, the residents of Friends Colony and Janakpuri Colony protested outside the residence of the Deputy Commissioner.The police tried to pacify them, but the police alleged that they tried to enter the residence forcefully.After an assurance from Subdivisional Magistrate, Kaithal, the residents got pacified and went home.Following a complaint by the in charge, Deputy Commissioner’s residence security, the Civil Lines police registered a case against several persons including five by name under Sections 147, 149, 332 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code.In his complaint, in charge Ishwar Singh said that at around 12.30 am on Thursday, some residents of both colonies went to the Deputy Commissioner’s camp office and started protesting over the power cut.“We tried to stop them, but they forcefully tried to enter the camp office. The residents also scuffled with us,” he alleged.The police said that they have registered a case against Jaidev, Jaipal, Shamsher, Manoj Malik, Satish and others.The residents alleged that they have been facing unprecedented power cuts. Even after raising the issue at several platforms, they have not got any satisfactory answer, forcing them to protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s camp office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/irked-over-power-cuts-kaithal-residents-try-to-enter-dcs-home-case-filed-276844
02-07-2021||Gurugram||Rewari body builder to head Asian body||Body builder Amit Swami, a resident of Rewari, has been appointed as the Director-General of Asian Body Building and Physique Sports Federation. Swami is the first Indian to be appointed as the same.  Having been involved in the promotion and nurturing of body building and physique sports for two decades, he has trained many national and international winners and has won many laurels. “I will work towards uplifting and developing this sport and train more sportspersons in India and Asia. I will promote body building among the youth so that it becomes more like a lifestyle for them”, said Amit Swami. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rewari-body-builder-to-head-asian-body-276845
02-07-2021||This is the third time I am trying to draw the attention of the authorities regarding the wrong entry under the Zirakpur-Shimla flyover from Sector 20||Wrong entry on Zirakpur-Shimla flyover from Sector 20||Kanwar Lakhan Bir Singh, PanchkulaCovid norms violated in Ambala marketsAs the number of Covid cases have started decreasing, social distancing norms and other Covid-related guidelines are being flouted in busy markets and other public places. The masks are being used as chin covers instead of covering the nose and mouth. The administration should take strict steps to ensure that the Covid guidelines are followed or else the cases may rise again.Ravi, Ambala CanttLong power cuts a bane of residentsLong power cuts are being imposed, especially during the noon and night time, in urban and rural areas of Yamunanagar district every day. As a result of which people are forced to bear the heat during the day. Besides, this problem is also giving sleepless nights to the residents. Sometimes, the duration of the power cuts is so long that even inverters do not have power backup.Himanshu, JagadhriPumping set chamber in a shamblesThe chamber of the temporary pumping set (TPS) number 2 in Sector 9, Ambala City is badly set up and poorly maintained. It leaks in the rainy season and electric gadgets get wet, which can cause serious troubles for attendants. Above all, there is no attendant who is permanently posted there. It is hoped that the administration will take cognisance of issue and set things right.Gian P Kansal, Ambala cityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrong-entry-on-zirakpur-shimla-flyover-from-sector-20-276849
02-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Golden Jubilee celebrated by commerce department of Kurukshetra University||Online quiz competitionFatehabad: The Department of English, Manohar Memorial Post Graduate College, Fatehabad, organised a national-level online quiz on William Shakespeare's famous play, "The merchant of Venice" and on the exquisite art of "One word substitution" on Wednesday. Around 200 participants from several institutions gave their responses of 50 questions by filling the "Google forms". Principal, Dr. Gurcharan Dass, along with the chairman of college management committee Atam Parkash Batra, congratulated the department, especially the members of the organising committee, Prof Pratibha Makhija and Dr Tripta Mehta for successfully organising the event. E-certificates were also provided to those participants who secured 80 per cent or more.Essay-writing contestKarnal: The women development centre of Dyal Singh College, Karnal organised a national-level essay writing and poetic recitation competition through the online mode. The entries for essay writing competition from students were invited on the topics 'Women education: Asolution for gender inequality', 'Role of women in Indian armed forces' and 'Female Covid warriors: Fighting on both fronts'. In this category, 120 students participated from various parts of the country like Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, and Uttar Pardesh. The topics of poetic recitation competition students were 'Break the silence and stop the violence', 'Women of the next decade: Vision 2030', 'Corona is more dangerous for women'. Thirtythree participants from various states contested in this category. In essay writing competition, Prachi ( IB (PG) College, Panipat), Sarika (KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal), Garima (Dyal Singh College, Karnal) were first, second and third, respectively. In poetry recitation competition Oshi (Hindu College of Education, Sonepat), Kaushal (KL Mehta Dayanand College), Bhupinder (MMU Sadopur, Ambala) were first, second and third, respectively. Sukhmani from AS College, Khanna and Raghav Aggarwal from Dyal Singh College, Karnal won the consolation prizes. Sanjay Kumar, principal, congratulated the winners and announced that all winners would be facilitated with cash prizes.Deputy principal retiresYamunanagar: Dr Ravi Kapoor, the vice-principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College and the head of economics department, retired after rendering a splendid service of about 38 years. In the farewell ceremony organised by the college, principal Dr Major Harinder Singh Kang on behalf of Bhupinder Singh Jauhar of the college managing committee congratulated and gave best wishes to Dr Ravi Kapur.Boys shine in NDA examsKurukshetra: The Union Public Service Commission has declared result of the National Defense Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy (NA) exams conducted by it on April 18, 2021. A record breaking 32 students of Gurukul, Kurukshetra, have cleared this exam. Col Arun Datta, director said a full-fledged guidance and fitness programme is conducted for the boys so as to prepare them systematically for NDA and NA written exams as well as for services selection board (SSB) interviews through mock tests, mock interviews, group discussions and physical testing procedures etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/golden-jubilee-celebrated-by-commerce-department-of-kurukshetra-university-276852
02-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana get 42 judicial officers||No less than 42 judicial officers from Punjab and Haryana will start functioning after undergoing training at the Chandigarh Judicial Academy for a year.In all, 19 officers from Haryana and 23 from Punjab completed their one-year induction training programme at Chandigarh Judicial Academy.Addressing the officers during the valedictory ceremony, Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, patron-in-chief of Chandigarh Judicial Academy-cum-Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, sensitised them regarding the challenges ahead. The officers were exhorted to lead a life of sacrifice, austerity and reclusion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-get-42-judicial-officers-276877
02-07-2021||Shimla||Traffic cop slaps Haryana tourist in Shimla||A video of a Shimla constable on traffic duty slapping a tourist from Haryana has gone viral on social media. SP Mohit Chawla took notice of the video and sent the erring constable to the Police Lines today and also ordered an inquiry against him.The constable reportedly stopped a car. One of the passengersreportedly abused him, provoking a retaliation. The constable has lodged a complaint against the tourist. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/traffic-cop-slaps-haryana-tourist-in-shimla-276804
