03-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||Hisar para athlete to represent nation in Club Throw event at Tokyo Olympics||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 3Asian para games gold medallist Ekta Bhyan, a resident of Hisar town, is set to represent the country in the Tokyo para Olympics games in category F51 of Club Throw event. Ekta, a resident of Urban Estate locality in Hisar, is serving as an HCS (Allied) officer in Haryana. She is top ranked in her category in Asia and was selected after trials in Delhi on Friday.Vowing to keep up her form in a bid to win gold for the country, Ekta said it was a dream for her like every athlete to represent the country in the greatest show of sports. "Hard work has transformed this wish into reality. Now, I am focused on bringing a gold medal for the country,” she said.After completing schooling, Ekta had aspired to be a medical student and also joined coaching classes in Delhi. However, an unfortunate accident occurred on August 4, 2003, when a truck overturned on their cab near Kundli on the Delhi-Haryana border and changed the course of her life. While six other students were crushed to death, she suffered quadriplegic spinal cord injury and has been wheelchair-bound since.However, she did not lose hope and resumed studies after spending several months in hospital. She cracked the HCS examination after completing her graduation in 2013 and was posted as assistant employment officer in Hisar.Her father, Dr Baljeet Singh Bhyan, a horticulturist, stood by Ekta's decision when she decided to turn to sports. A late entrant in the field, Ekta started practising under Amit Saroha, an Arjuna Awardee para athlete in Sonepat in 2014. She later rose to emerge as top-ranked club thrower and won gold medal in the Asian Para Games held in Jakarta. In 2018, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded her emergence in para sports in his 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme and also wrote a letter terming her success "a shining story of human endeavour".The PM had appreciated her fighting spirit in the letter while stating, “You overcame trial and tribulations with grit and courage and made the Tricolour fly high on an international stage. Despite being introduced to the sport at what many may consider a later stage, you not only imbibed it in your life but also excelled in it,” the PM had written to Ekta in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-para-athlete-to-represent-nation-in-club-throw-event-at-tokyo-olympics-277709
03-07-2021||---||Challan filed against woman arrested for trespassing Haryana Chief Secretary's house||Chandigarh, July 2The Chandigarh Police have submitted a challan against a woman arrested for trespassing and deterring a policeman from performing his duty.The police had arrested the 42-year-old woman on April 16, when she allegedly tried to forcefully enter the house of the Haryana Chief Secretary in Sector 7, Chandigarh.As per the FIR, the woman initially tried to enter the house without informing the security guards, who stopped her. Later, she tried to enter the house by scaling the boundary wall.The woman, a resident of Jhajjar district in Haryana, was arrested after a case was registered against her under Sections 448 and 353 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 26 police station.The FIR was registered on the complaint of a policeman deputed at the official residence of the Chief Secretary. The next hearing in the case will be held on August 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/challan-filed-against-woman-arrested-for-trespassing-haryana-chief-secretarys-house-277506
03-07-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to protest against fuel price hike on July 8||Karnal, July 2Members of 67 farmers’ organisations that met under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at the Singhu border today announced nationwide protests on July 8 against the rise in fuel prices.The protests will be held between 10 am and 12 noon “without obstructing traffic”.In a joint statement, farm leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Dr Darshan Pal, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Hannan Mollah, Jagjit Singh Dallewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Shivkumar Sharma “Kakkaji”, Yudhvir Singh and Yogendra Yadav said the Morcha had taken several decisions to step up their struggle against the three farm laws. They claimed there was a plot to defame the movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-protest-against-fuel-price-hike-on-july-8-277574
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||700 posts of principal to be filled in Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today paved the way for filling approximately 700 vacancies of principal in Haryana by vacating stay orders passed two years ago.The Bench made it clear that orders were being vacated with the condition that “any promotion made shall be subject to the final outcome of the present writ petition”.It was stated that there were 849 vacancies of principal as on October 8, 2020, which were to be filled through promotion from among eligible PGTs/lecturer against 80 per cent quota (679 posts) and headmasters against 20 per cent quota (170 posts) as per the Haryana State Education School Cadre (Group-B) Service Rules, 2012 (Amended in 2014). —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/700-posts-of-principal-to-be-filled-in-haryana-277558
03-07-2021||Rohtak||ASI commits suicide in Rohtak||Raj Singh, an assistant sub-inspector with the Haryana police, allegedly committed suicide today by hanging himself. The deceased was deputed as a security official at a local branch of a bank. The police said the cause for the suicide was yet to be ascertained. — TNSYamunanagar3 bodies recoveredBodies of three persons, who drowned in the Western Jamuna Canal near Jaidhar village, were recovered today. The deceased have been identified as Sajid (27), Mustkeem (25) and Nasheem (23), all residents of Jaidhar village. The trio had gone to take a bath in the canal on Thursday afternoon and drowned. — TNSYamunanagarMan booked for rapeA man has been booked for allegedly sexually assaulting an 8-year-old girl in Jagadhri last evening. The victim’s mother said her daughter had gone to a nearby shop to get a bulb holder. However, when she returned, her clothes were soaked in blood. She alleged that Dharambir, who worked at the brick kiln, took her daughter to a secluded place and sexually abused her. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asi-commits-suicide-in-rohtak-277557
03-07-2021||Chandigarh||Highest power consumption in Haryana logged on July 1||With Haryana recording the highest power consumption and maximum power load on July 1, Power Minister Ranjit Singh said the day was historic for the state in the power sector as this requirement had been met by the power utilities of the state itself.The Minister said for the first time since the formation of the state, power consumption of 2576.88 lakh units had been recorded in the state while a load of 11,732 MW was registered.Singh said: “There is no power breakdown in Haryana and power is being supplied to people as per the stipulated time without any interruption.”An advisory had also been issued to all field officers to be alert during the paddy season and ensure uninterrupted power supply to public and farmers. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/highest-power-consumption-in-haryana-logged-on-july-1-277542
03-07-2021||---||Youth found dead at girl’s residence in Karnal village||Karnal, July 2A 20-year-old youth was allegedly found dead at the house of a minor girl at Kalheri village in the Gharaunda block. His body was found hanging from a ceiling fan, said the police.The deceased has been identified as Avnish, a resident of Balhera village. He ran a mobile repair shop at Barast village. Suspecting it to be an honour killing case, his family members alleged Avnish was murdered by family members of the girl, who was his friend.“We have registered a case against brother, mother, and seven other persons under Sections 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC,” said Mohan Lal, SHO, Gharaunda.The statement of the girl was being recorded, he said, adding that the post-mortem examination would be conducted on Saturday. He said the family members alleged that Avnish had gone to the house of the 17-year-old girl, where her family members killed him and later hanged his body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-found-dead-at-girls-residence-in-karnal-village-277530
03-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Two Mahendragarh cops booked for planning to frame SP||Gurugram, July 2Two policemen of Mahendragarh police have allegedly hatched a conspiracy to frame their SP, Chander Mohan, in an abetment case and get him transferred.According to the police, these policemen had initially tried to defame him and have now conspired to frame him in a suicide.A case has been registered against them at city police station under various Sections. The accused — ASI Yogesh and the other head constable Vikas — are absconding.As per the complaint filed by suspended head constable Pradeep Kumar, he was suspended on April 13. After that, head constable Vikas and ASI Yogesh allegedly instigated Pradeep saying that the SP was preparing for his dismissal and asked him to fake a suicide to frame the SP by naming him as the key reason behind it.Pradeep told the police: “Vikas and Yogesh gave me a suicide note and told me to leave a copy of it at home. Then, I should park my car at the railway station and leave a suicide note in the car. Then, I should disappear for 5-6 days, they advised.“When my family members get the suicide note, then a case would be registered against the SP and he would be transferred, they said.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-mahendragarh-cops-booked-for-planning-to-frame-sp-277518
03-07-2021||---||Drug peddlers’ racket busted, 1 held in Kaithal||Kaithal, July 2A CIA team today claimed to have busted an inter-state gang of drug peddlers. Arresting one accused from Cheeka in the district, it recovered 2.830 kg opium worth Rs 3.5 lakh. The accused has been remanded to seven-day police custody.The accused has been identified as Ranjeet Yadav, a resident of Gopipur, Bihar. The accused had brought the contraband from Jharkhand and was going to supply it in Punjab and Haryana, said Vivek Chaudhary, DSP.After getting a tip-off that the accused had been spotted on the Patiala road in Cheeka, the police laid a trap and arrested him.The DSP said he was searched in the presence of Executive Magistrate and the opium was recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drug-peddlers-racket-busted-1-held-in-kaithal-277516
03-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Honour Killing: 3 years on, villagers in Karnal district want to move on||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 2Three years ago in the month of June, the Assandh police had registered a murder case against four persons — the father, mother and two cousins of a 19-year-old girl from Ballah village of Karnal district — on the complaint of a 24-year-youth from Rohtak district. He had alleged that his wife was murdered as they married against the wishes of her family.Following the complaint, the girl’s family members were booked under Sections 302 and 34 of the IPC. The police had also recovered the samples of bones from the ashes of the girl’s pyre. However, a six-month inquiry yielded nothing. The case was cancelled as the allegations could not be substantiated during the investigation. On December 8, 2018, the police filed a cancellation report and the matter was closed.Villagers want to forget the incident and prefer to keep mum when asked about the girl’s death. “The registration of an FIR showed our village in a bad light. No ‘honour killing’ was reported in our village. It was a simple case of suicide and it was proved in the investigation,” said a resident.Another village said, “It is an irreparable loss for the family, but it has overcome it and now living in the village happily.”A villager said apart from the investigation, several rounds of the panchayat were held and nothing came out. In fact, the villagers defend the family saying it was merely an unfortunate incident.SP Ganga Ram Punia said no evidence was found against the accused during the investigation and the case was cancelled.Four were booked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/honour-killing-3-years-on-villagers-in-karnal-district-want-to-move-on-277513
03-07-2021||---||Ambala, Rohtak sweat it out; protests erupt||Chandigarh, July 2While people protested in Ambala over unscheduled power cuts, Rohtak residents rued over the unresponsive helpline numbers of the Power Department.In Ambala, while the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) celebrated its foundation day at Panchayat Bhawan, a group of residents from different colonies of Ambala Cantonment also reached there to mark their resentment against unscheduled and long power cuts.Nirmal, Resident, Sector 11Sleepless nightsPower supply got cut around 10.30 pm on Wednesday night. It was restored at around 2 am. Proper supply of electricity resumed at around 7 am yesterday.The residents of Guru Nanak Nagar, Shivpuri Colony, Tagore Garden and Dayal Bagh said that besides long and unscheduled power cuts, they were suffering due to low voltage too. The residents submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.Residents of different residential colonies in Rohtak are also facing long and unscheduled power cuts as well as low-voltage electricity supply. These have put them to grave inconvenience amidst the intense heat wave.Helpline numbers of the state power corporations remained unresponsive most of the time, adding insult to injury.“Power supply got cut around 10.30 pm on Wednesday night. It was restored at around 2 am, but at a very low voltage. Proper supply of electricity resumed at around 7 am yesterday. We spent a sleepless night,” complained Nirmal, a resident of Sector 1 in Rohtak.Mamta, a resident of Adarsh Nagar (Rohtak), said power supply in their locality remained disrupted for several hours last afternoon.Additional Chief Secretary Power PK Das said that there is no shortage of power in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-rohtak-sweat-it-out-protests-erupt-277500
03-07-2021||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Big potholes pose risk to commuters in Narwana||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Big potholes pose risk to commuters in NarwanaThe main road from Gohana road to the police lines was haphazardly laid with interlocking tiles against the rules by the contractor without realising that sewerage lines had been laid around one year ago. As the volume of traffic was too much, the sewerage pipes just caved in and due to the loose earth the tiles also loosened, creating big holes at a number of spots putting the lives of motorists and pedestrians at risk. The administration should impose hefty fine on the contractor for doing the job so negligently. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaFaridabad residents face water shortageResidents of Sector 21C of Faridabad are also facing water shortage for the past 4-5 days. As claimed the main reason for the water shortage is "faulty motor", but the authority has failed to find a technician to resolve the issue. The issue should be raised at the state or national level since the local MLA/RWA/MCF are not doing anything in this regard. Sunny, Faridabad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/big-potholes-pose-risk-to-commuters-in-narwana-277488
03-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University examinations from July 13||NDRI Foundation DayKarnal: The 99th foundation day of the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) was celebrated on Friday online by the alumni association of Southern Regional Station (SRS), Bangalore. Dr KP Ramesha, head, SRS, briefed about the various activities carried out by the institute over the past 99 years. Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan, Director, NDRI, Karnal, informed that the NDRI was established in Bangalore in 1923 as a centre for dairy education to meet the manpower requirement of India’s dairy industry. The institute headquarters was shifted to Karnal in 1955 and in 1970, the NDRI was brought under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Over the years, the NDRI has developed various technologies in dairy production and processing. About 36 technologies and 16 patents have been developed by the institute. The cloning technique developed at the NDRI has made a revolution in the area of reproduction. Over 7,000 students have graduated under various graduate, postgraduate and doctoral programmes in the past 99 years.Prof to do research at Korea varsitySonepat: Vice-Chancellor Professor Rajender Kumar Anayat congratulated Dr Surjeet Chahal, of physics department of the DCRUST- Murthal for his selection as a research professor, in Korea University, South Korea, which is among the top universities in the world. Dr Chahal completed his PhD from the department of physics with publications in reputed international journals. He will do his research work at the Centre for Photovoltaic Materials on the Sejong campus of Korea University.‘Azadi Amritmahotsav’ seriesHisar: The speakathon club under the mentorship of the training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised the eighth edition of ‘Azadi Amritmahotsav Series’ in form of “online elocution event” to commemorate the 75 years of India’s Independence. This week’s freedom fighters were “Bhagwati Charan Vohra” and “Dada Bhai Naroji”. About 20 students of the university and its affiliated colleges participated in this event. Students spoke enthusiastically and confidently about the life, struggles and sacrifices of “Bhagwati Charan Vohra” and “Dada Bhai Naroji”.Online career, university festKarnal: Pratap Public School, Jarnailly Colony, in collaboration with Campus Coach organised an online career and university fest for its students. The programme was inaugurated by director principal Poonam Navet and introduced by Sudhanshu Sinha, English faculty. Navet spoke on the importance of good career guidance and the need for bridging the gap between expectation of students and the needs of the industry. Gaurava Yadav, founder and CEO of Campus Coach advised the students to be passionate, determined and to persevere.Varsity to frame rules, calendarsRewari: Indira Gandhi University (IGU) authorities have formed a committee to frame its own rules/regulations and calendars. The IGU has been following the rules and regulations of MD University, Rohtak, since its inception in 2013. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said the committee would also give vital suggestions to improve functioning of the university. “Dr Sonu Madan (economics) will head the committee while D. Naveen Piplani (deputy registrar), Dr Vikas Batra (economics) and Anshu (assistant registrar) would work as its members. After completion of this work, the calendar of the university will be presented to the executive council of the university for its approval,” Gakhar added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-examinations-from-july-13-277484
03-07-2021||Karnal||Murder case accused held in Karnal||A CIA team on Friday arrested an accused wanted in a triple murder case of Gagsina village on December 16, 2020. The accused has been identified as Vineet Sandhu of Gagsina village, who was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 in the case. Giving details, a police spokesman said in a land dispute, three persons — Parveen, Dilbag, and Balraj — were shot dead by another group at the village. The police had registered a case. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-case-accused-held-in-karnal-277460
03-07-2021||---||Gang of auto thieves busted in Faridabad, 10 vehicles recovered||Faridabad, July 2The local police busted a gang of auto thieves and arrested two persons in this regard. Ten vehicles, including four tractors, four motorcycles and a three-wheeler auto rickshaw were recovered from the gang.The accused have been identified as Mahesh and Ajay, both residents of Bharatpur district, Rajasthan. The arrest of the accused has led to disclosure of the involvement of the gang in theft of all kinds of vehicles in the region for past many years. The police said the accused used to come to the city in a bus and decamp with stolen vehicles to Rajasthan. According to the police, the breakthrough in the case came after the arrest of Mahesh, who had come to Faridabad on June 24. His interrogation led to the arrest of Ajay from Bharatpur on June 29, the police added. A third accused, Rahul, a local resident, is absconding. The police said they had recovered 26 motorcycles from him in 2016.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-of-auto-thieves-busted-in-faridabad-10-vehicles-recovered-277443
03-07-2021||Gurugram||‘Doorbell gang’ strikes again in Gurugram, robs elderly couple||The ‘doorbell gang’ struck yet again in the city as its members robbed an elderly couple of valuables in Grover colony, Garhi Harsaru, in broad daylight.pretending to look for a house, four men entered the house of an elderly couple and looted jewellery worth lakhs and Rs 50,000 cash from them at knifepoint. They not only thrashed them but also locked the woman in the kitchen after tying her hands and legs. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 10 A police station, but the police are still clueless.This is their second strike in the past 20 days. According to the complaint filed by Ram Dayal Verma (80), the incident took place on Thursday afternoon when he and his wife Malti Devi were alone at home. “It was around 2 pm when someone rang the doorbell. My wife went to open the gate and found four men standing outside who asked for a room on rent. When my wife returned after attending to them and as she was closing the door, one of them pushed my wife and all four masked men forcibly entered the house and closed the door. They were carrying knife and held us hostage after threatening to kill us. When my wife objected, they thrashed her brutally and locked her in the kitchen ”, said Ram Dayal Verma to the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/doorbell-gang-strikes-again-in-gurugram-robs-elderly-couple-277424
03-07-2021||---||Karnal traders oppose ban on entry of 4-wheelers in market||Karnal, July 2Already struggling hard to revive their businesses after the second Covid-19 wave, traders of the CM’s city on Friday opposed the move of the district administration of making Kunjpura Road, one of the busiest markets of the city, a four-wheeler-free-zone between 2 pm and 10 pm daily.Nishant Kumar Yadav, DCMove to decongest marketsOur motive is not to harass anyone, but to help shopkeepers. The step has been initiated to decongest the busiest market of the city. We have also developed various parking lots.At a meeting, traders claimed that the district administration’s move was not feasible as most of their customers visited the shops in four-wheelers only. They claimed it was difficult for people to visit their shops on foot in scorching heat. Urging the administration to ensure proper parking spaces near the market, they said e-rickshaws should also be allowed in the market.Narinder Bambha, chairman, Karnal Veopar Mandal, said the administration had taken the decision in a haste without consulting shopkeepers. “We will approach the DC against this move,” he said.JR Kalra, president, Karnal Veopar Mandal, said customers were not coming to the markets during evenings and their sales had dipped.Mohinder Choudhary, owner of a clothes showroom, said in hot and humid climate, it was not possible for the customers to walk long distances for shopping. He demanded the authorities to allow at least e-rickshaws, so that the customers could come for shopping.He said most of the shops situated on Kunjpura Road sold garments, electric appliances, medicines, grocery and jewellery. At most of the shops, families came together for buying things.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-traders-oppose-ban-on-entry-of-4-wheelers-in-market-277412
03-07-2021||Karnal||Panipat school employee gets stuck in lift , dies||An employee died after he got stuck in the door of a lift at Sanatan Dharam Vidya Mandir in Sector-11/12, Panipat, on Friday. The deceased was identified as Ankit Gupta (34), a resident of Halwai Hatta village, who was a lab attendant in the school.His family blamed the management for delay in calling a mechanic to open the lift. They protested on the school premises. However, the police suspect that the man died as he fell in the gap between the lift door and the wall.Manisha, sister of the deceased, said she got a phone call at 4 pm that her brother was stuck in the lift. She along with other family members reached the school. She alleged that her brother had been stuck since 3 pm, but the mechanic came at 6 pm. The principal and other members of the management could not be contacted.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said they had not received any complaint. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-school-employee-gets-stuck-in-lift-dies-277403
03-07-2021||---||Haryana Employees’ GPF returns uploaded||Chandigarh, July 2The annual general provident fund (GPF) returns for the year 2020-21 of government employees and Haryana cadre IAS officers have been uploaded on the website (www.aghry.nic.in) of Office of the Accountant General (Accounts and Entitlement), Haryana.Giving information about this, an official spokesperson said on behalf of the office, the subscribers have been requested to download their annual general provident fund returns from the website using series code, GPF account number and pin number.The spokesperson said the subscribers who had changed or forgot their password, could login by clicking the “forgot password” option and follow the subsequent steps as prompted to complete the login process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-employees-gpf-returns-uploaded-277402
03-07-2021||---||Covid-19: 15 deaths, 76 Covid cases in 24 hours in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 2With 15 deaths in the past 24 hours and 76 fresh cases, the Covid tally of the state has reached 7.69 lakh.Two deaths each were reported from Gurugram and Hisar, and one each from Panipat, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal and Jind. The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram at 14, followed by 10 from Palwal and nine from Bhiwani. With 148 recoveries, the active cases have come down to 1,293.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-15-deaths-76-covid-cases-in-24-hours-in-haryana-277399
03-07-2021||---||Haryana Govt to develop Saraswati riverfront in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, July 2State Education and Tourism Minister Kanwar Pal on Friday said a three-phase strategy had been chalked out to develop the Saraswati channel near Pipli in Kurukshetra as a tourist destination.The Minister along with Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board Deputy Chairman Dhuman Singh and other officials inspected the Saraswati channel near Pipli on Friday. The minister said, “A strategy has been chalked out to develop the site as the Saraswati riverfront to attract tourists. The government will introduce boating, and develop park in the first phase of the project. An area of around 600 metre will be developed in the first phase.”During the inspection, Dhuman Singh apprised the minister about the work being carried out to clean and increase the water carrying capacity of the channel. Dhuman Singh said, “We have planned to develop the Saraswati riverfront on the pattern of the Sabarmati riverfront. For the first phase, a budget of Rs 3 crore has already been passed by the governing body. A temple of Goddess Saraswati will also be constructed in the second phase.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-to-develop-saraswati-riverfront-in-kurukshetra-277373
03-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court finds fault  with CBI inquiries||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has found faults with the investigations carried out by the CBI before calling for the counselling of its investigation officer.Holding that the premier investigating agency is leaving legal flaws in its probe at institutional level, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ruled that it arrayed only the companies as accused through their director/managing director while furnishing the charge sheet in a number of cases.Justice Sangwan asserted the CBI did so at the first instance without looking into the individual role of a person in the managing director’s capacity. “Therefore, it is directed that a senior officer of the CBI should file an affidavit regarding the action taken for holding the counselling of the investigation officer in this regard,” Justice Sangwan asserted.The assertion by Justice Sangwan came during the hearing of a petition by Amit Katyal for setting aside an order dated March 9 passed by the Panchkula CBI Special Judge in a case against M/s Krrish Buildtech Pvt Limited and others. The petitioner, vide the impugned order, was summoned and directed to face the trial.Justice Sangwan’s Bench was told that the case was registered on January 23, 2019, on the allegation that several coloniser-companies, in conspiracy with public servants, cheated the landowners/farmers during 2007-2012.The state/HUDA issued a notification under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act for the acquisition of 1417.07 acres in eight villages for developing residential and commercial sectors in Gurugram. But the area was reduced to 850.10 acres at the time of issuing a notification under Section 6, as companies or individuals purchased land at throwaway prices.Senior advocates Vinod Ghai and Sidharth Luthra with counsel Himanshu Arora, Kanika Ahuja, Kirti Ahuja and Edward Augustine George argued on the petitioner’s behalf that M/s Krrish Buildtech Pvt Ltd, now Brahma City Private Limited, was arrayed as accused through its managing director while submitting the charge sheet. Some other accused, in fact, were private limited companies or firms nominated as accused through their managing directors. Leaving legal flawsHolding that the premier investigating agency is leaving legal flaws in its probe at institutional level, Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan ruled that it arrayed only the companies as accused through their director/managing director while furnishing the charge sheet in a number of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-finds-fault-with-cbi-inquiries-277363
03-07-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Om Prakash Chautala to move Election Commission over 6-year ban||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 2After his release from jail, five-time Chief Minister and INLD patriarch Om Prakash Chautala is eyeing active politics again.For this, the INLD will formally move the Election Commission (EC) to reduce or waive the six-year ban on Chautala from contesting poll under the Representation of People Act, 1951.Section 11 of the Act empowers the EC “to reduce or remove disqualification of a convicted leader for reasons to be recorded”. Usually, a leader convicted of corruption is barred from contesting elections for six years after release from jail.Abhay Chautala, INLD Secretary GeneralMay contest from Ellenabad seatIf the EC allows Chautala to contest the elections, he will definitely contest from his traditional Ellenabad seat. In fact, there was a precedent in 2019 when Sikkim Chief Minister Prem Singh Tamang’s disqualification was sharply reduced to just a year and a month by the EC.Meanwhile, the Ellenabad Assembly byelection had provided an opportunity to the INLD to move the EC to provide relief to Chautala to contest the polls.In fact, the former Chief Minister’s son Abhay Chautala had resigned from the Ellenabad Assembly seat to express solidarity with farmers against the three farm laws in January 2021 and bypoll is set to held for this segment in a few months.“The EC had allowed Tamang to contest the polls only after 13 months after release from jail. If the EC allows Chautala to contest the elections, he would definitely contest from his traditional Ellenabad seat,” INLD secretary-general Abhay Chautala said.Chautala had made his debut in the Haryana Assembly through a bypoll from Ellenabad in 1970.Party sources said the end of Chautala’s term would provide the veteran leader an opportunity to devote his full time for the revival of the INLD which is passing through its worst crisis.“The ongoing farmers’ agitation against farm laws and anti-BJP and JJP sentiments would provide fertile ground for Chautala to revive the INLD which currently does not have any legislators in the Haryana Assembly,” party sources added.Traffic congestion on expresswayGurugram: Hundreds of INLD supporters gathered at the Gurugram-Delhi border to welcome party supremo OP Chautala, who was released from the Tihar jail on Friday. The supporters throwing all Covid protocols to the wind stood at the border to welcome Chautala’s cavalcade, leading to major traffic jam on the expressway. Supporters shouted slogans, got on cars and waved INLD flags.Section 11 may come to Ex-CM’s rescue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/om-prakash-chautala-to-move-election-commission-over-6-year-ban-277357
03-07-2021||---||Haryana youngster accused of assault on Sikhs in Australia denied bail||New Delhi, July 2An Australian court has refused bail to Indian national Vishal Jood, whose release was sought by Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar as well as Delhi BJP leader Kapil Mishra, Olympian Yogeshwar Dutt and Delhi BJP spokesperson Tejinder Bagga.The hearing on Jood’s case was postponed after the defence sought more time to prepare due to the ‘complexity’ of the case. This means that Jood will remain in prison till August 12, the next date of hearing.The issue has created ripples in Jood’s home state of Haryana where a social media campaign for his release has claimed that he was only trying to protect the Indian flag from being dishonoured by ‘Khalistanis’.At the time of his arrest, Jood was alleged to be living in Australia under an expired visa.Jood has been charged with three counts of affray, three counts of armed with intent to commit an indictable offence, two counts of destroying or damaging property, and assault occasioning actual bodily harm in the company of other(s).These offences carry separate jail terms ranging between two and ten years.Indian diplomats had met Jood in prison on June 17 but it is not known what transpired between them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-youngster-accused-of-assault-on-sikhs-in-australia-denied-bail-277244
03-07-2021||New Delhi||Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala released from Tihar Jail||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was serving a 10-year prison term in a teacher recruitment scam case, was released from the Tihar Jail here on Friday after completing due formalities, prison officials said.The 86-year-old Chautala, who was already out on parole, reached Tihar on Friday to complete formalities after which he was released from jail, they said.Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, "After necessary formalities, he (Chautala) has been released."Last month, the Delhi government had passed an order granting a six-month special remission to those who had served nine-and-half years of their 10-year prison sentence to decongest jails in view of the Covid pandemic.According to officials, since Chautala has already served nine years and nine months of his sentence, he was eligible to get out of prison.Chautala was jailed in 2013 in connection with the teacher recruitment scam case. He was on emergency parole since March 26, 2020, due to the Covid pandemic and was scheduled to surrender on February 21, 2021.However, his parole had been extended by the high court, a senior jail official had said earlier.As on February 21, he had two months and 27 days of jail time left which has been counted as remitted.OP Chautala, his son Ajay Chautala, and 53 others, including IAS officer Sanjiv Kumar, were convicted and sentenced in the case of illegal recruitment of 3,206 junior basic teachers in 2000.They all were sentenced to varying jail terms in the case by a special CBI court in January 2013. PTIINLD supporters welcome Chautala at GurugramGurugram: Hundreds of INLD supporters on Friday gathered on the Gurugram-Delhi border to welcome party supremo OP Chautala who was released from Tihar Jail. The supporters flouted Covid protocols and stood at the border to welcome Chautala's cavalcade. This led to traffic congestion on the expressway. The supporters shouted slogans, got on cars, and waved the INLD flags. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-cm-om-prakash-chautala-released-from-tihar-jail-277193
