04-07-2021||---||No let-up in hot weather conditions in Haryana, Punjab||Chandigarh, July 4Hot weather conditions persisted in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with Gurugram recording a maximum of 42 degrees Celsius.Gurugram, which recorded five notches above normal maximum temperature, was the hottest place in Haryana.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 40.6 degrees Celsius, up two notches against normal limits, while Narnaul and Bhiwani recorded respective maximum temperatures of 40.5 and 39.8 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological Department here.Ambala recorded a high of 38.1 degrees Celsius, up three notches against the normal while Karnal’s maximum settled at 37 degrees Celsius, two notches above the normal.In Punjab, Bathinda recorded a high of 41 degrees Celsius, up three notches against the normal.Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 38.8 degrees Celsius, which is four notches above the normal for this time of the year.Amritsar recorded a maximum of 38.5 degrees Celsius, up two notches while Ludhiana’s high settled at 36.6 degrees Celsius, one notch more than the normal.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 37.5 degrees Celsius, up two notches against the normal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-let-up-in-hot-weather-conditions-in-haryana-punjab-278181
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||GST Intelligence detects Rs 25 cr tax evasion by Haryana-based tobacco maker||GST Intelligence officials have detected tax evasion of around Rs 25 crore by a Haryana-based manufacturer of tobacco products, a senior official of the Chandigarh zonal office said on Sunday.Acting on intelligence-based inputs, tax sleuths, led by Joint Director Balwinder Singh and Deputy Director Navneet Kaushal, carried out raids on the premises of the firm in Tohana in Haryana.Searches were also conducted on the premises of dealers and raw material suppliers in Chandigarh, Kurukshetra and Sonepat, said the official of the GST (Goods and Services Tax) Intelligence, Chandigarh zonal office.The GST intelligence officials had the information that the firm was removing its tobacco products in a clandestine manner to evade tax.During searches, officials recovered unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs 10 crore from the office-cum-residential premises of the owner of the firm and also seized various incriminating documents, said the official.The official said though the investigation of seized records was still underway, the firm has evaded tax to the tune of around Rs 25 crore. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gst-intelligence-detects-rs-25-cr-tax-evasion-by-haryana-based-tobacco-maker-278158
04-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Woman marrying father of 2 not entitled to maternity leave: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3A woman who marries a father of two is not entitled to maternity leave, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has held.The judgment, blurring the distinction between step and natural mother for the purpose of granting maternity leave, is currently under the Supreme Court scanner and will come up for hearing on September 7. Notices have already been issued to the employer and other respondents in this regard.Taking up the plea by a nursing officer, the High Court Bench of Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash observed that Rule 43 of Central Civil Services (leave) Rules, 1972, made it clear that maternity leave could be granted to a woman government servant only if she had less than two surviving children. The bench held that the petitioner-employee was not the biological mother of two children born from the first wedlock of her husband. But she could not deny the fact that she was now their mother. As such, the petitioner already had two surviving children. “Any child born to her is to be considered a third child.”The woman had initially moved the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) for quashing orders whereby her request for maternity leave was turned down and converted into earned leave. Directions were also sought for sanctioning maternity leave by treating the newly born as her first child and to regularise the leave period.The tribunal was told that it was her first marriage, while her husband had tied the knot for the second time after the death of his earlier wife. But the tribunal on January 29 rejected her plea for maternity leave from June 4, 2019, to November 30, 2019, compelling her to move the HC.Assisted by counsel Dhiraj Chawla, the bench asserted that the petitioner’s claim that the child born to her was required to be treated as her first for the purpose of maternity leave was not admissible under the rule.The bench added that the petitioner admittedly got the names of the children born from the first wedlock of her husband entered in the office record and availed child care leave on several occasions.“We are of the considered view that CAT has rightly observed in the impugned order that “...for all practical purposes, the applicant has two surviving children. As such, any child born to her now can only be considered as a third child,”’ the bench asserted, adding that it did not find any perversity or illegality in the impugned orders.Judgment under Supreme Court scannerThe judgment, blurring the distinction between step and natural mother for the purpose of granting maternity leave, is currently under the Supreme Court scanner and will come up for hearing on September 7. Notices have already been issued to the employer and other respondents in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-marrying-father-of-2-not-entitled-to-maternity-leave-hc-277995
04-07-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Must reprobe charges against doctor, says PGIMS counsel||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 3The exoneration of a counsel for the Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak, has raised doubts on a departmental inquiry against Dr RC Siwach, head of the department of orthopedics at the PGIMS, Rohtak. He faced allegations of irregularities in the selection, appointment and award of contracts during his tenure as the Director of BPS Government Medical College, Khanpur Kalan.The counsel has demanded re-investigation by a committee of two retired or sitting District and Sessions Judges. A report by inquiry officer RP Bhasin, former District and Sessions Judge, had given a clean chit to Dr Siwach. It was placed before the UHS executive council during its meeting held on March 5 following which the council decided to drop the chargesheet memorandum issued to Dr Siwach and restore his administrative powers. The UHS, however, received several representations against the decision, following which legal opinion was sought from a senior High Court advocate, SK Garg Narwana, and university’s panel counsel Sanjiv Kumar Aggarwal. They suggested that the UHS executive council should reconsider its decision of accepting the inquiry report.“The inquiry commenced on the basis of a note by the Health Minister. The appointing authority of the delinquent is the state government. Therefore, any inquiry report submitted by the inquiry officer could not have been accepted or rejected by the UHS executive council, rather it should have been sent to the government for an appropriate decision,” the advocates opined.Was given clean chit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/must-reprobe-charges-against-doctor-says-pgims-counsel-277996
04-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Elderly, son found dead in Yamunanagar||An elderly woman and her son, living in penury, died under mysterious circumstances at their rented room in Nanda Colony of Yamunanagar district last night. The deceased have been identified as Harbans Kaur (90) and her physically challenged son Raju (55). According to information, both had been residing here for a few months. They were very poor and people provided them food at their room. According to information, a person of the area came to give them food last night. Finding them dead, he informed others people of the colony, following which the police were informed. Deep Chand, Station House Officer (SHO) of the Farakpur police station, said they had not found any suspicious substance from the spot and it seems to be a case of food poisoning. He said Harbans’ daughter Balinder Kaur lives in Jagadhri. The postmortem examination was conducted at the Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar, and the report is awaited.  The police have filed proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/elderly-son-found-dead-in-yamunanagar-277997
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Posting orders issued for 1 IAS, 2 HCS officers||The Haryana Government has issued the transfer and posting orders of one IAS and two Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officers with immediate effect. Sub-divisional Officer (Civil), Mahendragarh, Saloni Sharma has been posted as Sub-divisional Officer (Civil), Nuh. Among the Haryana Civil Services officers, Sanjiv Kumar, Sub-divisional Officer (Civil), Nuh, has been posted as Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram. Dinesh, Sub-divisional Officer (Civil), Kanina, has been given the charge of  Sub-divisional Officer (Civil), Mahendragarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/posting-orders-issued-for-1-ias-2-hcs-officers-277998
04-07-2021||---||Get new transport vehicles registered through dealers||Chandigarh, July 3 Going a step ahead of the concept of ‘ease of doing business’, the state government has started implementing the concept of ‘ease of living’. In this regard, with a view to making the entire process of vehicle registration ‘faceless’, the government has decided to get the registration of fully manufactured new transport vehicles in the state done through dealers. Haryana Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said now for the registration of new vehicles in the state, dealers would have to apply to the registration authority concerned online with all documents.  The dealer is not required to send the hard copies of documents or files to the registration authorities. The registering authority will verify the documents or details of the vehicles submitted online on the transport portal. The Transport Minister said that at a meeting of the Haryana Cabinet held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on June 15, the government had taken the decision to get the registration of fully manufactured new transport vehicles in the state done through dealers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/get-new-transport-vehicles-registered-through-dealers-277999
04-07-2021||---||Family creates ruckus at hospital||Panipat, July 3Enraged over the death of an employee of Sanatan Dharam Vidya Mandir School in Sector 11/12 here, family members of the deceased created a ruckus in the general hospital and also thrashed the members of the school management during the postmortem of the deceased.The Chandnibagh police have lodged a case against the school management on the complaint of the brother of the deceased and began a probe into the matter.Ankit Gupta (34), a resident of Halwai Hatta village, who was a lab attendant in the school, had died after he got stuck in the door of a lift on the school premises.Amit Gupta, brother of the deceased, in his complaint to the police, said his brother Ankit was an employee in the school for the past nine-10 years.He reached the school after getting information about his brother. School chairman Satish Chandra and Principal Sabita Chaudhary told him about the death of his brother. When he called the chairman and the principal, they ran away from the school, he alleged.He further said that when they demanded the CCTV footage of the incident, they refused to show and give it. He also alleged that the school management’s lethargic attitude was responsible for his brother’s death.Following his complaint, the Chandnibagh police have lodged a case against school management under Sections 304-A of the Indian Penal Code.Death in school lift||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/family-creates-ruckus-at-hospital-278000
04-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||2 yrs on, Sonepat youth awaits justice for wife’s brutal murder||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, July 3Ritu, a resident of Khandrai village, was allegedly killed by her parents on September 7, 2019, for marrying against their wishes. Since, her husband Arjun (23) of Garhi Hakikat village has kept silence and awaiting justice for his wife.“I want justice for my wife Ritu and I believe in law. They (her parents) will have to face for what they did to her,” says Arjun.“We had accepted Ritu, but her family members were against her marriage with Arjun. They killed their daughter and even attempted to kill my son,” says Arjun’s mother Sunita.She adds that although the culprits are behind the bars, they always fear for their son’s life and other members of the family.Mehar Singh, father of Arjun, said, “We don’t want anything, whatever the law decides, will be acceptable to us.”Arjun had been living at his maternal uncle’s house at Khandrai village and pursuing a course from the local ITI when he fell in love with Ritu, who lived in their neighbourhood. After a year of their relationship, they decided to tie the knot and eloped from their house in July 2019. On August 8, they got married in a temple at Sector 43 in Chandigarh and came back to Arjun’s home.Recalling the incident, he said Ritu asked him to take her to Gohana, where her brother met them. Her mother and sister also arrived there and took her away.After some time, her brother Sandeep along with two of his friends came to him on a motorcycle and told him that they had killed Ritu. They also tried to kill him with a sharp-edged weapon, but he managed to escape.As per the police, the girl’s neck was slit with a sharp-edged weapon. Her body and neck were found lying separately in a room at her native place. The police booked her father Umed Singh, brother Sandeep, his friends Ajit, alias Jita, and Bunty,mother Samo Devi and sister Anjali under Sections 302, 120B and 34 of the IPC.Later, Samo Devi and Anjali were excluded from the case during investigations. The police filed a chargesheet in the case on November 15, 2019. The case is pending in a Sessions Court and all accused are currently in jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-yrs-on-sonepat-youth-awaits-justice-for-wifes-brutal-murder-278001
04-07-2021||---||Not paid for 6 months, 117 employees on verge of starvation||Faridabad, July 3As many as 117 employees of the Panchayat Department, who were shifted to the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) in January this year, are awaiting their honorarium for the past six months.These employees work as safai workers, tubewell operators and village chowkidars in 24 villages of the district, which were included in the MC limits in January.Following this move, the honorarium ranging between Rs 4,000 and Rs 12,000 per month, which used to be released by the Panchayat Department, was stopped. The amount is now supposed to be released by the MCF.“I have not been paid honorarium for the past six months. My family is on the verge of starvation,” says Manoj Kumar (30), a safai karamchari at Mirzapur village.He said the inclusion of the 24 villages in the MCF limits had added to their miseries. Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarva Karamchari Sangh, has attributed the delay in the release of the honorarium to administrative hurdles. He said the record of the employees was yet to be transferred to the MCF.“If the authorities failed to release the honorarium by July 7, we will launch an agitation from July 8,” said Naresh Shastri, president of the Nagarpalika Karamchari Sangh. However, a senior official of the MCF said the issue was under consideration and the matter was being taken up with the district administration for the speedy transfer of the employees’ record to the civic body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/not-paid-for-6-months-117-employees-on-verge-of-starvation-278002
04-07-2021||---||Charuni expels activist Navdeep, father for fund misappropriation||Ambala, July 3Taking disciplinary action against farmer leader Jai Singh and his son Navdeep, who was hailed as hero for turning off a water cannon last year, the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Charuni, has expelled them.Following a verbal duel between Jai Singh and union leaders during a march in Panchkula on June 26, a five-member committee was constituted to take action in this matter. The committee has also accused Jai Singh and his son of misappropriating funds.In a video released by the committee late last night, BKU’s (Charuni) Yamunanagar president Sanju Gundiana said, “Some union activists attempted to break the barricades in Panchkula on June 26. Jai and Navdeep had also abused the union leaders during the march. To investigate the matter, a five-member committee was formed which sought explanation from Jai Singh and Navdeep.Gundiana said Navdeep didn’t appear and Jai failed to give any satisfactory reply. “They were given warning twice in the past too. Besides this, Jai Singh was also asked to give the details of donations he collected (for the agitation) but he failed to do so. The committee has decided to expel Navdeep and Jai Singh from the union,” he said.Meanwhile, a section of farmers has come out in support of the duo. They say both had done a lot for the agitation and they were getting popular. The matter could have been resolved.Jai Singh said, “We will continue to support the farmers’ struggle. I have given all the details of donations received and other things.”On the other hand, Navdeep said, “There were some heated arguments and we accept it. All the allegations regarding the misuse of funds are baseless. The matter will be resolved soon.”BKU, Charuni, chief Gurnam Singh said, “The committee, which was formed to investigate the issue, has given its decision and they have been expelled.”Spat during Panchkula marchBJP resents Charuni’s remarksKarnal: BJP district body, led by the district president Yoginder Rana in the presence of the Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia, passed a resolution against the BKU state president Gurnam Singh Charuni for his remarks against the CM Khattar, in which he allegedly referred to the CM as “Pakistani”. District president and the MP said the CM’s native village was Nidana in Rohtak district and his father Harbans Lal was a farmer. The CM was serving the state by taking all sections of society together, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/charuni-expels-activist-navdeep-father-for-fund-misappropriation-278003
04-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||Hisar girl to represent nation in Tokyo paralympics||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 3Asian gold medallist Ekta Bhyan, a resident of Hisar, is set to represent the country in the Tokyo paralympic games in category F51 of the club throw event.Ekta, a resident of Urban Estate locality in Hisar, is serving as an HCS (allied) officer in Haryana. She ranks top in her category in Asia. She was selected after the trials in Delhi on Friday.Vowing to keep up her form to win a gold, Ekta says that it has been her dream, like every athlete, to represent the country in the greatest show of sports on the Earth. “Hard work has transformed this wish into reality. Now, I am focused in the pursuit of a gold medal for the country,” she says.After completing schooling, Ekta aspired to be a medical student and also joined the coaching class in Delhi. However, a mishap on August 4, 2003, involving a truck overturning on a vehicle she was travelling in near Kundli on the Delhi-Haryana border changed the course of her life.While six other students were crushed to death, she suffered quadriplegic spinal cord injury and became wheelchair bound ever since.Not losing hope, she resumed studies after spending several months in a hospital. She cracked the HCS examination after completing her graduation in 2013 and got herself posted as an assistant employment officer in Hisar.Her father, Dr Baljeet Singh Bhyan, a horticulturist, has stood by the decision of Ekta when she decided to turn to sports. A late entrant in the sports, Ekta started practicing under Amit Saroha, an Arjuna awardee para-athlete, in Sonepat in 2014.She later rose to emerge as the top ranked club thrower event and won the gold medal Asian Para Games in Jakarta.In 2018, PM Narendra Modi lauded her emergence in para sports in his Mann Ki Baat radio programme and also wrote a letter terming her success ‘a shining story of human endeavour’.“You overcame trial and tribulations with grit and courage and made the tricolour fly high on an international stage. Although you were introduced to the sport at what many may consider at a later stage, you not only imbibed it in your life but also excelled in it,” the PM wrote to Ekta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-girl-to-represent-nation-in-tokyo-paralympics-278004
04-07-2021||Our Correspondent||In Gurugram, 3 club owners booked for norms violations||Gurugram, July 3Three club owners at the MG road have been booked for keeping their premises opened beyond 10 pm. Three teams of the Gurugram Sector 29 police station took action last night when they conducted a surprise check.A team, led by head constable Pradeep Kumar, raided Diamond Club, located in Sahara Mall, at 10.30 pm. The club was full of customers, who fled after seeing the cops. An FIR has been registered against club owner Nitesh.Another raid was conducted by ASI Satish Kumar in King Club located in JMD Regent Arcade at 11 pm and where a party was going on.The police booked its owner Harkesh who also fled along with customers. The same team also checked Elite Club in same JMD Regent Arcade at 11 pm. Owner Shyambir has been booked.“The club operators are disobeying the guidelines. Action will be taken as per the law,” said Aman Singh, SHO, Sector 29 police station.Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and Sections 51-B of the Disaster Management Act have been slapped.Fourth round of sero survey in KurukshetraKurukshetra: A team of the ICMR on Saturday started the fourth round of sero survey in the district to check how many people in a population have been infected with Covid. Kurukshetra is among 70 districts across the country which was selected for the sero survey. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-gurugram-3-club-owners-booked-for-norms-violations-278005
04-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||Govt gives nod to prosecution of accused||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 3Nearly four years after the alleged assault on a youth near a local mosque, the state government has given approval for the prosecution of the accused in the case.Sources said the police had filed a charge sheet against the accused, who belonged to the Bajrang Dal. However, the trial could not be initiated as the sanction was required from the Home Department. The matter is being heard in the court of Judicial Magistrate First Class Manoj Dahiya.The incident took place on July 11, 2017 when a group of Bajrang Dal activists were taking out a march in protest against an attack on Amarnath pilgrims in Kashmir in 2017. They allegedly slapped and manhandled a youth near the mosque after he refused to chat ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’.A video of the incident had also gone viral on social media.The police registered a case under Sections 147, 149, 295-A, 153A, 323, 506 of the IPC and started investigations.Later, seven accused were identified during the investigation. They were Kapil Vats; Bhupender; Joginder; Mohar Singh; Amar; Anil Kumar and Prem Sharma. While Kapil Vats and Anil Kumar were arrested, others could not be arrested.The police, however, completed its inquiry and filed a challan (charge sheet) in the court on July 22, 2017. However, the trail could not begin in the absence of the sanction for prosecution from the state government.Advocate Vikram Mittal, appearing on behalf of the complainant, said Section 295A of the IPC (hurting the religious feelings) required permission under Section 196 of the CrPC from the state Home department for the start of prosecution. Now, the trial was likely to begin soon.Currently, Kapil Vats and Anil Kumar are out of jail on regular bail while five others are on anticipatory bail. The court has also dismissed their revision petition for seeking a stay on the summons in the case.Attack on Muslim youth||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-gives-nod-to-prosecution-of-accused-278006
04-07-2021||---||Forester suspended for not acting on mining complaint||Yamunanagar, July 3A forester was suspended for allegedly not taking action on a complaint lodged against illegal mining on forest land.A departmental inquiry was also marked against forester Dinesh Yadav, who was posted in Kot block falling under Kalsia forest range, Chhachhrauli, Yamunanagar district. He was transferred from Yamunanagar district to Kurukshetra district.“Forester Dinesh Yadav was suspended and transferred to Kurukshetra district from Yamunanagar district,” said Sushil Kumar Sharma, Range Officer of Kalsia forest range, Chhachhrauli.Manga Ram of Jaitpur village had lodged a complaint with forester Dinesh Yadav alleging that illegal mining was being undertaken on forest land in Gaurabani forest area (a part of Kot block) falling under Jaitpur.But when the forester didn’t take any action on his complaint, he sent a complaint to senior officers of the Forest Department in this connection.When the matter came to the notice of district-level officers of the Forest Department, they sent a report against the forester to higher authorities of the department.Sources said that taking serious note of the matter, S Narayanan, Chief Conservator of Forests, Haryana, suspended forester Dinesh Yadav on June 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/forester-suspended-for-not-acting-on-mining-complaint-278008
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||Soon, 260 PGTs for Sanskriti schools||Gang of fraudsters busted in GurugramGurugram: The police have busted a gang of fraudsters, who had been running a racket of fake death certificates and claiming insurances, and arrested four persons. The gang had also targeted Manav Rachana University Director Dr Prashant Bhalla, but the attempt was foiled. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-260-pgts-for-sanskriti-schools-278009
04-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Ahead of Khattar visit, farmers remove BJP flag, hoist Triclour||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 3The situation remained tense on the Railway road here ahead of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit here this afternoon, where he was scheduled to chair a district-level party meeting.Some farmers protested against the BJP flags at Jassa Singh Ramgaria Chowk on the railway road. They not only removed these, but also hoisted the Tricolour there. Two farmers were detained, but after opposition by other farmers, they were released.“We want to ask the administration whether the National Flag is more important or the BJP’s,” said Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, member, state core committee, BKU (Charuni).On the farmers’ issue, the CM said that the government was always ready for dialogue, but dialogues on conditions were not possible.The CM exhorted the office-bearers of the party to take the policies of the party and the government to the public. He referred the workers as the backbone of the party.On former CM’s OP Chautala’s release from jail, he said it would have no impact. On petrol and diesel prices, he said these depended on the international market and were not in the hands of the government. The CM also reviewed a project on the beautification of flyovers under the Smart City project at Sector-6 flyover, where he planted a sapling.Khattar dedicates dialysis unit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-khattar-visit-farmers-remove-bjp-flag-hoist-triclour-278011
04-07-2021||---||21 cases lodged for 'illegal sale' of land in Khori village||Faridabad, July 3The police have registered 21 cases in connection with the "illegal sale" of land at Khori village in the Aravalli area. It comes following the demand raised by local residents and leaders of various political parties, who sought legal action against officials and property dealers, who sold the land to innocent buyers and hid the fact that it came under the PLPA Act.Some of the accused have been identified as  Anangpal; Satish; Aman; Kalu; Tejvir; Taslim; Gaurav; Tejpa; Babu; Master; Kallam; Guruji and Parvin. No arrest has been made so far.The police said the investigation was underway and the accused would be arrested after the identification process was over.However, describing it as a face-saving exercise, MLA (NIT) Neeraj Sharma  asked who would identify and book administrative officials, who failed to check illegal constructions in the protected Aravalli belt for the past three decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21-cases-lodged-for-illegal-sale-of-land-in-khori-village-278014
04-07-2021||---||30,000 families with lowest income identified||Chandigarh, July 3To ensure that every family, identified under the state government’s ambitious Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana (MMAPUY), gets the employment of its choice, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar directed the administrative secretaries appointed to look after the implementation of the MMAPUY to constitute a joint team of six departments for reaching out to each family at grassroots level.The Chief Minister, while presiding over a review meeting with the administrative secretaries, said the joint team should include one member each of six main departments, namely Development and Panchayats Department, Urban Local Bodies Department, Haryana Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department and Rural Development Department.Every department, which has been included in this team, should make a comprehensive list of the major schemes before visiting the grassroots level, ensuring better awareness among the masses, directed the CM.The CM said so far under the MMAPUY, 30,000 poor families, having lowest income, had been identified in the state on the basis of income verification and their data had already been shared with the departments concerned, now dedicated efforts should be made for personally reaching out to the members of these families. He said for this year, the state government had set a target of financial uplift of one lakh such poor families having the lowest income.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/30-000-families-with-lowest-income-identified-278022
04-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Faridabad, Charkhi Dadri govt schools see 12% rise in admissions||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 3Government schools across Haryana have recorded 7 per cent more Class I-XII admissions compared to last year. The top achieving districts are Faridabad and Charkhi Dadri with an increase of 12 per cent, followed by Panchkula at 10 per cent.Compared to 21.78 lakh students in the previous academic session, 23.35 lakh students have enrolled themselves up to July 2 this year. Around 1.57 lakh more students have sought admissions in government schools this year even as the admission process is still underway.Rewari is at the bottom with 2 per cent admissions while the count is 4 per cent for Rohtak, Sirsa and Mahendragarh districts.Faridabad had a total of 1,08,748 students last year, a count that has gone up to 1,22,005 this year, an increase of 13,257. The corresponding figures for Charkhi Dadri are 35,091 and 39,315, a rise of 4,224 students. Similarly, Panchkula saw an increase of 5,948 students.With 9 per cent increase each, Nuh has registered 17,334 more admissions, Karnal 10,912, Kaithal 10,158 and Bhiwani 9,102, said sources.Sources said the state authorities had given every district a target to increase the number of students in government schools. Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh were asked to ensure at least 10 per cent more admissions. Among the three, Jhajjar has registered the highest increase of 6 per cent.Rewari had a total of 63,978 students last year while the number has now risen to 65,535, up 1,557. Mahendragarh has registered an increase of 2,208, Rohtak 2,608 and Sirsa 5,129, the sources said. Jhajjar DEEO Diljeet Singh said the count had gone up following door-to-door surveys and motivation programme for parents conducted by schoolteachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-charkhi-dadri-govt-schools-see-12-rise-in-admissions-277859
04-07-2021||Hisar||Kuldeep Bishnoi's son Bhavya, actress Mehreen Kaur Pirzada call off engagement||Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi's son Bhavya Bishnoi and actress Mehreen Kaur Pirzada have called off their engagement.Bishnoi, whose father Kuldeep Bishnoi is a former MP and is currently an MLA from Adampur, and Pirzada made separate announcements on social media.Bhavya Bishnoi contested unsuccessfully from Hisar in the 2019 General Election. His grandfather Bhajan Lal has been chief minister of the state. The two had been engaged to marry since March this year.Mehreen Kaur Pirzada is a Bathinda-born Indian model and actress who has appeared in Telugu and Tamil-language films. Pirzada made her debut in 2016 with the Telugu film ‘Krishna Gaadi Veera Prema Gaadha’, in which she played the character of Mahalakshmi.In March 2017, she debuted in Hindi cinema with the movie ‘Phillauri’ alongside Anushka Sharma, Diljit Dosanjh and Suraj Sharma and her Kollywood debut with ‘Nenjil Thunivirundhal’ directed by Suseenthiran in 2017. She also appeared in Naga Shaurya-starrer ‘Ashwathama’, which released in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kuldeep-bishnois-son-bhavya-actress-mehreen-kaur-pirzada-call-off-engagement-277773
04-07-2021||Chandigarh||After surplus rains in early stages, monsoon over Punjab, Haryana, Himachal slips into the red||After having experienced surplus rains in the early stages of the season this year, the sought western monsoon over the region has slipped into the negative zone. Cumulative rain is less by 17 per cent in Himachal Pradesh, 12 per cent in Punjab, and 8 per cent in Haryana.According to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the hill state of Himachal received 96.1 mm rain from June 1 to July 3 against the normal of 115.5 mm for this period.The agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana received  54.3 mm and 52.2 mm rain, respectively for the aforementioned period as compared to the normal of 62 mm and 56.5 mm for these two states.The monsoon, which had arrived over northwest India about 15 days ahead of its normal date of onset, was surplus by 14 per cent in the region during the month of June. IMD data shows that the region had received 85.7 mm rain against the normal of 75.3 mm last month.Though monsoon had made good progress in its early phase, it later weakened. It has covered most of the country except parts of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, and IMD expects it will continue to elude the region for a few days more, although some areas in north India experienced light rains and storms over the past 24 hours.This has been attributed to the impact mid-latitude westerly winds and the absence of formation of low-pressure system over North Bay of Bengal as well as an unfavourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO), which is a major fluctuation in tropical weather due to an eastward-moving pulse of cloud and rainfall near the equator that typically recurs every 30 to 60 days.The IMD has said that spatial distribution suggests that below normal to normal rainfall is likely over many areas of northwest India during the month of July. Dry westerly and southwesterly winds from Pakistan to northwest India at lower levels can also bring in short spells of heatwave conditions over some parts of Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-surplus-rains-in-early-stages-monsoon-over-punjab-haryana-himachal-slips-into-the-red-277740
