05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab||Hot weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Monday, with Gurgaon sizzling at 41.8 degrees Celsius, and the temperatures expected to further rise in the region during the next two to three days.Gurgaon, which recorded four notches above normal maximum temperature, was the hottest place in Haryana.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 41.7 degrees, three notches above normal limits, while Narnaul and Bhiwani recorded the maximum temperatures of 41 degrees and 38.9 degrees Celsius, respectively, according to the meteorological department here.Ambala recorded a high of 39.1 degrees, up three notches against normal, while Karnal’s maximum settled at 37.8 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda recorded a high of 40 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal.Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 39.2 degrees Celsius, it said.Amritsar recorded a maximum of 38.4 degrees, while Ludhiana’s high settled at 37.2 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 38.2 degrees Celsius, up three notches against normal.According to the meteorological department, no significant rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during the next two to three days with only possibility of isolated light rain or thunderstorm.“Maximum temperature is likely to rise by about 2 degrees Celsius from prevailing temperatures during this period, leading to development of heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over both states,” said the MeT department.It further said that rainfall activity is likely to again start from July 8 and light to moderate rain at few to many places in the two states is likely during July 8-10.“The moist easterly winds in lower level from Bay of Bengal are likely to establish gradually over parts of eastern India from July 8 onwards. It is likely to spread into northwest India covering Punjab and north Haryana by July 10,” said the MeT department.“Accordingly, the southwest monsoon is likely to advance over remaining parts of west Uttar Pradesh, some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi around July 10,” it said.Notably, after hitting parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 13, the southwest monsoon has played truant and a mostly dry spell has prevailed in the two states, including Chandigarh, during the past fortnight. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hot-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-278649
05-07-2021||Vijay Mohan||Monsoon continues to play truant in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal; little possibility of rain in next 5 days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The monsoon over the northern region of the country continues to play truant, with little rain being expected in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Himachal Pradesh over the next few days.“Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab during next 4-5 days,” a bulletin issued by IMD today morning said.“Hence, subdued rainfall activity is very likely to continue to prevail over Northwest, Central and Western parts of Peninsular India during next 4-5 days. Isolated/scattered thunderstorm activity accompanied with lightning and rainfall is also likely over these regions during this period,” the bulletin added.Starting with being significantly surplus in the region at the start of the season, the monsoon slipped into the red by the end of June. IMD data shows that from July 1 to July 4, rains have been deficient by 68 per cent in Punjab, 48 per cent in Haryana and 45 per cent in Himachal Pradesh.The Northern Limit of Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to lie along the latitude 26 degrees north and the longitude 70 degrees east, passing through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. This is roughly the same as it was about 10 days ago.Over the past 24 hours, thunderstorms were also observed, among other places across the country, at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Jammu and Kashmir, according to IMD.The maximum temperature was above normal by 1.6 to 3 degrees Celsius at most places over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and at many places over Himachal Pradesh, On the other hand, the minimum temperature was below normal by 1.6 to 3 degrees Celsius at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and at a few places over Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh.The weatherman has predicted that maximum temperatures over Northwest India may rise by 2-3 degrees Celsius during the next 2 days and no significant change is likely thereafter. Also, no heatwave conditions are likely over the region during the next 5 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-continues-to-play-truant-in-punjab-haryana-himachal-little-possibility-of-rain-in-next-5-days-278571
05-07-2021||Mumbai||Haryanvi singer Renuka Panwar opens up on her song crossing 1 bn views||The 19-year-old Haryanvi singer Renuka Panwar has become a social media sensation thanks to her song "52 gaj ka daman" garnering over a billion views on YouTube in less than a year.Talking about the same, Renuka said: "It feels nice and I feel proud of my team. This is the first time that a song sung by a simple Haryanvi girl like me has crossed one billion views on YouTube. It is my honour to be the one who pioneered this."Hailing the song as a "life-changing opportunity", the singer added: "I have recorded many other songs after '52 gaj ka daman' such as 'Unchi haveli' and 'Balayen', but 52 gaj has been a life-changing opportunity for me."Talking about how her musical journey started, Renuka said: "I started young. My brother Vicky Panwar played a big role in my musical journey. In fact, my entire family was supportive of my career in music. I had first sung a song named 'Sun soniyo' composed by Karan Panchal. My first ever duet was a Hindi song." However, the youngster who grew up in Khekra, Uttar Pradesh, had to face her share of obstacles while trying to pursue her dream.She recalled: "When my brother used to take me to rehearsals and recordings, people in my village used to look down upon us. They would say this field is not good for girls and it is better if my parents focus on giving me proper education rather than raising me like a future singing star."To be fair, I have met some really amazing people in this industry. For example, Mukesh Jaji bhai, the lyricist of '52 gaj ka daman', treats me like his sister. Diler Karakiya bhai is like a brother to me. Sapna ma'am and the Desi Records team have been a big support as well." Now that life has changed, Renuka is extremely popular on social media too, with an Instagram family of over 400k! "I request all to keep up their support. Their following and love means a lot to me. My Insta Family loves my voice. They are happy when my new songs come out and cheer me with their enthusiasm. I hope this family expands." Any plans of venturing into Bollywood playback singing? "This has always been a dream of mine. I wish to work someday with Arijit (Singh) sir and Jubin Nautiyal sir. If God wills, this too shall come true," concluded the singer.--IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanvi-singer-renuka-panwar-opens-up-on-her-song-crossing-1-bn-views-278527
05-07-2021||The pathetic condition of this 3-km Canal Road in Narwana has made life miserable for residents and commuters. From the Mini-Secretariat to railway station and further to the new grain market||Condition of Canal Road pathetic in Narwana||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaWater collects in vacant plots of Rohtak localityRainwater has accumulated in vacant plots of Sector 2, which is considered a posh locality in Rohtak. The accumulated water poses threat as it can lead to vector-borne diseases such as malaria and dengue. It has also become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. The authorities concerned should take prompt action in this regard and ensure a safe, clean and healthy atmosphere for residents in this locality.Dr K N Rattan, RohtakPotable water wastage outside civil DispensaryPotable water is being wasted outside the Civil Dispensary in Sector 8, Panchkula, The undue wastage of potable water starts soon after its supply is augmented from the nearby water-boosting station. But despite the leakage repeatedly being brought to notice of the staff concerned, no remedial steps have been taken to mend it. The authorities should to note of it and take prompt action.Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaSlow pace of work on flyovers irks residentsThe tardy pace of construction of flyovers at Sheila Bypass chowk and over the parallel canals on Sonepat Road near Bohar village on the outskirts of Rohtak city is irksome. Much-frequented stretches of Delhi and Sonepat roads are lying blocked for more than a year due to the construction work. The construction should be finished at the earliest and some viable alternative routes must be provided so that the residents can carry on their day-to-day activities without any hassle.Shekhar Gupta, RohtakIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/condition-of-canal-road-pathetic-in-narwana-278462
05-07-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad police get greater visibility||Don’t speculate over my Delhi visits: CMChandigarh: During a press conference this week, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar asked journalists not to over-speculate his Delhi visits.“I am giving details of my meetings with Central Ministers because whenever I go to Delhi you start making adverse speculations,” he said. Khattar clarified that everything was going fine and would continue like that.Chautala out, Hooda up and aboutRohtak: A battle seems to be building up between two former chief ministers of Haryana, both of whom are considered formidable leaders of the state’s farming community. Workers of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) are rejoicing the release of their party commander, Om Prakash Chautala, after the completion of his jail term. The INLD cadres are hopeful that the party will emerge stronger under Chautala’s leadership. At the same time, supporters of state Congress stalwart Bhupinder Singh Hooda have also started rallying behind him. The MLAs backing Hooda strongly feel that he is the tallest Congress leader in Haryana and should lead the party from the front.300 receive saplings at vaccination driveRohtak: Ready to Help, a social outfit, has adopted a different way to motivate people to keep the environment green. The outfit gifted fruit saplings to all people who received vaccination during a camp held by it. More than 300 people got their first and second dose of the vaccine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-police-get-greater-visibility-278437
05-07-2021||Faridabad||Expert lecture series||Golden jubilee at MLN CollegeYamunanagar: Mukand Lal National College, Radaur, celebrated the golden jubilee with gaiety and fervour. A vaccination camp was organised on the occasion in which 260 persons were vaccinated. Dr Deepak Kaushik, officiating principal, appreciated the contribution of Mukand family in the field of education and health. Fiftyone saplings were planted to mark the golden jubilee of the college.Webinar for teachersYamunanagar: Dyal Singh Public School, Jagadhri, organised a webinar for middle and high school teachers on the topic, "Digital pedagogies and their applicability during online teaching. The teachers got acquainted with the innovative teaching strategies to sustain students' involvement and interest in e-learning modules. The resource person answered the teachers' queries and provided the best possible solutions to the problems faced by the teachers during online teaching.Humour writing and literatureYamunanagar: An interactive webinar was organised on the topic 'Humour writing and literature' by the department of English, Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar. Dr Ritu Kumar, the head of the department of English, introduced the resource person Chetna Keer as the novelist and satirist. She interacted with the students and faculty members of the college during the webinar. Dr Rahul Singh and Dr Pooja Jain thanked her for giving valuable insight to the students. Dr Rahul Khanna, the officiating principal of the college, appreciated the efforts of the faculty members for conducting webinars as per the demand of the current times.Online programme for studentsYamunanagar: An online student constitutional consciousness programme was organised by the legal literacy cell, political science and public administration departments of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar. Advocate Bhupendra Shandilya and Amita Kumari, both members of the District Legal Services Authority, Yamunanagar, said along with reading and writing, they should also take care of their constitutional and social obligations. College Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang praised the creative work being done by the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expert-lecture-series-278436
05-07-2021||Panipat||Kingpin held in fake Remdesivir scam||The police have nabbed three accused, including the kingpin of the gang, supplying fake Remdesiver injections since the demand increased during the second wave of the Covid pandemic.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the mastermind of the fake supply gang was identified as Mohammed Shahwar from Khudda village in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh.It was revealed during investigation that the gang had sold around 10,000 vials of fake Remdesivir and earned Rs 5 crore during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The police seized Rs 48 lakh; fake wrappers and packing box from the accused, the SP said.The CIA-3 team brought Shahwar, his two accomplices Shah Alam and Mohammad Arshad from the Ropar jail in Punjab on production warrant. The team has also arrested their one more accomplice Akhlad, alias Ali, from Saharanpur of Uttar Pradesh.It was revealed during the interrogation of the accused that they had sold around 10,000 fake injections during the second Covid wave and earned Rs 5 crore. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kingpin-held-in-fake-remdesivir-scam-278388
05-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon
||Farmers’ Parl protest from July 22||Tribune News Service Sonepat, July 4 Firm on the demand of repeal of three farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions, on Sunday announced to protest at Parliament during the monsoon session that is scheduled to start from July 19.  From July 22 till the monsoon session ends, five farmers from each protesting union at the Singhu border will move to Parliament daily in buses to stage protest. This was decided in a three-hour-long meeting of the SKM held at the kisan andolan office on Sunday. Farmer leaders Buta Singh Burjgil, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Charuni and others said the SKM had taken some important decisions to intensify the movement in the coming days. It has decided that on July 17, the farmers would serve a warning letter to all Opposition parties in the country with a warning “ya to chuppi todo, ya kursi chhodo” (either break silence or vacate the chair) and to raise their voice in support of the farmers’ stir during the Parliament session. The SKM will also appeal to Opposition leaders to protest against the three laws inside Parliament, the farm leaders asserted. The farmer leaders have also announced to hold a nationwide protest against the price hike of petrol, diesel and LPG on July 8. We appeal to the people to stop their petrol and diesel vehicles on state and national highways across the country for two hours from 10 am to 12 noon and to sound the horn for eight minutes at 12 noon. We also appeal to women to bring cylinders to the roads to protest against the LPG price hike, said Rajewal. Meanwhile, the farmer leaders have decided to postpone the gherao programme of Punjab Chief Minister’s residence, which was scheduled for July 6 due to disrupted power supply in the fields. Charuni said they would protest at the PM’s residence on July 6 in support of the residents of Khori village of Faridabad. We have been ready to continue talks with the Centre but unconditionally, said Rajewal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-parl-protest-from-july-22-278389
05-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Jal Mahal’s collapsed wall to be rebuilt||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, July 4If a plan goes through, visitors will again be able to enjoy the water-filled pond of the historical monument, Jal Mahal here, known for its historical milieu and marvellous architecture.The Public Works Department (PWD) has submitted a work design of the collapsed wall of the monument for construction. The design has been sent to the National Institute of Technology (NIT) Kurukshetra for further study from technical points of view.The pond of Jal Mahal has remained dry for over a year after a partition wall collapsed due to the high flow of water. Though the authorities had initiated work to get a design of the wall prepared for its construction, it later hung in balance due to the Covid pandemic.Jal Mahal was built by Shah Quli Khan, the then Governor of Narnaul, over 11 acres during the reign of Mughal emperor Akbar in 1591. It stands in the middle of a huge pond, with a bridge to reach the monument. The palace consists of a square central chamber with four small chambers on four corners.Jal Mahal is among those 75 historical monuments of the nation, which are being developed as “Adarsh Smarak” by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in order to upgrade the existing facilities at these tourist spots.“Modern toilets have been constructed on the campus of Jal Mahal, while the work of canteen and publications counters for visitors has reached the final stage. Similarly, the main entrance is also being beautified. The pond has deliberately been kept dry as high flow of water can damage the pond further. If everything happens as per the plan, the wall will be constructed by the end of this year,” said Zulfikar Ali, Superintending Archaeologist, ASI.Ajay Kumar, Deputy Commissioner (DC), said the district administration had vowed to preserve the heritage sites and monuments hence they were coordinating with the ASI for the renovation of Jal Mahal and availability of other basic facilities there.“The construction of the collapsed wall in Jal Mahal will cost more than Rs 30 lakh. After its construction, the pond will be filled with water to attract tourists,” the DC added.Anil Kaushik, a local resident, said tourists from Rajasthan, Delhi, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, besides various parts of Haryana used to visit Jal Mahal in Narnaul city.Was built during mughal emperor Akbar’s reign in 1591||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jal-mahals-collapsed-wall-to-be-rebuilt-278378
05-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Soon, ring road to decongest Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 4In a major boost to the road infrastructure in the district, the Eastern bypass and the third phase of Western bypass will be constructed as a ring road under the Bharatmala Pariyojana to ensure smooth connectivity, reduce travel time, fuel and cost, and also boost development in the villages along this proposed ring road.The ring road will be of six-lanes and the width of the road will be 60 meters. It is claimed that it will reduce the traffic burden in the city and streamline traffic congestion. It will also reduce pollution in the city as a majority of vehicles plying on long routes will pass from outside the city.Around 219 hectares in 23 villages will be acquired. The process for land acquisition is expected to start in September. The award will be given by November 15. The state and the Union governments will bear the cost of land acquisition equally.A detailed project report is almost ready and it will be sent to the Union and state governments, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. It is expected that the work will commence on this 34- km-long ring road in December and further it will be completed in 24-30 months, he added.“The Bharatmala Pariyojana is a programme of the Union Government, which focuses on bridging critical infrastructure gaps through effective interventions like development of economic corridors, inter- corridors and feeder routes. It helps in completing the pending road projects,” the DC said, adding that the project of Eastern bypass and the third phase of Western bypass have been included in this programme.The alignment of the project has been finalised and it will be of two categories. The first alignment of the project will start from Shamgarh village and end near the Bastara toll plaza after crossing through Dadupur, Jhanjhari, Kurali, Darar, Salaru, Taprana, Danialpur, Newal, Kunjpura, Subhri, Chaprakhera, Shekhpura, Suhana, Ranwar, Ganjogarhi, Unchasamana and Kutail villages. The second alignment of the project will start from National Highway 44 near the Bastara toll plaza and end near Barota village after crossing Kharkali, Jhimerehri, Samalkha and Bijna.Work to begin in December||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-ring-road-to-decongest-karnal-278379
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Plea to set up Aggarsain Chair at universities||A delegation of the Akhil Bharatiya Aggarwal Sammelan today met Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta in support of it demands. Led by Vijay Bansal, national organising secretary, the delegation demanded that the chapter on the life and teachings of Maharaja Aggarsain should be re-started in the school curriculum of Haryana. Besides, Maharaja Aggarsain Chair should be established at state universities. Bansal alleged that chapter on Maharaja Aggarsain, which was  part of Class V syllabus  was discontinued by the Education Department in 2015. Similarly, the Maharaja Aggarsain Chair, which was started in Kurukshetra University in 2002, had been lying defunct for lack of funds. Gupta assured the delegation that he would takeup the matter with the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/plea-to-set-up-aggarsain-chair-at-universities-278380
05-07-2021||---||Quack held for selling banned tablets in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, July 4 The anti-narcotics cell of Yamunanagar police has arrested a quack for the illegal sale of alprazolam tablets and recovered 375 tables from his possession. The accused has been identified as Julfaan alias Julfi, who works as a quack and runs a clinic in Mirzapur village of Yamunanagar district. Mahavir Singh, in-charge of anti-narcotics cell, said they received information that a man of Mirzapur village sold banned drugs. Upon receiving the information, a team arrested Julfaan from his village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/quack-held-for-selling-banned-tablets-in-yamunanagar-278381
05-07-2021||---||Karnal CHCs to have Oxygen plants||Karnal, July 4 Amid the fear of a third wave of Covid, the Health Department has decided to establish oxygen plants at all community health centres (CHC) in the district. Civil Surgeon, Karnal, Dr Yogesh Sharma said in the first phase, two oxygen plants would be set up at the Gharaunda and Assandh CHCs under the CSR initiative by two private companies. Another plant would be established at the Nilokheri CHC by the DRDO. There are a total of eight CHCs in the district. The remaining would be covered in the second phase. Besides, each bed at the CHCs would have oxygen supply. A budget for the same had also been sanctioned by the state government, he said. The Civil Surgeon said the PWD (electrical) division had been entrusted with the installation of oxygen gas manifolds. He said at present, the Covid situation was under control in the district and only one case was reported on Tuesday. In the past week, the positivity rate had fallen to less than 1 per cent from 30 per cent during the peak days of the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-chcs-to-have-oxygen-plants-278382
05-07-2021||Chandigarh||Curbs eased further, exams allowed||The Haryana Government onSunday decided to extend Covid lockdown by a week from July 5 to July 12 with more relaxations. An order from Chief Secretary said the chartered accountants examinations to be conducted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants from July 5 to 20 would be allowed to be conducted subject to strict observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Similarly, the Common Entrance Examination (CEE) to be held by the Army Recruitment Centre, Hisar, will also be conducted. The order said the “Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana” restrictions that were first imposed in the state in May would be further extended from 5 am on July 28 to 5 am on July 12. The order said all shops could stay open from 9 am to 8 pm and malls could open from 10 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and bars, including those in malls, could open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. Home delivery of food is allowed till 10 pm. Sports complexes and gymnasiums could open up for sports activities with no spectators. Swimming pools and spas, however, will remain closed. For other social gatherings and weddings/funerals, a ceiling of 50 has been imposed. Club houses, restaurants and bars of golf courses will be allowed to open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. Gyms will be allowed to stay open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent attendance. All production units, establishments and industries will be allowed to function but with strict adherence to Covid protocol. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-eased-further-exams-allowed-278383
05-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Hospitals told to increase beds for kids by 10%||Gurugram, July 4With speculations of the third Covid wave affecting children the worst, Gurugram hospitals have been asked to step up their paediatric health infrastructure at the earliest.In the latest directions, the district Health Department has asked all 96 hospitals involved in Covidmanagement and treatment to increase the existing capacity of their pediatric beds by 10 per cent.Hospitals have also been asked to set up neonatal ICU wherever possible and get their doctors trained in paediatric management.“In the past two waves, nearly 12 per cent of the patients were below the age of 20, of which only 5 per cent were admitted to hospitals. The study of trends does put children at risk, especially when they are not vaccinated. So we want our health infrastructure to be upgraded to deal with the crisis,” said Gurugram CMO Dr Virender Yadav.In the 75 hospitals that have updated details about their paediatric wards, there are 2,555 isolation beds for Covid patients, including 294 ICU beds without ventilators and 576 with ventilators. The district also has 809 beds for paediatric patients, including 287 ICU beds and another 89 with ventilators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hospitals-told-to-increase-beds-for-kids-by-10-278384
05-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||Honour Killing: Year on, Hisar man awaits justice for son’s murder||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 4Over a year after the brutal murder of his son Narender Singh, Rajender Singh has been pinning hopes on the court for justice.Narender, 23, a native of Chirod village of the district, had tied the knot with his girlfriend Pooja of the same village in 2018. Both the families got to know about their affair and subsequent marriage. However, as the societal norms prohibit the same village marriages in the region, Pooja’s family did not approve the alliance. Sensing trouble, the couple shifted to Barwala and were living in a rented accommodation. Narender started a motorcycle repair shop to earn a living.On May 30 last year, he was shot dead by three assailants in his motorcycle repair shop on the Hansi road in Barwala.The police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 120B of the IPC against Pooja’s father Ramesh, brother Sachin, cousin Bintu and another youth Pawan Kumar and arrested them soon after the murder. However, the police probe found no clues of involvement of Pawan and a chargesheet was filed in the court against the three accused.Talking to The Tribune, Rajender said he was hopeful that the court would deliver justice to his dead son. He said he treated Pooja as his own daughter and ensured her remarriage to a youth in another village.“Ramesh and his family committed the crime out of a false sense of honour. But I am satisfied with the police probe and the trial going on in the court. I am sure that the accused will get punished for their crime,” he stated.The trial in the case is in the prosecution evidence stage in the court of Additional Sessions Judge Ajay Tewatia in Hisar. The court has fixed the next date of hearing on July 22.3 of family booked||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/honour-killing-year-on-hisar-man-awaits-justice-for-sons-murder-278385
05-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra murder case cracked, villager nabbed||The CIA-2 unit of the Kurukshetra police has arrested a man in the murder case of Ravikant of Amin village, who was found dead in his fields on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Vijay Kumar of the same village.DSP Narender Singh said: “During interrogation, Vijay disclosed that Ravikant had taken a land on lease near his house. There were arguments between them over petty issues and Ravikant had also threatened him a couple of times. Vijay hatched a plan to murder Ravikant and was aware that he used come to his fields in wee hours to release water. He attacked Ravikant with an axe when he was sleeping in his room in the fields and returned home.”A court sent Vijay to two-day police remand.In his complaint, Deep Chand of Amin village had stated that at 2 am, his brother Ravikant had gone to release water in his fields. “Around 4.45 am, I called him, but he didn’t respond. When I went to the fields, I found him dead,” he added.A case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-murder-case-cracked-villager-nabbed-278386
05-07-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri
||Want political turf back: Birender to Haryana CM||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 4  More than a year after he resigned as Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament, former Union Minister Birender Singh is talking politics again and it could spell trouble for the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), an alliance partner of the BJP in Haryana. The reasons are not far to see, with the Uchana Kalan assembly segment at the centre of the likely clash. While Birender Singh has represented the Assembly segment in the past, Deputy Chief Minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala was elected to the present Haryana Vidhan Sabha from Uchana after defeating the former’s wife, Prem Lata.  Also, both are Jat leaders and draw strength from the same vote bank. While Birender Singh, grandson of farmer leader Sir Chhotu Ram, is a five-term legislator from Uchana, his wife was elected from Uchana on a BJP ticket in the 2014 Assembly election, but lost to Dushyant Chautala in the 2019 election. The Deputy CM, on the other hand, is the great grandsonof late farmer leader and former deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal and grandson of former Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, making Uchana a ground for the clash of dynasties as well. Sources said while Birender Singh, a Congressman-turned-BJP leader, has been weighing his options since he resigned from the Rajya Sabha after his son, Brijender Singh, was elected MP from Hisar on the BJP ticket, he is learnt to have minced no words in conveying to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar that he wants his political turf back. Sources said Birender Singh had sought clarity from the Chief Minister on Uchana since Dushyant Chautala has been “cultivating” it for the past one-and-a-half-years during Khattar’s visit to his house. Though he is learnt to have questioned the need for an alliance with the JJP given the last 20-months of stability of the BJP government and even mentioned that a merger be explored in consultation with the JJP leadership, he has expressed his willingness to nurture the Jat-dominated areas from which the JJP won seven of its 10 seats.  “The Chief Minister visited my house in Delhi yesterday. We spoke of a number of issues, including the farmer agitation, the BJP-JJP alliance and Uchana which has been my constituency for nearly 50 years,” he said, when contacted about the CM’s visit to his residence in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/want-political-turf-back-birender-to-haryana-cm-278387
05-07-2021||Sumedha Sharma||No water, Nuh villagers say forced to migrate||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 4With water table dipping below 1,200 ft in Nangal Bilonda block areas in Nuh, residents of nearly 12 villages say they will be forced to migrate if the issue is not resolved soon.Left high and dryTubewells in these villages have gone dry. Residents are forced to buy water for Rs 1,200 per tanker to meet their daily needs, with farmers having no option to irrigate fields.The worst-hit villages are Pathkhori Nangal, Bilonda and Bhund. Most of the households are into farming. They have appealed to the Irrigation Department to provide relief. Ali Jan, a local, said, “Our area is in ‘black zone’. We have been demanding a water channel for decades, but to no avail. My borewell was 1,100-ft deep, but even that has gone dry.”Bilonda sarpanch Mohammad Imran said, “There are no irrigation channels in the area. With no access to groundwater, we will be forced to abandon the villages.”Mohan Singh, BDPO, said the administration had called emergency meetings and was undertaking steps like digging ponds and wells.Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed said, “Farmers are struggling for water. The issue should be taken on a priority.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-water-nuh-villagers-say-forced-to-migrate-278285
05-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Haryana govt extends lockdown till July 12 with more relaxations||The Haryana government on Sunday extended lockdown till July 12 with more relaxations as all shops are allowed to remain open from 9 am to 8 pm.Malls have been allowed to remain open from 10 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and bars (including in hotels and in malls) can remain open from 10 am to 10 pm with 50 per cent of the seating capacity and adopting requisite social distancing norms.Religious places are allowed to open with maximum 50 persons at one time.Gatherings in weddings and funerals or cremations has been allowed for 50 persons subject to strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.Gyms are allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity.Sports complexes are allowed to open for sports activities including for outdoor sports activities except contact sports while spectators are not allowed.Swimming pools and spas shall remain closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-lockdown-till-july-12-with-more-relaxations-278162
