06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hope to contest another election: OP Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal chief Om Prakash Chautala who recently completed 10-year jail term in a recruitment scam on Tuesday said he hopes to fight another election. The 86-year-old former Haryana chief minister made the remarks after paying tributes to his father and former deputy prime minister Devi Lal at his memorial “Sangharsh Sthal” in Delhi.When reporters alluded to Election Commission restrictions on convicted persons fighting polls, Chautala said, “Who told you that I cannot fight polls. This decision will be taken by the Election Commission. And I hope there will be no restriction on me to contest polls”.Chautala had walked free from the Delhi’s Tihar Jail on Friday after serving a 10-year sentence in a recruitment scam.On being asked if he is again eyeing active politics, Chautala quipped, “When did I become inactive in politics?”“I have been active in politics. And our politics has only one aim, which is to realise the dreams of Chaudhary Devi Lal,” he said.However, he added, “But more than contesting polls, I believe more in making people contest polls.”“Devi Lal’s legacy is not limited to his family alone, but the entire country is his family,” he said. The INLD leader also hit out at the BJP-led Union government, saying people across the country are fed up with its “misgovernance”.Chautala said through the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, it has become clear that people from various sections are against the government.“People across the nation are fed up with their misgovernance. And I don’t have to say this as the proof is before you,” Chautala said hitting out at the Centre.Earlier, Chautala’s younger son Abhay Chautala had resigned from the state Assembly over the farm laws issue. When asked how he sees the JJP, led by his elder son Ajay Chautala and the BJP’s coalition partner in Haryana, being accused of not standing with farmers, the former state CM said, “Time will tell who stands where.”“But the present situation is that the common citizens of this country are fed up with misgovernance of the present dispensation,” he said.He said it was always Devi Lal’s wish that the governments ensure that people get basic needs like food, clothing, shelter, education and employment.“We (INLD) are following in his footsteps,” he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hope-to-contest-another-election-op-chautala-279134
06-07-2021||In the past few months||Road encroached upon in Karnal locality||Shakti Singh, KarnalBhiwani street in poor state as depts play blame gameResidents of Harjikan locality in Bhiwani are suffering on account of negligence of the Public Health Engineering Department and the Municipal Council as the two agencies are shifting blame on each other for repair of a broken street in their locality. The street known as Jaandwali gali in the locality was dug up about five years ago when a water supply pipeline was laid. But none of the two departments bothered to repair the dug up patches in the street.Ashok Kumar, BhiwaniTree cutting goes on unabated at Hisar farmFull-grown and healthy trees are being felled inside the Central Sheep Breeding Farm(CSBF) in Hisar town. I have filmed the videos of the axed trees and also reported the matter to the higher authorities by postal mail and e-mail. But I have come to know that the axing of trees continues despite the complaints to the higher authorities. The state authorities and the district administration should take note of it. Though I met the officials in the CSBF at Hisar, they failed to provide me with a satisfactory reply.Akash Napa, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-encroached-upon-in-karnal-locality-278984
06-07-2021||The state government has decided to constitute a committee under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary for rationalisation of the organisational structure and modification of departmental service rules. The committee will examine the reports of each department submitted by the designated officers and give its recommendations for the final decision. TNS||Panel to be formed to modify service rules in Haryana||State award for DITECH for citizen-centric IT projectsThe IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry has honoured the Department of Information Technology, Electronics and Communication (DITECH) with the 'State Award' for citizen-centric IT projects, including Covid initiatives under the government category. An official spokesperson on Monday said the event was held online and all applicants and winners joined virtually. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-to-be-formed-to-modify-service-rules-in-haryana-278967
06-07-2021||Ambala||1 more murder accused held||The police have arrested the second accused in connection with the murder case of Surender Kaur, alias Jelu Baba, who was killed by her nephew over a land dispute last month.The accused has been identified as Gurusewak, alias Kala, a resident of Mohali. He was produced before a court, which sent him to two-day police remand.Surender Kaur was killed by her nephew Gurpreet Singh and his friend Gurusewak. The accused had strangled Surender Kaur and then buried her body in her fields. Gurpreet was arrested earlier and Surender Kaur’s body was recovered on June 15. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-more-murder-accused-held-278966
06-07-2021||Kurukshetra||123rd birth anniv of ex-PM Gulzari Lal Nanda in Kurukshetra University||New variety of pearl millet releasedHisar: Vice-Chancellor of the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University Prof BR Kamboj urged the agriculture scientists to focus on research and development of a new variety of high quality seeds, which are disease resistant. Interacting with the agriculture scientists during a review meeting of the research projects and technical programme of pearl millet and oilseeds in the university, the VC said a survey of the pearl millet areas in Haryana, Rajasthan, and Gujarat should be undertaken to identify the needs of farmers. Research Director Dr SK Sahrawat informed that the HAU had released the new variety of the bio-fortified hybrid HHB 311 variety of pearl millet for the states of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi, Maharastra and Tamilnadu.Conference on gender, identityKarnal: The department of English organised a one-day national conference on "Gender and identity: An ecofeminist perspective to English Literature". Resource persons and delegates were accorded a warm welcome by principal Renu Mehta.The HoD and convener of the conference, Sunit Bhandari, introduced the theme highlighting the relationship between feminism and environmentalism. Students shine in competitionKarnal: Students of Dyal Singh College , Karnal, won the Smt Pushpa Rani Memorial Running Trophy sponsored by Hindu Girls College, Jagadhri. The women development centre of the college sent the entries of six students of the college for participation in the power point presentation competition, quiz contest, poetry recitation and solo dance competition organised by the cell of Hindu Girls College Jagadhri. Jatin (BSc second Semester) was first in quiz contest, Radhika Popli (BCA sixth Semester) was third in solo dance, Garima (BA political science (Hons) sixth Semester) was first in poetry recitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/123rd-birth-anniv-of-ex-pm-gulzari-lal-nanda-in-kurukshetra-university-278964
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Department invites applications for  sports awards in Haryana||The Haryana Sports and Youth Affairs Department has invited applications for cash prizes from sportspersons who have won medals in 29 different competitions at the national and international level. The application can be downloaded from department’s website haryanasports.gov.in and is to be submitted to the office of the District Sports Officer by July 25, 2021. Those can apply who have won medals between April 1, 2020 and March 31, 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/department-invites-applications-for-sports-awards-in-haryana-278963
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Registration on  for Super-100 programme in Haryana||The Department of School Education, Haryana, today started the online registration of students for batch 2021-23 under the ‘Super-100’ programme and the registration link will remain open till July 10.Giving information, an official spokesperson said the students who had qualified Class X from government schools and were pursuing Class XI with science stream at government schools would only be eligible for the 2021-23 batch. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registration-on-for-super-100-programme-in-haryana-278962
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||2 Haryana cops held for graft||Teams of State Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Monday arrested two police officials while accepting bribe amounting to Rs 2 lakh and Rs 4,000. Both officials have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act.A VB spokesperson said the first case is related to Sirsa district wherein the VB team caught SI Ajay Kumar, incharge CIA, Dabwali, while accepting a bribe of Rs 2 lakh from complainant Sukhbir Singh, a resident of Sirsa.The spokesperson said that complainant Sukhbir Singh had approached the VB alleging that his father (75) was undergoing 10-year imprisonment under the NDPS Act and was on parole. He could not return to jail on time due to illness and the Covid pandemic. So, a case under the Parole Act was registered against him.Ajay demanded Rs 2 lakh in lieu of not arresting his father.In the second case, SI Jeet Ram posted in Fatehabad district, was nabbed accepting Rs 4,000 from complainant Sehdev, a resident of Ban Mandori village, in lieu of not registering a criminal case in an accident-related matter. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-haryana-cops-held-for-graft-278960
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Service panel serves notices on MDs of discoms for outages||The Haryana Right to Service Commission has issued notices for appearance to the managing directors of the state’s two power department distribution companies, UHBVN and DHBVN, after holding that the discoms failed to provide the basic “normal fuse call off service” to the people within the prescribed timelines.Normal fuse-off means normal breakdown of electricity. The power supply is required to be restored in the case of normal fuse-off calls within a certain prescribed period of receiving the complaints.The notices in accordance with the provisions of the Right to Service Act, 2014, make it clear that the MDs of the two discoms are required to appear before Chief Commissioner TC Gupta personally or through video-conferencing on July 18/19. Information has also been sought from the two MDs by the commission on the maintenance of the records of the notified services in accordance with the Act.Secretary to the Commission and HCS officer Meenaxee Raj said the Chief Commissioner had also summoned the fire station officers of Sonepat and Gurugram. They, too, had been asked to appear in person or through video-conferencing later this month for the production of documents pertaining to the cases of the failure of the services to be delivered within the prescribed timelines. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/service-panel-serves-notices-on-mds-of-discoms-for-outages-278959
06-07-2021||Ambala||BKU (Charuni) withdraws fund misuse charge against activists||A couple of days after the BKU (Charuni) expelled farmer leader Jai Singh and his son Navdeep over allegations of misappropriation of funds and indiscipline, the union has withdrawn the fund misuse charge.The father-son duo was accused of misappropriating Rs 25,000 and IT equipment worth around Rs 3 lakh.BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh said, “Initially, Jai Singh had failed to give a satisfactory reply before the committee, but later he provide all details. It has been found that there was no misappropriation of funds. Having said that, Jai Singh and his son will continue to remain expelled from the union because of indiscipline.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-charuni-withdraws-fund-misuse-charge-against-activists-278958
06-07-2021||---||Will oppose BJP, JJP in MC, panchayat elections: BKU||Hisar, July 5The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) has announced to oppose the candidates supported by the BJP and JJP in the panchayat and urban local body elections scheduled later this year.The BKU adopted a resolution in this regard in a meeting organised at Uchana town in Jind district on Sunday.District BKU president Azad Palwan read out nine resolutions at the meeting which drew support from the gathering. He said that the farmers are united in the ongoing fight against the three agricultural laws and would continue the struggle until the Centre accepted the demand of the farmers.He said they would teach the ruling alliance in Haryana a lesson by ensuring the defeat of the candidates supported by the BJP and JJP in the Panchayati Raj Institutions and urban local body elections in the state.The BKU also took up farmer-related issues and demanded a solution to electricity issues, strict action in crime against women, employment for youth, Rs 50 lakh and a government job for the kin of protesters who lost their lives during the agitation, cancellation of the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property During Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021, enactment of a law on the MSP, besides a loan waiver for farmers and labourers, and cancellation of four labour codes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-oppose-bjp-jjp-in-mc-panchayat-elections-bku-278956
06-07-2021||---||Need 12-hr supply to save crops: Yamunanagar farmers||Yamunanagar, July 5Farmers in the district are finding it difficult to maintain required moisture in their fields to save paddy and other crops from the ongoing dry spell and have demanded from the state government to increase electricity supply to agriculture feeders.A progressive farmer, Satpal Kaushik, has written to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Power Minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, requesting them to provide 12-hour power supply to tubewells daily for irrigating paddy and other crops.He said Haryana was facing a drought-like situation following delayed monsoon and dry spells. Farmers were finding it difficult to save their crops, especially paddy, he added.“The government is providing eight-hour power supply to agriculture feeders, which is not sufficient. Power supply to the agricultural sector should be extended to 12 hours,” demanded Kaushik.Another farmer, Arun Kumar of Jathlana village, said they were forced to use diesel engine to run tubewells to irrigate the fields.“We are unable to maintain required moisture in our fields to save crops from the ongoing dry spell. The state government should come forward to help us and provide subsidised diesel and 12-hour power supply,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-12-hr-supply-to-save-crops-yamunanagar-farmers-278953
06-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Kaithal Food Safety Officer told to vacate Health Department office||Tribune News ServiceKaithal, July 5Due to shortage of space for his staff and officials, the Kaithal Civil Surgeon has asked the District Drugs Controller and in-charge of Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) to vacate the building of the Health Department in 15 days. They have been using it as their office for the past two years.“We have been facing shortage of space and several officials are not given separate offices due to this. I have written to both departments to vacate the offices in 15 days,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly.In his letter, the Civil Surgeon mentioned that both departments were separated from the Health Department two years ago and they had to vacate it for giving space to the offices of the department running in the old building, a portion of which had been declared unsafe by the PWD (B&R).As per officials, the malaria division, TB division, NHM division, drug warehouse and the central store of the Civil Surgeon are being run from an ‘unsafe’ building.FDA district in-charge Rajender Kumar said: “The matter has been brought to the notice of the FDA Commissioner so that space for a new office can be arranged.”District Drugs Controller Mandeep Mann said, “The Civil Surgeon can’t ask us to vacate the office. The Health Department is still the parent department of the FDA and the Civil Surgeon is not the competent authority to get the office vacated. Either, the ACS (Health) or the DC can ask for it. The FDA Commissioner has already written a letter to all DCs of the state, directing them to provide around 4,500 sq feet for the office of the FDA at each district headquarters”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-food-safety-officer-told-to-vacate-health-department-office-278948
06-07-2021||---||Panchkula residents write to Haryana CM Khattar as their ‘worst fears’ come true||Panchkula, July 5Garbage is being burnt at the new dumping site in Jhuriwala since yesterday, causing inconvenience to those living in the vicinity.The smoke billowing out of the site was also affecting the quality of air in trans-Ghaggar sectors, said residents, who have been up in arms against shifting of the dumping ground from Sector 23 to Jhuriwala. A resident said, “Not just the human habitation, it is also putting the lives of animals, along with the forest area around, at a risk.”In a letter to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the House Owners Welfare Association, Sector 25, said the fears expressed by residents regarding the MC decision to start dumping the entire solid waste of Panchkula at Jhuriwala were coming true.“The dense smoke and polluted environment in the entire area of the trans-Ghaggar sectors due to the fire at the Jhuriwala dumping site has made the lives of over 20,000 residents miserable,” the letter read.The residents’ body has asked the Chief Minister to issue instructions to the local civic body to stop dumping the solid waste at Jhuriwala with immediate effect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-residents-write-to-haryana-cm-khattar-as-their-worst-fears-come-true-278820
06-07-2021||Gurugram||Servant flees with Rs 19 lakh in Gurugram||A native of Nepal and servant of a former Air India official allegedly fled with Rs 19 lakh and jewellery worth Rs 15 lakh from the latter’s house.The servant was not verified by the police. An FIR has been registered. The police said in a CCTV footage, the servant was seen going with a bag on the main road.According to the complaint filed by retired Air India official Ravi Handa, a resident of South City-1, they had hired Vinod Saud of Nepal, on March 8. On Sunday, when he, along with his family, returned from Delhi in the evening, they were shocked to find the house ransacked and servant missing. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/servant-flees-with-rs-19-lakh-in-gurugram-278929
06-07-2021||Sonepat||5 of family booked for Rs 67 lakh fraud||The Gohana police have booked five members of a family, including two women, allegedly for duping a man of Rs 67 lakh over providing a four-year visa to Australia and permanent citizenship there.Bhupender Singh of Shamri (Buran) village of Gohana, in his complaint to SP Sonepat, said that he came in contact with Boby Bazaad in 2008 in Faridabad while he was doing a job of PSO of an advocate there. Boby Bazaad told him that he and his family members are permanent residents of Australia and he could manage a job for him there. He could provide four-year visa and permanent citizenship of Australia to him and his family, said Bhupender.After that, he applied for four-year visa and permanent residentship for himself, his wife Deepti and daughter Nishtha Khokhar and gave Rs 15 lakh to Boby on January 14, 2014; Rs 12 lakh on January 6, 2015; and Rs 15 lakh to Boby’s parents Mahender Chaudhary and Krishna Chaudhary on March 15, 2015.But they got visa for Australia for one year only. As the visa was not extended, they had to come back to India in December 2016.When Bhupender asked Boby and his parents about it, they demanded Rs 10 lakh again and he gave them the money. They again demanded Rs 15 lakh in June 2017. Krishna Chaudhary and Mahender Chaudhary came to India on September 23, 2018 and took Rs 15 lakh from him. But neither did Bhupender get the visa nor the citizenship of Australia.Later, Bhupender got to know that Boby’s original name is Vikram Singh. Parminder Singh, Boby’s brother, and Priyanka, Boby’s wife, had established companies in India and Australia on the basis of fake documents. They had got weapon licences from Rohtak licence authority by giving fake information. The police have lodged a criminal case against Boby Bazaad, Priyanka, Mahender Chaudhary, Krishna Chaudhary and Parminder Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-of-family-booked-for-rs-67-lakh-fraud-278928
06-07-2021||---||Waste management projects: NGT panel suggests imposing penalty for jumping deadlines||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5The three-member National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel headed by Justice Pritam Pal has found faults with the district environment plans of Ambala and Kurukshetra and has recommended to impose environmental compensation for jumping deadlines.The panel noted that the local bodies and other departments were following their own timelines for the laying of the sewerage system and irrigation network, completion of sewage treatment plants (STPs) and compliance of solid waste management rules while the NGT deadlines had already expired.The other two members of the panel are Urvashi Gulati, former Haryana chief secretary; and technical expert Dr Babu Ram, former member secretary, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB).At present, no STP is working in Ambala Cantonment. The panel was informed that four STPs at 12 Cross Road, Khuda Khurd, Machonda and Babyal in Ambala Cantonment were under construction. Besides, there is a gap of 5 MLD STP, which is under preparation and will be completed by March 31, 2022. There is gap of 1 MLD STP in Naraingarh.There is also no network for utilisation of treated sewage for which Justice Pritam Pal-led panel recommended for preparing irrigation schemes within two months. It also directed for completing sewerage network in all towns.The panel noted that a representative of local body of Barara misled them as in a meeting in June, he mentioned that there was no legacy waste whereas in February, the quantity of the same was mentioned as 28,328 tonne.Bio-remediation work of legacy waste is pending in all towns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waste-management-projects-ngt-panel-suggests-imposing-penalty-for-jumping-deadlines-278922
06-07-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Put off arguments in framing of charges: Ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda to court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today filed an application before a special court in Panchkula for the postponement of the arguments on the framing of the charges in the Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s Associated Journal Limited (AJL) case, post the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in criminal revision filed in the CBI’s AJL case. Both the ED and CBI are pursuing the cases against Hooda for the alleged illegal plot allotment to the co-accused M/s AJL.The charges have been framed in the CBI’s AJL case which has been challenged before the High Court.AJL caseAccording to the ED’s complaint in the case, the AJL got Panchkula plot allotted illegally from former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda in just Rs59.39 lakh, but secured loans “fraudulently” worth Rs72.57 crore by claiming it as “untainted property”During the proceedings, counsel for Hooda, RS Cheema, stated that he was ready to advance the arguments on the application filed today and requested the court to decide it first, and “may either reject the same”.Counsel for AJL Sartej Narula also moved a similar application for the postponement of arguments on charge post the completion of further investigation by the ED.Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg observed that given the directives issued by the Supreme Court “the proceedings of all the criminal cases and complaints against the former and sitting MPs/MLAs are required to be taken up on an urgent basis and an endeavour is to be made by the trial courts to decide the matters speedily and expeditiously”.The same directions were circulated by the Punjab and Haryana High Court for strict compliance by the trial courts of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh on February 17 this year.“The case at hand falls in the said priority category and in accordance with the directions of the apex court needs to be taken up speedily and expeditiously,” said the special judge. While adjourning the case to July 15 for filing replies by the ED, the order said, “It is made clear to the defence counsels as well as Special Public Prosecutors for the ED that the arguments on charge will also be heard along with the aforesaid applications (one by Hooda and other by AJL) on the date fixed”, and added that if this court finds merit in the applications, the case would be adjourned beyond the date August 11, fixed by the High Court in criminal revision filed by the accused. It added that otherwise charge would be framed on the same date following law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/put-off-arguments-in-framing-of-charges-ex-cm-bhupinder-hooda-to-court-278919
06-07-2021||---||Curbs on 4-wheelers to remain for month on Kunjpura road||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 5Rejecting the demand of traders of removing the restrictions and allowing four-wheelers in the market for the whole day, the district administration made it clear that the entry of the four-wheelers will remain banned for one month more on a trial basis. The four wheelers are banned between 2pm and 10pm on the Kunjpura road market. This was the outcome of a meeting that was organised between the administration and the traders of the city.Apart from demanding allowing of four-wheelers, the traders also requested for allowing e-rickshawas for the convenience of customers, which was accepted by the administration. They also demanded a multi-storey parking facility in the market.The traders were unhappy with the proposed construction of a flyover on single-pillar technology on the Railway road, but Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that this flyover would help in decongesting the city. It will be beneficial for the city and commuters. He said the work on this project would start soon.Traders led by Narinder Bambha, chairman, Karnal Veopar Mandal, joined the meeting and raised their issues. “We have requested for allowing the four-wheelers, construction of a multi-storey parking and allowing plying of e-rickshaws. The demand of four-wheelers has been denied, but other demands have been accepted,” Bambha said.Deputy Commissioner Yadav said the trial of no entry to four-wheelers will continue for a month and later will be reviewed. The entry of e-rickshaws has been accepted and the e-rickshaws will ply,” the DC said, adding that the passes will be issued to residents whose residences are on this road. Vehicles of patients and ambulances will be allowed.Vehicles of patients, ambulances allowedThe trial of no entry to four-wheelers will continue for a month and later will be reviewed. The entry of e-rickshaws has been accepted and these will ply. The passes will be issued to residents whose houses are on this road. Vehicles of patients and ambulances will be allowed. — Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, KarnalTraders unhappy at flyover moveTraders are unhappy with the proposed construction of a flyover on the Railway road on a single-pillar technology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/curbs-on-4-wheelers-to-remain-for-month-on-kunjpura-road-278917
06-07-2021||---||Postgrad classes to run from Charkhi Dadri school||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 5The newly set up government postgraduate college is set to start classes at the Kisan Model School in Charkhi Dadri town from the current academic session.Deputy Commissioner Amarjeet Singh Maan inspected the building of the school and said the building had sufficient infrastructure and rooms for holding the classes until the college had its own building.The Deputy Commissioner said the state government had given approval to run the college from the 2021-22 academic session. The building will be bifurcated and a separate set of rooms will be allocated to the college, the Deputy Commissioner added.Building to be bifurcated: DCDeputy Commissioner Amarjeet Singh Maan said the building would be bifurcated and a separate set of rooms would be allocated to the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/postgrad-classes-to-run-from-charkhi-dadri-school-278915
06-07-2021||---||Private schools not updating enrolment data on time: Haryana Government||Chandigarh, July 5The Haryana School Education Department has directed all private schools to update their management information system (MIS) to provide accurate information on the enrolment of students.Giving information, an official spokesperson for the department said 29 lakh students were enrolled in private schools last year. Of these, the record of only 17 lakh students had been updated on the MIS so far.He said the MIS aimed at covering all government and private schools, through which admissions could be actively monitored through a unique student registration number (SRN) given to every student.He said the private schools were not updating the students’ data on the portal on time.He said 12 lakh children were still on the portal, but their record had not been updated on the portal.The spokesperson said Education Minister Kanwar Pal had directed all private schools to update their MIS immediately.After the stipulated time frame, strict action would be taken against the schools if they failed to update the record.The spokesperson said all district education officers and district primary education officers were directed to take up the matter with all private schools and get the enrollment of students updated on the MIS.Besides, the associations of private schools were also apprised of the matter.The spokesperson said earlier, at a meeting chaired by the Education Minister, it was decided to open schools for teachers from May 1 to bring the dropout rate in schools to zero during Covid. After this, online admissions were started so that parents should not be inconvenienced. After assessing the enrollment on May 30, it was found that the parents were not much interested in sending their children to school. In view of this, the admission date was extended till June 30 by the Education Minister.He said as a result of continuous efforts and hard work initiated by government schools, 23.6 lakh students were enrolled and thus 1.6 lakh more children were admitted as compared to the last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-not-updating-enrolment-data-on-time-haryana-government-278913
06-07-2021||---||Parents’ union set up in Ambala||Ambala, July 5As private school operators and parents continue to be at loggerheads over annual charges and increased fee, a section of parents in Ambala have formed the ‘School Abhibhavak Parivar Ekta Manch’ to unite parents across the state and launch a campaign. Parents said the manch would help them unite in their fight against private schools.The parents said private schools had started striking off the names of students from schools and stopped providing online studies as some parents were in no position to pay the school fees.Amit Aggarwal, a parent, said, “Parents have been facing issues related to annual charges and increased tuition fees being charged by the private schools. So far, the parents have been protesting against the schools at an individual level and in small groups. But the parents have not been able to put up a fight against the schools due to lack of funds and time. On the other hand, the private schools have their associations and they have been able to defend their cases in the courts. To unite the parents, we have formed a manch and started the procedure of getting it registered. We will make efforts to unite the parents across the state.”Another parent said, “Private schools have been pressuring parents to pay annual charges and are threatening to stop their studies if the charges were not deposited. The parents have been holding protests and also made repeated representation before the Education Department officials, but to no avail.”Onkar Singh, spokesman of the Indian National Lok Dal, who has assured to provide initial funding of Rs 50,000 for the manch, said, “The Covid pandemic has hit all sections of society. The state government has failed to resolve the issue between the parents and private schools. Due to lack of funds, the parents associations failed to put up their cases strongly in the courts.” Saurabh Kapoor, adviser of Haryana Progressive School’s Conference, said, “There are guidelines of the Supreme Court in which the court has allowed the schools to charge their annual charges and other charges. Still some parents don’t want to deposit any fee and want the schools to continue with their online studies, which is not possible. Even the parents who are in a position to deposit the fee are not doing so. If the parents are in no position to pay the charges they can request the schools in written .”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parents-union-set-up-in-ambala-278909
06-07-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Students ‘harassed’ over SLCs by private schools||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 5Students who want to change their school are being harassed by the owners/managements of different private schools for the issuance of school-leaving certificates (SLCs).The underprivileged students who are studying at private schools and want to switch over to government schools owing to financial constraints are the worst sufferers.“My son has been studying at a private school. My income was badly affected during the Covid-lockdown and I will not be able to afford the school fees. So, I decided to get him admitted to a government school. But the owner of the private school is dilly-dallying in issuing the SLC,” laments a migrant worker, requesting anonymity.Many such poor parents are being denied SLCs for their wards and harassed by the owners of private schools in the name of various dues and charges.“A number of students who come from humble backgrounds are facing problems in the issuance of SLCs. The hapless students and their parents have been making rounds of the schools, but to no avail,” says Naresh, who runs an informal evening school for the underprivileged children at Rohtak.He demands that the government should end the essentiality of SLCs for admission to state-run schools so that the underprivileged children may get the benefit of the Right to Education Act.Rohtak District Education Officer (DEO) Vijay Laxmi concedes that they have been receiving complaints from parents of schoolchildren.“In some cases, the school-owners do not want their students to shift to other schools as it would cause financial losses. In other cases, the parents want to get their children shifted to other schools without clearing their dues,” she states, adding that such matters are resolved through the block-level officials concerned in coordination with the parents and school managements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/students-harassed-over-slcs-by-private-schools-278906
06-07-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Officers entitled to Rs 20L car on post-retirement appointment in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5Retired government employees, including IAS and IPS officers, rehabilitated on several commissions and other government bodies by the BJP-JJP government, will be entitled to Rs 20-lakh car.“Whenever any officer after retirement is re-employed/appointed to any statutory, non-statutory, constitutional body, commission and authority under the Haryana Government, he shall be entitled to a staff car, the cost of which shall be up to 10 times his last basic pay subject to a maximum ceiling of Rs 20 lakh (excluding taxes),” stated a government order.Wither austerity measures?At a time when the state is facing resource crunch due to the pandemic, and employees and pensioners are waiting for the enhanced DA instalments since January 2020, the order on staff car defies logic and mocks the austerity measures announced by the government. — Subhash Lamba, SKS presidentSurprisingly, the order has come at a time when the state government is facing economic downturn in view of the ongoing Covid pandemic. More than 5 lakh state government employees and pensioners are awaiting their enhanced DA instalments since January 2020.However, any officer not availing the staff car would get a monthly allowance of up to Rs 90,000. A road mileage allowance at the rate of Rs 18 per km shall be admissible for the journey undertaken by such officers up a limit of 5,000 km.Meanwhile, the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), an apex body of state government employees, has reacted sharply to state government’s order, which it termed as “ill-conceived”.“At a time when the state is facing resource crunch due to the pandemic, and employees and pensioners are waiting for the enhanced DA instalments since January 2020, the order on staff car defies logic and mocks the austerity measures announced by the state government,” said Subhash Lamba, SKS president.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officers-entitled-to-rs-20l-car-on-post-retirement-appointment-in-haryana-278885
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||10 deaths, 54 fresh Covid cases in Haryana||The state reported 10 Covid fatalities, taking the death toll to 9,496 on Monday while 54 fresh cases pushed the total case count to 7,68,957.The positivity rate in the state stands at 7.56 per cent Two deaths each were reported from Hisar and Panipat districts, among others. The recovery rate stands at 98.62 per cent. There are 1,113 active cases in the state. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-deaths-54-fresh-covid-cases-in-haryana-278882
06-07-2021||Sushil Manav||Weekly Covid caseload at 14-month low in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 5With 525 new cases of Covid registered in the state in the past seven days, the weekly cases in the state are at a 14-month low.The last time Haryana had reported less than 525 cases in a week was in May 2020, when 274 cases were witnessed from May 18 to 24. The next week, the state had reported 907 cases. And in the subsequent weeks, the cases had started increasing.Even when the cases dipped in January and February this year, the minimum weekly cases were 534 (February 1 to 7).From 1,01,009 cases recorded during the peak of the second wave (May 3 to 9) to 525 cases this week, the state recorded a 200-fold drop in caseload in the past two months. However, with 101 deaths reported in the past seven days, the weekly mortality rate has shot up to 19.28 per cent.Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said the number of deaths reported these days did not present a true picture.“There has been a delay in recoding deaths in some cases. The mortality numbers that for some reason were not accounted for earlier are being included in the bulletin now,” he said.Arora further said that ever since Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced several schemes, including ex-gratia relief of Rs 2 lakh each for BPL families whose members died of Covid, the Health Department had to be careful while doing the death audit.The state government, he said, had been taking all measures to mitigate the effect of the possible third wave of the pandemic. “The state government has already provided 95 lakh doses. About 1.4 lakh doses are administered every day.”Meanwhile, the number of active cases in the state is 1,186, while 17 out of 22 districts have less than 100 cases and 15 districts have less than 50 cases. The weekly positivity rate has come down to 0.25 per cent, while daily positivity rate as on Sunday was 0.18 per cent.The R Naught value, also known as reproduction rate of the virus, has plateaued to 1 from 1.39 during the peak days.This means that earlier, 100 Covid patients were infecting 139 healthy persons. Now, 100 patients are infecting 100 persons. In other words, one patient is infecting one person only.Vax campaign in 25 Kaithal villagesKaithal: The Health Department has selected 25 villages where all their adult population will be vaccinated against Covid. It has started a massive campaign in these villages and camps are being organised to achieve the target in 10 days. Gorahan, Ram Nagar, Kakrala Anayat, Kausoli, Sogalpur, Banera, Khanpur and Polar are among the villages where the drive is being carried out. TNSSpa owner booked for violating normsGurugram: A spa owner has been booked for keeping the premises open even as the government has still not lifted the ban on spas. On a tip-off that a woman was harassed at the spa, the police on Sunday raided the premises in Sector 49. Manager Nawab Hussain said spa was opened three days ago. Its owner Baljit has been booked under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act. OCDelay in recording Covid fatalitiesThe number of deaths reported these days does not present a true picture. The mortality numbers that for some reason were not accounted for earlier are being included in the bulletin now. — Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-caseload-at-14-month-low-in-haryana-278881
06-07-2021||New Delhi||Can’t ignore former CM Hooda in party affairs: 22 Congress MLAs||Trouble in the Haryana Congress continues to brew with 22 MLAs camping in Delhi seeking "due importance" for former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in organisational matters.Ten of them — Bharat Bhushan Batra, Raghuvir Kadian, Kuldeep Vats, Varun Choudhary, Bishan Lal Saini, Aftab Ahmed, Rajinder Joon, Neeraj Sharma, Mewa Singh and Jagbir Malik — met AICC general secretary in-charge KC Venugopal in groups of five.They demanded that the former CM be consulted and engaged before the organisational reshuffle.The MLAs assembled at Hooda's residence here before leaving for the AICC headquarters. Bharat Bhushan Batra said: “Our agenda was to impress upon the AICC to give due importance to the former CM in party affairs."Former CLP leader Kiran Choudhry is learnt to have met Venugopal separately and backed incumbent state chief Kumari Selja. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-ignore-former-cm-hooda-in-party-affairs-22-congress-mlas-278730
06-07-2021||Hisar||Parched no more, Jind villagers revive century-old well||Fed up with acute water crisis, residents of Kila Jafargarh in Jind district revived a century-old well on the outskirts of the village. It was abandoned about 15 years ago when the government set up a water supply system in the area. Locals said the government supply was not able to fulfil their needs. Dharambir Singh, a panchayat member, said the well was once the sole source of potable water for the village. “Over the years, the village population increased and canal water level dipped. The authorities failed to upgrade the supply system despite protests. We finally collected funds and revived the well.Collective effortWe are using its water for household chores and drinking,” he said. Water is available at 20 ft in the well. “It is a makeshift arrangement till the government arranges adequate water for us,” said Sunita, a local resident.Sarpanch Kuldeep Singh said the village had a population of 7,000 and needed more water than available. “The government has issued tenders to lay a pipeline from Bhaini canal to the village waterworks. The Rs 65-lakh project is stuck due to some technical issues. Once completed, there will be no shortage of water,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/parched-no-more-jind-villagers-revive-century-old-well-278791
06-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong MLAs meet senior leader Venugopal, seek ‘leadership change’||A group of Congress MLAs from Haryana met senior party leader K C Venugopal on Monday, apparently lobbying for former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.The meeting comes a few days after some MLAs sought a “strong leadership” for the party in the state when they had met another senior Congress leader in the capital.The two meetings indicate rumblings in the Haryana Congress, even as the party’s top leadership deals with factionalism in neighbouring Punjab.On Monday, the meeting was held at Hooda’s Delhi residence.Hooda is the Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, while Kumari Selja is the state Congress president.Barring Hooda, 22 MLAs visited AICC headquarters to meet Venugopal, the Congress general secretary in charge of organisation. Later, some of the 22 legislators held a meeting with him, party sources said.All the MLAs who held a meeting at the Delhi residence of Hooda are considered loyalists of the former chief minister.Four days ago, 19 Congress MLAs from Haryana had met AICC general secretary and party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal in Delhi seeking a “strong leadership” for the party in the state and favouring a key role for Hooda.The Congress has 31 MLAs in the state.“We discussed organisational matters pertaining to the state unit as for many years district unit presidents have not been appointed… political situation in the state in the backdrop of ongoing farmers’ agitation, upcoming panchayat polls… all these issues were discussed,” Congress MLA Kuldeep Vats told reporters on Monday.Replying to a question of reporters in Delhi after the meeting, B B Batra, who also went to meet Venugopal, denied that there was any infighting in the state unit.Senior Haryana Congress leader Kiran Choudhary, who is a sitting MLA and a former minister, met Venugopal separately.Choudhary, however, described her meeting as a routine one.“He is our general secretary and in-charge organisation. He is a senior leader. I keep meeting him from time to time. There was no specific agenda of my meeting today. In routine, I keep meeting the senior leadership,” she said.During the two meetings, the MLAs stated that the party has not had district unit chiefs for the past eight years and stressed on the need to strengthen the state unit, the sources said.They have sought a key role for Hooda in the state unit and a greater say in organisational matters, with some of them saying this was necessary in the present scenario as farmers’ agitation is going on and former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was serving a 10-year term in the teachers’ recruitment scam, has been released from the prison.The legislators were of the opinion that only a “strong leader” could counter any advantage which the INLD might get owing to Chautala’s release from jail.After his meeting with the MLAs on Thursday, Bansal had told reporters that as the legislators had not met for a long time due to the Covid pandemic, it was decided to take their feedback about the political situation in the state and seek suggestions about the party’s organisational structure and upcoming panchayat polls.However, a senior Haryana Congress leader, who had attended the meeting with Bansal, said the MLAs conveyed that there should be a “change of leadership at the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC)-level” to strengthen the party.Reacting to the meeting of the legislators with Bansal, Selja on Friday had said, “The MLAs can meet their party in-charge. I don’t see any indiscipline if party legislators go and meet the party’s state unit in-charge and say something. It is their right. Bansal sahab later clarified what the meeting was all about.”      Selja had also separately met the senior leadership of the party after the legislators’ meeting with Bansal on Thursday.The developments in the Haryana Congress have come amid infighting in the Punjab unit of the party, where senior leader Navjot Singh Sidhu is at loggerheads with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cong-mlas-meet-senior-leader-venugopal-seek-leadership-change-278651
06-07-2021||---||Record procurement of wheat at 433.24 LMT in RMS 2021-22, says Centre||Vibha SharmaTribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 5  A record procurement of 433.24 LMT wheat has been made in the Rabi Marketing Season 2021-22, surpassing the previous high of 389.93 LMT in 2020-21, the Centre said on Monday. Briefing on the end-of RMS (2021-22) procurement, FCI CMD Atish Chandra said the highest procurement of 132.10 LMT wheat was from Punjab. Last year, Madhya Pradesh topped the list. According to Chandra, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and J&K recorded their “best-ever”.     An all-time high MSP of Rs 84, 369.19 crore was directly transferred into the accounts of 4916424 farmers across the country under the 'One Nation, One MSP, One DBT' scheme. A record 49.16 lakh farmers benefitted against 43.35 lakh, last year, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said. Story HighlightsAccording to the FCI CMD, Rs 26103.89 crore were paid to 885117 farmers in Punjab and Rs 16706.33 crore to 760636 farmers in Haryana, the two states leading the agitation against three central farm laws. It was the first time that farmers in the two states received remuneration for grain directly into their accounts.With 132.10 LMT wheat procured from the state, Punjab regained its leader’s position among states and UTs from where central and state agencies procure grains for welfare schemes. With 129. 42 LMT in 2020-21 RMS, Madhya Pradesh topped the list followed by Punjab (127.14 LMT). This year, 128.08 LMT wheat was procured from MPAmid the expected issues related to bumper procurement and storage management, Chandra said “preparations for extra storage were made in advance based on procurement targets. Some unscientific storage is due to huge volumes of procurement. Currently, only 17.91 LMT grain is under unscientific storage. It is a small amount compared to what we have under scientific storage. We are committed to liquidating by July-end by disbursing it to beneficiaries. The PMGKAY has been greatly helpful. During 2020-21, only 0.003 per cent of grain (1800 tonnes) were damaged,” he said.       Notably, most of the grain under unscientific storage is in Punjab and Haryana.Chandra said the FCI moved highest ever foodgrains, 594 LMT in 2020-21 in comparison to 389 LMT during 2019-20 under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna.The Centre is running the longest ever exercise of distributing free food grains to people during this pandemic time, Pandey said, adding that 278.25 LMT foodgrains have been allocated under PMGKY 3 & 4 for the benefit of the most vulnerable.Close to 1.5 crore monthly portability transactions are being recorded under ONORC, he said, adding that the Centre will very soon finalise a modal guideline based on suggestions received from States/UTs for preparing a list of common factors for inclusion or exclusion in ration cards for beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/record-procurement-of-wheat-at-433-24-lmt-in-rms-2021-22-says-centre-278627
