07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 63 fresh Covid cases, nine more deaths||With 63 fresh cases, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 7,69,093 Wednesday, while nine more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 9,515 in the state.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, two fatalities were reported from Gurugram and one each was recorded in Hisar, Panipat, Panchkula and Bhiwani districts.Of the fresh cases, Gurugram and Bhiwani accounted for 12 and seven respectively.The number of active coronavirus cases in the state is 1,066. A total of 7,58,512 people have recuperated. The state has a Covid recovery rate of 98.62 per cent, the bulletin said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-records-63-fresh-covid-cases-nine-more-deaths-279620
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions prevail in Haryana, Punjab, Gurugram records 44.5°C||Hot weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Wednesday, with Gurugram sizzling at 44.5 degrees Celsius.Gurugram, which recorded a maximum temperature that was seven notches above normal, was the hottest place in Haryana.Among other places in Haryana, Hisar recorded a high of 41.9 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal, while Narnaul and Bhiwani recorded a maximum temperature of 42.3 degrees Celsius and 40.7 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Rohtak’s maximum settled at 41.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal. Ambala recorded a high of 40.3 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while Karnal’s maximum settled at 39.2 degrees Celsius, also five notches above normal.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 41.4 degrees Celsius, six notches above normal.Amritsar recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal, while Ludhiana’s high settled at 39.8 degrees Celsius.Bathinda registered a high of 40.5 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 40.2 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hot-weather-conditions-prevail-in-haryana-punjab-gurugram-records-44-5%C2%B0c-279606
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Agitating farmer unions should contest Punjab assembly polls: Gurnam Singh Chaduni||Outfits involved in farmers' agitation against the new agriculture laws should contest the Punjab assembly elections as it will "present a model on how the system can be changed", Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said on Wednesday   Chaduni, a key leader of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SMK) which is spearheading the farmers' stir, said, “What I want to say is that we should not run 'Mission UP, but Mission Punjab'.  SKM has planned a 'mahapanchayat' in September and other activities in Uttar Pradesh, which goes to the polls next year"."Now, we are moving for Mission UP. A Mahapanchayat will be organised on September 5. Other activities will happen. Then polls will come and we will work to defeat the BJP."“If we assume BJP gets defeated, will the Centre then agree to our demands? Don't take it otherwise,” said Chaduni in a video message, and cited the example of West Bengal, where the farmer bodies campaigned against the BJP.“The BJP was defeated there, but did the Centre then accept our demand,” he asked.Chaduni said that even the opposition has not categorically stated that if they come to power these laws will be scrapped and a law to guarantee MSP will be framed.  In the video message, Chaduni said that “we say that we want to change the system, but don't apply enough thought to what has to be done to realise this."    He said that BJP and the Congress have not been able to change the system, “then from whom should we expect to do this?”“If we have to change the system, then we will have to formulate a plan. And that plan should be 'Mission Punjab',” he said. Notably, Punjab goes to the polls early next year. The farmers' stir against the farm laws began from the state last year before it spread to other parts, with the protesting farmers now sitting at Delhi's borders for over seven months in support of their demands to roll back the farm laws.   “So many bodies from Punjab are playing an active role in this agitation. But if they enter into the poll arena and contest polls in Punjab and capture power and show how things can be changed, this can be presented as a sample, a model to show how a government can be run, which can act as an example for the rest of the country,” said Chaduni. He said the people of Punjab are looking for a change. “Why can't we win polls in Punjab…people of Punjab want a change in the system. Therefore, Mission Punjab is needed so that it can be shown as a model. If there is a government of farmers and labourers in place, we can show it can be done,” he said. Chaduni's statement evoked a sharp reaction from the BJP in Punjab, with senior leader Harjit Singh Grewal saying that it is now clear that the agitating unions were driven by political motives."The fact that their motive is political is no longer hidden," said Grewal. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agitating-farmer-unions-should-contest-punjab-assembly-polls-gurnam-singh-chaduni-279590
07-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh/Gurugram||Tribute to Yousuf Khan (Dilip Kumar) who earned money through Hindu name: Haryana BJP IT cell head||Haryana BJP IT cell and social media head Arun Yadav courted controversy Wednesday as he extended his "deepest condolences" to the bereaved family of legendary actor "Mohammad Yousuf Khan (Dilip Kumar) who earned money in the film world by keeping a Hindu name".Dilip Kumar died at a Mumbai hospital Wednesday morning and was laid to rest with full state honours in the evening. He was 98."The demise of Mohammad Yusuf Khan (Dilip Kumar), who earned money in the film world by keeping a Hindu name, is an irreparable loss to the Indian film industry. Deepest condolences to the bereaved family. God give peace to the departed soul. Heartfelt tribute!" Yadav posted in Hindi from his Twitter handle.Kumar was born Yousuf Khan in Peshawar on December 11, 1922. His new name and new identity was given to him by Devika Rani, who was head of Bombay Talkies at the time and was of the view that a screen name would help audiences relate to him.Yadav was trolled by many Twitter users, who slammed him for "unnecessarily" bringing in Kumar's religion while paying tributes to him.When contacted, a state BJP spokesperson said he was yet to read what Yadav had posted.Kumar, who embodied the best of India through his films and seven decades in public life, died after prolonged illness.The actor, known to generations of film-goers as "tragedy king" for his portrayal of the brooding, intense romantic in classics such as "Mughal-e-Azam" and "Devdas", is survived by his wife Saira Banu. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena leader Urmila Matondkar has slammed Haryana BJP's social media and IT wing chief for taking a shot at Dilip Kumar who passed away this morning. He was 98.   Arun Yadav—whose Twitter bio reads "State IT & Social Media Head" for the BJP in Haryana—wrote: "The death of Mohammad Yusuf Khan (Dilip Kumar), who earned money by keeping a Hindu name in the film world, is an irreparable loss to the Indian film industry! Deepest condolences to the bereaved family!""God give peace to the departed soul," the tweet continued.Shame on you 👎  Actor-turned-politician Urmila Matondkar, a popular actress who entered politics with the Congress ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, hit back with a caustic three-word tweet."Shame on you," she wrote, with a 'thumbs down' emoji for added effect.Dilip Kumar died on Wednesday in Mumbai after a prolonged illness.A tweet posted from the actor's official handle by family friend Faisal Farooqui read: "With a heavy heart and profound grief, I announce the passing away of our beloved Dilip saab a few minutes ago. We are from God and to him we return." With PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tribute-to-yousuf-khan-dilip-kumar-who-earned-money-through-hindu-name-haryana-bjp-it-cell-head-279553
07-07-2021||In a conversation with The Tribune’s Ravi S Singh||Vested interests launched misinformation campaign, tried to mislead farmers: Anurag Thakur||Q: The country has seen turbulence since CAA, what with long spells of agitation, followed by farmers’ agitation. In a country driven by groups and lobbies with vested interests, how big is the impact of the periodic agitations in the country?A: Vested interest groups launched a misinformation campaign and attempted to mislead farmers. People with malicious intentions will never succeed in disrupting the peace and harmony of India.The Narendra Modi government has worked for the betterment of the agricultural sector as a whole and towards the goal of doubling the farmer’s income. Since the inception of the PM-KISAN scheme, we have disbursed a total of Rs 1,35,000 crores directly into their bank accounts. This amount is higher than any loan waiver amounts that few state governments announce during their election campaigns.We have announced record procurement of Rabi and Kharif crops during the current year. Over 432.48 LMT of Wheat has been procured which is an all-time high figure and 45.06 lakh farmers have already benefitted from the ongoing Rabi Marketing Season procurement operations with MSP value of INR 85,413 crores.It is worth noting that this money has been directly transferred into the bank accounts of the farmers without any leakages or cuts and it is the first time this has happened in Punjab which is a historic achievement in itself.We are also procuring record paddy with purchase of over 805.21 LMT of paddy till now with about 119.42 lakh farmers benefitting from the Kharif Marketing Season procurement operations of INR 1,52,022.37 crores.We have also increased the existing fertiliser subsidy from INR 27,000 crores to INR 42,275 crores in FY 2021-22.Let me add, we have been democratic with the consultation process, prior to bringing the bringing the bills in the House and also by inviting them during the recent agitations. The historic farm laws will benefit every single farmer of this nation and there are few stakeholder groups who are protesting these laws because of their sinister interests.Q: PM’s thrust is on Rural Development with a large number of social welfare intervention schemes like Swachh Bharat-Gramin, Jal Jeevan Mission, Jan Dhan, etc. How will this overall help the economy? Can you name some States which have shown signs of progress in their economy?A: The schemes we have announced have a major thrust on rural development and our goal is the upliftment of people out of poverty. All of our socio-economic schemes are formulated with this vision and target in mind.Whether it is Ujjwala Yojana, PM Jan Dhan Yojana, Swachh Bharat Mission, PM Awas Yojana or the Jal Jeevan Mission, we are always striving to create better livelihood for our citizens and to bridge the gap between the classes. We have expanded job opportunities for the youth. Our cleanliness drive has created more toilets that were missing since the last 70 years. From food security to housing, from job creation to healthcare, from financial inclusion to insurance - we have adopted a holistic approach towards social welfare. Every initiative has a multiplier effect, on the individuals welfare and society as a whole. Further, it has ensured transparency, deliverability and accountability within the system.Q: Government has rationalised the 44 labour laws into four Codes. Will this promote industrial peace as majority of the Central Trade Unions, especially Left-leaning ones says the four Codes were rushed and passed in Parliament?A: The historic consolidation of the 44 labour laws under 4 categories was seen as a much needed and a long-pending reform. These laws were discussed thoroughly in the committee meetings and then in both houses of Parliament.They will lead to Ease of Doing Business as the archaic labour regulations were not fit for an India Inc of the 21st Century. This will help us attract investments and we can promote India as a one- stop destination for investment, manufacturing and exports.Q: Atmanirbahar Bharat is a mantra given by the PM. Can you please quantify and also make qualitative assessment of the implementation of PM’s call?A: AtmaNirbhar Bharat is not just a vision but a strategic goal with a clearly defined roadmap. The reforms announced last year are in that direction, each on of them will have a multiplier effect on various sectors. Our motto of Vocal for Local aims to project Indian enterprises, entrepreneurs at the global level through their products and services.We have begun reaping the benefits of AtmaNirbhar Bharat, even during COVID, India transformed from an importer of PPEs and masks to amongst the worlds largest exporters.Further, we announced the creation of an Agriculture Infrastructure Fund to the tune of INR 1 lakh crore which will fund farm-gate infrastructure and aggregation points. We approved the PLI scheme in 10 key sectors with a total proposed outlay of INR 1.97 lakh crore over the next 5 years. Some of the sectors in which the PLI scheme has been started are Textiles, Electronics Manufacturing, Specialty Steel, Food Processing etc. We rolled out the Faceless Assessment Scheme which will eliminate the human interface between the taxpayer and the income-tax departmentQ: The Opposition says the Government has failed to manage the Covid pandemic, especially the third wave. Is the government exchequer full enough to soak in the possible third wave of the pandemic which is predicted by experts?A: The Opposition has first questioned India’s vaccines, then spread vaccine hesitancy, indulged in rampant wastage and later miserably failed to vaccinate the population in their respective states. Modi government has taken all measures to ensure vaccine accessibility and provided the vaccines to everyone free of cost. The growing momentum of the vaccination program will further bring normalcy and economic revival.Along with RBI’s support, we have ensured that liquidity is not a concern for our businesses, especially MSMEs. Last week, we revised the guidelines for MSMEs with inclusion of retail and wholesale trade as MSMEs which will benefit 2.5 crore retail and wholesale traders.Q: In your assessment, name one model of governance of Modi- dispensation which is markedly different from non-BJP government.A: Our Government’s hallmark is transparency and accountability. Unlike the previous UPA regime, there has been no corruption in this government, projects are delivered on time and there is zero leakage. With the massive digitalisation that is underway, we have ensured various documentations are uploaded online, processed in a time bound manner and approved. The bidding process is also online now with e-tendering. Further, we have taken several steps such as geo-tagging of MGNREGA projects and linking of Jan Dhan accounts with the Aadhaar number which brings transparency to governance.Q: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target to make India a five trillion-dollar economy by 2025. Now, is the target realistic in the backdrop of a dip in the economy due to Covid lockdowns and turbulence?A: We remain committed towards making India a US$ 5 trillion economy despite the challenges posed by the global pandemic. After the first wave hit, we bounced back remarkably and from October to April, we were showing improvement in all sectors. Even as the second wave recedes in terms of case load, we are again seeing green shoots and growth in various metrics. This is a sign of a resilient India and a testament to India’s entrepreneurial spirit and zeal.Q: Is there any silver lining visible with regard to efforts to revive the economy?A: Our macroeconomic indicators remain fundamentally strong and are capable of withholding any exogenous shocks. We are carrying out the universal vaccination program at a remarkable pace which will aid the economic recovery. We recorded 8 consecutive months of INR 1 lakh plus collection in the GST figures, we saw an increase of 66 per cent in the direct tax collection year on year. The demand of power, automobiles, steel all show an uptick and I am confident of India’s recovery to be quick and buoyant.Q: There are upcoming crucial elections, including UP and Punjab.What are BJP’s prospects, and why?A: Our prospects look extremely promising in the upcoming elections. Especially the way in which the Hon’ble CM of Uttar Pradesh, Shri Yogi Adityanath ji has handled the pandemic situation in the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vested-interests-launched-misinformation-campaign-tried-to-mislead-farmers-anurag-thakur-279499
07-07-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak residents irked over slow flyover work||The extremely slow pace of development works in Rohtak has made life miserable for residents of Rohtak, who seem to have become victims of progress for years.Although the country’s first elevated railway track became operational a few months ago, the residents continue to wait to walk on the road, which was supposed to be constructed in place of the old track.The construction work of two flyovers — one over the Sheila bypass chowk and the other over the parallel canals on the outskirts of the city on Sonepat road — is also going on at a snail’s pace, putting the residents as well as commuters to grave inconvenience. “Thanks to the slackness in the construction of flyovers that frequent traffic jams are witnessed on Delhi Road and Sonepat Road. Both are major roads passing through the city. Clouds of dust engulf the entire area around the construction sites, making the lives of residents and shopkeepers of the area miserable,” says Surjeet, a resident. Traders and businessmen whose establishments are located around the Sheila bypass chowk rue that their business has also been hit due to the ongoing construction work.“There is so much dust in the air that it is difficult to breathe. But neither the construction workers, nor the officials concerned show empathy towards the residents orshopkeepers ,” says a shopkeeper. The residents of Rohtak who have to commute to Bohar, Bhalauth and other villages located on the Sonepat road on a regular basis are also doomed to swallow large amounts of dust and pass through traffic congestions on the alternative routes. Ashok Kumar, the Superintending Engineer PWD (B&R), Rohtak circle, says the Bohar flyover will be completed by September and the one over Sheila bypass by December.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-residents-irked-over-slow-flyover-work-279288
07-07-2021||New Delhi||Early environmental nod sought for Saraswati dam in Yamunanagar||Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria met Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar and sought his intervention in expediting environmental clearance for a proposed dam at Adi Badri in Yamunanagar district. Kataria represents the Ambala parliamentary segment.The project is critical for the success of Haryana Government’s ambitious scheme to revive the mythological Saraswati river. It envisages construction of a dam on the Somb river, a tributary of the Yamuna that flows through the Shivalik ranges. Water from the dam shall be brought to Saraswati reservoir and then released into the river. During the meeting, Kataria apprised the minister of the project’s importance. Besides it being important from a heritage perspective, it is significant for ground water recharge, flood control, fish farming, tourism and recreation for Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Kataria also said the Ministry of Jal Shakti was providing technical assistance to Haryana Government in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/early-environmental-nod-sought-for-saraswati-dam-in-yamunanagar-279290
07-07-2021||Rohtak||MDU to set up new departments||NCU scores overall 4 star ratingsGurugram: NorthCap University (NCU), Gurugram, has joined an elite group of Indian universities by scoring an overall rating of 4 stars in the prestigious Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) stars ratings. Less than 10 universities in India have this distinction. QS 4-star rating cements the NCU's position among the most sought after universities of India. The QS Stars rating system focuses on teaching excellence, state-of-the-art content, pedagogical approaches, and learning outcomes. QS follows a detailed, unbiased audit process to rate academic institutions on a scale of one to five stars for the overall performance and separately for eight criteria. According to the rating assessment report, the NCU has achieved a perfect score of 5 stars in teaching, employability, academic development, online learning, and inclusiveness. The QS Stars rating system has been operated by the QS Intelligence Unit, the independent compiler of the QS World University Rankings since 2004.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-to-set-up-new-departments-279291
07-07-2021||Despite streetlights||It’s pitch dark in Ambala Cantt Defence colony||Illegal colonies mushroomingIt is a matter of grave concern that unauthorised colonies are mashrooming. It has been noticed that in Laxman Vihar, Shivaji Nagar, Dayanand Colony and Arjun Nagar, the construction work is going on in full swing and maps are being passed. There is a need to keep curbs on the mushrooming colonies. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-pitch-dark-in-ambala-cantt-defence-colony-279292
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||Gurugram schoolboy murder: High Court notice to Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday put the state of Haryana on notice on a petition seeking setting aside of an order, whereby sanction for prosecution of four police officials in the Gurugram schoolboy murder case was declined by the government.The notice by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed against the state and other respondents by the victim’s father.Prince, a Class XI student, was found dead in his school washroom on September 8, 2017. A case was registered under Section 302 of the IPC, the Arms Act and the POCSO Act against the accused named “Bholu” by the court to hide his identity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-schoolboy-murder-high-court-notice-to-haryana-279293
07-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram hospital booked for vaccination scam||A Gurugram private hospital has been booked for fake vaccination scam.The Jharsa road-based private hospital allegedly took vaccination charges and then took all the beneficiaries to a local polyclinic and to vaccination centres in Delhi and got them vaccinated for free. Later, the beneficiaries were given certificates from the hospital. An FIR has been registered at Sadar police station.Farmers inoculated As many as 56 people were vaccinated through the hospital after paying the charges, but got jabbed at Delhi’s Aerocity and Gurugram’s polyclinic.According to the complaint filed by district immunisation officer Dr MP Singh, a local resident approached him claiming that on July 3, Chiranjivi Hospital, located on Jharsa road in Gurugram, refused to vaccinate her even when she had got online slots.The hospital officials allegedly offered to get her vaccinated at the polyclinic in Sector-31, but the certificate she received was issued by Chiranjivi Hospital.The hospital had no vaccine with it during the period as per records as it had returned the entire lot.As per guidelines, the vaccines remaining from the first phase were to be deposited with the Health Department by April 30 and private hospital had to buy vaccines on their own for the next phase.Following the complaint, a committee was constituted by the Civil Surgeon to probe the matter.“During inquiry by the committee, it was revealed that people were vaccinated through the hospital on June 26, 30 and July 1 and 3. They were also registered on Cowin portal. But the hospital had no vaccine as per the records.“When asked, the committee was informed that the hospital just issued certificates and the people were vaccinated at Delhi or the polyclinic, Sector 31.“Hospital director Dr Amrish Soni and vaccination manager Sumit Sharma failed to give any satisfactory reply,” Dr Sharma said in his complaint. Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against Dr Amrish Soni and Sumit Sharma of Chiranjivi Hospital under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Sadar police station.“We have lodged an FIR and probe is on,” said inspector Dinesh Yadav, SHO of Sadar police station.Dr Amrish Soni accepted that they made a mistake but there was no intention of any fraud. “We were just helping the people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-hospital-booked-for-vaccination-scam-279297
07-07-2021||New Delhi||Pro-Hooda MLAs continue meetings with AICC general secretary KC Venugopal||Haryana Congress MLAs continued their meetings with the central leadership here today to demand adequate say for themselves and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the impending organisational reshuffle.They met AICC general secretary KC Venugopal in groups of six after the yesterday’s meeting with 10 lawmakers, who sought consultations with elected representatives in the organisational matters.It is further learnt that some MLAs, including Geeta Bhukkal and Shakuntala Khatak, also held meetings with AICC Haryana in charge Vivek Bansal who assured everyone that pre-reshuffle deliberations would be comprehensive. Hooda is expected to meet Venugopal tomorrow, sources say. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pro-hooda-mlas-continue-meetings-with-aicc-general-secretary-kc-venugopal-279299
07-07-2021||New Delhi||Will soon be active in politics: Former Haryana CM Om Prakash Chautala||Former Haryana Chief Minister Om Prakash Chautala, who was recently released from jail after completing his sentence, on Tuesday said he would soon be visibly active in public life and politics.“I was never out of politics,” Chautala said, adding that he had kept up his contact with people during his sentence. Chautala was here to pay homage at the samadhi of his father and former Deputy Prime Minister Devi Lal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-soon-be-active-in-politics-former-haryana-cm-om-prakash-chautala-279300
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||ED court in Panchkula issues NBWs against two in industrial plot allotment case||A special ED court in Panchkula today issued non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against two accused, Dagar Katyal and Sidharth Bhardwaj, in the industrial plots allotment case.The NBWs were issued against Katyal for the second time. He has been missing since the challan was submitted in court. Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda is the main accused.The court observed that the warrant of arrest issued against Katyal could not be served because he was not residing at the address mentioned in the documents submitted in court. It was also submitted that the warrant of arrest would be executed after getting his permanent address.“Let fresh warrant of arrest be issued against accused Dagar Katyal for July 13. Executing officer is directed to appear in person and explain the status of execution of warrant of arrest on the date fixed,” stated the order.Special public prosecutor Savita Chaudhary appeared on behalf of the ED today.Katyal is the son of Sunil Katyal, who served as Commissioner in the Right to Service Commission. Katyal had applied under the category of unemployed engineering graduates to get an industrial plot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ed-court-in-panchkula-issues-nbws-against-two-in-industrial-plot-allotment-case-279301
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||High Court issues stay order on admission without school leaving certificate||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the operation of an order whereby the district education officers were directed to carry out the admissions of students in government schools without school leaving certificate (SLC).The direction by Justice Sudhir Mittal of the High Court came on a petition filed against the state of Haryana and other respondents by the Sarva Haryana Private School Trust through counsel Pankaj Maini. Appearing before the Bench, Maini submitted that the order dated March 10 was in contrary to the provisions of the Haryana Education Rules, 2003.He added a recognised school could not admit a student from another recognised school without school leaving certificate.Taking up the matter, Justice Mittal also issued a notice of motion to the state and other respondents, which was accepted by the state counsel.Referring to Rule 194-A of the 2003 Rules, the state counsel added it permitted the state government to issue directions permitting a school to admit students without school leaving certificate — a submission that failed to find favour with Justice Mittal.Staying the operation of the communication, Justice Mittal added a perusal of the rule referred to, prima facie, did not grant any such powers. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-issues-stay-order-on-admission-without-school-leaving-certificate-279302
07-07-2021||Chandigarh||CM Khattar congratulates new Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today congratulated Bandaru Dattatreya on being appointed the new Governor of the state.In a tweet, Khattar said, “Hearty congratulations and best wishes to respected Bandaru Dattatreya ji on being appointed as the Governor of Haryana. We have firm belief that under your proper guidance, the state and people of the state will be happier and prosperous.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-khattar-congratulates-new-haryana-governor-bandaru-dattatreya-279303
07-07-2021||Ambala||Former Haryana deputy CM Chander Mohan raises issues concerning Panchkula with Anil Vij||Former Haryana deputy CM Chander Mohan on Tuesday met state Home and Health Minister Anil Vij at his residence in Ambala Cantonment to raise issues related to health, urban local bodies and police department in Panchkula.Mohan was accompanied by a 21-member delegation comprising Municipal Councillors and Congress leaders from Panchkula, and handed over three memorandums to Vij.He urged the Home Minister to situate all Municipal Corporation offices in a single building so that Panchkula residents were not harassed while getting their work done. He added that Municipal Corporation offices were, at present, located in three separate sectors, causing inconvenience to people while getting their issues resolved.He also demanded a medical university or college to be set up in the city. On the issue of law and order, Mohan maintained that the police force in Panchkula was highly under staffed as compared to the workload. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-haryana-deputy-cm-chander-mohan-raises-issues-concerning-panchkula-with-anil-vij-279306
07-07-2021||---||4 AC retiring rooms open for stay at Ambala railway station||Chandigarh, July 6As per the requirement of passengers, various special express and passenger trains have been introduced by the Indian Railways in a phased manner. However, after the restoration of the trains, passengers were facing problems related to stay as they had no other option but to go to hotels for boarding and lodging.For the convenience of passengers, the Railways has decided to allow services of retiring rooms at railway stations subject to fulfilment of Covid-19 protocols issued by the government.The services of retiring rooms at railway stations were discontinued after the announcement of the Covid-19 lockdown. Retiring rooms are well equipped with various features, including AC, beds. Now that the retiring rooms have been opened, passengers will find these convenient, money and time-saving.Divisional Railway Manager GM Singh said Ambala Cantt Railway station was an important model-cum modern, Adarsh and NSG-2-category junction station as well as an important economic/industrial hub.“At present, this junction station deals with more than 100 pairs of express and passenger trains, including Shatabdis. It will be easy and convenient for the passengers travelling from other cities or states to stay in retiring rooms, which are more time and money-saving as compared to hotels,” he said.Further, he said there were four AC and four non-AC retiring rooms and the tariff of AC retiring room was Rs1,000 for 24 hours and Rs700 for 12 hours. The tariff of non-AC retiring room was Rs700 for 24 hours and Rs400 for 12 hours.Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Hari Mohan said passengers could book these retiring rooms through online or offline mode. Bonafide passengers could book their retiring rooms by visiting the IRCTC website (www.rr.irctctourism.com). They could also avail of the facility of retiring room by approaching the authority concerned at the Ambala Cantt station with their confirmed tickets. Passengers can book these retiring rooms for a maximum of two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-ac-retiring-rooms-open-for-stay-at-ambala-railway-station-279168
07-07-2021||Aditi Tandon||Ahead of Union Cabinet reshuffle, Bandaru Dattatreya appointed Haryana governor, Rajendran Arlekar that of Himachal||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 6Ahead of the much-anticipated Union Cabinet reshuffle, eight states on Tuesday got new governors with President Ram Nath Kovind making new appointments.Social Justice Minister Thawarchand Gehlot has been appointed the governor of Karnataka, with the sector to get a new minister.A communique from the President’s office said.Read also: PM Modi's Cabinet expansion on WednesdayPS Sreedharan Pillai, Governor of Mizoram, has been appointed Governor of Goa while Bandaru Dattatreya, the Governor of Himachal Pradesh, would now be the Governor of Haryana.Satyadev Narayan Arya, Governor of Haryana, has been appointed Governor of Tripura and Ramesh Bais, Governor of Tripura, has been appointed as Governor of Jharkhand.Dr Hari Babu Kambhampati will be the Governor of Mizoram, Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel the Governor of Madhya Pradesh and Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar the Governor of Himachal Pradesh.“The above appointments will take effect from the dates they assume charge of their respective offices,” Ajay Kumar Singh, Press Secretary to the President, said.While four new governors have been appointed, four have been transferred to other states.The appointments signal an early cabinet reshuffle, probably as early as this week, with contenders for cabinet berths, including Sushil Modi, Maharashtra leader Narayan Rane, former Assam CM Sarbanand Sonowal, Jyotiraditya Scindia, JDU’s Lallan Singh and BJP Matua MP Shantanu Thakur.Sources said among probables are BJP stalwart Bhupendra Yadav, UP leaders Rita Bahuguna and Zafar Islam; Anil Baluni and Ajay Bhat from Uttarakhand, Pratap Simha from Karnataka; Brijendra Singh from Haryana, Meenakshi Lekhi from Delhi.“These names are doing the rounds,” a source said.A high-level meeting is expected to be held on Tuesday evening to take a final call on Union Cabinet entrants.PM Narendra Modi is expected to chair the meeting.The Union Cabinet has 53 ministers. It can have 81.Hari Babu Kambhampati, the new governor of Mizoram, is a BJP leader from Andhra Pradesh and was a member of the 16th Lok Sabha.Mangubhai Chhaganbhai Patel, appointed Governor of Madhya Pradesh, is a former five-time MLA and ex-minister in Gujarat.Rajendra Arlekar, the Governor of Himachal Pradesh, is a BJP leader from Goa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-union-cabinet-reshuffle-bandaru-dattatreya-appointed-haryana-governor-rajendran-arlekar-that-of-himachal-279055
