08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions persist in Punjab, Haryana||There was no let-up in hot weather conditions in Punjab and Haryana where the maximum temperatures were several degrees above the normal on Thursday.Gurgaon in Haryana sizzled at 43.7 degrees Celsius, six notches above than what is normal for this time of the year, according to the meteorological department here.Among other places, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their maximum temperatures at 40.8 degrees Celsius, 42.8 degrees Celsius and 39.4 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above the normal.Narnaul and Rohtak witnessed their respective maximum temperatures at 43.3 degrees Celsius and 41.8 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, the maximum temperatures of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 40 degrees Celsius, 39.3 degrees Celsius and 41.4 degrees Celsius, up to six notches above normal. Bathinda recorded high of 40.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal.In Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, the maximum temperature was 40.5 degrees Celsius, six notches above the normal. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hot-weather-conditions-persist-in-punjab-haryana-280117
08-07-2021||Pradeep Sharma ||Water-saving paddy cultivation technique big hit with Haryana farmers||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 8Haryana farmers have taken to water-saving direct seeded rice (DSR) technique in a big way with 40,787 acres of land coming under this alternative method of paddy cultivation. This target in eight districts in the “rice belt” in the state was 20,000 acres.In a big boost to BJP-JJP government’s repeated initiatives to conserve water, 14,028 farmers have taken up this DSR technique in the eight districts in which a pilot project was launched by the state government recently. A cash incentive of Rs 5,000 per acre is the offered o the farmers under the scheme.A maximum of 3,201 farmers opted for the new scheme over an area of 9,628 acres in Jind followed by 2,010 farmers (7,217 acres) in Karnal and 2,291 (6,336 acres) in Kaithal.As many as 1,525 farmers (4,250 acres) in Ambala, 2,048 farmers (5,346 acres) in Kurukshetra, 688 farmers (2,150 acres) in Panipat, 660 farmers(1,913 acres) in Sonepat and 1,604 (3,946 acres) in Yamunanagar switched over  to the new technique from the traditional paddy transplantation.Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare), said the overwhelming response to the scheme would provide a big boost to government’s water conservation efforts and creating awareness among farmers about  the need to adopt alternative water-saving techniques.While the state has achieved double the target in area coverage under the scheme in eight districts, 3,177 farmers in  other 14 districts have also  adopted this technique over an area of 13,400 taking state’s total to 54,187 acres.The traditional paddy transplantation is water and labour intensive while the farmers can save 15-20 per cent water and labour under the DSR technique.‘Big boost to water-conservation efforts’“The overwhelming response to the scheme would provide a big boost to government’s water conservation efforts and creating awareness among farmers about  the need to adopt alternative water-saving techniques,” says Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture).Top three districts*Jind      9628 acres*Karnal   7217 acres*Kaithal  5346 acres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-saving-paddy-cultivation-technique-big-hit-with-haryana-farmers-280095
08-07-2021||---||Pictures: Massive traffic jam on Delhi-Gurugram expressway due to farmers' protest||Gurugram, July 8 A massive traffic jam was witnessed on Thursday on the expressway on the Gurugram-Delhi border due to barricading by Delhi Police in view of the farmers' protest near Sirhaul toll plaza.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pictures-massive-traffic-jam-on-delhi-gurugram-expressway-due-to-farmers-protest-280035
08-07-2021||Yamunanagar||3-year-old Yamunanagar girl electrocuted by pedestal fan||The three-year-old was playing in her house on Tuesday late evening and was electrocuted after she touched a naked wire of a pedestal fan accidently.She was rushed to Yamunanagar Civil Hospital, where she was declared brought dead. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-year-old-yamunanagar-girl-electrocuted-by-pedestal-fan-280028
08-07-2021||Despite the government's efforts to make the state stray animal free since long||Stray cattle menace in Rohtak||Dhiren Hooda, RohtakDelay in laying of sewerage system irks rohtak residentsIT has been eight months that we the residents of New Friends Colony near Tilyar Lake, Mazra village, Pahrawar village in Rohtak and commuters at the Asthal-Bohar junction station have been suffering from the ongoing sewerage works. The main road from Delhi road to Asthal-Bohar station and several village streets have been dug up for the work for long which is causing inconvenience to many. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, in-charge, village development; and Anil Vij, in-charge, Urban Local Body, as well as chairman of the Rohtak Grievance Committee, must take a note of the situation and get the needful immediately. Residents of New Friends Colony, RohtakDefunct streetlights cause for concernTHE enclosed picture is of Sector 9, lane numbers 1183 to 1196, 1210, 1268, 569 and the one towards the south and vice-versa speaks volumes about the problem being faced by the residents there. The residents of Sector 9 had held a meeting with the technical top officials of the Municipal Corporation about the defunct streetlights and other issues two days back. No action in this direction till now shows the laxity among the staff. Defunct streetlights can also lead to increased crime rate that is why the authorities must take a note of the situation and get the needful done immediately.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityCongress grass engulfs footpathsPedestrians are a lot affected with the footpaths engulfed by wild congress grass. The footpaths along Kaithal-Ambala road adjoining Sector 20 and 21, HSVP, cannot be used by pedestrians as these have been completely covered by wild grass which has turned out to be a curse for the beauty of town. The footpaths were constructed by the PWD (B&R) few years back to ensure safe and free movement of residents. Huge amount running in to lakhs had been spent on the project but in vain as the purpose is not being solved due to wild growth of grass there. The department concerned must take a note of this and get the needful done for maintenance of the footpaths.Satish Seth, KaithalOpen govt hospital on empty plotA plot and building of the erstwhile Sunflag Hospital in Sector 16-A in Faridabad should be converted into a government hospital instead of transferring or auctioning it to private hands. Since the private hospital, functioning here till a few years ago and before it was resumed by the HSVP, had failed to deliver the facilities to local residents, the government must intervene and open a government-run hospital for the benefit of common man as the population of the city has already crossed 20 lakh. While a memorandum has already been submitted to the district authorities, I request the state government through this column to intervene and turn the abandoned hospital into a state-of-the-art government hospital.Jaswant Panwar, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-menace-in-rohtak-279863
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar mourns actor Dilip Kumar’s death||RohtakWanted criminal arrested by Special Task ForceThe Special Task Force (STF) of Haryana Police has arrested Sandeep alias Tamila, a wanted criminal of Malikpur village in Jhajjar district, from Kathura village last evening. As per a press statement issued here today, Sandeep was wanted in case of attempt to murder and carried a cash award of Rs 25,000. Sandeep is also an accused in several other cases, including a case of murder, wherein he, along with seven to eight accomplices, allegedly shot Bhim of Achhej village in Jhajjar district on March 21, 2019. TNSChandigarhDeputy CM Chautala reviews ongoing projectsDeputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala reviewed 34 ongoing development works under the Public Works (Building and Roads) Department on Wednesday. The Deputy Chief Minister said the Public Works (Building and Roads) Department would not compromise on the quality of construction work of buildings, roads, hospitals, playgrounds or other projects in the state. TNSYamunanagarINLD plans to have 70,000 workers at booth levelThe national vice-president of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), Prakash Bharti, on Wednesday said his party would have 70,000 workers at booth level in the state by July 28. He said teams of INLD leaders and workers had started work to strengthen the party on booth level and added that INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala would also soon start interacting with workers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-mourns-actor-dilip-kumars-death-279860
08-07-2021||Karnal||DAV (PG) College, Karnal, students shine in Kurukshetra University exams||Gurukul pupils bring laurelsKurukshetra: The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has published the final result of NDA and Naval Academy Examination conducted by it on September 20, 2020. Based upon marks scored in written examination and interviews conducted at the Services Selection Board (SSB) of the Ministry of Defence, 478 candidates have qualified in final merit list. Cadet Koshil Kapoor of Gurukul Kurukshetra School has secured the 14th position in the order of merit published by the UPSC. NDA Wing of Gurukul Kurukshetra Director Col Arun Datta said two other students of the school, cadet Arshdeep Singh and cadet Abhishek have also secured 132nd and 408th rank respectively in the overall merit list of this examination.World zoonoses day observedKarnal: National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) conducted a webinar on “Zoonoses and one health concept” on the occasion of World Zoonoses Day. Dr MS Chauhan, Director and Vice-Chancellor, NDRI Deemed University, presided over the webinar. Dr MK Yadav, former VC Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture Meerut and Dr BN Tripathi, Deputy Director General (Animal Science), were the guest of honours in the webinar. The speaker, Dr AK Srivastava, member, Agricultural Scientist Recruitment Board (ASRB) enlightened the audience about various zoonotic diseases, which are the diseases transmitted between animals and humans such as rabies, anthrax, brucellosis, plague, nipah, avian influenza, Japanese encephalitis, TB, para-tuberculosis, Covid etc., and the importance of one health— a holistic concept of caring human, animal and environment health in an integrated manner. Apart from affecting human and animal health, the zoonotic diseases cause economic losses regionally and globally. Dr Srivastava emphasised the requirement of collaborations among the well-trained manpower in various institutes, disease surveillance laboratories, and agencies such as ICAR, ICMR, Wildlife, DBT, CSIR, DST, for better handling of the zoonotic diseases and promoting one health.NCU bags overall rating of 4 starsGurugram: NorthCap University (NCU) here has joined an elite group of Indian universities by scoring an overall rating of four stars in the prestigious Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) stars ratings. Less than 10 universities in India have this distinction. The QS four-star rating cements the NCU’s position among the most sought after universities of India. The system focuses on teaching excellence, state-of-the-art content, pedagogical approaches and learning outcomes. The QS follows a detailed, unbiased audit process to rate academic institutions on a scale of one to five stars for overall performance and separately for eight criteria. According to the rating assessment report, the NCU has achieved a perfect score of 5 stars in teaching, employability, academic development, online learning and inclusiveness. The system has been operated by the QS Intelligence Unit, the independent compiler of the QS World University Rankings since 2004.Essay writing competitionYamunanagar: The Women Cell and Legal Literacy Cell of MLN College, Radaur, organised a national-level essay writing competition on the theme “Women achievers of India” in various walks of life with a view to inspire students. Dr Deepak Kaushik, officiating principal of the college, said 129 students belonging to six states participated in the competition. He said the first prize was bagged by S Shanmuga Priya of Velammal College of Engineering and Technology of Madurai, Tamil Nadu; the second prize was won by Kamaljeet Kaur of Dev Samaj College for Girls, Ambala City, and the third prize by Bharti of Government College, Chhachhrauli of Yamunanagar district.Online poster-making eventYamunanagar: A national-level online poster making competition was organised under the joint aegis of the Microbiologist Society, an organisation doing research in the field of Industrial Microbiology, and Microbiology Department of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. Principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said in the competition, Aman Shivanand Verma of Wellingdon College, Sangli of Maharashtra, won the first prize, Vanshika of Central University Haryana stood second and S Sonia of Tamil Nadu’s Vivekananda Arts and Science College got third place. Dr Neena Puri, Head of Department and convener of the competition, said such events would be organised for students in future too.Lecture on polemical issuesFaridabad: A lecture on ‘Polemical issues in literature and culture’ was organised by the Department of Literature and Languages, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, as a part of the ongoing webinar series. Prof Prasannanshu, National Law University Delhi (NLUD), Delhi, Centre of Linguistic Justice and Endangered Language, was an expert speaker during the programme who gave a lecture on ‘Law, literature and language’.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dav-pg-college-karnal-students-shine-in-kurukshetra-university-exams-279856
08-07-2021||---||Wards for zila parishad reserved through draw in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, July 7The exercise for the reservation of wards for the scheduled caste, backward caste and women candidates for the Zila Parishad election was completed on Wednesday.Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar said, “A draw was organised at Panchayat Bhawan for the reservation of wards of Zila Parishad. There were 17 wards in the Zila Parishad. Ward 3 and 15 have been reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) women, and Ward 1 and 12 for the SC category (other than women). Ward 2 and 5 have been reserved for Backward Class (BC) other than women. Ward 4, 6, 8, 10, 13, and 16 have been reserved for women, and Ward 7,9,11, 14 and 17 have been reserved for candidates other than women.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wards-for-zila-parishad-reserved-through-draw-in-kurukshetra-279851
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Technical courses’ fee revision proposal in Haryana from August 1||The Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee of the state has issued a schedule for submission of fee revision proposals for academic session 2022-23 for technical courses in various private technical educational institutions and universities in the state.Fee revision proposals could be submitted from August 1 to September 30. After processing of the proposals, final orders of fixation of fee will be issued with effect from January 1, 2022 onward. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/technical-courses-fee-revision-proposal-in-haryana-from-august-1-279849
08-07-2021||Sonepat||590 liquor boxes seized in Sonepat; two arrested||The Sonepat police have nabbed two men and recovered 590 boxes of illegal liquor, which was reportedly being smuggled from Chandigarh to Uttar Pradesh in two separate vehicles.SP Jashadeep Singh Randhawa said on a tip-off, the Gohana Sadar police team laid a naka near the Barauta flyover and stopped a vehicle. The driver tried to flee but was nabbed.As many as 220 liquor boxes containing 10,560 quarters of ‘Hi Speed Whisky’ were found in the vehicle but the driver failed to produce any valid permit.In another case, the police got a tip-off and laid a naka near Bhainswal Chowk and stopped a canter. The driver tried to flee but was caught. Separate cases have been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/590-liquor-boxes-seized-in-sonepat-two-arrested-279847
08-07-2021||---||Policy to fix property market rate in Haryana out||Chandigarh, July 7State has come out with a policy for the fixation of market rate of immovable properties in the state under which a uniform standing committee will be constituted for the fixation of market rates of these properties.The committee will fix rates of properties of all departments of the government, boards, corporations, panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies.Sanjeev Kaushal, Financial Commissioner, Revenue & Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management Department, said the policy laid down that land records i.e., copies of jamabandi, mutation, khasra girdawari, aksh shijra, field book would be made available by the Deputy Commissioner concerned. The title of the property, including ownership, khasra numbers, will be verified online from the Web-HALRIS portal by the revenue team of the Divisional Commissioner.The empaneled valuers will make a valuation of the property and submit a report in 10 days from the date they are requested. The uniform standing committee will meet within seven days of receipt of the report and work out the average of the valuation made by the valuers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/policy-to-fix-property-market-rate-in-haryana-out-279845
08-07-2021||---||Inter-state sex determination racket busted by Karnal, Saharanpur teams, four arrested||Karnal, July 7A joint team of the Health Department, Karnal, and Saharanpur in UP, claimed to have busted an inter-state sex determination racket on Tuesday at Shivalik Vihar in Saharanpur. The team members arrested four persons, including a woman, and recovered Rs 2,500. They also seized an ultrasound machine, two computers from a residence in Saharanpur.The accused have been identified as Jamil, working as a tout, Pardeep and Jasbir, who used to conduct ultrasound, and Jasbir’s wife Reena. They were arrested from the residence of Reena and Jasbir. The team members filed a case in Saharanpur under various sections of the PNDT Act.Giving information, Dr Kararwal said on a tip-off that an inter-state prenatal sex-determination racket wasactive in Saharanpur, they laid a trap with the help of a decoy customer. The deal was finalised in Rs 20,000 and after the ultrasound scan, the accused informed the decoy that she was an expectant mother of a baby boy. The team members raided and arrested them red handed, he informed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inter-state-sex-determination-racket-busted-by-karnal-saharanpur-teams-four-arrested-279843
08-07-2021||Gurugram||Family demands CBI probe in Junaid’s death||Accusing the state government and local police of inaction in Junaid’s death, his mother has now moved the high court seeking transfer of case to the CBI.Junaid’s mother Khatija, in her petition, has demanded CBI investigation in the case and sought inclusion of Faridabad Police Commissioner and ACP concerned in the list of the accused.She has alleged that her 22-year-old son died a week after being tortured by the Faridabad police.Following her complaint and a massive protest by villagers, an FIR was registered against 12 cops under Sections 302 (murder), 342 (wrongful confinement), and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.“It’s been three weeks since an FIR has been registered but they have not called any accused for questioning. They are harassing us,” Khatija said.The hearing for same has been scheduled for August 4 and a notice has been issued to the state government and Haryana DGP. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/family-demands-cbi-probe-in-junaids-death-279840
08-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda condemns change in tubewell connection norms||Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said the BJP-JJP government was troubling farmers by repeatedly altering the rules for tubewell connections.He said despite the fact that crores had been collected from farmers in advance, the government was looking for excuses for not issuing them connections. “The government has been constantly changing the rules. First, it put the condition of buying the motor from a specific company then it decided not to provide tubewell connection in irrigation areas. Now, the condition of adopting micro-irrigation system for a tubewell connection has been imposed by the power corporation in many areas.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ex-cm-bhupinder-hooda-condemns-change-in-tubewell-connection-norms-279838
08-07-2021||New Delhi||Money laundering case: ED attaches 3 Gurugram plots||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today said it had issued a provisional attachment order under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to seize three land parcels in Gurugram worth over Rs 106.08 crore in connection with a probe against realty firm Unitech Group and its promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra.The ED, in an official statement, said, “These parcels had been purchased by two dummy entities of the Chandras, namely Erode Projects Pvt Ltd and Kore communities Pvt Ltd, from the companies of Unitech Group.”It said the probe found that the land parcels were “purchased by the two firms from the proceeds of crime generated out of scheduled offence”.“Both these firms are controlled by the promoters of Unitech Group and proceeds of crime have been transferred to these them after substantial layering in Singapore and the Cayman Islands,” the agency alleged.Early this year, the ED had filed a case under various sections of the PMLA against Unitech Group and its promoters over allegations that the Chandras illegally diverted over Rs 2,000 crore to Cyprus and the Cayman Islands.“The total proceeds of crime in the case are Rs 5,063.05 crore as determined till now,” the ED statement read. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/money-laundering-case-ed-attaches-3-gurugram-plots-279837
08-07-2021||Ambala||Ambala court acquits Pak man of spying charges||The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Amberdeep Singh has acquitted Pakistani national Ali Murtaza Asghar, who was facing trial for allegedly violating the Foreigners Act.In 2019, Asghar, a software engineer from Karachi, had come to India on a visitor’s visa. On August 14, 2019, he was arrested by the CIA-II staff of the Ambala police on the suspicion of spying for Pakistan’s ISI and booked under the Officials Secrets Act and the Foreigners Act.Asghar has already been discharged of offences under the Official Secrets Act. The assistant public prosecutor submitted Asghar had violated Section 14 of the Foreigners Act because he stayed in Ambala despite no visa.The court, in its orders, said: “The prosecution had failed to establish that the accused was roaming in Ambala Cantt on August 14, 2019, and was arrested from the overbridge. But the accused had been able to establish his innocence by producing his location history as recorded on the Google timeline map.” Asghar was released from Central Jail, Ambala City, last night. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-court-acquits-pak-man-of-spying-charges-279836
08-07-2021||---||15 months post murder, woman friend of Yamunanagar resident booked||Yamunanagar, July 7Fifteen months after the death of a person, the woman friend of the deceased, Kavita, has been booked on murder charge.Now, the case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and Arms Act at the city police station, Yamunanagar, on July 5 on the basis of a FSL (ballistic) report. As per the FSL report, no gunshot residue was found on the swabs taken from both hands of the deceased, Sandeep Gulati (48) of Green Park Colony, Yamunanagar, who died due to bullet injury in his head on April 4, 2020.After the arrival of the FSL report, deceased’s son Sarthak Gulati lodged a complaint recently with the Director-General of Police, Haryana, and Superintendent of Police, Yamunanagar, demanding registration of a case against Kavita under Section 302 of the IPC.In his police complaint, Sarthak Gulati said his father Sandeep Gulati died on April 4, 2020 due to bullet injury in his head. He said at the time of the incident, his father was in his bedroom at their house in Green Park, Yamunanagar, along with his woman friend Kavita and the door was locked from inside.He further said: “We rushed towards my father’s bedroom on hearing the sound of the gunshot and knocked at the door. Kavita opened the door from inside and told all of us that my father accidently shot himself in the head while doing a stunt with the revolver,” alleged the complainant. He added that they met the then Superintendent of Police and SHO of the city police station, Yamunanagar.“We told the SP and SHO that our father was a right-handed person and the bullet wound was in his left ear, which was not normal. We also told them that the revolver was lying far away from the body. Both, the SP and SHO told us to wait for the FSL reports,” the complainant said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15-months-post-murder-woman-friend-of-yamunanagar-resident-booked-279834
08-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Man threatens landlord with fake FIR in Gurugram, held||Gurugram, July 7Gurugram police on Wednesday nabbed a man for allegedly creating a fake FIR to threaten his landlord.The accused has been identified as Sunil Kumar (29) of Dhani Riwasa village in Bhiwani. According to the police, the accused posed as Bijender and rented a room in a PG accommodation on July 1. He deposited the advance rent and stayed in the PG for two days, after which he left for his village. The accused called Monu Sihag, the PG owner, asking him to refund the money as he was not returning.When the PG owner refused to return the money, the accused edited an FIR uploaded online and used the same to threaten him. An FIR was registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-threatens-landlord-with-fake-fir-in-gurugram-held-279832
08-07-2021||---||Faridabad MC yet to recover Rs 232-crore property tax arrears||Faridabad, July 7The Municipal Corporation (MC), Faridabad, is yet to recover Rs 232 crore as property tax arrears from city residents. Sources in the civic body said in the absence of a planned and time-bound strategy, property tax arrears had been accumulating with each passing year. In the past 10 years, the recovery amount had mounted to Rs 232 crore.The authorities have decided to launch a recovery drive to increase revenue generation. The annual assessment of tax each year from the present 2.60 lakh units comes to be nearly Rs 60 crore, but the average recovery level has been between Rs 40 crore and Rs 45 crore every year.According to a fresh survey, the total amount assessed by the authorities is Rs 140 crore each year, which, according to the officials concerned, results in an under recovery of over Rs 95 crore, if the MCF is able to recover only Rs 45 crore this year.Meanwhile, MC Commissioner Garima Mittal said besides implementing and strengthening the online payment system, notices would be issued to the defaulters after July 31 deadline. Till then, defaulters had the option to avail a 10 per cent rebate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mc-yet-to-recover-rs-232-crore-property-tax-arrears-279831
08-07-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad MC hands out 50K notices for water dues||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 7The Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, has issued around 50,000 notices in connection with the recovery of water bills in the city. The arrears amount to around Rs 70 crore.While Rs 50 crore pertains to the period up to December 2019, Rs 20 crore is in respect of the period thereafter. As notices have been issued to consumers in only two of the five divisions so far, more notices are likely in near future.“According to a recent survey, almost 75 per cent water connections are unauthorised. While there are 5.6 lakh tax paying units in the area, there are only 1.3 lakh registered water connections,” says Garima Mittal, MC Commissioner. The latest drive aimed at collecting pending dues and regularising unauthorised connections, she said.Illegal water and sewer connections might be causing an annual loss of around Rs 5 crore to the civic body, sources said. A similar drive was undertaken last year too, but with not much success. This time, FIRs might also be lodged in cases of water theft.The city, with over 20 lakh population, is getting 240 MLD water against a demand of 300 MLD. The total annual revenue generated from water and sewer connections is around Rs 12 crore.75% connections illegal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-mc-hands-out-50k-notices-for-water-dues-279767
08-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||HC asks Sirsa Sessions Judge to explain how drug accused got bail||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has sought explanation from a Sirsa Sessions Judge on the grant of bail to an accused in a drug case. He has been asked to explain how he entertained and decided the petition for regular bail when a similar petition was pending before the High Court.The judicial officer has also been asked to explain how he released the accused on bail without considering the bar imposed by Section 37 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Section 37 provides for cases where bail can be granted to an accused.The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice after an accused filed a petition for a regular bail. The Bench of Justice HS Madaan, during the course of hearing, was told that petitioner had been granted the concession for regular bail by the Sirsa Sessions Judge vide order dated June 28. As such permission for the petition’s withdrawal was sought.Justice Madaan asserted it was “very strange” that the petitioner was availing remedy in two courts simultaneously — before the High Court as well as the Sirsa sessions court.The HC Judge added the order’s perusal went on to show that the petition was filed on June 25 and decided on June 28 by the Sirsa court. The present petition before the HC was filed on May 6.Justice Madaan directed the judicial officer to report whether pendency of the petition before the HC was brought to his notice by Naveen Kumar, public prosecutor representing the state, or by the police officer concerned.Before parting with the order, the HC Judge directed the Haryana’s counsel to convey the entire matter to the Haryana Director Prosecution and the Director General of Police (DGP) to enable initiation of necessary action against the official at fault.“After doing the needful, the state counsel shall intimate in writing. Report from the Sessions Judge, Sirsa, be called for July 22...,” Justice Madaan concluded.The case will now come up for further hearing in the last week of July for compliance. The petition was dismissed as withdrawn.  Bail petition pending before HC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-asks-sirsa-sessions-judge-to-explain-how-drug-accused-got-bail-279830
08-07-2021||New Delhi||SC orders CBI inquiry into Rohtak land scam||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered a CBI probe into the Rohtak land scam in which a huge chunk of land was released to Uddar Gagan Properties Limited when Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda was the Chief Minister.A Bench headed by Justice UU Lalit ordered the CBI to look into the release of hundreds of acres land to the real estate company after perusing the report of amicus curiae Jaideep Gupta who recommended that the matter should be entrusted to the CBI for investigation.Gupta also submitted that such an investigation should be carried out in a time-bound manner and under the supervision of the top court.Senior Additional Advocate General Anil Grover told the top court that the state government had already initiated action against officials indicted in various reports.Around 850 acre land was proposed to be acquired for residential and commercial sectors in Rohtak by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) in 2002. An award was passed for 422 acres in 2005 and Uddar Gagan Properties Limited entered into agreements with some farmers — whose land was under acquisition — in March 2005.Uddar Gagan Properties had applied for a licence to develop a colony on 288 acres and the land was released/dropped from acquisition.The SC had in 2016 quashed the decision to release the land from acquisition and transfer the licence in favour of HUDA which was to develop commercial and residential sectors in Rohtak. It had also asked the state government to look into the illegalities committed. Following the order the state government had set up a committee under senior bureaucrat Rajan Gupta. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-orders-cbi-inquiry-into-rohtak-land-scam-279829
08-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Ayushman Bharat’s first beneficiary from Karnal village loses entitlement||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 7The country’s first beneficiary of the Ayushman Bharat scheme has lost her BPL status and, with it, the benefits linked to the universal health insurance scheme.Mousami, a resident of Ghisarpuri village in the district’s Indri block, underwent the Cesarean section and delivered a girl on August 17, 2018, at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here.She was admitted to Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) here on August 15 with labour pains. Her golden card, with which beneficiaries can avail the benefits of the scheme, was generated the same day. A couple of days later, she had delivered a girl.“A few days ago, I went to the hospital for some work and was shocked to know that my golden card was no more valid. My husband and I have been running from pillar to post to get the benefits of the Ayushman scheme,” said Mousami.Amit, her husband, said: “Earlier, my joint family had a common BPL card. After having separated from the joint family, I applied for a BPL card on the Saral portal. To my surprise, my application was rejected.”Sources say his application was rejected following a report by a team led by the Indri BDPO to the Zila Parishad CEO.“After Amit applied on the Saral portal, a team visited Ghisarpuri village. The applicant has three pucca rooms, and the couple has a monthly income of around Rs 15,000. So they are not entitled to benefits reserved for BPL families,” said Gaurav Kumar, CEO Zila Parishad.Amit, however, claimed he had been living in a “kutcha” house and had a modest income. “The team visited my brother’s house, and not mine.”Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said, “Only BPL families can avail the benefit of the Ayushman Bharat scheme. If Amit’s application for the BPL status has been rejected, he can appeal to the higher authorities. I will get it checked.”The scheme was initiated by the Union Government to provide cashless and paperless healthcare treatment facility to eligible beneficiaries in the empanelled hospitals of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ayushman-bharats-first-beneficiary-from-karnal-village-loses-entitlement-279828
08-07-2021||---||Faridabad: Left outfits protest Khori demolition||Faridabad, July 7Members and activists of some of the left wing organisations held a demonstration at the district headquarters to seek the rehabilitation of Khori villagers prior to any demolition.Seeking the suspension of the drive and the resumption of water supply to the village, they submitted a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister through the district authorities.Surender Malik, former president, state unit of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), said while the authorities concerned failed to implement the court directions regarding the rehabilitation policy for the past eight years, the demolition of the houses of the poor residing in the colony for the past about 30 years in such a manner was wrong and unjustified if the government fails to provide them alternative housing. The village is facing the demolition in view of the Supreme Court order given on June 7.Jai Bhagwan, CITU state secretary, said rendering thousands homeless amid peak summers and pandemic was unacceptable as a majority of people living here were labourers and had spent all their earnings in building small houses. He said if their houses were illegal, the government must punish the mafia, who sold them plots, before making them homeless. Members of the Janwadi Mahila Samiti and Sarva Karmachari Sangh, Haryana, also took part in the demonstration.Meanwhile, around 100 Khori residents who wanted to stage a protest outside the office of the Commissioner, Faridabad MC, under the banner of the Majdoor Awas Sangarsh Samiti on Wednesday were stopped and not allowed to move outside the village by the police, alleged Mohammed Salim, samiti representative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-left-outfits-protest-khori-demolition-279827
08-07-2021||Sunit Dhawan||To salvage its image, saffron party reaches out to farmers in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 7In an apparent bid to placate farmers and salvage the ruling party’s image in villages, the BJP Kisan Morcha has started reaching out to the farmers in the state’s rural belt.The local units of the BJP’s farmer wing are being revived and reconstituted and village-level meetings are being held to convince the farmers of the benefits of the farm laws, which are being opposed.Notably, the leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP coalition have been facing a stiff hostility from the farmers. The state’s Opposition parties, including the Congress and the INLD, have extended support to the farmers’ movement.“The Opposition parties are misguiding the farmers to further their interests, while we are trying to convince them that the new laws are meant to benefit them by plugging the loopholes of corruption and eliminating the middlemen,” said Sukwinder Maandi, chief of the morcha’s state unit.Rajkumar Sunaria, new district chief of the morcha, said the office-bearers of the local unit were being appointed and meetings being held at the grass-roots level to reach out to the farmers. “We are trying to placate them and seek their suggestions, which will be conveyed to the central leadership so that the stalemate between the government and the farmers can be resolved amicably.”Meanwhile, representatives of the farm unions said: “Holding meetings in villages is a ploy of the ruling party to create a division among the farmers in order to sabotage the stir.” “The government wants to end the agitation at any cost. It may try to divide the farmers and incite clashes among them. Certain locals have lapped up the opportunity to further their vested interests and take benefits from the government,” said Preet Singh, vice-president of the state unit of the All-India Kisan Sabha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-salvage-its-image-saffron-party-reaches-out-to-farmers-in-haryana-279826
08-07-2021||---||Samyukt Kisan Morcha to protest fuel price hike today||Sonepat, July 7The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is all geared up for its nationwide protest against the hike in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG on Thursday. It has urged people from all sections of the society to come out on the roads for two hours to join the peaceful protest.Notably, the SKM had given a call to organise a protest for two hours from 10 am to 12 noon on Thursday.The SKM leaders claimed that the protesters would reach the designated public locations chosen for the protest, with any means of transport, including scooters, motorcycles, tractors, cars, buses, trucks, and empty gas cylinders. They urged the protesters not to block the roads and instead hold a peaceful demonstration on the roadside.The SKM leaders said the price hike of fuel affects every section of the society and that the rates must be halved immediately.Besides, a meeting of various organisations, including Haryana Sanyukt Karamchari Manch, CITU and Sanyukt Kisan Mazdoor Morcha, held in Sonepat on Wednesday announced that on the call of the SKM, a protest would be observed at the DC office on Thursday.Leaders appealed to the people to blow horn of their vehicles for eight minutes after two hours of protest from 10 am to 12 pm, to open the ears of the Central government.Eye, heart check-up camps at Singhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-to-protest-fuel-price-hike-today-279825
08-07-2021||Amritsar||Held on frivolous charges by Delhi, Haryana police: Punjab farmers||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha Committee, constituted to look into the atrocities on farmers during the agitation against three farm laws, today met the “victims” in Amritsar.Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, who heads the panel, said the farmers who faced brutality or were allegedly tortured and booked by the Delhi and Haryana police during the agitation recorded their statements.Sandeep Singh from Tarn Taran said he had accompanied a farmers’ jatha on January 20 to participate in the tractor rally. “But we had no inkling as to what shape will it take. Following the violence, I was arrested on January 29 and put behind bars. We were beaten up for no reason. My bail was arranged by DSGMC chief Manjinder Sirsa on March 3. I believe the panel will bring justice.”Another farmer Harjinder Singh said he had gone to the rally but could not participate in it. “Despite that we were picked up and lodged in Tihar Jail. We were booked on frivolous charges,” he said. The panel will submit its report by July 31. Vaid said the committee would propose that besides legal aid, the victims should be assisted economically. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/held-on-frivolous-charges-by-delhi-haryana-police-punjab-farmers-279659
08-07-2021||---||Kaithal district to get 100-bed ‘portable’ hospital by August||Kaithal, July 7Strengthening health infrastructure to face the expected third wave of Covid, the district administration with the help of the American-India Foundation (AIF) will be establishing a 100-bed fully equipped portable hospital. It will be constructed adjacent to the existing Civil Hospital with an estimated cost of around Rs 2.5 crore. It will have an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and 10 ventilators for the facility of critical patients, said Pradeep Dahiya, Deputy Commissioner.“We have earmarked the site and the work is expected to start in the next week. It will be functional by mid of August,” the DC said.The recruitment of staff members will be done through the National Health Mission (NHM), under which one paediatrician, two medical officers and eight staff nurses will be recruited, said Dahiya.Experts of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Madras, will set up this hospital. The portable unit is made with a prefabricated modular technology and telescopic frame, making it cost-effective and its easy transportation, said Pankhuri Gupta, Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associates, Kaithal, who raised funds from the AIF for the end-to-end implementation of the initiative.Kaithal Civil Surgeon Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly said as of then, they had 200 beds and 128 oxygen concentrators at the Civil Hospital. The new portable hospital will be fully equipped with oxygen and other equipment to tackle critical cases too. “It will boost the health infrastructure,” said Dr Shelly.Staff recruitment under NHM||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-district-to-get-100-bed-portable-hospital-by-august-279824
08-07-2021||Gurugram||Update vax details daily, Gurugram hospitals told||The Health Department has mandated the local private hospitals to upload vaccination details on a daily basis. The order comes in wake of busting of a vaccination scam in a local hospital.The department has decided to tighten the noose against private hospitals administring Covid vaccines. Strict instructions have been given that action will be taken against any private hospital that does not give the correct details of vaccination to the department or hides any information.So far, over 15 lakh persons have been given the vaccine in Gurugram. In such a situation, there have been complaints of negligence in private hospitals in uploading data on vaccination. Dozens of people have complained of various kinds of negligence by private hospitals to the department.Recently, after conducting a preliminary probe on the complaint of a fraud in vaccination, the department had registered a case against Chiranjeevi Hospital located at Jharsa Road with the Sadar Police Station and also on Muskan Dental, Sector 56. A show cause notice has also been issued to the dental clinic.“All private hospitals are required to regularly upload information about the number of people vaccinated by them along with the dosage information available with them on the CoWin portal. Action is being taken against the hospitals giving wrong information. If found guilty, the vaccination permit given to them can also be revoked,” said District Immunisation Officer Dr MP Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/update-vax-details-daily-gurugram-hospitals-told-279823
08-07-2021||Sushil Manav||Haryana’s representation at Centre down to 2||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 7The state’s representation in the Narendra Modi Cabinet has been reduced to two from earlier three following today’s expansion and reshuffle.This is so because Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria resigned as the Minister of State for Jal Shakti hours before the Cabinet expansion. No new face from the state was inducted in the Modi Cabinet.Haryana sends 10 MPs to the Lok Sabha; the BJP had won all 10 seats in the 2019 General Election.Of the five Rajya Sabha members from Haryana, three are from the BJP, one from the Congress (Deepender Hooda) and one is an Independent supporting the BJP (Zee Group owner Subhash Chandra).Ambala MP resigns as MoSAmbala MP Rattan Lal Kataria resigned as the Minister of State for Jal Shakti hours before the Cabinet expansionNo new face from the state has been inducted in the Modi CabinetSocial media hypeBefore the Modi Cabinet reshuffle, the names of Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal, a former Indian Revenue Service (IRS) officer, and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, a former IAS officer, were doing the rounds on social media. When the final list was released in the noon, neither of the two could find a place in the Modi Cabinet.Before today’s expansion, Haryana had three ministers in the Union Cabinet — Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Statistics and Programme Implementation and Ministry of Planning; Faridabad MP Krishan Pal Gurjar, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment; and Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria, Minister of State for Jal Shakti.The names of Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal, former IRS officer, and Hisar MP Brijendra Singh, a former IAS officer, were doing rounds on social media, but when the final list was released in the noon, neither of the two could find a place.Duggal’s supporters in her Sirsa constituency were excited about the possibility of her being inducted in the Cabinet after several TV channels played the news that she had entered the PM’s residence for a meeting before the reshuffle.Duggal being a Dalit MP, her chances looked bright when Kataria, the other Dalit MP from the state, resigned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-representation-at-centre-down-to-2-279822
