09-07-2021||New Delhi||Pollution: SC turns down Delhi Government's plea to shut down power plants in Punjab, Haryana, UP||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to entertain a petition filed by the Delhi government seeking closure of 10 thermal power plants in Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh on the ground that they caused air pollution in the national capital.“It’s amusing that NCT of Delhi is coming up with a PIL against the Centre. We have got many questions to ask…It’s better you withdraw it,” a Bench led by Justice Navin Sinha told senior counsel Colin Gonsalves, representing the Delhi Government.It said if the Delhi Government wanted it can file an intervention application in the air pollution matter pending before the court.The Delhi government had urged the court to quash a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) order extending the deadline for installation of the Flue Gas Desulphurisation (FGD)  thermal power plants. It also wanted the top court to direct the Centre to install FGD devices in 10 thermal power plants in Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh contending that these power plants contributed to air pollution in Delhi."There are 30 power plants in a radius of 300 kilometres which bring particulate matter, major contributors for SO2 and other deadlier matters…These plants should be closed until they install FGD devices, Gonsalves submitted.However, the court wasn’t convinced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-sc-turns-down-delhi-governments-plea-to-shut-down-power-plants-in-punjab-haryana-up-280598
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions prevail in Punjab, Haryana||Hot weather conditions persisted in Punjab and Haryana on Friday, even as a few places received rainfall.Narnaul in Haryana recorded its maximum at 41.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, according to a report of the Meteorological Department here.Among other places, Ambala, Hisar and Karnal recorded their maximum temperatures at 36.4, 41.1 and 34.8 degrees Celsius respectively, up to two notches above normal. Karnal received 32 mm of rainfall.Rohtak, Gurugram and Bhiwani recorded their respective maximum temperatures at 39.3, 39.7 and 41 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, maximum temperatures of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 36.7, 35.7 and 35.6 degrees Celsius. Ludhiana and Patiala witnessed rainfall of 0.6 mm and 7.9 mm.Chandigarh's maximum temperature was 36.8 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal. Chandigarh received light rainfall of 0.6 mm in the morning. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hot-weather-conditions-prevail-in-punjab-haryana-280569
09-07-2021|| Chandigarh||Ex-chief secretary Dhesi to be ‘super boss’ in CMO||Former chief secretary DS Dhesi will take over as “super boss” in the Chief Minister’s Office(CMO) after a recent re-allocation of portfolios gave him at least 13 important departments apart from the overall charge of the CMO.The new development would mean that departments such as legislative proposals that are to be brought before the Council of Ministers, parliamentary affairs, law, and legislative, excise and taxation, irrigation, general administration, vigilance, home, town and country planning, finance and planning, urban local bodies, foreign cooperation, industries, electronics and information technology and citizen resource information will all fall under Dhesi’s jurisdiction.  Principal Secretary to CM V Umashankar meanwhile must content himself with merely half a dozen of departments, including revenue and rehabilitation, transport, mines and geology, civil aviation, renewable energy and science and technology. The Additional Principal Secretary to CM Amit Aggarwal will look after 10 departments, including health and medical education, higher education, school education, technical education, development panchayats, forests and wildlife, labour and employment and power. By the sheer number of departments, Ashima Brar, deputy principal secretary to CM, will hold the most at 16. These include architecture, archeology, elections, environment, food and supplies, fisheries , housing, public health engineering, printing and stationery, sports and youth affairs, women and child development, public work department (PWD), agriculture, cooperation and Sainik and Ardh Sainik welfare. Indian Revenue Service(IRS) officer Yogender Chaudhary, Adviser for Resource Mobilisation, has been entrusted with idepartments such as  art and culture, social justice and empowerment, tourism, welfare of SCs and BCs, project director, drug-free Haryana mission,  matter relating to resource mobilisation, animal husbandry and dairying and industrial training and vocational education. Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer Satish Kumar, who’s OSD to CM, will look after CM announcements, CM Relief Fund, Haryana Rural Development Fund(HRDF) and Wakf, while another HCS officer,  Sudhanshu Gautam, also OSD to CM, will take care of the online transfer policy. Neeraj Daftaur, the principal OSD to CM, will look after public relations, and Bhupeshwar Dayal will continue to  look after grievances. All policy matters related to different departments are sent to the chief minister through the officers in charge, who wield considerable influence over decision-making.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-chief-secretary-dhesi-to-be%C2%A0super-boss-in-cmo-280568
09-07-2021||New Delhi||Congress leader Subhash Chaudhary asks Haryana govt to improve school systems||Haryana Congress vice president, and former national president of NSUI, Subhash Chaudhary, urged the state government to improve the functioning of its school education system and instil confidence among the student community. He asked Chief Minister ML Khattar to intervene immediately on the matter. He suggested Khattar should convene a joint meeting of principals of government schools in the State and prepare a concrete road map to rejuvenate the system.“Students at large in Haryana are in despair due to disruptions in their academic curriculum due to lockdowns caused by the Covid pandemic,” Chaudhar said.He added that students were now facing suspense regarding their academics and careers.Chaudhary also said that the government has shown apathy towards the agriculture sector and farmers’ welfare even though Haryana is primarily an agrarian State.He wondered why the present regime was indifferent to the woes of the farming community.He alleged that the government has been amending its policies concerning procuring electricity connections to tubewells. The farmers were being harassed, affecting their avocation, he claimed.Chaudhary cautioned that the Congress aggressively played the role of the principal Opposition party in Haryana Assembly in raising issues related to people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-leader-subhash-chaudhary-asks-haryana-govt-to-improve-school-systems-280482
09-07-2021||---||Haryana medical association terms suspension of Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur unfair||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 8Terming it as unfair, the Haryana Civil Medical Service Association has demanded immediate reinstatement of suspended Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur.The caseOn Tuesday evening, the Haryana Government had issued the suspension orders of Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur apparently for her alleged failure to arrange a bed for a patient during the peak of the second wave when the bed occupancy rate was at an all-time high.Suspended CMO writes to ACS, HealthSuspended Panchkula CMO Dr Jasjeet Kaur has written to the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS) to the Government of Haryana, seeking her reinstatement. Dr Jasjeet Kaur confirmed the development.To press for its demand, the state medical body today organised a meet at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 here. It saw participation of doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists and other medical professionals.Dr Jasbir Parmar, president of the association, said the suspension of Dr Jasjeet Kaur was unjust and it should be revoked.“The suspension was issued without following due procedure. It is totally wrong and shouldn’t have happened. Such actions adversely affect the morale of doctors who are leading the fight against the Covid-19,” he said.“Instead of being felicitated for the service to the humanity, doctors are being punished,” Parmar said.He said they would also meet state Health Minister Anil Vij demanding reinstatement of Dr Jasjeet Kaur.On Tuesday evening, the Haryana Government had issued the suspension orders of Dr Jasjeet Kaur apparently for her alleged failure to arrange a bed for a patient during the peak of the second wave when the bed occupancy rate was at an all-time high.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-medical-association-terms-suspension-of-panchkula-cmo-dr-jasjeet-kaur-unfair-280383
09-07-2021||Sukhmeet Bhasin||Kulbir Naruana ‘killer’ linked to Lawrence Bishnoi gang||Tribune News ServiceBathinda, July 8A day after gangster-turned-activist Kulbir Naruana was shot at his home in Bathinda, the alleged involvement of the Lawrence Bishoi gang has come to the fore.A message purportedly in Naruana’s former security guard and accused Manna Sandhu Talwandi’s ID has been posted on the social media, claiming responsibility for the killing. In the post, it has been claimed that Manna was connected to the Lawrence Bishoi gang and was close to his Canada-based aide Goldy Brar, which annoyed Naruana.The victim supported a gang opposed to Manna over a land lease money issue and insulted the latter, leading to the killing, claims the post.The post reads: “I take responsibility for Kulbir Naruana’s murder. People are accusing me of backstabbing a friend. Every story has two sides and I am telling mine. Kulbir invited me to his house alone under a conspiracy and insulted me in front of 10 people, who were my rivals. I could have just walked away or fought for my honour. I choose to fight.”The post ends by saying: “I clarify that I am part of Lawrence Bishnoi group and have nothing to do with anyone else. I have killed Kulbir because of my personal enmity and not at the behest of anyone.” The police said Manna, who was admitted to the Faridkot Medical College, would be questioned about the post. The police initially claimed the post might have been written by one of Manna’s aides.SSP Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk said: “It is in our notice that a post from accused Manna Sandhu Talwandi’s account has been uploaded on the social media, but he is in our custody and is presently undergoing treatment at Faridkot Medical College. We are probing the matter.”The SSP said Manna was in touch with the Bisnhoi group and the police were probing the matter. A Madhya Pradesh-made pistol was used in the crime and a probe was on to identify the supplier, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kulbir-naruana-killer-linked-to-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-280218
09-07-2021||Rohtak||MC to develop 3 parking lots in Rohtak||The Municipal Corporation, Rohtak, has decided to develop three more parking lots in the city with the twin aim of easing out traffic congestion and raise its income.One of the three parking lots will be constructed on the Sonepat road near the water works while two others at Ashoka Chowk and Medical Turn will be developed on the land of the Tourism Department and the PGIMS, respectively.Tenders to be floatedThe land at Ashok Chowk and the Sonepat road has been lying vacant for the past some years. The MC had the residence for its officer on the Sonepat road. It was demolished after being declared unsafe while government quarters were located on the Ashoka Chowk. At present, owners of nearby shops randomly park vehicles there.5 parking lotsSources said a committee led by Mayor Manmohan Goyal met on Thursday and decided to float tenders for the parking lots next week to prevent people from parking their vehicles in no-parking zones, especially in those areas where the space is available. The committee also fixed the rates of parking of vehicle.“People park their vehicles outside shops on the Sonepat road and the Delhi road due to unauthorised parking lots there. It leads to traffic jams. I have been trying to persuade the Tourism Department and the PGIMS to provide land for the parking lots. Now, both the departments have agreed so we have begun the process of constructing parking lots there,” said Goyal.The Mayor said no parking of vehicle would be allowed within the radius of 100 m of authorised parking lots. With the three new ones, the city will have five parking lots at different locations. Multi-story buildings for vehicle parking at Bhiwani Stand and Delhi gate are already available, he added.Surendra Goyal, Land officer of the MC, informed that for eight hours, Rs 10 had been fixed for the parking of two-wheelers and Rs 20 for four-wheelers. “Space for the parking of 80 to 100 vehicles will be available in each new lot,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-to-develop-3-parking-lots-in-rohtak-280131
09-07-2021||Hisar||9th edition of Azadi Amritmahotsav||MC names road after educationistYamunanagar: Vijay Kapur, chairman, DAV Schools, Yamunanagar, and social activist lauded Municipal Corporation Yamunanagar-Jagadhri for passing the resolution of naming JN Kapur Chowk and extension of JN Kapur road. He said it was a tribute to great educationist JN Kapur in view of memorable role played by him in the field of education for the regeneration of the country.MLN College students bring laurelsYamunanagar: Anamika Soni of BA (English hons) third year and Bhavya Sethi of MA English (previous year) of Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, have bagged first and second positions respectively in an inter-college state-level English and Hindi essay writing competition organised by Maharaja Agrasen College, Jagadhari. Dr Ritu Kumar, head of the department of English, congratulated the winners.Workshop for supporting staffYamunanagar: The NSS unit of Guru Nanak Girls College organised a two-day workshop for the supporting staff of the college on "Safety measures during Covid-19". The workshop was organised under the guidance and motivation of college director Dr Varinder Gandhi and principal Dr Anu Atreja. On the first day of the workshop, the participants were told about the advantages of good diet over medicine, importance of wearing masks, vaccination and pranayam by Dr Prabhjot Kaur, Dr Amita Redhu and Dr Meenakshi Gupta of the college. The second day of the workshop was attended by director Dr Varinder Gandhi and the principal Dr Anu Atreja. They honoured the supporting staff by giving them prizes.Quiz competition organisedYamunanagar: Under the aegis of 14th Haryana Bn NCC, Yamunanagar, the NCC units of Guru Nanak Khalsa College and Maharaja Agrasen College jointly organised an online national- level quiz competition on Covid. Commanding Officer, Col AP Kaushish and Col APS Sandhu said that 1,600 participants from 21 states and union territories got registered in the competition and 786 submitted their responses in due course of time in the competition. Principal of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said 232 participants showed their intelligence by securing 75 per cent marks. Dr PK Bajpai, principal of Maharaja Agrasen College, said in this 15-minute competition, 25 questions were asked, to which they gave excellent answers.AICTE approval for engg coursesMahendragarh: The All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), New Delhi, has given its approval for four engineering courses being run by the Central University of Haryana for the session 2021-22, said Vice-Chancellor Prof RC Kuhad. Dr Ajay Bansal, dean of School of Engineering and Technology of the CUH said these courses included BTech in computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, civil engineering and printing and packaging technology. He maintained another course MPharm in pharmacology also got the AICET approval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/9th-edition-of-azadi-amritmahotsav-280146
09-07-2021||Hisar||Hisar auto driver returns bag of cash to owner, cops honour him||An autorickshaw driver was honoured by the police for honesty as he returned a bag containing cash and valuables to the owner in Hisar town today.The Inspector General of Police (IGP) Rakesh Kumar Arya honoured auto driver Sunil Sharma with Rs 2,100 and a commendation certificate for showing honesty during work.The police said that a man, Manjeet Singh, took a ride in the auto from Sector 13 to the bus stand in Hisar. However, he forgot his bag in the auto.Nearly 30 minutes later, he realised that his bag was missing. The bag contained a laptop, Rs 20,000 and his documents. Manjeet approached the police, but he did not have any details of the auto driver.Then, Manjeet got a phone call from the auto driver to inform him about the bag in his auto.The auto driver said that he got the phone number from the documents inside the bag. After informing the owner, he submitted the bag at the sabji mandi police post.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-auto-driver-returns-bag-of-cash-to-owner-cops-honour-him-280151
09-07-2021||The main road leading from Anand Vihar Colony to Kanhaiya City||Congress grass obstructs road in Karnal sector||Shopkeepers encroach upon govt land in KarnalWhile Karnal has been declared a smart City and a lot of money is being spent on various projects, at the same time in Sarafa Bazar, which is the main market, many shop owners have put “pakka thada” or platform in front of their shops which are even 4-5 ft beyond their shop. This is creating a lot of traffic jams. The road is left just half of the actual width for use. This serious issue must be addressed immediately. — Suresh Bansal, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-grass-obstructs-road-in-karnal-sector-280171
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||New education  policy in Haryana by 2025: CM||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today said the state was leading the way to ensure successful implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) by 2025. The CM, while presiding over a review meeting, said along with teachers, academicians and stakeholders, publicity of the benefits of NEP should be done among the children. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-education-policy-in-haryana-by-2025-cm-280180
09-07-2021||Sonepat||CM flying squad busts sex racket running in eateries at Murthal, SHO suspended||The CM flying squad on Wednesday night busted sex rackets running in eateries at Murthal and arrested 12 women and three dhaba managers in the matter.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa on Thursday suspended Murthal SHO and has ordered departmental inquiry against him. Following a tip-off about the rackets, the CM flying squad conducted raids at Murthal dhabas. The police sent decoy customers to the dhabas, after which the teams raided Happy dhaba, Raja dhaba and Hotel West dhaba. Among the 12 women arrested, two are from Uzbekistan, one is from Turkey while three are Nepalese. The women failed to produce their passport and visa. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-flying-squad-busts-sex-racket-running-in-eateries-at-murthal-sho-suspended-280181
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Can’t give ‘rebate’ in concessional govt scheme: High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the courts cannot give further “concession” in a “concessional scheme” already framed by a state government.The ruling by the Bench of Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice Vivek Puri came on a bunch of petitions seeking time extension for depositing outstanding instalments under the “Vivadon Ka Samadhan Scheme”.The petitioners were allotted plots in Hisar New Vegetable Market by the Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board in an open auction.Allotments letters were issued in 2015 and 25 per cent price of the plots was deposited upfront. But the petitioners defaulted in the deposit of the balance instalments.The Bench observed the scheme was launched from April 1 to settle, among other things, arrears and old disputes of allottees failing to deposit the instalments, interest, penal interest and extension fee.The Bench asserted it would view the scheme in the nature of a concession and a policy decision taken by the state government and not in terms of vesting any right in the defaulting allottees/petitioners.The Bench added it was well settled that the courts, in exercise of its power of judicial review, do not ordinarily interfere with the policy decision of the executive, unless the policy could be faulted on the grounds of mala fides, unreasonableness, arbitrariness, unfairness and being perverse.While exercising the power of judicial review, the court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was not to act as an appellate authority and ordinarily, policy decisions were required to be left to the government.The court could not interfere even if a second view was possible while assessing the propriety of a policy decision taken by the state.The Bench further added the submission for seeking extension on the basis of the current Covid situation was not well-founded. The petitioners were issued allotment letters in December 2015. The balance was to be paid in six half-yearly instalments. The default period for depositing the instalments ranged from 2016 to December 2018. It was much prior to the onset of Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cant-give-rebate-in-concessional-govt-scheme-high-court-280182
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farmers up ante, hold statewide  protests against fuel price hike||On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and other farm organisations, demonstrations against rising fuel prices were held at several locations across the state on Thursday.Farmers camping at the Tikri border organised a demonstration outside the Mini-Secretariat in Bahadurgarh town and blew horns of their tractors and other vehicles. They also brought empty LPG cylinders with them.Dhankar’s convoy returnsHisar: The cavalcade of state BJP chief OP Dhankar took a U-turn when they spotted a group of farm protesters approaching them in Kharar village here on Thursday. He was going to Rohtak after attending a personal event in Hisar. He took this route to avoid farmers at the Mayyar toll plaza on the Hisar-Rohtak highway. TNS“Extensive hike in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have not only broken the backbone of the common man but has also disturbed every household’s budget,” said a protester.In Rohtak, farmers under the All-India Kisan Sabha jointly led by Inderjit Singh, Raju Makrauli and Preet Singh staged a protest in front of the DC office.The protesters parked their vehicles in a row and blew horns at 12 noon to register their protest. “The prices of petrol, diesel and LPG have been raised over 60 times since January hence we demand a drastic cut in the rates,” said Inderjit Singh.The farmers parked their tractors on the roadsides and raised slogans against the Centre in Ambala. A number of women also joined the protest and kept empty gas cylinders on roads to mark their protest.Sukhvidner Singh, a farmer from Jalbera village in Ambala, said, “On the call of the SKM, we have held a protest against the rising fuel prices. The BJP government had claimed to double the farmers’ income but by increasing the fuel prices but it has hiked the input cost only.”In Karnal, farmers protested at the Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 and in Kaithal, they staged a dharna near Titram Mor.Bahadur Singh Mehla, district president, Karnal, IT Cell, BKU, took out a procession on a bullock cart and raised slogans against the Central and the state governments at the Bastara Toll plaza. They alleged that the unnecessary hikes in fuel prices as well as other commodities were affecting the common people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-farmers-up-ante-hold-statewide-protests-against-fuel-price-hike-280183
09-07-2021||Jhajjar||Rs 25K reward for info on Tikri rape accused||DGP Manoj Yadava has declared cash reward of Rs 25,000 each on information leading to the arrest of two accused — Anoop Chinaut and Ankur Sangwan — in the Bengali woman’s rape case at the Tikri border.The accused have been absconding since the case was filed against them and four others on May 8.Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal said both the accused had approached the court for anticipatory bail but failed to get any relief. “Raids are persistently being conducted at their possible hideouts to nab them. Anil Malik, one of the main accused in the case, has already been arrested,” he said, adding that the name and address of the informer would be kept secret.The 25-year-old woman had come to Tikri from West Bengal on April 12 with a group of protesters who had gone there to hold public meetings for the Assembly poll. She died of Covid on April 30. On May 8, he father lodged a police complaint alleging that she was sexually assaulted by Anil Malik in Tikri. Anoop Chinaut helped him in the crime.Both the accused ran the ‘Kisan Social Army’ outfit and had been camping at Tikri for a few months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-25k-reward-for-info-on-tikri-rape-accused-280184
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Additional power supply for sowing  paddy: Haryana Power Minister||Power Minister Ranjit Singh said two-hour additional power supply would be given to farmers for sowing paddy due to delay in monsoon in the state.It will be supplied to the farmers with immediate effect, he added. Ranjit Singh said this decision had been taken as per the instructions of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.He said the farmers would now get 10-hour of power supply instead of 8-hour for sowing paddy. This will help the farmers in overcoming the water shortage while sowing the crop. He said this facility of providing additional power for two hours would be given to them till the onset of monsoon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/additional-power-supply-for-sowing-paddy-haryana-power-minister-280193
09-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Farmers remove boulders near Golden Hut Dhaba in Kurukshetra||A group of farmers under the banner of the BKU (Charuni) on Thursday removed the boulders placed by the NHAI to strengthen road safety near Golden Hut Dhaba in Kurukshetra. But as the news spread, officials of the Sadar Thanesar police station and the NHAI reached the spot and placed the boulders again.Farm unions and the SAD have been accusing the state of targeting the dhaba owner by restricting the entry to his place by placing boulders because he had been helping the famers in their agitation.An NHAI official in Ambala said: “To curb accidents on the NH-44, all unauthorised cuts in front of private properties are being closed. Now, cemented blocks are being placed to close the cuts on the highway from Panipat to Jalandhar.”Thanesar Sadar SHO Rajpal said: “The NHAI had placed the boulders to close illegal cuts but these were removed. If any complaint is received then action will be taken accordingly.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-remove-boulders-near-golden-hut-dhaba-in-kurukshetra-280201
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Four HCS officers transferred||The state government today issued transfer and posting orders of four HCS officers with immediate effect.lsha Kamboj, Estate Officer, HSVP, Jagadhri, has been posted as the Secretary, Haryana Staff Selection Commission and Estate Officer, HSVP, Jagadhri, in addition to her present duties.Surinder Singh, Additional Director (Administration), PGIMS, Rohtak, has been posted as Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil), Kanina. Mayank Bhardwaj, Joint Excise and Taxation Commissioner, has been posted as Estate Officer, HSVP, Karnal. Amit Kumar, Joint Director (Administration), Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, has been posted as Joint Director (Administration), Town and Country Planning, Haryana and Deputy Secretary, Town and Country Planning Department. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-hcs-officers-transferred-280204
09-07-2021||Hisar||All Haryana board matric students under open learning mode pass with 33%||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), Bhiwani, has declared all students, who had registered themselves for appearing under open learning for matriculation, pass by awarding 33 per cent to them.The board has also made the provision for students who want to improve their marks to appear in the examinations to be held in August-September.Board chairman Jagbir Singh said students who appeared for the fresh category, re-appear, credit transfer policy (CTP) and mercy chance exams could check their results on the official website bseh.org.in.He said the examinations of students studying under the Haryana Open School were scheduled to be conducted in April but were cancelled due to the second wave of Covid.The chairman informed that a total of 20,154 candidates, including 13,700 boys and 6,454 girls of secondary open school (fresh category), had been awarded the minimum passing marks (33 per cent) in all subjects.Besides, candidates who have CTP in more than one subject, are awarded marks obtained in their other passing subjects with a minimum of 33 per cent. For the CTP cases, internal assessment marks have been taken into account.For secondary annual examination of March, candidates who had applied for partial/full subject marks improvement and additional subjects, the results have been declared on chance for subsequent exam (CSE). All such candidates will be allowed to appear in the upcoming board exam, which will be conducted from August 16 to September 1 on the basis of the same application without any fee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/all-haryana-board-matric-students-under-open-learning-mode-pass-with-33-280205
09-07-2021||Chandigarh||Over 39K get vaccinated in Haryana||With 39,077 more persons getting vaccinated in the past 24 hours, the state tally reached 96,55,164 on Thursday .Meanwhile, 7,58,589 persons have recovered so far. The recovery rate is reported to be 98.63% while the death rate is pegged at 1.24%. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-39k-get-vaccinated-in-haryana-280206
09-07-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||National, Haryana child rights panels for action against child welfare units of Bhiwani||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 3The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) have called for action against members of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Bhiwani, and District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), Bhiwani, for their dubious role in a case involving multiple rapes and molestations of a 16-year-old Assamese girl. The members allegedly forced the victim to change her statement regarding a sexually explicit counselling session by a DCPU counsellor.“We have passed strictures against the police too. Their role has also come under scanner in a local court order, dated June 25, in a prostitution racket case, where the victim was sent to customers,” said Chairperson, HSCPCR, Jyoti Bainda.The girl, who has studied up to Class VI, hails from the Tinsukia district of Assam. A native of her village Roshan Ali brought her to Delhi on the pretext of providing her a cleaning job on March 30, 2020, but handed her over to a man who abused her.A woman, Usha, brought her to Charkhi Dadri and allegedly forced her into prostitution. As per an FIR, dated April 3, she said that once “madam” (Usha) sent her with two men who molested her, but let her off after she raised her voice. The next time, she was sent to a hotel, where she was raped. However, she escaped and with the help of passers-by and reached police station, following which a case was registered.During the medical examination, the victim was found two-and-a-half-month pregnant and her abortion was carried out at PGIMS, Rohtak, in April.The victim said that during a counselling session on May 7 at Bhiwani Child Care Institution, counsellor Hari Krishan “uncle” of DCPU, Bhiwani, asked her objectionable questions. After the HSCPCR intervened, an FIR was registered on May 22 under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against him. He has been put under suspension now.“An unnecessary hurry was made by the police for the bone ossification test of the victim in this case to prove that she was a major. Whereas the ossification test in the prostitution case had already established that she was a minor,” said Bainda.She added, “It has also come on record that a member of the CWC Bhiwani, Legal Prohibition Officer DCPU Bhiwani Manoj, and an assistant professor of MNS Government College are allegedly involved in forcing the girl to change her statement in the name of counselling sessions. We have recommended action against them. Manoj was arrested too.” The victim was later shifted to a Sonepat shelter home on May 29. On June 25, the court passed strictures for carrying out the test identification of Usha when the victim was Covid positive and was not in a position to identify her.Only a customer has been arrested so far in the prostitution case, while three accused, including Usha, are yet to be arrested. As per the FIR, the victim has claimed that Usha has 15 girls for running prostitution racket.The victim’s parents are yet to be traced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-haryana-child-rights-panels-for-action-against-child-welfare-units-of-bhiwani-277994
