10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Hot weather conditions continue in Punjab, Haryana||Hot weather conditions continued to prevail in Haryana and Punjab on Saturday, the MeT said.Narnaul city in Haryana recorded maximum temperature at 41.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, according to the meteorological (MeT) department here.Hisar experienced hot weather at 41 degrees Celsius, followed by Karnal at 38.2 and Ambala at 37.4, weather officials said.Rohtak, Gurugram and Bhiwani recorded maximum temperatures at 40.1, 40.7 and 40.4 degrees Celsius respectively, up to five degrees above normal.Also read:In Punjab, maximum temperatures of Amritsar, Ludhiana and Patiala settled at 36.5, 37.1 and 38 degrees Celsius respectively, up to three degrees above normal.Meanwhile, Amritsar received 16 mm of rainfall, they said.Chandigarh, the joint capital of the two states, registered its maximum at 37.5 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hot-weather-conditions-continue-in-punjab-haryana-281115
10-07-2021||Jaipur||Cops turn disciples to arrest criminal hiding in ashram for 27 years||In an interesting turn of events, Rajasthan Police personnel had to turn into disciples to arrest a 'saint' wanted in a long-pending assault case, who was hiding at an ashram in Haryana for the past 27 years after absconding from the clutches of the law enforcement agencies.The head constable of Vishwakarma police station here, Saheb Singh, played a crucial role in arresting the accused who has been identified as Deshbandhu Jat, absconding since last 27 years from Jaipur and staying as a 'sadhu' in the ashram.Singh got a tip-off that the Jat was living as a sadhu at an ashram in Bapora in Bhiwani district of Haryana. But as the police were not sure that the person in the ashram was the same man who gave them slip for so many years, they decided to stay in the ashram as his disciple to find out his real identity.As the policemen talked to the person on different issues, the latter mentioned Jaipur, after which the cops became convinced that he had a Jaipur connection. Later during another round of discussions, they became sure that the man living in the guise of a sadhu was indeed Deshbandhu Jat.Presently, the Jaipur Police are running a campaign to arrest all the wanted criminals. Under this campaign, the police took steps to arrest Jat, who was wanted in a case registered in 1994.At that time, Jat used to work at a petrol pump in the Vishwakarma police station area where he had thrashed a customer who had complained that Jat was giving him less petrol. Subsequently, a case was registered against Jat.In order to convince the self-styled godman that they were indeed his disciples, the cops even had to smoke 'chillum' with him.There was even a commotion at the ashram before his arrest. As soon as the Rajasthan Police personnel informed that they were going to arrest Jat, one of his disciples called the other devotees over phone who soon gathered at the ashram.But the cops somehow managed to take Jat to the Bhiwani police station from where the accused was brought to Jaipur after high-level talks. A local court has now sent Jat to judicial custody. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-turn-disciples-to-arrest-criminal-hiding-in-ashram-for-27-years-281094
10-07-2021||---||Police raiding drug peddler attacked by family members, neighbours in Fatehabad||Hisar, July 10A police team was attacked by family members and neighbours of an alleged drug peddler when the cops had come to raid and arrest the accused in a town of Fatehabad district. The family also managed to free the drug peddler from police custody.Assistant Sub Inspector of police suffered minor injuries in the incident. The police have registered a case against seven persons including, women, in connection with the assault on the team.The complaint was logged by Assistant Sub Inspector Krishan Kumar.Earlier, the police got information that two youths, Harpal and Chhinder, were selling drug pills in the region.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-raiding-drug-peddler-attacked-by-family-members-neighbours-in-fatehabad-281052
10-07-2021||Gurugram||7 arrested as police bust another fake call centre in Gurugram||The Haryana chief minister's flying squad busted another illegal call centre operating in Udyog Vihar, Phase 5, in Gurugram.The call centre mostly used to cheat US nationals, posing as Amazon employees and used to charge 100 to 1,000 dollars per client, the police said on Saturday.The accused had also paid Rs 1.15 lakh as building rent for two to three months.According to the police, a team of the CM flying squad led by DSP Inderjeet Yadav raided the call centre located in Udyog Vihar, Phase 5 in Gurugram, following a tip-off.During the raid, the police arrested seven persons and seized two hard disks and one mobile phone along with other electronic gadgets. The arrested have been identified as Mukul Singh, Alok Sinha, Vijay Pal Singh, Sameer Kavli, Gorang Sharma, Ravi Shirke and Bo Pang Foam, while the owner Nikunj Giri was not present at the time of the raid.During the raid, the police spotted 26 men and 10 women working there, who were communicating with the US nationals. However, after questioning the police have released them."We received specific inputs that a fake call centre had cheated several US nationals posed as Amazon company employees. The youths were employed at the call centre, which was being operated without a licence from the Department of Telecommunications," said Yadav."The accused used to dupe US citizens posing as Amazon employees and charge 100 to 1,000 dollars via E-Gift redeemed card," he added.An FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act has been registered at the Cybercrime police station. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-arrested-as-police-bust-another-fake-call-centre-in-gurugram-281043
10-07-2021||---||Monsoon in revival mode, expect rain in next 24 hrs||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 9Weather conditions are turning favourable for advancement of the southwest Monsoon, stalled since June 19, over Delhi, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours.Weakened after June 19The IMD said further strengthening of easterly winds at lower levels was also likely over northwest India during the next couple of days. Under their influence, fairly to widespread rainfall was likely over Northwest India during next five days.Isolated heavy rainfall is also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi during July 11 and July 13; Himachal Pradesh, west Uttar Pradesh and east Rajasthan between July 10 and 13; Punjab and west Rajasthan on July 11 and 12; and east Uttar Pradesh on July 9.“Isolated very heavy rainfall is also very likely over HP on July 11 and 12, Uttarakhand between July 10 and 12 and west UP between July 11 and 13,” the IMD said. After arriving two days late in Kerala, the monsoon had advanced across the country, covering eastern, central and northwest India at least a week in advance. Later with conditions remaining unfavourable, the monsoon weakened.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-in-revival-mode-expect-rain-in-next-24-hrs-280888
10-07-2021||---||Gurugram bar brawl: Cops come to aid of woman colleague, thrashed||Sanjay YadavGurugram, July 9Two probationary policemen were brutally assaulted by two persons near Medanta hospital in Sector 38 here on Wednesday night. One of the policemen suffered fractures in both his legs as the accused tried to mow him down with their car. The accused were arrested by the police, but they managed to secure bail. They were identified as Krishan Kumar (25) of Palwal and Shiv Kumar (28) of Lajwanti Garden, Delhi. Krishan is the son of an ASI of the Haryana Police.In his complaint, probationer Sub-Inspector Mohit said he was partying with his three friends, including a woman, at a bar in Sector 29 around 9 pm on Wednesday. All his friends were also probationer police personnel.The accused, who were also present there, tried to eve-tease their friend. This led to a brawl. A police team was called in and both parties were told to leave the bar and head home.When Mohit headed for Manesar in his car, the accused followed him. Mohit rang up his probationer Sub-Inspector friend Sumit to come to his help.Meanwhile, the accused stopped Mohit near Medanta and assaulted him with sticks. When Sumit reached there, they also assaulted him and tried to mow him down with their car.An FIR has been registered at the Sector 29 police station and the probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-bar-brawl-cops-come-to-aid-of-woman-colleague-thrashed-280884
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana schools open from July 16||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-schools-open-from-july-16-280869
10-07-2021||---||We don’t need loan, only freedom from debt: SKM||New Delhi, July 9Making their stance clear on the Centre’s “pro-farmer” decision as regards the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today said the farmers “do not need more loans, but freedom from indebtedness”.Misleading claimReferring to the Rs 1 lakh crore fund is highly misleading because there has been no allocation of even some thousand crores by the govt. farmers’ leadersThe statement comes a day after Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) would have access to Rs 1 lakh crore allocated for the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. “Farmers don’t need more loans, but freedom from indebtedness. They need a legally guaranteed remunerative price for their produce,” it said. The morcha asked the Modi government to “stop churning out ‘jumlas’ around three anti-farmer laws and repeal them immediately”.Farm leaders said, “Referring to the Rs 1 lakh crore fund is highly misleading because there has been no allocation of even some thousand crores by the government.”“It has merely created a new head under which loans can be accessed from banks. The government’s role is only to provide interest subvention of 3 per cent and some credit guarantee coverage,” they said.“The Centre has shown that it has no commitment to build and expand the public market and storage infrastructure for the benefit of small farmers, and has set upon facilitating Adanis, Walmart and Reliance to build private markets, storage and processing facilities,” they alleged.BKU’s Rakesh Tikait said the Centre could end the farmers’ protest “either with talks or force”. While “farmers are ready to hold talks, discussions should be held without any preconditions”, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/we-dont-need-loan-only-freedom-from-debt-skm-280881
10-07-2021||Ambala||Delhi Public School, Ambala, organises programme for spreading awareness on nature||High-yielding sugarcane varietyHisar: A high-yielding and early maturing sugarcane variety CoH 160 has been developed by scientists of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University's Regional Research Station, Uchani in Karnal district for cultivation in Haryana. This variety has been recommended for notification by the Central Sub-Committee on 'Notification and Release of Varieties for Agricultural Crops', recently. Vice-Chancellor Dr BR Kamboj said on Friday the sugar industry in Haryana was in dire need of an early maturing and high-sugared variety, which was resistant against prevalent pathotypes of red rot disease and major pests. He said CoH 160 was fulfilling the present needs of the farming community and industry and was most suitable replacement to the dominant variety Co 0238 in Haryana. He hoped the variety would prove a wonder cane.Workshop organisedKurukshetra: Tagore Global School organised a series of workshops for the early years educators for pre-nursery to Class ll, in continuation to its initiative to infuse innovative teaching in early years with an international dimension. Sangeeta Dutta, an early years educator from Oman having a vast experience in her field in the Middle East, held the workshops elaborating the latest, pedagogical practices adopted in British and American curriculum and their relevance in Indian context. Principal Dr Auddy thanked Dutta for her generous time and contribution in helping the educators raise happier and more active and confident children.Varsity signs MoUFaridabad: To support technical institutions in the state to achieve quality parameters like NBA and NAAC accreditation, JC University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad on Friday signed MoUs with eight technical institutes in the state as mentee beneficiary institutes (MBI) to guide and disseminate knowledge under the Margdarshan scheme of AICTE. The Margdarshan scheme is an initiative by AICTE to improve the quality of technical education in the country. The MoUs were digitally signed between the head of mentee beneficiary institutes and JC Bose University in a ceremony organised on a digital platform in the presence of Vice-Chancellor professor Dinesh Kumar.Institutes to work togetherHisar: Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences(LUVAS) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Central Sheep Breeding Farm of the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying in Hisar for collaboration in the field of education and research. Dr Nirmala Sangwan signed the MoU on behalf of the LUVAS while Joint Commissioner Dr AK Malhotra signed the pact. The two institutes will avail the respective facilities for research and jointly work for research in veterinary science.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-public-school-ambala-organises-programme-for-spreading-awareness-on-nature-280890
10-07-2021||The ‘Brahma Sarovar’ is a pride not only of Kurukshetra but also of Haryana for its grandeur and religious significance. Tourists from different parts of the world throng Kurukshetra to enjoy its splendour and to take a holy dip. But the poor maintenance of this historical place leaves the visitors disappointed. Stagnant||Poor upkeep disappoints visitors at ‘Brahma Sarovar’ in Kurukshetra||Prof (Dr) Deepak Kaushik, KurukshetraJind among 30 most-polluted cities in worldThe AQI index in Jind stays around 471 during night hours, which makes it the most-polluted city amongst the top 30 cities in the world. The reason for this mess is: there are many factories, which burn used tyres and lead of used batteries, at night, to avoid any legal action. These so called 'factories ' billow out black thick smoke throughout the night and the AQI reaches dangerous levels. The relevant departments don't take any action against such units.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaDisplay monthly vax schedule at civil dispensariesSpecial vaccination sessions were organised at the Sector 20 Civil Dispensary, where many persons got jabs, but there is ignorance over availability of vaccination at the dispensary for the first or the second dose. Civil Surgeons should prominently display on the first of every month the monthly schedule of vaccination at every civil dispensary. Wider publicity of schedule can attract more people to accomplish universal vaccination mission sooner than later.Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-upkeep-disappoints-visitors-at-brahma-sarovar-in-kurukshetra-280887
10-07-2021||Hisar||Withdraw cases against farmers by July 24: SKM||Farm leaders have served an ultimatum on the district administration to withdrawal the criminal cases registered against 350 farmers in connection with the Hisar clash till July 24.SKM leaders Joginder Singh Ugrahan and Yudhvir Singh led a delegation of farmers to hold the meeting to remind the administration about its assurance to withdraw the criminal cases during their previous meeting held May 24. Commissioner Chander Shekhar, IG Rakesh Kumar Arya, Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni and DIG Balwan Singh Rana were present in the meeting.The SKM leaders stated after the meeting, the district officials had failed to give a satisfactory response to them. Ugrahan said the SKM could give another protest call in Hisar if the administration fails to stick to its assurance to withdraw the case against farmers. On May 16, the police booked about 350 farmers on the charges of attempt to murder and under other sections of the IPC in connection with the violent clash with the police during the iopening of a Covid hospital by the CM. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/withdraw-cases-against-farmers-by-july-24-skm-280882
10-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Nine child labourers rescued in Jagadhri||A joint team of the Childline and Child Protection Unit rescued nine child labourers from a manufacturing unit of sanitary goods in Jagadhri. They were handed over to their parents. Hit by the lockdown, the children started working in the factory a few weeks ago.Director, Childline-Yamunanagar, Dr Anju Bajpai said they had received a complaint that several children were engaged in labour work in a sanitary goods manufacturing factory at Jagadhri.She contacted Deputy Commissioner Girish Arora and raided the factory with the help of the Child Protection Unit and the police on Thursday afternoon.“A total of nine children were rescued from the factory. One child is 12-year-old and the others are in the 14-16 age group,” said Dr Anju.“Their parents have given affidavits assuring that their children will study and not indulge in menial works,” added Dr Anju Bajpai. She said action would be taken against the factory owner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-child-labourers-rescued-in-jagadhri-280880
10-07-2021||Gurugram||1 held for duping Gurugram resident of Rs 24 lakh||The police have arrested a man for allegedly duping a local resident of Rs 24 lakh on the pretext of getting him policy refund. He was produced in a city court today, which sent him to a four-day police remand.The accused has been identified as Mohit Kumar (31). He would change names to Deepak Sharma and Manish Sharma to dupe people. Several people have fallen prey to his tricks in the past five years.He was earlier employed with LIC’s associate company from where he managed to get the data of policy holders of HDFC Life, said police.He recently duped Pankit Gajjar of Rs 24 lakh on the pretext of getting an insurance policy refund. He was planning to buy land in his native village, but was arrested within 24 hours of the complaint. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-duping-gurugram-resident-of-rs-24-lakh-280878
10-07-2021||---||Over 1 lakh inoculated in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 9The total vaccinations against Covid were pegged at 97,63,405 on Friday with 1,08,241 more receiving jabs. Meanwhile, a total of78,678 persons have so far recovered from the virus. The recovery rate is reported to be 98.63 per cent while the fatality rate is pegged at 1.24 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1-lakh-inoculated-in-haryana-280876
10-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Post lifting of curbs, Rohtak stadium abuzz with activity||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 9After the lifting of Covid restrictions, life seems to be getting back on track at Rajiv Gandhi Sports Stadium in Sector 6, which is again abuzz with activity.If sportspersons are to be believed, the trend of maintaining physical fitness has gone up among people as the second wave of Covid has subsided. Now, they are working on their fitness to combat probable third wave.“This time, the situation is different than last year. Now, many people along with children are coming to the stadium to play games and exercise to keep physically fit. This spirit was missing last year, but the second wave has made everyone realise that healthy body is a must to fight fatal diseases like Covid,” said Sandeep Rathi, an athletics coach.Arjun Singh (60) said he neither went for morning walk nor exercised all his life, but Covid had pushed him to wake up early in the morning to go for a walk and perform yoga to remain healthy.“Many people of my age became victims of Covid this time.Only healthy ones recovered from infection hence I have also started my morning walk and exercise to keep healthy,” he added.The stadium remained closed for over a month due to the Covid lockdown, forcing budding and other players to practise at other places while morning and evening walkers also had to walk on highways and internal roads.“The stadium is the safest and best place for people like me who walk in the morning and evening. Seeing the youths running, exercising and toiling hard generates a lot of energy. That’s why people come here. We are happy that life is getting back on track as the number of cases have declined,” said Ram Karan, an elderly man. Pankaj of Akheri Madanpur, Jhajjar, said over 50 per cent youths coming here were preparing for the Army recruitment rally to be held next month. “Covid has hampered our practice but not spirit. I come here daily to realise my dream of becoming an Army man, so that I can serve the nation,” he added. Rohtas, security man, said over 1,500 people come to the stadium daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-lifting-of-curbs-rohtak-stadium-abuzz-with-activity-280826
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Evaluate gravity of offence while giving bail: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Making it clear that a judge was required to decide a bail plea after taking into consideration the role of the accused, his antecedents and the gravity of the offence, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that an order passed by a Gurugram Judge without following this procedure was against the settled norms.Delivery boy robbed of bike “It was a well-settled procedure of law that while passing an order or a judgment, a judge is required to notice the facts of the FIR, the role of the person seeking bail/anticipatory bail, his antecedents and the gravity of offence committed and then form an opinion in the light of the guidelines given by the Supreme Court in a number of judgments regarding granting or dismissing the bail/anticipatory bail,” Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan asserted.Referring to the lower court’s order, Justice Sangwan asserted the Additional Sessions Judge noticed the offence under Section 395 of the IPC (dacoity) was serious offence. As such, custodial interrogation was required. On the face of it, this order was passed against the settled norms.Justice Sangwan also asked the Director of Chandigarh Judicial Academy to look into the matter and issue appropriate directions to the judicial officers about the manner by which the facts in an FIR were required to be reflected before forming an opinion whether bail/anticipatory bail was to be granted or declined.The matter was brought to Justice Sangwan’s notice after an accused sought anticipatory bail in an FIR registered on July 14, 2020, under Sections 395 and 34 of the IPC at Sector-56 police station in Gurugram.The FIR was registered at the instance of a pizza delivery boy. He had alleged that five boys present in a house where he went for delivery started abusing him by saying that he was “very late”.They snatched the pizza and his motorcycle. By the time the police reached the spot on his information, four boys had fled with the motorcycle. One of the boys arrested at the spot made a disclosure statement.Justice Sangwan observed it was not disputed that the allegations were regarding snatching of a pizza and the motorcycle, which were recovered from the already-arrested. Before parting with the case, Justice Sangwan added the petitioner would be released on interim bail in the event of arrest subject to his furnishing personal bonds and surety to the satisfaction of arresting/investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/evaluate-gravity-of-offence-while-giving-bail-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-280827
10-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Two booked in dowry death case in Yamunanagar||A 22- year-old woman has died under mysterious circumstances at Karkoli village of Yamunanagar district.A case was registered against the husband of the deceased, Krishan Kumar, and her mother-in-law, Krishna Devi, under Section 304-B (dowry death) of the IPC at Chhachhrauli police station on Wednesday.The complainant, Ramesh Kumar, said his sister, Ruchi, was married to Krishan in December 2020 and her-in-laws had been harassing her for dowry. According to information, Ruchi complained of vomiting on Wednesday, after which her in-laws took her to a private hospital in Yamunanagar, where she died. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-booked-in-dowry-death-case-in-yamunanagar-280828
10-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Eco lovers free trees from ‘shackles’ in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 9In a novel campaign, a group of 15 nature-lovers of the city are liberating trees from the iron guards around them. These guards, which were erected for the safety of trees and were not removed on time, have become a deterrent in the growth of the trees.Armed with electricity operated cutters, these residents are cutting and removing the tree guards. Later, they hand these over to the authorities concerned. In the past six days, they have removed 42 tree guards which had entered into the trunks of the trees.“I had observed that the tree guards are creating hurdles in the growth of the trees on Phoosgarh road. The number of such trees was around 100. So I decided to free these trees from tree guards which have already entered or are about to enter into the stems,” said Dinesh Bakshi, founder of Lakshay Janhit Society, an NGO.“I discussed the issue with members of the society. They also gave their consent to it. Now, members of the society including Amit Sachdeva, Rohtash Lather, Pankaj, Vivek Sharma, Hitesh Gupta, Gulab Poswal, Ravi Bhatia, Himanshu Dhingra along with other residents are contributing a lot to this initiative,” he added.The environment lovers demanded that the authorities should remove the guards whenever the trees grow big. “I brought this issue into the notice of the Deputy Commissioner who allowed us to go ahead. We request the authorities to remove the tree guards on time so that the tree can grow easily,” said advocate Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Sector-13.He said that the tree guards are meant to protect the saplings or a young tree from cattle and rodents, but usually, these are not removed on time and become a hurdle in the growth of the trees. “If it is not removed at the right time, it could change the orientation of the tree,” he said, adding that they are conducting a survey of such trees in the city. In the coming days, all trees will be free of such guards.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), said that these people are doing noble work and the KMC would provide them all kinds of assistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eco-lovers-free-trees-from-shackles-in-karnal-280829
10-07-2021||Sonepat||Man’s car robbed at gunpoint||Two youths robbed a car from two employees of Jindal Global University at the 100-feet road in Rai area at gunpoint on Thursday night. A case against unknown persons has been registered under Section 379-B, 387 and 34 of the IPC at Rai police station.The victim, Manjeet Singh, told the police that he, along with his colleague, Devvrat Bisht, had stopped the car at the 100-feet road near KMP expressway at around 10.30 pm when two youths on a motorcycle approached them and pointed a gun at them. “They asked for money but when we told them we didn’t have anything, they snatched the car keys, took my friend hostage and asked me to get money from the ATM. Upon return, when I told them that the ATM was closed, they pushed my friend and fled with my car,” Manjeet said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mans-car-robbed-at-gunpoint-280830
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Now, vehicle tax can only be deposited online in Haryana||Now, owners of motor vehicles will have to submit their tax online as the Haryana Government has decided to close all the 10 tax collection points set up in the state for depositing Motor Vehicle (MV) Tax.An official spokesperson said the Transport Department had set up tax collections points in 10 districts of the state. These tax collection points were set up in the districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Rewari, Jhajjar, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Jind, Panchkula, Ambala and Sonepat. Vehicle owners were also given the option to submit their taxes online. He said after a detailed discussion on this subject, it has now been decided to close all these 10 tax collection points. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-vehicle-tax-can-only-be-deposited-online-in-haryana-280832
10-07-2021||---||On Kurukshetra University visit, minister Kamlesh Dhanda shown black flags||Kurukshetra, July 9Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) on Friday staged a dharna and showed black flags to Minister of State for Women and Child Development Department Kamlesh Dhanda at the Kurukshetra University.The minister came there to chair a meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievances Redressal Committee. Reportedly, the meeting venue was changed to KU senate hall from Panchayat Bhawan due to the farmers’ stir. After getting information, the farm activists started gathering outside the second gate of the KU.Meanwhile, heavy police force was deployed on all entry gates of the university. The farmers tried to enter the university and also had arguments with the cops deployed there. Despite the barricading, a few farmers managed to enter the university and reached near the senate hall. As the minister was about to leave, the protesters started showing her black flags and raised anti-government slogans. The cops, however, removed the farmers and detained at least 10 of them.Dilbagh Singh, BKU general secretary, Kurukshetra, said: “The farmers’ union has already given a protest call against BJP leaders and still the government has been repeatedly holding different events. We have shown black flags to her and will continue to protest till the farm laws are not withdrawn.”Due to security reasons, the university gates remained closed but it became a cause of inconvenience for the people residing on the premises.Sources said a notification was issued by the university asking the employees and students to stay indoors, avoid non-essential travel and keep their ID cards with them while visiting the offices. A KU professor said: “We have seen numerous VIPs visiting the university but such a notification was never issued earlier. Such events should be avoided on the university premises.”During the meeting, the minister heard 21 registered complaints of which 16 were resolved while she ordered reprobe in five cases. Meanwhile, the minister warned the officials and directed them to behave properly with the complainants. “Before resolving the grievances, the officers should improve their behaviour. If the officers behave well while listening to the complainants, a majority of the issues will get resolved at the office level itself. If any officer misbehaves with the complainant, then strict action will be taken,” she added.Meanwhile, the farmers lifted their dharna around 8 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-kurukshetra-university-visit-minister-kamlesh-dhanda-shown-black-flags-280833
10-07-2021||---||Rs 9 lakh looted from PNB branch||Sonepat, July 9Two masked men robbed Rs 9 lakh at gunpoint from a branch of Punjab National Bank in Model Town on Friday. After the loot, the miscreants fled on a motorcycle but the incident was captured on CCTV cameras.The police have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 of the Arms Act on the statement of the bank branch manager. No arrests have been made so far.According to the statement by the branch manager, Reema Rawat, the masked men broke into the bank at around 3.30 pm.“One of the masked men had a knife in his hands and waited at the gate of the bank while the other reached out for the cash counter. When the cashier refused to open the lock, he attacked another woman employee with his pistol to force the cashier to open the lock. The men robbed Rs 9 lakh and fled on a motorcycle,” she said.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said it was surprising that there was no armed security guard at the gate of the bank and the safety alarm was also defunct.“We have collected CCTV footage of adjoining areas to identify the miscreants. The police of the adjoining district have also been informed,” said Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-9-lakh-looted-from-pnb-branch-280834
10-07-2021||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana ex-Chief Secy DS Dhesi gets lion’s share in CMO reshuffle||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 9Former Chief Secretary of Haryana DS Dhesi, who was specially appointed as the Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar last year, will now be the “super boss” in the CM’s Office (CMO).After the reshuffle, Dhesi would call the shots as he had been allocated at least 13 important departments besides being the overall incharge of the CMO.OTHER ALLOCATIONSThe departments under Dhesi’s jurisdiction include legislative proposals to be brought before the Council of Minister, Parliamentary Affairs, Law and Legislative, Excise and Taxation, Irrigation, General Administration, Vigilance, Home, Town and Country Planning, Finance and Planning, Urban Local Bodies, Foreign Cooperation, Industries, Electronics and Information Technology, and Citizen Resource Information.Meanwhile, Principal Secretary to CM V Umashankar will have to be content with merely half a dozen of departments, including Revenue and Rehabilitation, Transport, Mines and Geology, Civil Aviation, Renewable Energy, and Science and Technology.Additional Principal Secretary to CM Amit Aggarwal will look after 10 departments, including Health and Medical Education, Higher Education, School Education, Technical Education, Development Panchayats, Forests and Wildlife, Labour and Employment, and Power.However, Ashima Brar, Deputy Principal Secretary to CM, will hold the charge of maximum 16 departments. These include Architecture, Archaeology, Elections, Environment, Food and Supplies, Fisheries, Housing, Public Health Engineering, Printing and Stationery, Sports and Youth Affairs, Women and Child Development, Public Works, Agriculture, Cooperation, and Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare.IRS officer Yogender Chaudhary, Adviser, Resource Mobilisation, has been entrusted with departments such as Art and Culture, Social Justice and Empowerment, Tourism, Welfare of SCs and BCs, Project Director (Drug-Free Haryana Mission), Matter Relating to Resource Mobilisation, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, and Industrial Training and Vocational Education.HCS officer Satish Kumar, OSD to CM, will look after Khattar’s announcements, CM Relief Fund, Haryana Rural Development Fund (HRDF) and Waqf while another HCS officer Sudhanshu Gautam, OSD to CM, will take care of the Online Transfer Policy. Neeraj Daftaur,Principal OSD to CM, will look after Public Relations, Bhupeshwar Dayal will continue to look after grievances.All policy matters related to different departments are sent to the CM through the officers incharge, who wield considerable influence taking the decisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-ex-chief-secy-ds-dhesi-gets-lions-share-in-cmo-reshuffle-280835
10-07-2021||Karnal||Pundri MLA Randhir Singh Golan, family booked for dowry||Independent MLA from Pundri (Kaithal) and chairman of the Haryana Tourism Corporation, Randhir Singh Golan, along with his two sons and wife, have been booked allegedly for dowry demand and harassment on the complaint of his daughter-in-law.Karnal Women Police Station has registered a case under Sections 323, 406, 498A and 506 of the Indian Penal Code.In her complaint, Shelja said her marriage was solemnised with Aman Golan, son of the MLA, on January 18, 2019. She alleged that despite spending extravagantly on wedding functions and fulfilling the demands of the family, she was harassed and tortured by her in-laws. She also alleged that she was pressurised to give birth to a boy. She added that she was not taken proper care of and was not provided proper treatment. She added in her complaint that after she gave birth to a girl, she was left at her parents in Karnal and none of the family members came to see either her or the baby.The police are mum on this issue but one of the senior police officials confirmed that an FIR had been registered against the MLA and his family.Meanwhile, the MLA and his son have refuted the allegations and said that a case related to this issue was pending with a court in Karnal. The MLA said all allegations were baseless.“We were happy on the birth of a girl child. We have never harassed her. We have everything with us and have never demanded anything. A case in this matter is pending in a Karnal court,” said the MLA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pundri-mla-randhir-singh-golan-family-booked-for-dowry-280837
10-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from July 16||The Haryana government on Friday announced to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12 from July 16, saying students will be allowed to join schools with the permission of their parents.    Besides, students of Classes 6 to 8 will also be able to come to schools with effect from July 23, said an official spokesperson.    However, he said it would not be mandatory for the students to come to school as online classes will continue. Social distancing and other rules will be applicable for the students coming to the schools, said the spokesperson. No decision has been taken yet to open school for students of Classes 1 to 5.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday had said that a plan should be made to reopen the educational institutions subject to the strict adherence of the Covid-19 protocols.    “Given the decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, a plan should be made to reopen the schools at the earliest,” Khattar had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-9-to-12-from-july-16-280599
