13-07-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim taken to Delhi for medical examination||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 13Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim was taken from Sunaria jail in Rohtak district to Delhi for a medical examination on Tuesday morning.The dera chief is undergoing imprisonment after being convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.He has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and was taken to Rohtak PGIMS after he complained of dizziness and restlessness owing to fluctuation in his blood pressure in May.He was examined by a board of doctors and was discharged as no major health issues were detected in his medical examination then.The dera head was taken to the PGIMS again in June after he complained of abdominal pain. He underwent CT-Angiography, CT Scan (abdomen) and Fibroscan for liver.A suspected mass lesion had been detected in his pancreas and he was advised PET scan to ascertain whether the lesion was benign or malignant (cancerous). Following that, he was taken to Medanta hospital in Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-taken-to-delhi-for-medical-examination-282597
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana dy speaker car's attack incident: Sirsa police books over 100 protesters||Sirsa police have registered a case against over 100 protesters on various charges in connection with the incident on Sunday in which Haryana Assembly Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car came under attack during a farmers’ protest targeting events of BJP leaders.As the state government took a serious view of the incident, heads rolled and Sirsa district police chief Bhupender Singh was transferred, while an Inspector-rank official was placed under suspension.“We have registered an FIR against 100-150 protesters under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative, damaging public property.“Section 124-A (sedition) has also been added in the FIR and further investigations are on,” Station House Officer (SHO) Civil Lines police station, Inspector Vikram Singh said over the phone earlier in the day on Tuesday.He said that the FIR mentions two farmer leaders by name.CCTV footage of the incident was being gathered, Singh said, adding that “arrests will be made as other accused are identified”.However, by evening Singh was placed under suspension by the police department for alleged negligence in duty on the day of the incident.“He has been placed under suspension and a departmental enquiry has been ordered,” Dr Arpit Jain, the new superintendent of police, Sirsa, who assumed charge on Tuesday, told PTI over phone.Deputy Speaker Gangwa told reporters here on Tuesday that those who pelted stones at his vehicle on Sunday cannot be called farmers.“They cannot be called farmers. I can say those who attacked looked like addicts,” he said.Gangwa also indicated that had local police acted in a timely manner the incident could have been prevented.State Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta told reporters that everyone has the right to hold protest in a peaceful way, but no one can take law into one’s hands.“The way the deputy speaker’s car was attacked, the events could have taken any ugly turn..,” Gupta said.Sirsa police had earlier said the rear windscreen of Gangwa’s SUV broke as stones were pelted.Farmers carrying black flags had assembled outside Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa on Sunday during the day and raised slogans against the government.While Gangwa, who is a BJP MLA from Nalwa in Hisar, was coming out of the varsity after attending a function, protesters targeted his car, the police had said.Despite heavy police presence, some managed to surround the vehicle and banged against it with their hands.Some stones were also pelted at the vehicle as police were trying to escort it out of the area.Gangwa had escaped unhurt in the incident, police had said.Protesting farmers have been opposing public functions of the BJP and the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in the state.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over seven months in protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-dy-speaker-cars-attack-incident-sirsa-police-books-over-100-protesters-282547
13-07-2021||Faridabad||2 years on, tender of convention centre yet to be issued in Faridabad||With the foundation stone laid two years ago, the tender of Haryana’s first international-level convention centre is yet to be issued. The ambitious project is worth Rs378 crore.Spread over 8.2 acres in Sector 78 here, its foundation stone was laid on August 28, 2019 by the Haryana Chief Minister, but no work has been started on the ground as the authorities concerned are yet to issue the tender documents of the project, which is claimed to be the largest convention centre of Northern India.Delay in preparing design, layout The centre is to be built by the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and is proposed to be larger and spacious than Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. With plenary halls to accommodate an audience of over 4,000 persons at a time, it is expected to be the leading spot to facilitate the holding of large round table conferences, seminars, corporate meetings, industrial exhibitions and events of national and international level. The project can be a good source of revenue generation and can be rented out for such functions, but the delay has extended the deadline, which is claimed to be three years after the launch of the work.Stone laid by CM in 2019According to officials concerned, the delay had been mainly due to the time consumed in the preparation of the design and layout of the building and the proposal to build a five-star hotel inside the complex for the stay and lodging of guests or participants. “Besides the wrangles associated with the formal approval, the ongoing Covid pandemic and the lockdown conditions also proved a bottleneck in the launch of the work,” said an official. He further said the delay of several months in the release of the payment to the architectural firm, which designed the project, also hampered the progress. The payment was cleared in May this year after a gap of one year, it is reported.“With the drawings finalised and technical hurdles resolved, the release of the global e- tender of the project is expected next month,’’ said Rajiv Sharma, Superintending Engineer, HSVP, here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-years-on-tender-of-convention-centre-yet-to-be-issued-in-faridabad-282343
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||100 saplings planted at Khanak village||On the eve of the 100th e-auction scheduled for July 13, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) carried out a plantation drive at Khanak village. Around 100 saplings were planted at various spots, including school and the community centre.The HSIIDC is carrying out mining work at Khanak village, Tosham tehsil, Bhiwani to boost the economy of the state and region, and benefit the locals by enhancing employment opportunities through the development works going on around the mine area through the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives of the HSIIDC.CSR works are also carried out regularly on the basis of the requests received from locals, village panchayat representatives and others. These initiatives include installation of RO, water coolers in village schools, installation of swings, distribution of tri-cycles for physically challenged, sports equipments, distribution of medical items during the pandemic, drinking water supply in school, plantation of trees, installation of RCC chairs in village among others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-saplings-planted-at-khanak-village-282344
13-07-2021||Rohtak||CRSIEC governing body meeting||Extension lectureKarnal: The department of commerce, KVA DAV College for Women, Karnal, organised an extension lecture on the topic, "Financial management decision and corporate tax planning" for MCom final year students. Resource person of the lecture was Dr Subhash Chander, professor, department of commerce, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. Sanjana Raheja, HoD, commerce department, addressed the virtual gathering. Dr Subhash Chander shared information about how corporate tax planning was helpful in reducing tax liability. He also discussed tax provisions related to dividend. Anshul Atreja thanked the principal, Renu Mehta and Sanjana Raheja for organising the lecture.Plantation programmeKurukshetra: A plantation "Panchvati" programme was organised at Ambedkar Studies Centre Kurukshetra University under the joint aegis of Dr BR Ambedkar Studies Centre of KU and the Divya Kurukshetra Mission. On the occasion, Gitamanishi Swami Gyananand, Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, Dr Baldev Dhiman, Vice-Chancellor of Ayush University and Registrar, Deenbundhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology Prof Suresh Kumar planted Panchavati saplings.Mathematics quiz competitionYamunanagar: A national-level mathematics quiz competition was organised online by the mathematics department of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said 576 participants from 12 states of the country showed great enthusiasm by getting registered and 279 responded in the time limit. The convener of the programme, Gurvinder Kaur said Reema Oberoi of MSc mathematics (4th semester) of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar stood first, Mahima Bajaj of second semester secured second and Neeharika of MSc second semester of DAV Girls College, Yamunanagar, secured third position, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crsiec-governing-body-meeting-282345
13-07-2021||Karnal||Vertical garden to come up at mini-secretariat in Karnal||Aiming to enhance the aesthetic of the front facade of the mini-secretariat building, a vertical garden is being developed under the Smart City Mission. As many as 3,300 plant pots are being erected on a wall covering around 95 sq meter space.“Under the Smart City Mission, we have taken this project and a green wall is being developed at the mini-secretariat. This will not only enhance its beauty but also help in increasing the green cover. The same green walls will be developed at other government buildings, including Dr Mangal Sen Auditorium and the new building of the Karnal Municipal Corporation,” said Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, who is also the CEO of Karnal Smart City Limited.He said other smart cities namely Pune, Delhi and Noida had successfully taken up this kind of a project on metro pillars and traffic islands.“Karnal Smart City Limited intends to develop vertical plantation on government buildings within and outside the ABD boundary. This is to improve building aesthetics, air quality for the building users and focus more on renewable energy,” the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vertical-garden-to-come-up-at-mini-secretariat-in-karnal-282346
13-07-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak to have STP, new waterworks, biogas plant||Rohtak will have new waterworks to ensure adequate supply of water to residents. A solid-waste treatment plant (STP) and a biogas plant are also proposed to be established at Kanheli village in the district under the aegis of the Rohtak Municipal Corporation.Chairing a meeting organised here today to review the progress of works on the provision of civic amenities and arrangements to prevent waterlogging during the monsoon, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar directed officials concerned to identify an appropriate location for the new waterworks.He told them to expedite work on the construction of the steel-bridge over the JLN canal and the repair of Delhi road at the earliest in view of the inconvenience being caused to the residents and commuters.The Deputy Commissioner told the officers of different engineering departments to have good coordination.Rohtak Mayor Manmohan Goyal said that a solid-waste treatment plant (STP) and a biogas plant were proposed to be set up at Kanheli village in the district under the aegis of the Rohtak Municipal Corporation.Additional Deputy Commissioner Mahender Pal and officers of the Public Works Department, Public Health Engineering Wing and Municipal Corporation were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-to-have-stp-new-waterworks-biogas-plant-282348
13-07-2021||Panipat||Bull goes berserk, kills elderly man||A stray bull went berserk on Sunday and killed an elderly man in Saundhapur village on Assandh road here.The deceased has been identified as Deep Chand (65) of Saundhapur village. The incident got recorded by a CCTV camera installed at a nearby building. The footage went viral on social media on Monday. In the video, a man with a stick in his hand was seen passing through a street in the village. Meanwhile, a stray bull came towards him and attacked him. He tried to scare the animal away by showing the stick but the bull hit him. As the man stood up again, the bull hit him again on his chest . People gathered there and rushed Deep Chand to a private hospital from where doctors referred him to PGIMS Rohtak. He succumbed to his injuries today. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bull-goes-berserk-kills-elderly-man-282349
13-07-2021||Gurugram||Wedding rush in Gurugram as 2nd Covid wave subsides||As the dreaded second wave of Covid subsides and the fear of third takes over, residents of Gurugram are queuing up to get married before more restrictions are imposed.Getting a momentary respite, Gurugram has seen a sudden kick-start of wedding season with people shifting wedding dates earlier than the decided ones to be able to have a relatively larger gathering with reduced threat of infection.Almost all marriage venues and top hotels in the city, including destination wedding resorts in Manesar, are quickly getting booked.Similar other stakeholders such as caterers, wedding planners, decorators and DJs, too, have been flooded with sudden bookings. Having faced huge losses over the past two years, the wedding market is aiming a quick recovery this July.“July seems to be safest month in terms of infection rate and Covid restrictions. In fact, fearing the third wave, couples who had their weddings planned later in the year are rushing to get married in July,” said Suyasha Oberoi, a wedding planner.The rush has led to major spike in prices of wedding essentials, with flowers being the most inflated commodity.“The cost of flowers has also gone up by three times but there is still shortage of labour. Whatever labour is available is charging thrice their daily rates. The hosts want vaccinated and RT-PCR negative staff, which has also led to an increase in operational costs,” said Sudesh Yadav, owner of a marriage palace. In its fresh order, the state government added that a maximum of 100 persons would be allowed in gatherings for weddings and maximum 200 people in open spaces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wedding-rush-in-gurugram-as-2nd-covid-wave-subsides-282351
13-07-2021||The rainwater drainage system along the national highway 44 in the Karnal Municipal Corporation limits is choked||Choked drains along NH-44 a cause for concern||Cattle menace in Ambala CityAs many as 16 bulls were present in front of Sector 9 market near the Polyclinic on Sunday evening. The garbage lying in the open attracts animals. Sometimes, animals cause panic among evening walkers. On many occasions, the administration has been informed about these animals roaming on the road but all in vain. Perhaps they are waiting for some untoward incident to happen. — Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/choked-drains-along-nh-44-a-cause-for-concern-282354
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Active Covid caseload dips below 1,000; weekly infections 376||For the first time since February, the active caseload of Covid in the state has gone down to less than 1,000. The weekly new cases have also dipped to 376.However, R naught (also called R0 or R number) or the reproduction rate, which determines how much the infection can spread in the coming days, is unmoved at 1 for the past four weeks.28 test positiveThe R naught value of the state is higher than the national figure of 0.88, according to health experts. Haryana, which reported 376 fresh cases and 64 deaths in the past seven days, had 902 active cases as on Monday evening.The last time the state had less than 1,000 cases was in the last week of February this year. New infections started rising with the start of the second wave and the figure went up to 21,087 on May 31 till these started ebbing.The lower number of new infections and better recovery rate (98.64 per cent) has resulted in more than 20-fold dip in active cases in the past 42 days since May 31.As on Sunday, barring Hisar (123) and Panipat (108), 20 out of 22 districts had less than 100 active cases. Ambala, Charkhi Dadri, Nuh, Fatehabad, Mahindragarh, Palwal, Yamunanagar and Sonipat districts have 20 orless than 20 active cases left now.“The R number signifies the average number of people that one infected person will pass the virus to. The R number can be affected by a range of factors, including not just how infectious a disease is, but how it develops over time, how population behaves, and any immunity already possessed,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhary, head of the pulmonary health department of PGIMS-Rohtak and state nodal officer for Covid-19. During the pandemic peak, the R value had touched 1.39 in the month of May, but it started ebbing gradually and dipped to 1 by June 20, where it is stable since then.Chaudhary said R of 1 was a crucial threshold, because an R figure that was even slightly over 1 could lead quickly to a large number of cases due to exponential growth. Say an R of 1.5 would see 100 persons infect 150, who would in turn infect 225, and so on. In three rounds of infection, the number of people with the virus would have more than quadrupled to 438.“Conversely, with an R of less than 1, the number of new infections will keep dipping and the virus will eventually peter out,” Chaudhary added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-active-covid-caseload-dips-below-1-000-weekly-infections-376-282361
13-07-2021||Gurugram||3 wanted criminals nabbed||Special Task Force (STF), Haryana, has nabbed three most-wanted criminals who were carrying bounty of their heads. They had been absconding for the past two years. One accused, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, was nabbed from Assam where he was works as auto driver.According to STF SP Narender Kadiyan, Ashok alias Dot, a resident of Chimani village in Jhajjar district, has been arrested by STF, Hisar, from Assam. He was wanted in four cases of murder, fraud, immoral trafficking and was declared PO in 2018.Another most-wanted criminal identified as Umesh Kumar alias Love, a resident of Bhiduki village in Palwal district, was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 announced by Haryana Police and Rs 20,000 by Delhi Police. He was involved in 14 cases, including murder. This proclaimed offender has been nabbed by Gurugram STF from Dehradun.Gurugram STF also nabbed Ajay, who carrying a bounty of Rs 10,000 on his head and wanted for murder bid. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-wanted-criminals-nabbed-282362
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Khelo India’ postponed||The Haryana Government today decided to organise ‘Khelo India Youth Games 2021’ in February 2022 in view of a possible third wave of Covid. A decision in this regard was taken in the first meeting of the organising-cum-coordination committee under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today.Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs, Sandeep Singh, was also present at the meeting.The Chief Minister said that as the Games are to be held in the under-18 category and as Director of AIIMS, New Delhi, and other experts have predicted the possibility of a third wave of Covid in October-November, the officers concerned should ensure that Covid protocol is strictly followed during the Games.Director, Sports and Youth Affairs Department, Pankaj Nain said earlier, it was proposed to organise the Games from November 21 to 30 at five places Panchkula, Chandigarh, Shahbad, Ambala and Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khelo-india-postponed-282363
13-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Cop, 3 others booked for rape in Gurugram||A 28-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by four friends, including a Gurugram policeman, after holding her hostage for nine days. The woman alleged that she was kept in a room in Ballabhgarh and injected with sedatives. The accused also videographed the crime and threatened her, said the victim.An FIR has been registered at the Sohna police station in this regard. “We are verifying the facts and probe is on. We are conducting raids to nab the accused who will be arrested as early as possible,” said Sandeep Malik, ACP, Sohna.According to the complaint filed by the victim, mother of a child and resident of a village near Sohna, it was on June 30 when one of her friends Chintu met her at a temple in the morning. After about five minutes, a white car reached there with two of his friends Deepak and Sanju. They offered to drop her home and gave her sedative-laced water and drove towards Faridabad.“When I got conscious, I found myself in a room. At night, Kuldeep, the cop, also joined them and all four raped me. Kuldeep also injected me with something and my body went numb. They took turns to rape me over nine days and kept injecting me with sedatives. It was on July 8 that they asked me to change clothes and dumped me at Ballabhgarh, from where I informed my brother-in-law about the incident and somehow returned home,” the victim said in her complaint.She was then taken to hospital where doctors confirmed rape. All four accused, Chintu, Sanju, Deepak and Kuldeep, were booked under Sections 365 (kidnapping), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 201 (hiding evidence) and 376-D (gang-rape) of the IPC and Section 25-54-59 of the Arms Act and Section 3 of the SC/ST Act at the Sohna sadar police station. The accused cop in the case, Kuldeep, is deployed at a police chowki near Sohna.“We are on job and the accused will be arrested soon,” said inspector Umesh Kumar, SHO, Sohna sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-3-others-booked-for-rape-in-gurugram-282365
13-07-2021||Gurugram||3 inter-state cabbie robbers held in Gurugram||The police on Monday busted a gang of three inter-state cabbie robbers.The accused have been identified as Mohan alias Monu (27), Surender (35) and Naresh Kumar (32), all residents of Kujota village, Jaipur. The trio was currently living in a rented accommodation in Bawal, Rewari.The accused used luxury vehicles to lure their targets and have confessed to more than two dozen of incidents.The gang had been active since 2016 and operated in Delhi, UP, Rajasthan and Gurugram.In the latest incident last Friday, a 35-year-old man was assaulted and robbed at gunpoint at around 11.30 am when he tried to hitchhike from Rajeev Chowk to Naraina in Delhi. The victim has been identified as Shashank Pandey of Deoria in UP. After the registration of an FIR, Gurugram police nabbed the gang from Bawal on Monday. “The gang members came to Gurugram and targeted passengers who looked rich,” said ACP Preet Pal Singh Sangwan. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-inter-state-cabbie-robbers-held-in-gurugram-282367
13-07-2021||Rohtak||7,298 ineligible farmers of four districts get govt compensation||The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has identified 7,298 farmers in four districts — Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh — who got financial aid under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PMKSNY) despite not being eligible for it.Among them, 2,072 are from Jhajjar, 1,782 from Rohtak, 1,734 from Rewari and 1,710 from Mahendragarh districts.PM Kisan yojanaOnly those farmers who have land in their name in the revenue record are eligible under the scheme. The beneficiary should not be income tax payer, doctor, advocate, engineer and chartered accountant. He/she should also not be getting a monthly pension over Rs10,000.Sources said all these farmers have now been asked to refund the money. All these are income taxpayers who are not eligible to avail the benefit.Interestingly, many beneficiaries have received three to six installments of Rs 2,000 each under the yojana which aims at providing a total monetary aid of Rs 6,000 per annum in three installments to the farmers for agriculture-related works.The yojana was launched in February 2019 and eight instalments of Rs 2,000 each have so far been credited to the beneficiaries’ bank’s account. The last instalment was released in May.Only those farmers who have land in their name in the revenue record are eligible under the scheme. The beneficiary should not be income tax payer, doctor, advocate, engineer and chartered accountant. He/she should also not be getting a monthly pension over Rs 10,000.“The ineligible cases were detected after these were sent to the Income Tax Department to find out whether the applicants are income tax payers or not. Not only in the four districts but also in other districts, such farmers in a considerable number have been found. So, the Agriculture Department has directed its district offices to issue notice to such farmers asking them to refund the amount,” said an officer on anonymity.Dr Inder Singh, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), Rohtak, said they have got a list of ineligible farmers of Rohtak and Jhajjar districts from the state headquarters. Hence, all 3,854 such beneficiaries in both the districts had been asked to deposit the money at the earliest. “Some of them have already refunded the amount,” he added.Vazir Singh, DDA, Mahendragarh, said the farmers got themselves registered on the web portal on their own and their documents were matched with the record or verified later. “Over 250 of 1,710 ineligible farmers have already been issued notice. The process to issue notice to the others is on,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-298-ineligible-farmers-of-four-districts-get-govt-compensation-282369
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Relief for kin of inmates in case of unnatural death in Haryana||The next of kin of the jail inmates dying on the jail premises will now be entitled to a compensation of up to Rs 7.5 lakh in Haryana.The state government has come out with a policy for the award of compensation to the legal heir of the deceased jail inmates in case of “unnatural deaths”. The deaths due to quarrel among prisoners, torture/beating by the prison staff, negligence in duty by prison officials and on account of negligence by medical/paramedical staff will get a compensation of Rs 7.5 lakh. However, a compensation of Rs 5 lakh will be awarded in case of death due to suicide.Policy for compensationRs7.5 lakh: The deaths due to quarrel among prisonersRs5 lakh: Death of an inmate due to suicide“Compensation will not be admissible in case of natural death due to illness,” a notification issued by Rajeev Arora, Additional Chief Secretary, Jails Department, said.Similarly, compensation would not be awarded if the death resulted due to escape from jail and lawful custody outside the jail. The death due to any natural disaster or calamity would also not be eligible for any relief.Officials said the superintendent of jail concerned would send a report along with the copy of the magisterial inquiry report, postmortem report, final cause of death, medical history at the time of admission in jail and medical treatment given to the inmate prior to the custodial death to the DGP(Prisons). The DGP, in turn, will submit the report to the state government for the grant of appropriate compensation. The Secretary/Special Secretary (Home) will be authorised to sanction the compensation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/relief-for-kin-of-inmates-in-case-of-unnatural-death-in-haryana-282374
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||From today, dial 112 for all emergency needs in Haryana||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday launched emergency response support system — Dial 112. From tomorrow, people can dial only 112 for all their emergency needs related to the police, fire service and ambulance.Khattar, while launching the facility in Panchkula, said help would reach the person concerned within a time span of 15-20 minutes. He said Dial 112 was 24-hour multilingual facility (Hindi, English, Punjabi and Haryanvi)Response time 15-20 minutesThe Chief Minister said the project was initiated by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to provide a single number for all emergency services across the country. The state-of-the-art system would further improve the overall security scenario and help check crime across the state. Khattar also flagged off 630 emergency response vehicles equipped with mobile data terminals from Panchkula. A total of 300 more such vehicles would be added so that the target of deploying 10 vehicles per Assembly constituency can be achieved.In faux pas, DGP calls Vij CMHaryana DGP Manoj Yadava, in a faux pas, termed Home Minister Anil Vij as Haryana Chief Minister. "I welcome Haryana CM Anil Vij to the function," Yadava said at the function which was presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.State Home Minister Anil Vij said the project would ensure transparency and ensure accountability among various emergency service providers.Haryana DGP Manoj Yadava said combining IT and communication initiatives, the police was committed to providing a variety of facilities to the public in a phased manner.The Chief Minister inaugurated the newly built state-of-the-art State Emergency Response Centre (SERC) in Panchkula, which is the nerve-centre of the project.The SERC has been digitally connected to the police control room at the district level and suitably located emergency response vehicles.To handle additional call load at the SERC and to switch operation in case of any technical failure at the SERC, a ‘mirror emergency response centre (MERC)’, having capacity of 20 per cent to that of the SERC, has been established at Gurugram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/from-today-dial-112-for-all-emergency-needs-in-haryana-282377
13-07-2021||Sonepat||12 dyeing units in Sonepat sealed||The Haryana Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), Sonepat, has sealed 12 illegal denim dyeing units operating in the Pyau Manyari and Kundli areas, which were discharging effluents directly into a drain which joined the Yamuna.These were found operational without any consent from the HSPCB and having no effluent treatment plant (ETP). The units have been sealed and their electricity connections cut.Varun Gulati, a social activist in Delhi, had filed a complaint to the HSPCB against these units in February 2020. He alleged that the units were discharging their effluents directly into the drain without treatment, which joined the Yamuna. The effluents discharged were a big cause of pollution in the Yamuna, he said.Gulati said the HSPCB had not taken action against the dyeing units as lockdown due to Covid was imposed by the Central Government in March last year. But even after unlocking it, the HSPCB officials didn’t take any action.Then he tweeted his complaint to the CPCB and the higher authorities of the HSPCB, after which the HSPCB initiated action against some illegal denim dyeing units, he said.Bhupender Singh Chahal, regional officer, Sonepat, said the units were found operational without any consent to establishment (CTE) and consent to operate (CTO) from the HSPCB and these units had even not installed the ETP on their premises, he said.All 12 units have been sealed and also sought record from the owners, he said. The electricity connections have also been disconnected from these units, Chahal added.After getting the records, environment compensation would be imposed on these illegal units, Chahal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-dyeing-units-in-sonepat-sealed-282378
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bandaru Dattatreya gets warm welcome||Newly appointed Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya reached Raj Bhawan today.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar along with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and members of the Cabinet welcomed the Governor.Dattatreya was accompanied by his family members. Thereafter, the Governor took the salute of the guard of honour and also inspected it. Officers from HAP, Madhuban, under the leadership of DSP Abhilaksh Joshi , saluted the Governor by playing the national anthem.Khattar informed the Governor about the geographical, cultural and historical background of the state. Apart from this, the Chief Minister also apprised him about some major development works and schemes being carried out by the state government.Khattar said Haryana had a special identity in agriculture and sports at the national and international levels.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bandaru-dattatreya-gets-warm-welcome-282379
13-07-2021||Jhajjar||BJP misusing varsity campuses for political activities, says Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders have taken strong exception to university campuses “being used” by the ruling BJP for its political activities. They have called upon teaching and non-teaching bodies of the universities to raise their voice against the practice.“The BJP government in the state has found a safe spot in various university campuses for party meetings as the farmers are persistently resisting its leaders’ visits and other programmes to register their protest against the three farm laws,” said Inderjit Singh, a SKM leader and vice-president of All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), while addressing a group of farmers that had reached Tikri from Fatehabad on Monday.He maintained the BJP had organised its workers’ meet on the campuses of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, and Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa in the past two days.A meet was also organised on the campus of mini-secretariat in Jhajjar city on Saturday where they had to face stiff resistance from protesting farmers, he added.“The SKM wants to make it clear that it will not allow university campuses to be transformed into fiefdom by the BJP and will organise peaceful protests to stop the BJP from doing so,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-misusing-varsity-campuses-for-political-activities-says-samyukt-kisan-morcha-282380
13-07-2021||Chandigarh||Surjewala questions shifting of Maruti unit||Senior Congress leader and party’s national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala today criticised the Haryana Government for the shifting of the Maruti DZire manufacturing unit from the state to Gujarat and termed it as “yet another proof of the failure of the BJP-JJP-led state government”.He demanded an explanation from the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the “exodus” of the existing industries from the state during the BJP-JJP regime.In a press statement issued today, Surjewala said Haryana was a preferred state for Japanese investments and almost 80 per cent of the total Japanese investment in India had landed in the state alone. The state government has failed in inviting more investments, as it failed in maintaining law and order and providing conducive environment for industrial investment. Forget new investments, the government is pushing out the mother manufacturing units of Haryana to other states, he added.Surjewala said Maruti has shifted the production of three cars to Gujarat after 2014. It first shifted the manufacturing of Baleno and Swift cars to Hansalpur, Gujarat, from Haryana in 2017 and 2019. Now, Dzire has been shifted out of Haryana, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surjewala-questions-shifting-of-maruti-unit-282381
13-07-2021||Karnal||Extortion racket busted in Karnal, three held||A team of CIA-2 claim to have busted an extortion gang and arrested three persons in this regard. The team has also recovered Rs 42 lakh from their possession.The arrested have been identified as Jaidev Singh, Patel Mahinder, both residents of Gujarat while the third accused, Navneet Singh, is from Bilaspur in UP.CIA-2 in-charge Surinder Singh Sindhu said the kingpin of the gang had been identified as Diler Singh of Assandh, who was operating the gang from the US.Sindhu said the accused had recently demanded Rs 20 lakh each from two doctors of Assandh. Two cases on June 26 and July 5 were registered by Assandh police on the complaints of the victims.“We laid a trap for the callers as they had asked one of the doctors to pay the ransom amount in Delhi on July 5. We arrested Jaidev and Mahinder during the sting. We have also recovered Rs 27 lakh and a counting machine,” Sindhu said.During the investigation, they admitted that they used to deliver the ransom amount from one place to another, for which they got commission, he said, adding that on the information received from the arrested accused, the police arrested Navneet from Punjab on July 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/extortion-racket-busted-in-karnal-three-held-282382
13-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Jamia Millia shooter Ram Bhakt Gopal nabbed in Gurugram for hate speech||Ram Bhakt Gopal, who had brandished a gun and opened fire at Jamia Millia University last year, was arrested on Monday by Gurugram police for allegedly delivering a hate speech at Pataudi mahapanchayat recently.VIDEO WENT VIRALThe accused allegedly made communal remarks which went viral online. According to the complaint filed by Dinesh, a resident of Jamalpur village, Gopal had made communal remarks which could flare up tension between two communities. He alleged that the video of his speech went viral, which made things more volatile.Gopal had attended that programme and made controversial comments against a community while addressing the public there. Ever since his speech went viral on social media, several complaints were filed against him, demanding his arrest.An FIR has been registered against Gopal at Pataudi police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jamia-millia-shooter-ram-bhakt-gopal-nabbed-in-gurugram-for-hate-speech-282383
13-07-2021||New Delhi||Cong MLA from NIT Faridabad Neeraj Sharma flays govt move to put off panchayat poll||Congress MLA from NIT Faridabad Neeraj Sharma today questioned the Haryana Government’s move to further postpone the panchayat and urban bodies’ elections in the state. He said the BJP-led government was insecure about its prospects. He urged CM Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene and reconsider the move as it was “anti-people” and undemocratic.“By shelving the elections, the government has admitted of anti-incumbency against it, especially due to the mishandling of the Covid pandemic and the farmers’ stir,” alleged Sharma.Sharma urged Khattar to open a government super-speciality hospital on a plot which once housed Sun Flag Hospital in Faridabad. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-mla-from-nit-faridabad-neeraj-sharma-flays-govt-move-to-put-off-panchayat-poll-282384
13-07-2021||Karnal||3 held with fake currency||Man stabs wife to deathJhajjar: A 45-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her husband at their house in Sant Nagar, Bahadurgarh, on Sunday night. The accused fled the spot after perpetrating the crime. The accused has been identified as Yogesh Dua and is a taxi driver. The deceased is Sangeeta. A case on the complaint of the couple’s son, Aman, has been registered against Dua. The police state domestic feud as the reason behind the crime. As per information, Yogesh engaged in a verbal fight with Sangeeta following a domestic issue and stabbed her with a knife. He fled the scene after locking his daughter in a room. tnsCorpn gives Rs3 cr to govtChandigarh: Chairman, Haryana State Warehousing Corporation, Nayanpal Rawat, on Monday presented a dividend cheque of Rs 3.02 crore to Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar for 2018-19. The turnover of the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation was Rs. 4,840 crore. Rawat said that the corporation is presently operating 112 warehouses in the state with total storage capacity of 24.57 lakh MTs. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-with-fake-currency-282385
13-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers must contest polls, form govt, reiterates Gurnam Singh Charuni||Fatehgarh Sahib, July 12Haryana’s Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Gurnam Singh Charuni today reiterated his ‘Mission Punjab’ statement asking farmers to contest the upcoming Assembly elections and form a government in the state as people were fed up of traditional parties. Morcha leaders from Punjab have already rejected the idea.Charuni, while talking to mediapersons at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, said like ‘Mission Bengal’, people could defeat the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, but it would not serve any purpose as again the government would be formed by traditional parties and none of the Opposition leaders had assured that they would repeal the farm laws and guarantee MSP if voted to power.The farmers had the chance to present before the nation their own model of governance, reiterated Charuni, adding these were his personal views and should not be attributed to the morcha.A group of farmers, that had left Dera Baba Nanak for Delhi yesterday and halted here overnight, proceeded to join the protest this morning.He said groups of farmers from all over the country were heading to Delhi and their demonstration would not stop until the Centre repealed the farm laws.He said during the upcoming monsoon session from July 22 to August 13, farmers in batches would visit Parliament daily to lodge their protest. A meeting would be held on August 14 to give a final shape to their protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-must-contest-polls-form-govt-reiterates-gurnam-singh-charuni-282221
13-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Jamia shooter Ram Bhakt Gopal nabbed in Gurugram for hate speech||Gurugram, July 12Ram Bhakt Gopal, who had brandished a gun and opened fire in Jamia Millia University last year was on Monday arrested by Gurugram police for allegedly delivering a hate speech at Pataudi mahapanchayat recently.The accused allegedly made communal remarks which went viral online and according to a complaint could flare communal tension.According to the complaint filed by Dinesh, a resident of Jamalpur village, there was a mahapanchayat at Pataudi on July 4. “In mahapanchayat, one orator Gopal Sharma alias Ram Bhakt Gopal made communal remarks which could flare up tension between two communities.” He alleged that the video of his speech also went viral which made things more volatile.Gopal had attended that programme and made controversial comments against a community while addressing the public there. Ever since his speech went viral on social media, several complaints were filed against him demanding his arrest.An FIR has been registered against Gopal Sharma alias Ram Bhagat Gopal under sections 53A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 295A (malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings) of IPC at Pataudi police station and police arrested him today.A senior police officer said he was arrested today and produced in a city court from where he sent into judicial custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jamia-shooter-ram-bhakt-gopal-nabbed-in-gurugram-for-hate-speech-282102
13-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Dalit woman held ‘hostage, gangraped’ by Gurugram cop, four others||Gurugram, July 12A 28-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly abducted and gangraped by four friends, including a Gurugram cop, after being held hostage for nine days.The woman alleged she was kept in a room in Ballabhgarh and was injected sedatives. The accused also allegedly videographed rape and threatened her. An FIR has been registered at Sohna police station.“We are verifying the facts and probe is on. We are conducting raids to nab the accused who will be arrested as early as possible,” said Sandeep Malik, ACP, Sohna.According to the complaint filed by the victim, mother of one and resident of a village near Sohna, on July 30 one of her friends Chintu met her at temple in the morning. After five minutes, a white coloured car reached there with two of his friends Deepak and Sanju. They allegedly offered to drop her home and gave spiked water to her to drink. They drove towards Faridabad.Kuldeep, a cop of Gurugram police, and deployed in a police chowki near Sohna was among the accused, it is alleged.“When I became conscious I found myself in a room. At night, Kuldeep also joined them and all four raped me. Kuldeep also injected me with something and my body went numb. They took turns in raping me over nine days and kept injecting sedatives. They videographed the sexual assault and threatened me with weapons. On July 8, they asked me to change clothes and dumped me at Ballabhgarh from where I informed my brother-in-law and somehow returned home,” the victim said in her complaint.She was taken to hospital for medical examination where doctors confirmed rape. An FIR has been registered against all four accused Chintu, Sanju, Deepak and Kuldeep under Sections 365 (kidnap), 328 (causing hurt by mean of poison), 201 (hide evidence), 376-D (gang rape) of IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act and Section 3 of SC/ST act at Sohna sadar police station.“We are on job and the accused will be arrested soon,” said inspector Umesh Kumar, SHO of Sohna sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dalit-woman-held-hostage-gangraped-by-gurugram-cop-four-others-282096
