14-07-2021||New Delhi||Issued ‘peoples’ whip’ for MPs to raise farmers’ demand during parliament monsoon session: SKM||Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal on Wednesday said the umbrella body of farmers’ unions has issued a ‘peoples’ whip’ to all MPs to demand scrapping of farm laws and a legal guarantee on MSP in parliament during the monsoon session.The agitating farmers said their planned protests at the Parliament from July 22 till the end of the monsoon session will be peaceful.Asserting that their next target is to strengthen the stir in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, the protesters said meetings will be held in districts of these two states from August 1 to 25 followed by a ‘mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar on September 5.SKM suspends Charuni for one week over his statement of ‘Mission Punjab’At a press conference, Rajewal said the SKM has issued a ‘peoples’ whip’ that will be served on all MPs of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.“The People’s Whip directed the MPs to raise the demands of the agitating farmers—repeal of the three black farm laws and a legal guarantee of receiving minimum support price (MSP) -- in both Houses of Parliament and not allow either House to do any business till the union government gives assures of acceding to the demands,” he said.This will be complemented by farmers’ protests outside the parliament, Rajewal said, adding, “MPs and MLAs will raise the issue within the parliament and the farmers will raise it outside.”              While the farm leaders did not comment on whether they have received permission to hold demonstrations outside the Parliament, they maintained that the protests will be “peaceful”.“Every day from July 22 till the end of the monsoon session, 200 farmers will protest outside the parliament. If the government gets us arrested, it will, and if it does not, we will return to the borders in the evening only to go back the next day again,” another leader said.The leaders also urged their fellow protestors, particularly those who would be demonstrating at the parliament, to submit their identification details, including photographs and Aadhar cards to ensure a “peaceful protest”.A tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agriculture laws, had dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.“We have asked the protestors for their details. If there is any wrongdoing on the part of any farmer, they will be punished accordingly,” a farmer leader told the press conference.According to an SKM statement, a special protest march outside parliament exclusively by women farmer leaders and volunteers will be organised on July 26 and August 9.“Women farmers have been at the forefront of this long and historic struggle of farmers for their livelihood and future. The special marches on these two days shall highlight the unique and memorable role that women have played,” it said.Announcing their strategy for the next few months, Rajewal said their upcoming move would be ‘Mission UP and Uttarakhand’.“Our next target is to strengthen our agitation in Uttarakhand and UP. From August 1-25, we will hold meetings across districts. On September 5, there will be a ‘mahapanchayat’ in Muzaffarnagar,” he said.It has been over seven months since the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations, began.Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two parties. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/issued-peoples-whip-for-mps-to-raise-farmers-demand-during-parliament-monsoon-session-skm-283142
14-07-2021||Tribune News Service||Country’s first grain ATM installed at Gurugram||Gurugram, July 15 Out to make ration dispersal hassle and complaint free for citizens, country’s first grain ATM has been installed in Gurugram as a pilot project. This machine will be installed under the ‘World Food Programme’ of ‘United Nation’, and is called Automated, Multi Commodity, Grain Dispensing Machine. Haryana Deputy Chief Minister, Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of Food and Civil Supplies Department said these ATMs will be installed at all ration depots across the state. He said with the installation of ‘Grain ATMs’, all the complaints regarding the time and right measurement of ration quantity will be redressed. “This would not only benefit the consumers but would also deal with shortage of food grains at Government Depots and would bring more transparency in the public food distribution system than before. After the successful completion of this pilot project at Farrukhnagar in Gurugram district, there is a plan to install these food supply machines at Government Depots across the State” said Chautala. This is an automatic machine which works like a bank ATM with negligible error in measurement. This automatic machine is equipped with biometric system with a touch screen, where the beneficiary will have to enter the Aadhaar Card or Ration Card unique number. On biometric authentication, the food grains prescribed by the Government to the beneficiaries will be automatically filled in the bags installed under the machine. Three types of grains wheat, rice and millet can be distributed through this machine.At present, distribution of wheat has been started from the Grain ATM machine installed in Farrukhnagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/countrys-first-grain-atm-installed-at-gurugram-283108
14-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Two Jhajjar gangsters arrested in Gurugram after brief shootout||Two suspected gangsters carrying a bounty of Rs 1 lakh each were arrested after a brief encounter near Ghata village in the small hours of Wednesday, police said.Over forty rounds fired between police and gangsters left the suspects, whom police identified as Prashant alias Jontu (24) and Manish Jhakhad (30), as well as three policemen wounded.The suspects are being treated at Delhi’s Sardurjung Hospital, and the policemen at a hospital in Gurugram, police said. Police said the two suspects were from Jhajjar.  Police also said they found, and seized, two pistols, 2 cartridges and a motorcycle.Jontu, police said, was suspected to be involved in several cases of murder, robbery, and assault in Gurugram, Jhajjar and Dadri in Haryana—the most recent being the killing of Sandeep, who offers paying guest accommodation in Gurugram, on May 4. The second suspect, Jhakhad, was also suspected to be involved in the killing, police said. Sandeep was killed after he asked the two of them for IDs for allowing them to stay at his accommodation, police said.ACP, Crime, Preet Pal Singh Sangwan said a police team had been tipped off about the two suspects coming toward Gurugram from Faridabad and soon put up check posts near Ghata village on Faridabad road.  The two suspects came there on a motorcycle, the officer said, and broke through the barricades. They then abandoned their bikes and ran into the wooded area nearby and fired at the police team chasing them, Sangwan said."During crossfire, bullets the suspects’ legs and when they fell, they were arrested. A constable, Akash, also received a bullet injury in his hand and two other constables, Sanjay Kumar and Manoj Kumar, were injured. Our crime unit head, Sub-inspector Raj Kumar, had a narrow escape because he was wearing a bullet-proof jacket,” ACP Sangwan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-jhajjar-gangsters-arrested-in-gurugram-after-brief-shootout-283107
14-07-2021||Faridabad||Day after policy on rehab plan, demolition drive starts at Faridabad's Khori village colony||The demolition drive against encroachments at Faridabad's Khori village colony was launched on Wednesday afternoon.The development came less than 24 hours after a rehabilitation policy was announced last evening.The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) has deputed a total of eight teams, equipped with Hydra and JCBsm for the removal of around 6,500 constructions that come under 172 acres of forest land.Also read: Faridabad readies Khori rehab planThe Supreme Court had, on June 7, directed the civic body to "remove encroachments on the subject forest land without any exception" within six weeks of time.The Khori Awas Sangharsh Samiti and Confederation of SC, ST and Minorities organizations had condemned the demolition without providing rehabilitation.More than 2,500 police personnel have been posted for security cover and to maintain law and order in the area."Temporary shelter will be provided to those who approach us after their house is demolished," says DC Yashpal Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-after-policy-on-rehab-plan-demolition-drive-starts-at-faridabads-khori-village-colony-283041
14-07-2021||Gurugram||CBI to investigate Nagaland woman's death at Gurugram hospital||Acting on the demand of Nagaland's prominent leaders, the Ministry of Home Affairs has directed the CBI to investigate the death of a Nagaland woman at a Gurugram hospital.Rosy Sangma, 29, had allegedly died after eating ice cream at the hospital's ICU. The CBI will also investigate the death of her nephew, who was found dead in his hotel room a day after her death.Sangam was admitted to the ICU of Alpha Hospital in Sector 10 of Gurugram after she complained of intense pain in her hands and feet and excessive bleeding. Though she was repeatedly stable, her condition deteriorated and she died after reportedly having ice cream in the presence of doctors.In its order, the MHA said, “The Ministry has requested the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to inquire into the case of the deaths of Rosy Sangma and Samuel Sangma.”It further said, “The case relates to the death of Rosy Sangma in a hospital in Gurgaon on June 24 this year after she had complained of a medical condition. Later, Samuel Sangma, a relative of Rosy Sangma, suspecting medical negligence, had an altercation with doctors and staff of the hospital. On the next day, June 25 the Delhi Police received information regarding the death of Samuel Sangmain, New Delhi.”Her nephew and attendant, Samuel Sangma, had a fight with hospital staff accusing them of negligence. What raised many eyebrows was even he was found dead in a hotel room within 24 hours of Rosy's death.The family alleged negligence and foul play and had demanded a CBI investigation. The demand was supported by prominent leaders and residents of Nagaland who also ran a social media campaign in her support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cbi-to-investigate-nagaland-womans-death-at-gurugram-hospital-283003
14-07-2021||Karnal||Waterlogging exposes Karnal MC’s monsoon preparedness||The widespread rain that lashed the district today flooded roads and several localities in the city.Rainwater entered several households, putting question mark over the claims of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) of pre-monsoon preparedness. Waterlogging and overflowing drains obstructed movement of the people as several vehicles got stuck on roads owing to technical snagsdue to the high level of water.190mm rain in KarnalKarnal recorded 190mm of rainfall on Tuesday. Earlier, it was in July 2008 when Karnal witnessed 200mm in a day. On an average, Karnal receives 250mm rain in July and so far it has witnessed around 225mm of rain in the past 13 days.The areas in Sectors 13, 14, 6,7,8,9, Model Town, Basant Vihar, Railway Road, Committee Chowk, Mughal Canal and areas across the railway lines were inundated due to the rain. Normal life was paralysed and residents had to wade through the waterlogged roads. Even, water entered the shops at Committee Chowk and other areas of the city. The residents complained that the civic body staff never bothered to clean the drains.Big relief for farmers“Sector 13 is the oldest sector of the city, but still it lacks proper drainage system. The administration spends huge money in the name of smart city, but during the rainy season, the picture of actual city comes to light. The poor drainage system exposes the claims of the civic authorities,” said Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Sector 13.Amneet Singh, a resident of Model Town, said it was for the first time that Model Town had witnessed waterlogging. “We urge the authorities to clean all the drains at the earliest, so that we do not face such a situation when it rains next,” he added.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC, said the drains had been desilted prior to the monsoon, but it was heavy rain that lasted for around five hours. The rain also came as a relief to the residents from the sweltering heat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waterlogging-exposes-karnal-mcs-monsoon-preparedness-282842
14-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Overflowing nullah disrupts traffic on NH in Yamunanagar||Vehicular traffic on the Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib national highway was disrupted in Pratap Nagar block area of Yamunanagar district on Tuesday following a strong pressure of water on the road by an overflowing nullah.The water of the overflowing nullah reportedly entered several houses at Bombeypur village of the area. Besides, a breach also developed in this nullah near Bahadarpur village submerging 8 to 10 acres of paddy fields of farmers.According to information, Naggal nullah, maintained by the Water Services Division, Jagadhri, overflowed on Tuesday morning due to heavy rain in the area of the Shivalik hills. The nullah has a capacity of about 2000 cusecs of water. The area received 72 mm rain from Monday 8 pm to Tuesday 8 am, causing the nullah to overflow at about 5000 cusecs of water.About two-km stretch of the Jagadhri-Ponta Sahib national highway submerged due to overflowing nullah. It reportedly disrupted vehicular traffic on the national highway for about two hours (between 5 am and 7 am).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/overflowing-nullah-disrupts-traffic-on-nh-in-yamunanagar-282845
14-07-2021||Faridabad||JC Bose varsity inks pact with IILM University||Webinar on teaching methodsFaridabad: An international-level webinar on teaching and learning methods was held by DAV Centenary College here. Professor Rajbir Singh, Vice-Chancellor, MD University, Rohtak, who was the chief guest, said several new experiments were being conducted at both the college and university levels to accommodate with hurdles faced while teaching, especially when the online teaching methods had gained importance and had witnessed a major shift during the pandemic. He said the teachers now needed to equip themselves well for online teaching and the necessary resources be provided to the student community as well, including the sorting out of connectivity issues for all. Dr Savita Bhagat, Principal, DAV College, Faridabad, and professors from various universities and institutions were among others who spoke on the issue.Faculty development programmeKurukshetra: The All-India Council for Technical Education, New Delhi, AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy, New Delhi, Inaugurated 56 ATAL online FDP. The department of electrical engineering, NIT, Kurukshetra, will be a part of one of the 56 ATAL FDP all over India. The topic of five days ATAL FDP is "Power distribution system analysis with renewable energy sources (EDSARES-2021)". About 200 hundred participants from academia and industry from all over India joined this programme. The lectures will be delivered to participants in the five days programme by experts from IITs, NITs and Industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-varsity-inks-pact-with-iilm-university-282846
14-07-2021||Karnal||Women SHGs roped in to run canteens, HAFED outlets||Aiming at empowering women, members of women self-help groups (SHGs) have been roped in to operate canteens at government offices in the district under the Haryana State Rural Livelihoods Mission. Besides, they have also been given the responsibility of running retail outlets of HAFED.As many as 10 such canteens and eight HAFED outlets have been started by 36 women of 18 SHGs in the different parts of the district. As per the authorities, it is first of its kind in Haryana and they are planning to set up such canteens in all government offices.“The aim of this scheme is to make women self-reliant. Loans are being provided to them to set up their own business,” said Nishant Kumar Yadav, DC. “I inaugurated one canteen in the BDPO office, Gharaunda, and one outlet in Staundi village on Monday. All government offices, government hospitals of the district will have the same canteen,” said the DC.Gaurav Kumar, CEO, Zila Parishad, said the work of forming SHGs started in the district in June 2014. Now, 4,020 SHGs having 40,109 families have been created in the district. The members of these groups have been provided loans of Rs 69.90 crore from different banks. “I have been working as the community resource person (CRP) of the mission. “My work is to motivate women and connect them with SHGs. Now, I have started a canteen with the help of the district administration. I am happy that I am able to support my family,” said Sunita of Phurlak village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-shgs-roped-in-to-run-canteens-hafed-outlets-282847
14-07-2021||Ambala||One arrested for forcing girl into flesh trade in Ambala||The Ambala police have arrested a man for forcing a 22-year-old girl into prostitution. The accused has been identified as Rohit alias Yogesh.The victim, in her complaint at Women Police Station, Ambala City, had alleged that three persons — Rohit alias Yogesh, Jai and a woman — had been forcing her into prostitution. Women Police Station SHO Devender Kaur said: “The victim is a native of Nepal and has been working in Karnal for two years now as a household help. She was sent to Ambala and forced into prostitution a year back.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-arrested-for-forcing-girl-into-flesh-trade-in-ambala-282848
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Campaign on  use of helmet, seatbelt||The Transport Department and the Higher Education Department of Haryana have initiated campaign ‘Aao Bane Road Safety Sarathi’ to check road accidents. Shatrujit Kapoor, Principal Secretary, Transport, Haryana, said the state had also set a target of reducing accidents by more than half by 2030. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/campaign-on-use-of-helmet-seatbelt-282849
14-07-2021||The historic Parson temple near Ankhir village near Badkhal in the Aravalli hills is in a dilapidated condition mainly due to the lack of attention and care. While the importance of Parson temple is related to Mahabharata||Revive lost glory of historic Parson temple near Ankhir Village||Jab shortage raises question on govt claimsThe shortage of Covid vaccines at Civil Hospital, Rohtak, is raising a question mark over the state government's claims that vaccines in adequate quantity are available at the district level. On Monday, no vaccine was available at the Civil Hospital forcing many people, including the elderly, to return without vaccination. Many of them came here from distant places but had to return empty handed. On the one hand, the government is motivating the people to take vaccination while on the other, hospitals have run out of vaccine stock. How will the government check the probable third wave in this situation. — Devi Singh, RohtakRohtak roads pathetic, residents inconveniencedMost of the roads in Rohtak city are in bad shape, which causes inconvenience to residents and often leads to mishaps. Especially the elderly residents find it difficult to drive or even walk on the broken roads dotted with potholes. The district administration and the authorities concerned must take the necessary steps to get the roads repaired for the safety and convenience of the residents. —  Prof Rajendra Sharma, RohtakNon-functional Fans at Narwana bus standOn Monday, I went to the local bus stand to see off a friend and I found that none of the fans at the bus stand were working in this hot weather. There was no arrangement for safe drinking water and toilet was locked from outside. Passengers were inconvenienced. I was told that when some senior staff comes in the afternoon only then some of these facilities become functional. The authorities must ensure that at least bare minimum facilities are provided to the commuters. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/revive-lost-glory-of-historic-parson-temple-near-ankhir-village-282850
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Attack on deputy speaker's car: 100 farmers booked for sedition, murder bid||The first sedition case against farmers in their agitation against the controversial three farm laws has been registered by the Sirsa police.Getting tough with the agitators, who allegedly vandalised the official vehicle of Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa on July 11, the police booked two farm leaders, Harcharan Singh and Prahlad Singh, and 90-100 other unidentified farmers under stringent Sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 124-A (sedition) and 307 (attempt to murder).SHO suspendedThe police have suspended Vikram Singh, SHO of the Civil Lines, Sirsa, for allegedly mishandling the situation which resulted in the vandalising of the Deputy Speaker’s car on Sunday. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated against DSP Sanjay Kumar. Earlier, SP Bhupender Singh was replaced with Arpit Jain after the incident.Meanwhile, Home Minister Anil Vij went on the offensive, alleging that the farmers’ agitation was getting violent with each passing day. “The violent agitation cannot be allowed to continue in a democratic and peaceful country,” he asserted.The Bharatiya Kisan Union state spokesman Rakesh Bains said the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) would take a call on the issue at its meeting on July 14.The official car of the Deputy Speaker came under attack on Sunday when the farmers during a statewide protest against the farm laws were protesting at Sirsa. The rear windscreen of the car was broken when it was pelted with stones. Gangwa, who was reportedly sitting on the front seat, escaped unhurt.The farmers, demanding rollback of the farm laws, have been at loggerheads with the ruling BJP-JJP, disrupting the official and party events for several months.In May, booking of certain farmers, who tried to disrupt an official function of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar at Hisar, snowballed into a major confrontation between the Haryana Government and the farmers. The administration later withdraw the cases, which included attempt to murder charges, after hundreds of farmers from across the state had laid seige to Hisar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/attack-on-deputy-speakers-car-100-farmers-booked-for-sedition-murder-bid-282851
14-07-2021||Sonepat||ID must for Parliament protest, says wary Samyukt Kisan Morcha||To avoid a repeat of the Republic Day violence, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is wary ahead of the Parliament protest starting on July 22.It has decided that no farmer without an ID or Aadhaar card will be allowed to protest at the Parliament, and the record of every protester will be maintained at the “kisan andolan” office.The umbrella body of more than 40 farmers’ unions, which is spearheading the agitation for the scrapping of the three Central agricultural laws, said the preparation for their protest at the Parliament was in full swing. Starting on July 22 till the monsoon session ends, five farmers from each union will protest at the Parliament every day.Darshan Pal Singh, SKM leader, said: “Every protester must carry an ID card so that notorious elements can’t enter farmers’ groups.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/id-must-for-parliament-protest-says-wary-samyukt-kisan-morcha-282852
14-07-2021||Rohtak||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim taken to Delhi for medical tests||Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail, was taken to Delhi for a medical examination today.The dera chief is undergoing imprisonment after being convicted and sentenced for the rape of two of his women disciples and the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.He has been suffering from hypertension and diabetes and was taken to Rohtak-PGIMS after he complained of dizziness and restlessness owing to fluctuation in his blood pressure in May.He was examined by a board of doctors and was discharged as no major health issues were detected in his medical examination then. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-taken-to-delhi-for-medical-tests-282853
14-07-2021||Rohtak||Rohtak: BJP leader Manish Grover faces farmers' ire for ‘obscene gesture’||Senior BJP leader Manish Grover is in the dock over an alleged obscene gesture made towards protesting farmers, including women, from his car after a party meeting in Hisar on Saturday.Several farmers assembled around noon here today and marched towards Grover’s house. They tried to break the police barricades put up near the BJP leader’s house. As the police tried to stop them, a minor clash ensued.Subsequently, the farmers started a dharna near Grover’s house, seeking his apology.“The dharna will continue till Grover tenders an apology,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Haryana chapter of the All-India Kisan Sabha.On Saturday, BJP’s Hansi MLA Vinod Bhayana and Grover took part in a party event at the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology in Hisar.The farmers, including women, agitating against the Centre’s three farm laws, were holding a protest outside the university gates against the BJP leaders.The farmer leaders alleged that a person seated in the SUV, in which Bhayana and Grover were travelling, made obscene gestures towards the women protesters.In a video message, former minister Grover said: “I am a worker of the party that holds women in very high regard. I have sisters, daughters and a mother at home. I cannot even think of (doing) such a thing as is being alleged. Still, if somebody feels that some such gesture was made, I regret it.”The farmers, however, remained adamant on the BJP leader visting the protest site and tendering an apology.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-bjp-leader-manish-grover-faces-farmers-ire-for-obscene-gesture-282854
14-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Rs 2-cr extortion call lands 3 in police net||A team of the CIA-I, Yamunanagar police, has arrested three persons for allegedly seeking an extortion of Rs 2 crore from an arhtiya of the Jagadhri grain market.The accused have been identified as Gurmukh Singh of Yamunanagar district, Ranbir Singh of Nawanshahr (Punjab) and Manjit Singh of Sonepat district.Rakesh Kumar Matoria, in-charge of the CIA-I, said the accused were produced in a Jagadhri court today. While Ranbir had been sent to judicial custody, Gurmukh Singh and Manjit Singh had been remanded in a two-day police custody.Police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said Pradeep Mittal, an arhtiya, had received an extortion call of Rs 2 crore on July 7. Subsequently, he lodged an FIR.During interrogation, Gurmukh said he owned a rice mill and was under debt. The Haryana State Ware Housing Corporation had also got a cheating case registered against him.To evade arrest, he started living at a dhaba at Handesra village of Punjab. There, he came in contact with Manjit and they bought a SIM card from Ranbir Singh, who ran a mobile shop.Gurmukh and Manjit hatched a conspiracy to extort money from businessmen and made Mittal their target. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-2-cr-extortion-call-lands-3-in-police-net-282856
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Over 1 crore people jabbed in Haryana so far||More than 1 crore persons in the state have received the Covid vaccine so far.The state government plans to administer vaccine doses to 1.76 crore beneficiaries, including 1.05 crore individuals in the 18-45 age group.The apprehension of the third wave prompted the government to scale up its vaccination drive in the past one month.From 57 lakh doses administered till the first week of June, the state surpassed the 1-crore mark today. A government spokesperson said 4,14,051 doses had been administered to healthcare workers (HCWs) till now — 2,46,931 HCWs have received the first jab and 1,67,120 both doses.As for frontline workers, they have received 3,79,268 doses till now. Of them, 2,43,124 have been administered the first dose and 1,36,144 both doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1-crore-people-jabbed-in-haryana-so-far-282857
14-07-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Man thrashed for helping gangrape victim file case||A group of 40 persons allegedly thrashed a man for helping a Dalit woman, who was held ‘hostage’ and raped by four, file a police case.The accused belonged to the woman’s village and the victim is her neighbour. He works as an operator at a private school and had helped the rape victim’s family file a police case and helped them with all formalities.A 28-year-Dalit woman was allegedly held hostage and raped over nine days by four, including a cop of the Gurugram police. She was allegedly kidnapped on June 30 and was released on July 8. The woman filed an FIR on July 10.The operator, Ajit Singh (40), alleged that a caste-specific group from their village thrashed him for helping the woman. The complainant told the police that the mob reached his school in cars and bikes and attacked him.“They first hit my right eye and dragged me outside in street. They tore my clothes and then thrashed me with sticks and iron rods. They threatened me with dire consequences if I helped the family. I remained in hospital for two days and filed a complaint last evening,” the complainant told the police.Ajit Singh alleged that the police were shielding the attackers and not providing security to him and his family.Sandeep Malik, ACP (Sohna) said the probe was underway and action would be taken as per the law.“Our team is conducting raids to nab those who attacked Ajit Singh. In the rape case, we are verifying the facts. The accused will be not spared,” the ACP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-thrashed-for-helping-gangrape-victim-file-case-282858
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||High Court: IPS officer Y Puran Kumar’s petition infructuous||The Punjab and Haryana High Court today disposed of as infructuous a petition filed by IPS officer Y Puran Kumar for quashing preliminary inquiry initiated on his complaint against Director-General of Police Manoj Yadava.The order by Justice Manoj Bajaj came after the Bench was told that the inquiry stood concluded. The Bench was also told the inquiry report, dated May 28, had been challenged by the petitioner separately through another petition. As such, the petition before the Bench had been rendered infructuous.Preliminary inquiryY Puran Kumar had filed a petition for quashing of preliminary inquiry initiated on his complaint against DGP Manoj YadavaKumar had filed the petition for the quashing of the preliminary inquiry as it was violative of Section 18-A of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Directions were also sought to the respondent to act in accordance with law. Alternatively, it was prayed that the investigation of the case be handed over to any other independent agency.Appearing before the Bench, his counsel stated that the petitioner had challenged the initiation of the inquiry by Senior Superintendent of Police, Ambala, but it stood concluded. “In view of the statement made by counsel for the petitioner, the petition is disposed of as infructuous,” Justice Bajaj concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-ips-officer-y-puran-kumars-petition-infructuous-282859
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||High Court deprecates appellate tribunal for evasive order||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has deprecated an “appellate tribunal”, set up under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act-2007, for passing an evasive order in case of a 76-year-old widow ousted from her house by her son.The Bench of Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma asserted that the order passed by the appellate tribunal, chaired by Fatehabad District Collector, was also non-speaking and erroneously bad in the eyes of law. “Such an exercise of power is to be deprecated,” the Bench asserted.76-year-old widow’s caseThe case pertains to an application filed by a widow before a SDM under the Maintenance Act for returning the registry of a house and a shop taken after her son allegedly played fraud with her. Exercising the powers of maintenance tribunal presiding officer, the SDM ordered the cancellation of the deed, vide which two shops were transferred. The mother was allowed to live in the house ‘till her age’. The son was also ordered to give monthly subsistence allowance of Rs 2,000 to his motherThe case has its genesis in an application filed by the widow before a sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) under the Maintenance Act for returning the registry of a house and a shop taken after her son allegedly played fraud with her.Exercising the powers of maintenance tribunal presiding officer, the SDM ordered the cancellation of the deed, vide which two shops were transferred. The mother was allowed to live in the house “till her age”. The son was also ordered to give monthly subsistence allowance of Rs 2,000 to his mother.Taking up the son’s plea against the SDM’s order, the appellate tribunal in February 2020 partly reversed and set aside the “well-reasoned” findings on the cancellation of the transfer deed. Only the grant of maintenance and the right to live in her house were upheld.The writ petition filed by the mother was allowed by a Single Judge of the High Court vide impugned order dated April 20, thereby maintaining the SDM’s order in toto, leading to the filing of the appeal by the son before the Division Bench.The Bench asserted that the Single Judge rightly maintained the well-reasoned and speaking order passed by the SDM. “The Single Judge has rightly maintained the speaking and well-reasoned order passed by the SDM, who has rightly exercised his jurisdiction available under Section 23 of the Act and cancelled the transfer deed and directed that the shops in question be transferred back in the name of the mother and possession be granted back to her,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-deprecates-appellate-tribunal-for-evasive-order-282860
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||5 ESI hospitals to be set up||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today said five Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) hospitals would be set up and the existing hospital in Gurugram would be upgraded to provide affordable and accessible treatment to the employees of the industrial sector.Dushyant was presiding over a review meeting of officials of the ESI and Labour Department on various issues.The Deputy Chief Minister said a 100-bed ESI hospital would be built at Bahadurgarh (Jhajjar). Since there were several industrial units in the Bawal area of Rewari district, another 100-bed ESI hospital would come up at IMT Bawal. ESI dispensary buildings would be constructed at Badi village (Gannaur, Sonepat) and Rai (Sonepat) for the treatment of labourers. Dushyant said new 100-bed ESI hospitals each would be set up in Sonepat, Hisar and Rohtak. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-esi-hospitals-to-be-set-up-282861
14-07-2021||Karnal||8 cases for blackmailing men over nude videos||The cyber crime cell of the district has registered eight cases against accused women for allegedly blackmailing men in the age group of 25-40 years after luring them to pose naked on-screen video calls. The men have lodged complaints with the cyber cell authorities, alleging that the accused were constantly demanding money and threatening to make the videos go viral on social media.A 35-year-old man of the city told The Tribune,“I received a friend request on FB from a woman a few months ago. I accepted it and started chatting with her. We engaged in a steamy conversation, after which we both posed naked during a video call which was screen recorded by her. Later, she demanded Rs 1 lakh for not posting the video online. I was afraid. So, I negotiated with her and paid Rs 50,000 for my foolish act.”SP Ganga Ram Punia said the cyber crime cell was investigating the cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-cases-for-blackmailing-men-over-nude-videos-282862
14-07-2021||Faridabad||Notice for recovery of Rs 8-crore ad revenue||The Faridabad MC has issued a notice to three advertising firms for non-payment of revenue for using advertisement sites in the city to the tune of Rs 8.08 crore, allotted to them since November 2019.The MC had leased out an outdoor space to private agencies in September 2019. Three firms had been leased out the contract in all three zones of city, all of which have defaulted in clearing their dues fully. The pending dues include Rs 3.97 crore in NIT zone for 92 sites, Rs 3.46 crore in Old Faridabad zone for 110 sites and Rs 65.15 lakh in Ballabgarh zone for 13 sites. Claiming that the MC was due to get monthly revenue of Rs 48 lakh in all three zones and according to a senior official, the total annual revenue from the advertisement sites is estimated to be Rs 5.76 crore.“Though dues had been cleared partially, the firms allotted the space have failed to clear all pending amount,’’ Commissioner Garima Mittal said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/notice-for-recovery-of-rs-8-crore-ad-revenue-282863
14-07-2021||Sonepat||1 held for bank heist||The police on Tuesday claimed to have solved a bank robbery incident in four days and arrested a man in this regard. The police have also recovered Rs 4 lakh from the accused.The accused has been identified as Deepak of Panchi Jatan village. Notably, two masked men had looted Rs 9 lakh from a Punjab National Bank branch in Model Town on July 9. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, in a press conference held on Tuesday, said the CIA-2 team succeeded in cracking the case within four days of the incident and had nabbed the accused. The team received a tip-off that Deepak was roaming on the railway road and was trying to flee to Rishikesh with the looted cash, he added. “After receiving the tip-off, we laid a trap and nabbed the accused. We have recovered Rs 4 lakh from him, along with the pistol used in the crime and two cartridges,” the SP said.The accused confessed to having robbed the bank with his accomplice, Subhash, of the same village. Deepak also has criminal cases of robbery and dacoity registered against him at Panipat and Sonepat police stations. The SP said the search to nab Deepak’s accomplice was under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-for-bank-heist-282865
14-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt extends 25% relief in property tax||The Haryana Government has decided to provide a financial relief to the people of the state by giving an exemption of 25 per cent on property tax for 2021-22.Apart from this, a 10 per cent discount has also been given for this year till September 30. An official spokesperson said a notification in this regard had been issued by the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-25-relief-in-property-tax-282866
14-07-2021||Vibha Sharma||Finally, monsoon reaches Delhi, covers entire nation||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, July 13A day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a detailed clarification over its inaccurate forecast on the progress of southwest monsoon to northwest, including Delhi, the seasonal rains finally arrived over the National Capital today, almost 16 days behind the normal date of onset.The rains also covered entire India, again later than the normal onset date of July 8.The weather office said, “In association with the continued prevalence of moist easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal, enhanced cloud cover and scattered to fairly widespread rainfall, the monsoon today covered the entire country.”It said scattered to widespread rainfall is likely over parts of northwest during the next three days, along with isolated to very heavy rainfall over Uttarakhand, Himachal and West UP. The IMD also warned of thunderstorm with lightning over Punjab, Haryana, north Rajasthan, West UP and Bihar in 24 hours.Facing severe criticism over repeated wrong forecast on monsoon’ arrival over Delhi, the weatherman yesterday called such failure by numerical models in predicting its advance “rare and uncommon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/finally-monsoon-reaches-delhi-covers-entire-nation-282843
14-07-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad readies Khori rehab plan||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 13Announcing a draft policy, Faridabad Municipal Corporation Commissioner Garima Mittal today said the MC was ready to rehabilitate Khori village oustees who faced house demolition.Flats for OusteesMohammed Salim of the Majdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti, Khori village, said a comprehensive survey should be undertaken to identify beneficiaries and they should be given a reasonable time to prove their respective claims. The MC Commissioner said the oustees would have to produce voter card, Parivar Pehchan Patra or DHBVN (power) connection papers issued before January 1, 2021, to claim rehabilitation.Residents’ takeA comprehensive survey should be undertaken to identify beneficiariesThose selected would be allotted flats lying vacant at Dabua Colony and Bapu Nagar, she said. Each flat would cost Rs 3.70 lakh and each allottee would have to pay Rs 17,000 as down payment, followed by monthly instalments of Rs 2,500.Those selected would get Rs 2,000 per month towards rent for six months as the flats were under repair and not yet ready for possession. The MC has around 2,600 flats at its disposal.Mittal chaired a joint meeting involving Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav and the DCP this evening and held a discussion with Majdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti representatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-readies-khori-rehab-plan-282818
14-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram: Man assaulted for helping Dalit neighbour file gangrape complaint||A man was allegedly beaten up brutally for having helped a Dalit woman file a gangrape complaint. The complainant, Ajit Singh, is a 40-year-old neighbour of the woman’s who runs a private school, was beaten up by a mob of men, all from a certain caste, for having helped the woman file the complaint. In her complaint, the 28-year-old Dalit woman from a village near Sohna had accused four people, a cop among them, of having abducted, drugged and gangraped over nine days.Singh had guided the woman’s family to a police station and helped them through the process. Police have yet to make any arrests in either the rape or the assault case.Singh said in his complaint to Gurugran Police that a mob of men, all from a certain caste, came to his school in cars and bikes, dragged him out and beat him up.Dalit woman held ‘hostage, gangraped’ by Gurugram cop, four others “They first hit my right eye and dragged me outside in street. They tore my clothes and then brutally thrashed me with sticks, iron rods. They threatened that they will kill me if I helped them anymore. I fainted and some villagers and students called the police and took me to the hospital. I was treated for two days in a hospital and filed the complaint yesterday night," the complainant said in his complaint.When The Tribune contacted him, Singh claimed the police were favouring his attackers instead of providing security to him and his family.On his part, Sandeep Malik, the Assistant Commissioner of Police for Sohna, said his team was conducting raids to find the suspects.As for the gangrape, his team was still “verifying facts”.“The accused won’t be spared,” he said.The Dalit woman had said in her complaint that a friend she identified as Chintu met her at a temple on the morning of June 30. A white car with two of his friends, Deepak and Sanju, soon drove by and they offered to give her a ride home. She said in her complaint that they offered her water spiked with drugs that soon put her out, and then drove toward Faridabad.She also named a cop, Kuldeep, among her attackers. The cop is posted at a police station near Sohna.  “When I became conscious I found myself in a room. At night, Kuldeep also joined them and all four raped me. Kuldeep also injected me with something and my body went numb. They took turns in raping me over nine days and kept injecting sedatives. They videographed the sexual assault and threatened me with weapons. On July 8, they asked me to change clothes and dumped me at Ballabhgarh from where I informed my brother-in-law and somehow returned home,” the victim said in her complaint.A medical exam soon confirmed the rape. All four suspects identified by the victim have been booked under sections 365 (kidnap), 328 (causing hurt by mean of poison), 201 (hide evidence), 376-D (gang rape) of IPC and Sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act and Section 3 of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Atrocities Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-man-assaulted-for-helping-dalit-neighbour-file-gangrape-complaint-282608
