15-07-2021||---||Hooda adopting delaying tactics: ED to Special Court||Bhartesh Singh Thakur   Tribune News Service   Chandigarh, July 15   Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday told a Special Court in Panchkula that former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is adopting dilly-dallying practice “to prolong the matter” in the case related to “illegal” plot allotment to M/s Associated Journals Limited (AJL).   The investigating agency added that Hooda has been trying to “stall the proceedings” of this case “without there being any legal and sustainable reason or ground”.  ED made these comments in a reply before the trial court concerning Hooda’s application, moved on July 5, for the postponement of arguments on framing of charges, post the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a criminal revision filed in the CBI’s AJL case. He claimed that both the ED and CBI cases, related to plot allotment to AJL, are connected matters.   Besides Hooda, M/s AJL had also moved an application for postponement of arguments on charge, post the completion of investigation by ED.   In CBI’s case, the trial court has framed the charges but the high court has stayed the further proceedings.   Regarding the pending investigation, ED told the court on Thursday that against Hooda, the inquiry has been completed so the court could pursue against him. It was further submitted that Hooda has been trying to intermingle the issue of the CBI chargesheet with the ED case.   The court was told that the chargesheet filed by the CBI “has nothing to do with the investigation carried out by ED and both the proceedings are independent”.   The CBI registered the case under section 120-B (for criminal conspiracy) and 420 (for cheating) of the IPC and under section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which are the schedule offences, and thereafter the ED initiated investigations.   On whether CBI’s case and ED’s matter are connected, the ED submitted that section 44 of the Prevention of Money Laundering (PML) Act says that the jurisdiction of the special court while dealing with the offence during investigation, enquiry or trial shall not be dependent upon any orders passed in respect of the same scheduled offence, and the trial of both the sets of offences by the same court shall not be construed as joint trial.   It was further added that the offence under section 3 of PML Act is standalone and once the investigation is initiated under the Act, there is no necessity of conviction or chargesheet under the predicate offence.   The “act and omission” on the part of Hooda causing substantial loss to state exchequer and further causing a wrongful gain to AJL is a separate offence as mentioned under PML Act and as such proceedings in the CBI case has no bearing on the ED case, said ED.   Hooda has also approached the HC for quashing the ED case against him. The HC on July 14 had ordered the special court to defer the proceedings beyond August 18.   The next date before trial court has been fixed for August 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hooda-adopting-delaying-tactics-ed-to-special-court-283700
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Temperatures hover below normal in Haryana and Punjab||The maximum temperatures hovered below normal limits at most places in Haryana and Punjab on Thursday.After receiving rains in the past two days, mainly dry weather prevailed in most parts of the two states on Thursday, the Meteorological Department said.However, heavy rains lashed Karnal in Haryana during the day.According to the Meteorological Department here, Karnal received 49 mm rainfall.Notably, during the past two days, Karnal has received over 300 mm of rain. Karnal's maximum temperature on Thursday dropped by six notches below normal to settle at 28 degrees Celsius.Ambala recorded a maximum temperature of 29.6 degrees Celsius, down five notches while Hisar registered a high of 34 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.The maximum temperature in Rohtak, which received light rain, settled at 32.3 degrees Celsius, down three notches, it said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal limits.In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a maximum of 35.4 degrees Celsius.Ludhiana recorded a high of 33.7 degrees Celsius, while Patiala's maximum settled at 30.8 degrees Celsius, three below normal.According to the MeT Department forecast, rain or thundershowers are likely at a few to many places in Haryana and Punjab over the next two days. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/temperatures-hover-below-normal-in-haryana-and-punjab-283689
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||5 held for attack on Haryana deputy speaker’s car, FIR mentions sedition||The Sirsa police on Thursday arrested five people days after lodging an FIR, which included a sedition charge, over an alleged attack on the Haryana deputy speaker’s car during a farmers’ protest. The incident had taken place on Sunday and police had booked over 100 people, mostly unidentified, for sedition, obstructing public servants in discharge of their duty, murderous attempt on an elected representative and damaging public property. Meanwhile, to protest the arrests, a group of farmers sat on a dharna near Baba Bhuman Shah Ji Chowk in Sirsa, demanding that they be released. Police, however, said the arrests were made after they were identified based on the video footage of the incident.“Five protesters have been arrested. We analysed the video footage of the incident in the past two days. The pictures were magnified and later based on the evidence, the five who were identified have been arrested,” Sirsa Superintendent of Police Dr Arpit Jain told PTI over the phone.He said more people who were present near the site on Sunday have been identified and further action will depend on to what extent their involvement.Earlier, the state government had taken a serious view of the incident, replacing Sirsa district police chief Bhupender Singh with Dr Arpit Jain while suspending an Inspector-rank official.Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa had told reporters here on Tuesday that those who pelted his vehicle with stones on Sunday cannot be called farmers. “They cannot be called farmers. I can say those who attacked looked like addicts...,” he had said.Farmers carrying black flags had assembled outside Chaudhary Devi Lal University in Sirsa on Sunday during the day and raised slogans against the government. While Gangwa, who is a BJP MLA from Nalwa in Hisar, was coming out of the varsity after attending a function, protesters targeted his car, police had said. Despite heavy police presence, some managed to surround the vehicle and banged against it with their hands. Gangwa’s vehicle was pelted with stones as police were trying to escort it out of the area. Gangwa had escaped unhurt in the incident, police had said.Farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws have been opposing public functions of the BJP and the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in the state.Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over seven months in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-held-for-attack-on-haryana-deputy-speakers-car-fir-mentions-sedition-283652
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bandaru Dattatreya sworn in as Haryana governor||Bandaru Dattatreya took oath as 18th governor of Haryana on Thursday, succeeding Satyadeo Narain Arya, who has been shifted to Tripura.He was administered the oath of office by Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court Ravi Shanker Jha in a simple ceremony held at the Raj Bhavan here.Former Union minister Dattatreya, 74, who was earlier governor of Himachal Pradesh, had been shifted to Haryana in a recent reshuffle, while Arya had been transferred to Tripura.Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore, who is also Administrator, Chandigarh, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala were among those present on the occasion. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bandaru-dattatreya-sworn-in-as-haryana-governor-283621
15-07-2021||The sanitary conditions are very poor in Sector 4||Poor sanitary condition in Panchkula sector||VS Garg, PanchkulaResidents get muddy potable water supplyResidents of five sectors (7, 8, 9, 10, and1) of Ambala City are being supplied muddy potable water for about three weeks. They have been running from pillar to post to get relief. The residents had been requesting the HSVP officers, MC and even the local MLA, but all in vain. The authorities should immediately address this problem before people fall prey to water-borne diseases.KR Joshi, Ambala CityIllegal dumping of construction, demolition wasteThe Gurugram Municipal Corporation has failed to deal with illegal dumping of construction and demolition waste. Last year, the places which had been under debris for decade were cleared of the waste, including parts of Aravallis. There was strict enforcement of norms and finally we could see difference on ground. However, this year the subject has slipped from its priority list. The waste is being illegally dumped in the Aravalli, storm water drains and green belts. Despite repeated complaints, no action has been taken.Ram Mehar, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-sanitary-condition-in-panchkula-sector-283444
15-07-2021||---||Blood donors honoured in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, July 14A blood donation camp was held on Tuesday on the occasion of World Blood Donation Day, during which star blood donors were honoured.Deputy Commissioner Girish Arora applauded the noble work done by blood donors and expressed concern on how the district was in the want of blood.Dr Anil Aggarwal, a renowned surgeon of the region, was given special honour on the occasion for regularly organising blood donation camps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-donors-honoured-in-yamunanagar-283442
15-07-2021||Hisar||Education notes: Newsletter of training and placement cell of Guru Jambheshwar University released||6 new courses at JC Bose varsityFaridabad: Considering the high-market demand for qualified professionals, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has decided to introduce five undergraduate courses and one postgraduate one in these disciplines from the academic session 2021-22. The courses which have been introduced from the new academic session include B Tech robotics and artificial intelligence, BTech in environmental engineering, BSc in life sciences, BCom and BA (Hons.) in social work at UG level and MSc in animation and multimedia at the PG level, said Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar.Poster-making competitionYamunanagar: A national-level poster-making competition was organised by social work department of Guru Nanak Khalsa College with the aim of promoting blood donation in society. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said in this competition, Selsima Aggress of Tamil Nadu stood first, Reshna Reji of Karnataka was second and Subhash Thapa, a final year BA student of Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Yamunanagar, secured third position and Kunjam Rani and Ratish Kumar were selected for consolation award. Bhupinder Singh Jauhar and president of the college management committee, Randeep Singh Jauhar congratulated the winners and the head of the Social Work Department, Dr AP Mishra; associate professor Dr Sahib Singh and Dr Hemant Mishra for this successful event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-notes-newsletter-of-training-and-placement-cell-of-guru-jambheshwar-university-released-283440
15-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra University set to start admissions under KG to PG scheme||Kurukshetra University (KU) is all set to begin the admission process for session 2021-22 under the KG to PG scheme as per the New Education Policy-2020.The Vice Chancellor, Prof Somnath Sachdeva, said KU was the first university in the state to adopt this system. “We have prepared a road map to implement the education policy in our UG and PG programmes from 2022. The Executive Council of the university has already approved the institutional development plan and submitted to the government. A number of meetings have been held with the higher authorities and the university is taking a lead role in the state in preparing the concept, development plan and implementation schedule of the new policy,” said Professor Sachdeva.Dean, Academic Affairs (KU), Prof Manjula Choudhary said a committee constituted as per the instructions of the Vice-Chancellor had an online meeting on June 16. A provision of 15 per cent seats had been made for students of University Senior Secondary Model School located on the university campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-set-to-start-admissions-under-kg-to-pg-scheme-283438
15-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC lab to check construction material quality||The Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation is planning to establish a laboratory to examine the quality of construction material of its ongoing works.Residents of the twin cities and councillors have been alleging the use of substandard material in construction works.Besides, Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora and Mayor Madan Chauhan have also found the use of substandard construction material during the inspection of development works.Municipal Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar said this step was being taken to ensure the use of quality material for the construction of roads and government buildings in the MC area.“We don’t want to compromise with the quality of construction material being used to build roads, government buildings and other development works. so, we have decided to set up a fully functional laboratory here,” added Tomar.He said after discussion with the Chief Engineer, a proposal would be made for the establishment of the laboratory. “Currently, the samples of construction material are sent to other government laboratories. The results of the tests come very late. If we set up our own laboratory, we will get the results in time,” said Tomar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-lab-to-check-construction-material-quality-283436
15-07-2021||Sonepat||Samyukt Kisan Morcha suspends Gurnam Singh Charuni for 1 week||Taking a serious note over the statements of launching of ‘Mission Punjab’, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday suspended Gurnam Singh Charuni, a prominent face of the farmers’ movement in Haryana and prominent member of nine members committee of the SKM, for seven days.The SKM also banned him for sharing any stage and for making any statement during his suspension period.Issued ‘peoples’ whip’ for MPs to raise farmers’ demand during parliament monsoon session: SKMCharuni firmed up on his statement of ‘Mission Punjab’ and said the decision of suspending him was wrong.Notably, the farmer leader, national president of BKU (Charuni), had made the statements to launch the ‘Mission Punjab’ instead of ‘Mission UP’ and also asked the Punjab’s farmer leaders to take a political plunge and contest the assembly elections in the state due early next year and to present a new model of governance before the country.The SKM had cornered itself from the statements of Charuni and also condemned his statements, but he regularly made such statements again and again.Taking a serious note over it, the SKM in its general house meeting held on Wednesday in Kisan Andolan office in Kundli, decided to suspend him for seven days.Farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Ruldu Singh Mansa, Bhog Singh Mansa, Yudhvir Singh along with others on Sunday said that farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni has been suspended for one week.“He can’t share any stage and even he can’t make any statements during his suspension,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal.Firm on his statement, Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “Either they (SKM) expel me for seven days or permanently, I will stand by my statement.”Charuni further said the decision of SKM to suspend him was a wrong decision as it is his ideology and no one could be expelled for their ideology.What will happen only by defeating the BJP, the farmers were not happy before June 5, 2020, Charuni questioned and said we have to use the power of our vote to bring a change in the system.   Charuni said he was still firm on his statement of ‘Mission Punjab’ and for the sake of the country it is necessary to change the system and to present a model of good governance.“I am not in the habit of going on stage usually but this decision will have no effect on me and still I stand by my ideology,” Charuni maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samyukt-kisan-morcha-suspends-gurnam-singh-charuni-for-1-week-283093
15-07-2021||Rohtak||High-tension wires at Shouri market in Rohtak pose risk to visitors||High-tension wires hanging low from electricity poles on the Partap Talkies road in the crowded Shouri cloth market here are posing serious threat to visitors.“The electricity wires have been dangling low for the past over a month. It’s a wholesale market and a majority of the customers are shopkeepers who buy clothes in large quantity. The clothes in bundles are carried on heads so that they can be taken outside the market, as four-wheelers cannot enter due to the crowd. So the fear of mishap looms large every time,” said Radheshyam Garg, a cloth merchant.Hemant Bakshi, district president of the Rohtak Traders’ Association, said. “We will be forced to take stringent steps if the grievance is not redressed soon,” he added.Mehtab Singh, Executive Engineer, Power Corporation, said, “Acting on the complaint, I have directed the SDO and the JE concerned to resolve the issue at the earliest,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-tension-wires-at-shouri-market-in-rohtak-pose-risk-to-visitors-283434
15-07-2021||Panipat||Panipat man stabbed to death||A man (35) was stabbed to death, while three youths sustained injuries after a group of people attacked them on Tuesday night at Dadlana village in the Madlauda area of the district.The police have booked 18 persons in this regard.The deceased was identified as Sanjeev, while Sunder, Jony and Vikrant were hurt.Deaceased’s uncle Yashpal told the police the trio had some monetary dispute with a company in the area. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-man-stabbed-to-death-283431
15-07-2021||Panipat||Panipat school teacher gets 20-year RI for sodomy||The Additional Sessions Judge, Fast Track Court (POCSO), has awarded a 20-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) to a teacher of a private school for sexually assaulting two brothers aged 10 and 12 years in the Model Town area here. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the convict.In the order, Judge Sumit Garg said the offence committed by the convict assumed graver stature considering the fact that the victims were not only of tender age, but were also known to the convict. They resided in the same locality.The incident came to light in February 2019, when one of the boys fell ill and was taken to a private hospital. During a medical examination, it came to light that he had contracted Hepatitis C virus. On being asked, the children revealed everything to their mother.The Model Town police booked Anil Sharma, a senior teacher in a renowned school, under the POCSO Act. Later, Section 6 of the POCSO Act was also added to the chargesheet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-school-teacher-gets-20-year-ri-for-sodomy-283429
15-07-2021||Palwal||Rs 95L looted from private bank in Palwal||In a broad daylight incident, five unidentified miscreants looted Rs 95.57 lakh at gunpoint from a private bank in the town today.No arrest has been made in this regard so far.The incident took place around 1 pm, when the five youths, armed with guns, entered the bank and committed the robbery in the presence of staff and customers at a branch of Axis Bank, located near the GT road here.The criminals, who carried out the loot in just eight minutes, fled the place on three bikes parked outside the bank, after firing in the air.They threatened to kill the staff if they raised an alarm during the loot operation, in which three of the accused collected the money, while two others stood guard at the entrance of the bank.Senior police officials, including SP Deepak Gahlawat, reached the bank and assessed the situation.The involvement of two more persons in the incident was not ruled out, said a cop. A case was registered on the bank manager’s complaint. A manhunt has been launched to nab the culprits on the basis of the CCTV inputs and evidence collected from the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rs-95l-looted-from-private-bank-in-palwal-283428
15-07-2021||---||Jamabandis in Haryana to be completed by August 31||Chandigarh, July 14The Haryana Government has directed the officials concerned to ensure the finalisation and consignment of jamabandis of 2020-21 before the commencement of the kharif girdawari and ensure compliance of the same by August 31.Any laxity on part of revenue officials will be viewed seriously. State Financial Commissioner, Revenue & Disaster Management and Consolidation Department, Sanjeev Kaushal has sent a letter to all deputy commissioners of the state, SDMs, district revenue officers and all tehsildars and naib tehsildars in this regard. Kaushal said 20 per cent jamabandis in each tehsil of the state were due during 2020-21.Sanjeev Kaushal said any kind of negligence in this work would not be tolerated. Action would be taken in case of laxity, added the Financial Commissioner (revenue).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jamabandis-in-haryana-to-be-completed-by-august-31-283425
15-07-2021||---||Mining guard ‘attacked’ , 2 booked||Ambala, July 14The police have booked two men for allegedly assaulting members of a special enforcement team (SET) of the Mining and Geology Department in Shahzadpur last evening.In his complaint to the police, Roshan Lal, mining guard posted in Ambala Cantonment, said following a tip-off on illegal mining, he, along with his team, reached the spot near the Begna river at Bari Bassi village. The team found a tractor-trailer laden with sand and a loaded trailer there. Two men, identified as Vijay of Jangu Majra village and Shivam of Shahzadpur, who claimed to be the owners of the vehicles, were standing there.“The department has not authorised any company for carrying out mining in the Begna river. We seized the vehicle and the trailers and I sat with Vijay on the tractor, and used a private tractor for pulling the another trailer to the police station. After driving around 200-metre, several local people gathered there and they started threatening us.“Vijay and Shivam threatened us with dire consequences and started pushing us. They managed to steal the impounded tractor-trailer while the other trailer was taken to the Shahzadpur police station,” he added.A case has been registered against the two under sections 186, 189, 332, 353, 379A, 506 and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-guard-attacked-2-booked-283204
15-07-2021||Karnal||Karnal farmers switch from basmati  to PR varieties||Disappointed over not getting appropriate prices for basmati varieties in the market last season, a large number of basmati farmers have moved towards PR varieties in the district.Karnal is mostly known for its production of basmati rice. Some of the farmers have also switched to sugarcane in Indri, Gharaunda and Karnal blocks owing to an upgradation in the Karnal cooperative sugar mill.As per information, usually area under paddy cultivation in the district remains 1.70 lakh hectares comprising 60 per cent of non-basmati and 40 per cent of basmati. But this year, the area under basmati may reduce by 10-15 per cent and the area under non-basmati varieties may increase to 70-75 per cent. “We are getting reports from fields that farmers are inclined towards PR varieties because they give assured income to them. PR varieties are purchased by the government while the prices of basmati depend on market,” said Aditya Dabas, Deputy Director Agriculture. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-farmers-switch-from-basmati-to-pr-varieties-283423
15-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Amid bad weather, Haryana CM’s Yamunanagar events cancelled||Due to bad weather conditions in Yamunanagar on Wednesday, two programmes of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to be cancelled. But, braving the rain, farmers in large numbers assembled near Mini Secretariat in Jagadhri to oppose the CM’s event.According to information, the Chief Minister was to attend an event of the district bar association as the chief guest at courts complex at 4 pm and farmers started to assemble near Mini Secretariat at noon.Farmers were protesting booking of 13 farmers after the July 10 incident.On July 10, farmers had held a protest near Ramlia Bhawan, Jagadhri, where Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma and Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar were holding a meeting of the party’s district unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/amid-bad-weather-haryana-cms-yamunanagar-events-cancelled-283421
15-07-2021||Our Correspondent||Two gangsters nabbed after encounter, 40 rounds fired||Gurugram, July 14Two gangsters, carrying a bounty of Rs 1 lakh each, were injured and nabbed following a brief encounter near Ghata village in the wee hours today.Over 40 rounds were fired between the police and the gangsters, which left both accused and three cops injured. Two pistols, two cartridges and a motorcycle were recovered from the accused.The two were being treated at Delhi’s Safdurjung hospital, while the cops were being treated at a Gurugram hospital.An FIR in this regard was registered at the Sector 56 police station.According to the police, the accused were identified as Prashant, alias Jontu (24), a resident of Kulasi village, and Manish Jhakhad (30), a resident of Salhawas in Jhajjar district. Jontu was involved in 12 cases of murder, attempt to murder, loot, dacoity and assaults on police teams. Jontu had allegedly killed a PG operator Sandeep in Gurugram on May 4 and Manish was also involved in it. Sandeep had reportedly asked for their IDs to let them stay in the PG.Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime, said the accused were coming to Gurugram from Faridabad when they were nabbed by the police team.Police Commissioner KK Rao has announced a reward for the police team by terming the operation a major success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-gangsters-nabbed-after-encounter-40-rounds-fired-283420
15-07-2021||Chandigarh||Defer proceedings against Haryana ex-CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda: HC||In a reprieve to Haryana’s former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked the Special Court at Panchkula to defer the proceedings in the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case against him beyond August 18 — the next date of hearing before the Bench. The Division Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Vikas Bahl also asked the Special Court not to insist on the presence of the accused in the meantime. Hooda, as such, would not be required to appear before the special Court on July 15, when the matter is scheduled to come up for hearing. Hooda had moved the High Court through senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema, questioning the order passed by the Special Court, indicating the framing of charge against him in the money laundering case in Panchkula’s AJL plot allotment case.AJL plot allotment caseHooda had moved the HC through senior advocate RS Cheema and Arshdeep Singh Cheema, questioning the order passed by the Special Court, indicating the framing of charge against him in the money laundering case in Panchkula’s AJL plot allotment case.In his July 5 order, the special judge hearing the ED cases had stated: “The case is adjourned to July 15 for filing reply to applications by the ED and for its consideration. It is made clear to the defence counsels as well as special public prosecutors for the ED that the arguments on charge will also be heard along with applications on the date fixed and if this court finds merit in the applications, the case would be adjourned beyond the date ie August 11 fixed by the Punjab and Haryana HC. Otherwise, charges would be framed on the same date in accordance with the law.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/defer-proceedings-against-haryana-ex-cm-bhupinder-singh-hooda-hc-283418
15-07-2021||---||Farmers won’t give in, protest outside BJP leader Manish Grover’s house in Rohtak||Rohtak, July 14Farmers’ dharna near the house of senior BJP leader and former minister Manish Grover has now turned into an indefinite stir, with the protesters staying put despite heavy downpour.The farmers, owing allegiance to the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) and its women committee, have been staging a dharna against Grover since Tuesday over an alleged obscene gesture made towards protesters from his car after a party meeting in Hisar on July 10.Although the former minister had regretted the incident in a video message released on Tuesday, the protesters want him to personally visit the dharna site and apologise to them. “The police and the administration have been stating that the former minister is out of station. The agitation will be intensified and the dharna will continue till Grover appears before the protesters and tenders an apology,” said Inderjit Singh, vice-president of the Haryana chapter of the All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), while talking to The Tribune.The farmers’ dharna continued till the time of filing of the report, with the local administrative officers making efforts to resolve the deadlock for the second consecutive day on Wednesday.Sources, however, said an offer was made to the protesters that the former minister’s son would visit the dharna site and apologise on behalf of his father, but it was turned down.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-wont-give-in-protest-outside-bjp-leader-manish-grovers-house-in-rohtak-283415
15-07-2021||---||Nation’s maiden ‘Grain ATM’ in Gurugram||Gurugram, July 14The country’s first ‘Grain ATM’ has been set up as a pilot project in Gurugram. It is an automatic machine, which works just like a bank ATM.This machine has been installed under the ‘World Food Programme’ of the United Nations (UN), and is called the ‘Automated, Multi Commodity, Grain Dispensing Machine’.Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of the Food and Civil Supplies Department, on Wednesday said this would not only benefit the consumers, but would also end the hassle regarding shortage of food grains at government depots and would bring more transparency in the public food distribution system than before.After the successful completion of this pilot project at Farrukhnagar in Gurugram district, there is a plan to install these food supply machines at government depots across the state.This automatic machine is equipped with biometric system with a touch screen, where the beneficiary will have to enter the Aadhaar or ration card unique number. On biometric authentication, the foodgrain prescribed by the government to the beneficiaries will be automatically filled in the bags installed under the machine.Three types of grains — wheat, rice and millet — can be distributed through this machine. At present, the distribution of wheat has been started from the ‘Grain ATM’ machine installed at Farrukhnagar.Equipped with biometric system||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nations-maiden-grain-atm-in-gurugram-283413
15-07-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad to get Haryana’s first prefabricated Covid hospital||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 14Work on the first prefabricated container-based 102-bed facility for Covid patients has been started on the premises of the local Civil Hospital.Officials of the Health Department said the project was a part of the announcement made in May this year to set up such a facility to tackle the Covid crisis and prepare for the third wave, if any.The special hospital has been funded by the Centre and is being built by Tata Steel Company. Using 17 containers, the facility will have all basic and required infrastructure and will be supported by a 1,000 litre per minute oxygen plant, which will be set up by the NHPC under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) drive. The Civil Hospital will be immensely benefitted with the new oxygen plant as the current one has the capacity of only 200 litres per minute, which is quite less.Likely to be ready in 6 to 8 weeksThe hospital work has been started. It is likely to be ready in six to eight weeks. Though it’s a Covid hospital, it can be put to other use later. Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer“The company that has been allotted the project has started the work on the ground. The facility is likely to be ready within the next six to eight weeks,” says Dr Savita Yadav, Principal Medical Officer, Civil Hospital. Claiming that though this would be a dedicated Covid hospital, she said it could be put to other use later, as the life of such a structure was around 20 years.The container-based building will be properly insulated and will have water and sewage facilities for which an estimate of Rs 1.40 crore has been submitted to the state government, through the Public Health and Engineering Department. The Health Department has also prepared and submitted a budget estimate of Rs 2.50 crore for the development of basic amenities like internal road and power back-up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-to-get-haryanas-first-prefabricated-covid-hospital-283410
15-07-2021||---||New rules for registration of floors on HSVP plots as residential units||Chandigarh, July 14The Haryana Revenue Department has come up with additional guidelines that it hopes will plug the “leakage” in stamp and registration duty in the registration of different floors as separate dwelling units in the state.The fresh guidelines shall be applicable for all residential plots developed by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). Financial Commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal has issued a letter notifying the new guidelines to all DCs, tehsildar-cum-deputy registrars and all naib tehsildar-cum-deputy/joint registrar in the state.He said in case of residential plots developed by the HSVP, different floors (even 2/3/4) had been allowed as separate dwelling units, but it had been observed that various instructions/guidelines issued in this case were not being followed. Therefore, additional guidelines/instructions had been issued. There shall be no vertical transfer of any floor, ie a single floor cannot be registered by the registering officers in the name of two or more separate persons by dividing the same. Hence, only horizontal transfer, that is the complete floor, is allowed to be registered under the Registration Act, 1908. There shall be no fragmentation of the plot vertically and all independent floor owners shall jointly own the full plot having independent floors. The apportionment of land cost for the purpose of stamp duty and registration fee shall be in equal proportion among all independent floors.It is further clarified that the same shall be 50 per cent each for two floors, 33.33 per cent each for three floors and 25 per cent each for four floors, as per the collector rates fixed from time to time in the respective districts. Prior permission of the HSVP shall be mandatory before the registration of a specific floor of a plot whether vacant or built up. If a constructed floor is transferred, apportioned cost of plot as well as the cost of construction of that floor as per the collector rate shall be combined for the purpose of levy of stamp duty and registration fee. For the registration of such independent floors, in addition to the normal stamp duty, 1 per cent extra stamp duty will be paid by the applicant desirous of registering the floor-wise dwelling units.Prior permission mandatory||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-rules-for-registration-of-floors-on-hsvp-plots-as-residential-units-283407
15-07-2021||Parveen Arora||530 tenants may get ownership  of civic body shops in Karnal||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 14Nearly 530 tenants owning shops of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) on lease or rent for the past more than 20 years in the city may get the ownership rights of these establishments as the KMC has started the process and invited applications from the willing tenants.The state government had issued a notification on June 1,under which the tenant had to pay less than the present collector rate to get the ownership right. As per the policy, the occupier should have completed 20 years as on December 31, 2020, said Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner, KMC. “We have invited applications and the willing tenants can apply on shopsulbharyana.gov.in,” he added.About the conditions, he said an occupier of the property should have possession of the shop for continuous period of 20 years or more. This policy is not applicable if any court has granted the status quo or stay orders regarding the transfer of ownership. If any case is pending in any court of law regarding the ownership, the occupier is required to submit an affidavit that he will not involve the municipal body in the dispute, the Joint Commissioner said. The KMC got a survey conducted and found it had 677 establishments in the city, of which 530 had been given on lease or rent before 2000, a mandatory condition for availing the benefit to become an owner, said Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC. “The government’s step will help in increasing the revenue of the KMC as well as giving opportunities to tenants of becoming the owner of the property,” he added.After proper scrutiny of documents as per the policy, the applicants will be granted permission to purchase the shop, the Commissioner said.MC has 677 establishments in cityWill bring revenueThe government’s step will help in increasing the revenue of the KMC and giving opportunities to tenants of becoming the owner. — Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, KMC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/530-tenants-may-get-ownership-of-civic-body-shops-in-karnal-283405
15-07-2021||---||Faridabad: Day after rehab policy, Khori demolition begins||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 14The Faridabad Municipal Corporation (MC) on Wednesday launched the much-awaited demolition drive against encroachments in a Khori village colony here.The development came less than 24 hours after a rehabilitation policy was announced on Tuesday. Over 250 constructions, mostly residential, were demolished in the operation that lasted for two and half hours.On June 7, the Supreme Court in its order had directed the authorities to remove all illegal constructions that had come up on the land designated as the forest area within six weeks.The MC had identified around 6,500 illegal constructions on 172 acres of forestland in a survey conducted last month. Teams equipped with poclain and JCB machines and accompanied by 3,000 cops started removing the structures at 11 am. While nearly half of them had already been vacated, many residents were seen removing their belongings at the last moment.Also, the cops did not allow anyone to protest. “The police shooed us away and threatened to snatch our mobile phones if we tried to shoot a video or took pictures,” said a youth.Meanwhile, the oustees watched their houses being razed to the ground and narrated their woes.Twentynine-year-old Mamta Devi was inconsolable as the bulldozers razed her over a decade-old house. Wife of an auto driver, who earns up to Rs 500 a day, she asks where she and her three minor children go, as she claims her home consumed all her savings. “We have no kin or friend who can offer any help,” Mamta added.Similarly, 40-year-old Rajmani, a maid and wife of a private security guard, who lost his job in the pandemic, regrets the decision to move here nine years ago. “We spent Rs 2 lakh on building a house on 50 sq yards that we bought from a property dealer, who assured us the colony was legal. Why are we made to suffer? We may head back to our village in Agra district if no relief comes within the next few days,” she says with tears rolling down her face.Backing the residents, the Khori Awas Sangharsh Samiti and the Confederation of SC, ST and Minorities Organisations condemned the demolition prior to rehabilitation, describing it as an onslaught on the housing right of the poor.Denying any details, Faridabad MC Commissioner Garima Mittal, however, said the first day target was achieved before the drive was halted due to rain. She said the process would be completed before the July 19 deadline. Claiming that the oustees would be allotted EWS flats in Bapu Nagar and Dabua colonies as per the rehabilitation policy, she said temporary shelters had been provided to the affected persons.“We will provide shelter to all persons approaching us,” said Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav.Hope for reliefWe spent Rs2 lakh on a house that we bought from a property dealer, who assured us the colony was legal... We may head back to our village in Agra district if no relief comes in next few days. — Rajmani, Khori ousteeWill meet Deadline The drive will be completed before the July 19 deadline. Also, the oustees will be allotted EWS flats in Bapu Nagar and Dabua colonies. At present, temporary shelters have been provided to the affected. — Garima Mittal, MC Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-day-after-rehab-policy-khori-demolition-begins-283403
