16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Schools in Haryana reopen for Classes 9 to 12||Schools in Haryana reopened after almost three months only for Classes 9 to 12 on Friday amid strict Covid-19 protocols, with many students saying online education, although necessitated by the pandemic, is not a substitute to classroom teaching.The students also expressed happiness at being able to return to school after a gap of nearly three months. Educational institutes in the state were closed for physical teaching in April when Covid-19 cases were on a rise.However, with coronavirus cases in the state recently showing a declining trend, the Haryana government last week announced reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12, saying students will be allowed to rejoin physical classes only with written permissions from parents.However, it has not made it mandatory for students to come to school as online classes are continuing, officials said.Students of classes 6 to 8 will also be able to attend school from July 23 as the state government has decided to open the institutions in a phased manner, an official spokesperson had said earlier.The students, meanwhile, said they were happy to be back in school.“While in the pandemic, online education was being imparted, but there can be no substitute to physical classes. We are immensely happy to be back to our school where we can freely interact with our teachers, ask as many questions and clear our doubts. Besides, one feels happy to meet our friends after a long time," a Class 9 student told reporters at a government school in Sonipat.Another student in Gurgaon said, "We are happy that schools have resumed. Individual attention is given in a physical classroom environment while online education has its limitations. Also, the internet connectivity is not good on occasions which causes problems while using mobile or desktop for long hours causes eye strain to many." Many teachers also said they were happy to see their students back in school after a long time."Teaching in a physical classroom is always easy. Moreover, there are some subjects where students are able to comprehend better in a regular classroom environment... We hope the Covid situation improves as the past more than a year has been quite tough for students as well as teachers," a teacher of a Gurgaon school said.Detailed guidelines and SOP have been issued by the state education department which the schools need to follow.While school timings have been curtailed, only one student now is allowed to sit on a desk, and sharing food or stationery items is prohibited. A gap of at least six feet has to be maintained between two students, and desk will bear name tags of students where they have to sit, according to the guidelines.Thermal scanning and hand sanitisation of students is to be done at the entrance of the school. Masks are to be checked, and provisions have to be made to provide one if a student is found not wearing a face cover, the officials said.To ensure social distancing, schools will function only at 50 per cent student strength at a given time, and students will be called on rotation, they added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schools-in-haryana-reopen-for-classes-9-to-12-284131
16-07-2021||Gurugram||2 men die by drowning in swimming pool in Gurugram hotel||Two men who went with their friends to a party at a local hotel on Friday died after drowning in a swimming pool.The pool was allegedly being illegally operated against the norms by the hotel on Pataudi-Haily Mandi road.According to the police, four friends Rajesh, Sher Singh, Mehar Chand and Bhajan Lal, who work as daily wagers, went to a party at local Deep Hotel. All men had a couple of rounds of drinks and then got into the pool made in the backyard of the hotel.Owing to their inebriated state, 32-year-old Rajesh and 40-year-old Sher Singh reportedly went deeper and slipped and they started drowning.The other two claimed that they tried to help and raised alarm but by the time they were pulled out by the staff they had already died.The police have reached spot and taken the bodies into their custody and informed families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-men-die-by-drowning-in-swimming-pool-in-gurugram-hotel-284128
16-07-2021||Gurugram||Woman, daughter commit suicide in rented flat at Gurugram||A woman and her daughter, allegedly, committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance in a rented flat in an upscale condominium in Sector-67 of Gurugram.Incidentally, the woman's husband had committed suicide at a local hotel 10 days ago.The reason behind this drastic step remains unknown.The deceased are identified as 46-year-old Veena Shetty, and her 24-year-old daughter Yashika consumed poison.The body of the woman was found in her room, while the daughter was found in her bedroom. The woman's husband Hari Shetty had committed suicide on July 6 at Sector-53 hotel in Gurugram.Ashok Verma, the manager of the society, told the media that Hari Shetty worked as a tax official while his wife was employed in a private firm.The couple had twin daughters and had been residing in the society since January 2021."Soon after receiving information, we reached the incident site and found the bodies in their flat. We immediately alerted the police, which took custody of the bodies," said Verma."We are investigating the matter. The actual motive behind this incident will be known after investigation," said Gurugram police Spokesperson Subhash Boken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-daughter-commit-suicide-in-rented-flat-at-gurugram-284117
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Expect heavy rain in Punjab, Haryana from July 17, says IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) today predicted enhanced rainfall activity over plains of the northwest, including Punjab and Haryana, between July 17 and 19.It said fairly widespread to widespread rainfall “is likely to continue over HP and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy rainfall till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy rain on July 17 and 18”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/expect-heavy-rain-in-punjab-haryana-from-july-17-says-imd-283906
16-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Boy rapes teen sister||A girl (14) was allegedly raped by her cousin in a colony here. The victim is now five months pregnant. On the complaint of the victim’s mother, a case was registered against Santu (20) under the POCSO Act and IPC at the Women police station on Wednesday. tnsMan dies by suicideA man, Raj Kumar (35), of Ambala City, allegedly died by suicide. On the complaint of victim’s brother Rohit, a case was registered against Raj’s wife Sonia and his mother-in-law Saroj of Radaur town on Wednesday. The couple was living separately for six months due to some family feud. TNSChandigarhFarm leaders following in Kejriwal’s footsteps: VijHome Minister Anil Vij on Thursday took a jibe at BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni, saying that he wanted to become another Arvind Kejriwal on the lines of the 2012 Anna Hazare movement. “In this stir several farm leaders are willing to follow in Kejriwal's footsteps and have a political motive in guise of the movement. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-rapes-teen-sister-283982
16-07-2021||Faridabad||JC Bose varsity begins admissions||Certificates given to principalsAmbala: INTACH, Ambala, has presented certificates to schools principals for their teachers who had participated in the teachers training workshop organised by it in June. Col RD Singh (Retd), convener, INTACH, presented certificates and gave books to schools. The principals appreciated the positive and helpful attitude of INTACH members, and complimented them for the useful heritage activities which they were conducting in Ambala for children. As many as 35 teachers from 18 schools, participated in the programme, which was also attended by a number of INTACH members.New BTech courses at Hisar varsityHisar: Two new BTech courses are being started at Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar w.e.f. 2021-22 session. The All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has approved two new BTech courses to be offered by GJUST from the coming academic session 2021-22. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor said the AICTE had also extended the recognition of other technical courses of the university. He said the new courses BTech computer science and engineering (artificial intelligence and machine learning) and BTech electronics and biomedical engineering are designed according to new education policy and need of the present time. The VC told that AICTE has also approved other courses of engineering and management of the university for 2021-22 session. These courses are undergraduate courses in pharmacy and post graduate courses in pharmaceutical chemistry, pharmaceutics, pharmacognosy and pharmacognosy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jc-bose-varsity-begins-admissions-283981
16-07-2021||Nitish Sharma||Tokyo Olympics a dream come true for Kurukshetra girl||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, July 15The women hockey team’s forward player, Navneet Kaur of Shahbad (Kurukshetra), is sweating it out with her teammates at the national camp in Bengaluru and says she is excited for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics. This will be her first Olympics appearance.“It is a dream come true and we all are very excited. We are practising hard to face our opponents at the Tokyo Olympics. Senior players Rani Rampal and Navjot Kaur are from my town. Sharing our experiences with each other helps us a lot,” said 25-year-old Navneet. Navneet has played 79 international games for the country.“Hockey is a popular sport in Shahbad. My father is very passionate about sports and has always encouraged me. Initially, I started playing only because of my interest in sports but after observing senior player Surinder Kaur, former captain, I got inspired and decided to become a hockey player. I changed my school to so that I could focus on the game and my studies as well,” Navneet said.Navneet is at present pursuing BA and is a second year student at Kurukshetra University.Navneet’s father, Buta Singh, said: “She started playing when she was seven years old. Her coach, Baldev Singh, has played a crucial role in grooming her as a player. We are confident that the team will return with a gold medal from the Olympics.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tokyo-olympics-a-dream-come-true-for-kurukshetra-girl-283911
16-07-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Bhupinder Hooda adopting delaying tactics: ED to  special court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 15The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today told a special court in Panchkula that former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda was adopting dilly-dallying tactics “to prolong the matter” in the case related to “illegal” plot allotment to M/s Associated Journals Limited (AJL).2 Independent casesThe investigating agency added that Hooda had been trying to “stall the proceedings” of this case “without there being any legal and sustainable reason or ground”.The ED made these comments in a reply before the trial court concerning Hooda’s application, moved on July 5, for the postponement of the arguments on the framing of charges, post the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in a criminal revision filed in the CBI’s AJL case.Both the CBI and ED are pursuing the case against Hooda for the alleged illegal plot allotment to M/s AJL. In the CBI’s case, the trial court has framed the charges, but the high court has stayed further proceedings. The ED told the court today that the investigation against Hooda had been completed so the court could proceed against him. It was further submitted that Hooda had been trying to intermingle the issue of the CBI charge-sheet with the ED case.The court was told that the charge-sheet filed by the CBI “had nothing to do with the investigation carried out by the ED and both the proceedings were independent”.The CBI registered the case under Section 120-B and 420 (for cheating) of the IPC and under section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which are the schedule offences, and thereafter the ED started investigations.Hooda has also approached the HC for quashing the ED case against him. The HC on July 14 had ordered the special court to defer the proceedings beyond August 18.The next date before trial court has been fixed for August 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-adopting-delaying-tactics-ed-to-special-court-283912
16-07-2021||---||Five-day police remand for NHPC CGM, 2 others||Chandigarh, July 15The special CBI court, Panchkula, on Thursday sent three accused arrested in a Rs 5-lakh bribery case related to the pending bills of Parbati Hydroelectric Project in Kullu, HP to five-day police remand.Harjeet Singh Puri, Chief General Manager (CGM) (Finance), NHPC, Faridabad; Sunil Mendiratta, Senior General Manager (Project) of Gammon CMC Joint Venture and Sanchit Saini, Delhi resident, were arrested on Wednesday.On Thursday, CBI counsel Kanwar Pal Singh sought seven-day remand on the ground that earlier also bribe had been paid and interrogation was must to unearth the racket.As per the CBI, the Gammon CMC Joint Venture was working in Parbati Hydroelectric Project (Stage-II) of the NHPC located near Kullu and has two claims of Rs 1.36 crore and Rs 1.9 crore and pending bills of Rs 2 crore. Mendiratta requested the NHPC CGM to clear the dues, for which he allegedly demanded the bribe. On Wednesday, the agency laid a trap and he was caught accepting bribe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-day-police-remand-for-nhpc-cgm-2-others-283913
16-07-2021||---||Police unite missing child with family in Tohana||Chandigarh, July 15‘Dial-112’, an integrated emergency helpline of the Haryana Police, proved to be a boon for a family of Tohana in Fatehabad district. With the prompt action of emergency response vehicle (ERV) police, a missing child was reunited with his family.Avtar Singh, a resident of Krishna Colony, Tohana, had left from his house to go to a nearby market. While he was leaving, his three-and-a-half-year-old grandson also left the house after him and lost his way. When an ERV on patrol reached near Brar chowk, it was found some people standing with a child. When the staff inquired about the child’s family, he could not tell anything.The ERV team brought the child to the police station and spread information about him in the nearby areas. As soon as the family members got the information, they reached the police station and found the missing child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-unite-missing-child-with-family-in-tohana-283914
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Bandaru Dattatreya takes oath as 18th Governor of Haryana||Bandaru Dattatreya was sworn in as the 18th Governor of Haryana on Thursday. Chief Justice, Punjab and Haryana High Court, Justice Ravi Shankar Jha administered the oath of office and confidentiality to him at the Raj Bhavan.Governor’s wife Bandaru Vasantha and other family mem were also present at the ceremony. He has been a three-time minister and four-time MP in the Union Government. He was born on June 12, 1947 in Hyderabad.He was first elected a member of the 10th Lok Sabha in 1991. In 1998, he won the elections from the Secunderabad Lok Sabha seat and became the Union Minister of State for Urban Development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bandaru-dattatreya-takes-oath-as-18th-governor-of-haryana-283915
16-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Day after Gurnam Singh Charuni’s suspension, rift in SKM comes to fore again||Tribune News ServicePanipat, July 15With the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) suspending BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni for the second time on Wednesday, fissures among farmer organisations have again come to the fore again.A number of such incidents have taken place simnce the stir began. Meanwhile, SKM leaders and Charuni claimed the farmers’ protest would continue and they would work together to intensify it.Earlier, the SKM had suspended Charuni in January this year, when he had hosted a ‘Jan Sansad’ programme of all Opposition parties in Delhi just before the tractor parade on the Republic Day. But the matter was resolved within the 10 hours.Another rift came to the fore when the SKM suspended two leaders, namely Surjeet Singh Phul and Harpal Singh Sangha, after the Republic Day incident but both of them were reinstated after sometime. Then the SKM announcedthe Parliament march in April but it was postponed.The rift was again visible when Charuni announced to form a new outfit named the ‘Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Federation’ on May 28. The BKU leader again made statements about the weak farmers’ protest in UP. Moreover, fissures between Charuni and Shiv Kumar Kakka, SKM leader from MP, also became the media highlights.Meanwhile, SKM leader Yogender Yadav said: “There were some differences among leaders, which have been resolved by the SKM from time to time. The leaders’ spirit for the protest is good and it’s a miracle that despite the differences, all of them are working together.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-after-gurnam-singh-charunis-suspension-rift-in-skm-comes-to-fore-again-283916
16-07-2021||Rohtak||Farmers' stir political, won’t apologise: BJP leader Manish Grover||Senior BJP leader and ex-minister Manish Grover, who regretted the incident in which some obscene gesture was made from his car towards farmers after a recent party meeting at Hisar, has now categorically refused to apologise to the farmers staging a dharna near his househere for three days.Terming the stir against him political, Grover said if anybody had any proof against him regarding the alleged gesture, he/she could get an FIR lodged against him. “I’ll not apologise at any cost as I have not done anything wrong. The protest is political. Certain political forces who were thrown out of power in 2014 are levelling baseless allegations to tarnish my image.”He alleged that certain leaders of the Congress and Communist parties were behind the protest being staged against him. With Grover refusing to apologise, the police and administrative functionaries, who had been trying to resolve the stalemate, have also backed out.The dharna by the farmers, owing allegiance to the SKM and its women committee, continued for the third day today. The protesters have got waterproof tents erected at the site, indicating that the demonstration would continue despite the inclement weather conditions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-stir-political-wont-apologise-bjp-leader-manish-grover-283917
16-07-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: 800 Khori houses razed on Day 2; oustees angry||Tribune News ServiceFaridabad, July 15“Papa hamara ghar toot gaya hai, ab ham kahan rahenge (papa our house has been demolished, where we will live now).”This was the question seven-year-old Asad was asking his father Naseem, busy in collecting household items from the rubble at 4.30 pm in Khori, about half an hour after the second day of the demolition was called off by the district administration today.While Naseem (32), a daily wager living here for the past 15 years, was unable to tell his son the reason behind the demolition, he was worried how the family would manage to cope with the situation now.Mohan, a mechanic, claimed that while hundreds of minor children had been left with no roof, he said his family had been looking after a one and half year old boy, whose father, Aslam, was arrested as he tried to protest against the demolition of his shop.The entire area was turned into a fortress with the deployment of 3,000 cops to ensure law and order at the place. With around 800 houses razed today at Khori, the total number of structures demolished crossed 1,100, as per sources. Though officials were mum, Nirmal Gorana of the Majdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti claimed that around 1,700 houses were razed today, with no move to rehabilitate the thousands of affected people. Alleging that nine persons were detained today for staging a protest, Gorana said an FIR under various sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-800-khori-houses-razed-on-day-2-oustees-angry-283918
16-07-2021||Hisar||Five farmers held in Sirsa for attack on Haryana Deputy Speaker's car||The Sirsa police on Thursday arrested five farmers in connection with the case of sedition, attempt to murder and other charges during the incident of the attack on the vehicle of the Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa town two days ago.The arrested farmers have been identified as Balkar Singh, Nikka Singh, Balkaur Singh, Daljit Singh and Sahab Singh.Meanwhile, the SKM organised a protest march in the town against the arrest of farmers. They held a meeting and announced to stage a demonstration outside the office of the Superintendent of Police (SP) in Sirsa on Friday and to organise a mahapanchayat in Sirsa on Saturday to chalk out the next course of action. The farmers have been demanding the release of the arrested farmers and cancellation of the criminal cases against them.The police on Thursday identified five farmers on the basis of 40 video footages and carried out the arrests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-farmers-held-in-sirsa-for-attack-on-haryana-deputy-speakers-car-283919
16-07-2021||Chandigarh/new delhi||Haryana CM hits back at Bhupinder Hooda on job data||CM Manohar Lal Khattar today hit back at Congress leader Bhupinder Hooda on the increasing unemployment rate in the state, saying he referred to a report of an institution that did not have credibility.The rhetoric being made by Hooda on the increase in unemployment rate in Haryana was false and baseless, he said. The CMIE is a privately owned company created to make profit, and its decision cannot be called fair and transparent, he said. “The CMIE’s survey report is not based on employability, workforce and labour force.”“The survey report covers only 0.028% of the total households, which is not enough to present a complete picture.”Meanwhile, Hooda accused the BJP government of undoing the gains on socio-economic parameters, achieved during the Congress government led by him. He questioned the CM on discounting the data collated by the CMIE with regard to the dismal employment scenario. “The National Statistical Organisation date also points to the state reeling under unemployment.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-hits-back-at-bhupinder-hooda-on-job-data-283920
16-07-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar govt under-reported Covid deaths, says Randeep Singh Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala today accused the Haryana Government of “under-counting Covid deaths during the second wave to cover up mismanagement”.The party’s national general secretary also demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for families of Covid victims, along with an “apology” from the CM.Citing “excess deaths” registered by the civil registration system (CRS), Surjewala said the official figures had exposed the Khattar government’s “attempt to mislead people”. The number of “excess deaths” registered by the CRS in state from April 2020 to May 2021 is 60,397, which is 7.3 times the official reported figure of 8,303 deaths for the same period. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-govt-under-reported-covid-deaths-says-randeep-singh-surjewala-283921
16-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Dhosi Hill at Mahendragarh in state of neglect||Tribune News ServiceMahendragarh, July 15Dhosi Hill, the extinct volcano in the north-west end of the Aravali Mountain range, has been lying in a state of neglect for quite some time now.Even though announcements for developing Dhosi Hill as a tourist destination have been made by the government and district administration time and again, nothing has been done to improve the conditions of basic facilities at the hill.The historical place lacks basic facilities such as clean potable water, toilets, vehicle parking and a food court. Garbage lying at various points en route the hill also exposes poor sanitary conditions and no dustbins have not been placed on the hill to collect waste.The supporting walls of the stairs that reach the top of the hill are broken at several points, posing a threat to visitors’ safety.“Dhosi Hill is a religious place and attracts many visitors but unfortunately, aged persons or those having any issue with walking or climbing stairs, cannot visit the place owing to non-availability of a pucca road or transport facility. There is also no arrangement of food and stay en route,” said Ratan Lal Saini, convener, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage.He added that there was an urgent need of providing either transport or ropeway facility so that everyone could reach the top of the hill.Suman, a local visitor, said they had to take potable water and food with them while vehicles had to be parked on the road at their own risk. “No parking lot is available from the Thana village side while the space meant for parking of vehicle from Kultajpur village remains locked,” she added.Anil Kaushik, another visitor, said it was beyond understanding why neither the district administration nor government was paying any heed to provide basic facilities there.After repeated attempts, Deputy Commissioner Ajay Kumar could not be contacted for a comment.Treasure trove of herbsDhosi Hill, located on the border of Haryana and Rajasthan, is also known as a treasure of herbs as it is the place where ‘Chyawanprash’, a paste of 46 herbs, was discovered by Rishi Chyavana, who practiced penance there for many years. On the top of this hill, a saucer-shaped plain surface is strewn where a temple dedicated to Chavan Rishi decorates the hill, which also has other temples, caves, a pond and forest around it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dhosi-hill-at-mahendragarh-in-state-of-neglect-283909
16-07-2021||---||Burglars decamp with gold, cash||Hisar, July 15 Some burglars stole 100 grams of gold, 100 silver coins, Rs 1 lakh cash, a scooty and a motorcycle from a house in Sector 6 in Hansi town of the district, last night. House owner Vijay Garg informed the police that he came to know about the burglary at 3 am when he woke up and found his room locked from outside. He said the thieves had taken away gold ornaments, 100 silver coins besides the cash from the almirah. They also took away the scooty and motorcycle from the house. The CCTV footage of the adjoining house indicated that five persons had entered the house at 1am and they were spotted coming out of the house at 2 am. They had decamped with the valuables and cash on two vehicles that were also stolen from the house. Later, Hansi SHO Vikas along with a team of forensic experts visited the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/burglars-decamp-with-gold-cash-283910
16-07-2021||---||Nuh gang of rapists, murderers busted||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 15With the arrest of four persons, the Nuh police today claimed to have busted a gang of criminals who would abduct women, rape them and dump their mutilated bodies in water channels.Those arrested were identified as Devender (alias Bablu), Manjeet, Nasir and Rinku (alias Rishabh). The accused have so far confessed to two cases of rape and murder—one in 2018 and another in 2020. The police, however, suspect they might be involved in over 10 such crimes that took place between Nuh and Bhiwadi (Rajasthan). “The accused are being interrogated and we hope to crack many more cases soon,” said Nuh SP Narendra Bijarniya.The gang was also involved in highway robberies and was caught while planning one.The accused told the police that they were heading towards Bhiwadi with the intention of committing a highway robbery in April 2018, when they saw a woman alone. They abducted the woman, took her to Uthon village and raped her. Then they killed her and dumped the body in Bibipur water channel after mutilating the face.“In July 2020, they abducted, raped and murdered a woman who was on way to her in-laws’ house at Garhi Hodal village. To minimise the chances of their arrest, the accused would never repeat such a crime in the same area or dump the body in the same water channel,” the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nuh-gang-of-rapists-murderers-busted-283898
16-07-2021||Sumedha Sharma||Highway robbers suspected to be involved in 10 cases of rape, murder arrested||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 15Nuh police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang of four rapists and murderers who would allegedly abduct women on roads and dump their mutilated bodies in water channels.The accused, who have so far confessed and shared details of two recent gory murders are suspected to have been involved in more than 10 such cases in the areas between Nuh and Rajasthan.The accused would either abduct or give lift to vulnerable women on roads or highways especially in industrial areas.“The women who roam on streets or roads near these areas at night are the ones who will have nobody looking for them so they were easy targets,” the accused reportedly told police in their statement.They would then take women to different areas in Nuh. After sexually assaulting them, the accused would mutilate their bodies and dump them in water channels.The gang was also allegedly involved in highway robberies and was caught planning one.“They have so far shared details of two deaths in area—their first target in 2018 and latest in 2020, but are suspected to be involved in around 10 cases. Mutilated bodies of raped women were being found in Nuh, Rajasthan districts of Bhiwadi, etc., for quite some time and we suspect the gang to be responsible for same. They are being interrogated and we will be able to crack these cases soon,” said SP (Nuh) Narendra Bijarniya.The Nuh police have alerted their counterparts in other districts, including Mewat area of Rajasthan, over recovery of unidentified and mutilated bodies of women and the possibility of the deceased being rape victims.According to police, the accused are identified as Devender alias Bablu, Manjeet, Nasir and Rinku alias Rishabh. The gang was busted by a team of CIA Tauru cops led by SI SatyaPrakash who had got a tip off about a gang of highway robbers active in Rangla Ghati. The team conducted a raid and nabbed them. When brought for interrogation the gang reportedly confessed not just robbing people on highways but also picking women in their pickup van and raping them. They claimed to have started this in 2018.“Highway robberies were easiest way to earn money and while doing so we realised that we can also target women. It was April 2018 when we were going towards Bhiwadi and we saw a girl on highway. We abducted her and took her to Uthon village and raped her. She could reveal our identity so we killed her. We mutilated her face and threw her in Bibipur channel. We were scared for first few days and laid low but when we realised that there was no action, we grew confident and started committing such crimes regularly,” the accused reportedly told police during interrogation.“It was in July last year when one of the accused Devender was visiting his in-laws in Garhi Hodal village. A local girl thinking their vehicle to be public transport boarded it. They raped, killed her and dumped the body in Bilaspur road lake. They had same modus operandi every time but never repeated their places of rape and dumping of bodies,” said SI Satya Prakash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/highway-robbers-suspected-to-be-involved-in-10-cases-of-rape-murder-arrested-283703
16-07-2021||New Delhi||Enhanced rainfall activity over Punjab, Haryana from July 17: IMD||The IMD on Thursday predicted enhanced rainfall activity over the plains of Northwest, including Punjab and Haryana, between July 17 and 19, with peak activity on July 18. The weather office also said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is “very likely to continue over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand with isolated heavy falls till July 16, increasing to isolated heavy to very heavy falls on July 17 and 18”.According to the IMD, apart from Haryana which is seeing “isolated heavy rainfall” today, the plains of Northwest India can expect isolated to scattered rainfall till July 16.However, “there is a likelihood of enhanced rainfall activity over these areas from July 17 with widespread rains likely over Haryana, Punjab, north Rajasthan, north Madhya Pradesh, and south Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19 with peak activity on July 18.“Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely over north Rajasthan, Haryana, northwest Madhya Pradesh and west Uttar Pradesh during July 17 and 19. Isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over Punjab, Delhi, and east Uttar Pradesh during the same period,” it said.The axis of the monsoon trough is passing through the south of normal position along Amreli, Surat, Buldana, Adilabad, Jagdalpur, Vishakhapatnam, and then east­southeastwards to the east-central Bay of Bengal, the IMD said.As per Numerical Weather Prediction Models forecasts, the trough is likely to shift northwards along with a weakening of the east-west convergence zone from July 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/enhanced-rainfall-activity-over-punjab-haryana-from-july-17-imd-283634
