17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Lokayukta to retire on July 18||Haryana Lokayukta Justice Nawal Kishore Agarwal is retiring on July 18, after a five-year tenure.Justice Agarwal disposed off 2,500 cases, while 2,700 cases were instituted during his tenure. He continued to work even during the Covid pandemic.Lokayukta investigates cases of corruption, where substantiated, recommends action.His reports led to the recovery of hundreds of crores, particularly in VAT scam of Excise and Taxation Department. The case is still pending.The prominent cases decided by him included one involving alleged nexus between private colonisers and Town and Country Planning Department.Justice Agarwal held all the Director Generals, Town and Country Planning, who remained posted since 1992 till date (17 IAS officers), “responsible and guilty of actionable negligence, inaction and maladministration” and recommended for an SIT against officials responsible for licences issued in violation of rules.He also called for inquiry against all Ambala Municipal Commissioners from 2012 till date, which included 11 IAS and seven HCS officers, in a case of unauthorised construction.He concluded that Bollywood actress Soha Ali Khan got her arms licence in 1996 “in connivance with public servants” despite being ineligible. The files had gone missing in the case.In another case, he indicted jail officials for the sale of farmland soil at Rs 3 lakh, which was in actual worth of Rs 3 crore.He indicted Gurugram MC officials for ignoring illegal constructions and ‘Raahgiri’ scam.Though it is a government prerogative, Justice Agarwal has been calling for amendments in the Lokayukta Act for strengthening the institution. He has sought enquiry wing for conducting preliminary inquiries and also the prosecution wing for trying indicted officials in special courts.He has also been demanding that if no action is taken on his report against an official for four months, then he should have the power to direct Director Prosecution for his trial in a special court, for which prosecution sanction should be considered deemed to have been granted.The strength of staff in the office was also increased during his tenure and a post of Joint Registrar was added too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-lokayukta-to-retire-on-july-18-284638
17-07-2021||New Delhi||Centre approves tourism projects for Haryana||The Centre has given approval in principle to the Haryana government’s proposal to develop a “Cultural Centre” at Kurukshetra, and agreed to increase the scale of the International Surajkund Craft Mela.This was at a meeting between Haryana Chief Minister ML Khattar and Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy on Saturday in which progress of tourism related projects were reviewed.Reddy was made tourism minister during the recent reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers. During the meeting, Khattar urged Reddy to expedite the ongoing projects and also made demands for new ones in line with the Haryana government’s focus to make the state a leading tourist destination.Officials privy to the meeting said the Centre has agreed to the state’s demand to set up the country’s second North Zone Cultural Centre. One such centre exists in Patiala in Punjab.In the meeting, the Tourism Ministry has agreed to expand the scale and grandeur of the Surajkund Crafts Mela.The state government has been given permission to prepare proposals for projects based on the Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) model.Khattar apprised Reddy that the state government has submitted a detailed proposal to the ministry for setting up the proposed world class, state-of-the-art museum based on Lord Krishan, Gita and Mahabharatha in Jyotisar in Kurukshetra.The proposed projects, including museum based on Indian classical music in Pinjore, museum in the Raja Nahar Singh Palace in Ballabgarh and a “heritage circuit” at Mahendergarh figured during the meeting of the two leaders. Reddy appreciated the works done by Haryana government with regard to tourism projects and assured all Central help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-approves-tourism-projects-for-haryana-284632
17-07-2021||Rohtak||Sacked PTIs take to labour, run small shops to eke out a living||Sacked from their government jobs over a year ago, several physical training instructors (PTIs) have been compelled to take to labour, sell fruits and run small shops to eke out a living as they were unable to secure jobs in the private sector.Anand, resident of Girawar village in Rohtak, works as a farm labourer while Vijay Duggal, a resident of Julana in Jind, works as a construction worker. Narendra of Rohtak sells fruits, Jagroshan of Sampla town works as a confectioner and Satbir runs a grocery shop in Rohtak. Many others, are engaged in similar activities to make both ends meet.1,983 appointed in 2010The district president of the Haryana PTIs Sangharsh Samiti, Sandeep, said 1,983 PTIs were appointed in 2010. The Punjab and Haryana High Court set aside the recruitment in 2011. “Later, a double Bench of the High Court in 2013 and the Supreme Court in 2020 also upheld the verdict. Then, the state government sacked them in June 2020. Since then, they have been staging an indefinite dharna in Rohtak,” he added.“I am the sole breadwinner in my family. There are seven members in my family — my wife, four daughters, a son and my parents. Everything was going well during my service years but life took a turn after I lost my job during the pandemic. I picked up the job as a labourer in the construction business and now earn Rs 350 per day but I hardly get work for even 15 days a month,” said Vijay.Jagroshan said he worked as a confectioner during the day and at a factory in the nights to earn money. “My wife has been under depression ever since I lost my job. I am the bread winner of the family,” he added.Satbir, while sharing his story, stated that he had taken a loan of Rs 13 lakh to construct his house over a year ago but was now struggling to repay it. “I had to open a grocery shop to repay the loan and run my home. My daughter and son are pursuing higher studies, for which I have to pay a hefty fee. The government has left us at the mercy of God. A majority of sacked instructors are above 50 years of age and are not eligible for any government job at this stage,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sacked-ptis-take-to-labour-run-small-shops-to-eke-out-a-living-284441
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rural areas of Haryana to get streetlights, CCTV cameras||The Haryana New and Renewable Energy Department will provide solar streetlights and solar high mast lights at an estimated cost of Rs 21 crore in the current financial year to reduce the dependence on conventional electricity for streetlights in rural areas of Haryana.To enhance security and prevention of untoward incidents in villages, the department will also provide solar CCTV cameras with high mast lights.Giving information in this regard, Additional Chief Secretary, New and Renewable Energy Department, PK Das said under its demand-based SPV Streetlighting Programme, New and Renewable Energy Department had made a provision of state financial assistance (subsidy) of Rs 4 crore in the annual plan of the current financial year for providing 5,000 LED-based solar streetlighting systems of 12 Watt at the rate of Rs 4,000 per system and 1,000 LED-based solar high mast lighting systems of aggregate 88 Watt LED with CCTV cameras at the rate of Rs 20,000 per system.He said the tentative cost of each solar streetlight was Rs14,000 and the cost of solar high mast light was Rs 1,40,000 per system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rural-areas-of-haryana-to-get-streetlights-cctv-cameras-284442
17-07-2021||Hisar||Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University VC launches plantation drive||Azadi Amritmahotsav seriesHisar: The speakathon club under the mentorship of training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar organised the tenth edition of ‘Azadi Amritmahotsav series’ in form of “online elocution event” to commemorate the 75 years of India’s Independence. This week’s freedom fighter was ‘Mangal Pandey' as his birth anniversary falls on July 19. Prof Manoj Dayal, director, HRDC, was the guest of honour in the event. Pratap Singh, director, placement, presided over the function. Dr Ranjeet, club coordinator presented the welcome speech. The students from various departments of the university and its affiliated colleges participated in the competition.Foundation dayKarnal: The 93rd foundation day of the ICAR was celebrated at NDRI and a programme “Harela 2021” was organised, under which staff members and scientists planted around 150 plants on the premises. Dr MS Chauhan, Director, NDRI, highlighted the contribution of the ICAR. On the other hand, a farmers’ discussion programme was organised by Maharana Pratap Horticulture University and the Directorate of Research in Padhana village, adopted by the university. The basic theme of this seminar was “Har Medh Par Pedh”. On this occasion, the chief guest of the seminar, director of research, Dr RK Goyal thanked university Vice-Chancellor Prof Samar Singh for granting permission to organise the seminar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chaudhary-charan-singh-haryana-agriculture-university-vc-launches-plantation-drive-284443
17-07-2021||Ambala||Ambala: Under-construction memorial Shaheed Samarak inspected||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij and Chief Secretary, Haryana, Vijai Vardhan along with senior officials visited the under-construction Shaheed Samarak, which is being constructed at a cost of Rs 300 crore to commemorate the sacrifice of the 1857 revolt heroes, on the National Highway in Ambala, on Friday.Historian Professor Pushpesh Pant, who was also present on this occasion, said, “People believe that the first revolt started from Meerut but in reality the first revolt started from the Ambala Cantonment. People ahould be made aware of the contribution of heroes the first revolt. People were tortured, killed and their crops were destroyed.”Vijai Vardhan said, “It is a big project and I have never seen such a big project getting accomplished in such a short period of time. The project will change history and it is very important to remember our martyrs and their struggle.”Vij said, “The 1857 revolt, the first struggle for freedom, started at the Ambala Cantonment, but it didn’t get deserved mention in the history books. The heroes of the first revolt remained unsung. At the memorial, people will be able to get all information about the first revolt and the unsung heroes of the revolt. Nearly 80 per cent of the civil work has been completed and it will be a national-level museum. After the civil work, art work will be started which will be carried out in three phases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-under-construction-memorial-shaheed-samarak-inspected-284444
17-07-2021||Stray cattle roaming and squatting on main roads in Narnaul have become a cause of road mishaps. The stray cattle on many times have attacked morning and evening walkers leaving them injured but the district administration has taken no action. If the menace is not strictly handled then the possibility of recurrence of a recent Panipat incident in which stray bull killed an elderly man cannot be ruled out here too. — Harpal Singh||Stray cattle roam freely on Narnaul roads||Bovines cause mishaps in Yamunanagar, JagadhriStray animals are a nuisance in the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri. A number of animals can be seen wandering everywhere in the streets and roads of the twin cities. The animals not only disrupt traffic movement on roads but they cause accidents also. A number of people have met with accidents here due to the presence of stray animals on the roads. The Municipal Corporation authorities should take some concrete steps to save the people from untoward incidents that happen due to stray animals every day here. — Sushil Kumar, JagadhriDwarka expressway surroundings neglectedThe Dwarka expressway surroundings, especially new Gurugram sectors, are grossly neglected by the Gurugram authorities. Look at the waterlogging and blocked drain around Sector 102 due to the GMDA's failure. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has issued a warning of floods in the area this monsoon owing to the poor upkeep and maintenance of drains near the Dwarka expressway and the authorities are still evaluating the situation. The authorities need to take note of it at once and take action. — Gaurav Singh, GurugramIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-roam-freely-on-narnaul-roads-284446
17-07-2021||Sonepat||Sedition charge: Samyukt Kisan Morcha's mahapanchayat in Sirsa today||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has decided to hold a mahapanchayat in Sirsa tomorrow against the sedition case registered against more than 100 farmers for allegedly attacking the car of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa in Sirsa last week.Besides, it announced a “mahila nyay panchayat” in Rohtak on July 19 against BJP leader Manish Grover’s alleged “obscene gesture” towards women farmers in Hisar on July 10.The mahapanchayat will be organised at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Stadium in Sirsa. SKM leaders Yogender Yadav, Kulwinder SIngh Sandhu, Baldev Singh Sirsa and Abhimanyu Kohar will attend the event.Yadav said, “It is shocking that the police have imposed sedition charge on protesting farmers, while the Supreme Court has raised questions on it. We have not given a call to farmers to reach Sirsa, but local farmers and those from adjoining areas will attend the mahapanchayat.”Meanwhile, protesting farmers today issued a “Voters’ Whip” to Opposition MPs through a letter, asking them to be present in Parliament on all days of the monsoon session and let no business transact till “the Centre accedes to the farmers’ demands on the floor of the Houses”.They have asked the MPs to not stage a walkout and also return to the House even if they are suspended or removed so that the government does not “push through its business unhindered”.The SKM, which is spearheading the protest against the Centre’s three new agri-marketing laws, told the MPs the “Voters’ Whip” overrides their party whips.“If you and your party defy this Voters’ Whip, the farmers will be compelled to oppose you on every public stage just as we oppose the leaders, MLAs, MPs of the BJP and its allies,” the SKM said.“The letter will be handed or sent to the MPs on Saturday as a precursor to the farmers’ protest outside Parliament starting on July 22.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sedition-charge-samyukt-kisan-morchas-mahapanchayat-in-sirsa-today-284447
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||8 more lose Covid battle in Haryana||With 46 new cases, the state’s Covid tally reached 7.69 lakh on Friday. Meanwhile, eight more persons died of virus.One death each was reported from Gurugram, Hisar, Panipat, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Fatehabad and Palwal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-more-lose-covid-battle-in-haryana-284450
17-07-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad: UN rapporteurs urge Centre to halt eviction of Khori villagers||UN Special Rapporteurs on Human Rights today called on the Indian Government to halt the eviction of Khori residents, whose houses have been demolished following a Supreme Court order of razing encroachments on the Aravalli forestland.Twice cursed: First cheated by land mafia, Khori dwellers now rendered homelessThe demolition drive was launched on Wednesday.“We appeal to the Indian Government to respect its laws and the goal of eliminating homelessness by 2022, and to spare the homes of 1,00,000 persons, who mostly come from minority and marginalised communities,” UN human rights rapporteurs said in a statement.Temporary shelter set up for oustees“We call on India to urgently review its plans of razing Khori village and consider regularising the settlements so as not to leave anyone homeless. No one should be forcibly evicted without adequate and timely compensation.”The experts quoted in the press release included Balakrishnan Rajagopal, special rapporteur on adequate housing; Mary Lawlor, special rapporteur on the situation of human rights; Cecilia Jimenez-Damary, special rapporteur on human rights of internally displaced persons; Fernand de Varennes, special rapporteur on minority issues; Pedro Arrojo-Agudo, special rapporteur on human rights to safe drinking water and sanitation; Olivier De Schutter, special rapporteur on poverty and human rights; and Koumbou Boly Barry, special rapporteur on the right to education. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-un-rapporteurs-urge-centre-to-halt-eviction-of-khori-villagers-284452
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Constable gets life term, SI 3-yr RI for custodial death||Fourteen years after a person in illegal custody was burnt to death to extract confession from him in a murder case, the CBI special court, Haryana, today convicted two Haryana Police personnel.CBI Special Judge Dr Sushil Kumar Garg sentenced constable Pawan Kumar to life imprisonment for setting murder accused Bhavan Dutt on fire after pouring petrol on him, and the then SHO of the Madhuban (Karnal) police station sub-inspector (SI) Ranbir Singh to three years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI), for wrongful confinement for extracting confession and making false entries in the records.Case dates back to 2007Pawan Kumar was fined Rs 61,000, while Ranbir Singh was fined Rs 31,000. Fifty per cent of the fine would be given to dependent of the deceased.The case dates back to 2007. For the murder of one Rajinder photographer, the police were searching for Dutt. After remaining at large for more than a month, the police took him into illegal custody from August 30 till September 1.On September 1, his family was informed that he had caught fire and was admitted to Arpana Hospital, Madhuban.By evening, he was shifted to Parveen Hospital. Here, Dutt gave an interview to a TV channel that he was beaten up mercilessly throughout the night in custody.The same day, Dutt was shifted to Civil Hospital, Karnal. At 3.10 am on September 2, 2007, he recorded a statement before a magistrate and said that a motorcycle was parked behind him during interrogation and petrol was taken out from the vehicle and poured on him. After that, he was inquired about his role in the murder. As he was denying his involvement in the matter, he was set on fire by the cops.“…he (Pawan) stated that I would not agree in this way and then took out a matchstick and after illuminating the same, threw it on me, due to which I was caught in fire,” said the dying declaration of Dutt.He was shifted to the PGIMS, Rohtak, on September 2, 2007, where he died the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/constable-gets-life-term-si-3-yr-ri-for-custodial-death-284455
17-07-2021||Gurugram||Court dismisses bail plea of Jamia shooter||A local court has dismissed the bail plea of Ram Bhakt Gopal arrested for allegedly delivering a communal speech at a recently held “mahapanchayat” in Pataudi. He was nabbed three days ago as the purported video of his speech went viral.Gopal had brandished a gun and opened fire at anti-CAA protesters near the Delhi’s Jamia area in January 2020.Rejecting the bail plea, Judicial Magistrate Mohammad Sageer said, “Hate speech based on religion or caste has become a fashion nowadays and the police also seem to be helpless in dealing with such incidents.”“Such people try to create disharmony and impart hatred among the common people. They are actually harming this country more than the pandemic,” the court observed.Gopal has moved the High Court, seeking bail. An online campaign has been launched, demanding his immediate release.In his speech at the “mahapanchayat”, he had allegedly called for attacks on the Muslim community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-jamia-shooter-284456
17-07-2021||Mahendragarh||5 of family get 7-yr jail for murder bid||The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Narnaul, Abdul Majid, on Thursday awarded seven-year rigorous imprisonment to five members of a family after holding them guilty for criminal intimidation, rioting, unlawful assembly and causing serious injuries to four persons in Hamidpur village of the district in 2018.The court also slapped a penalty of Rs 18,500 each on the convict identified as Bhag Singh, his wife Lali Devi, sons Ritesh Kumar, Vikrant and Ajay of Hamidpur village. They would have to undergo extra sentence on failing to pay the penalty.As per an FIR lodged on July 10, 2018, Shiv Kumar of Hamidpur village said the convicts armed with lathis and iron rods attacked him when he was sleeping in front of his house on July 9 night. They also caused injuries to his brother Om Prakash and other kin, Kavita and Hariom, when they came to his rescue. The accused fled after perpetrating the crime.Later, they went to the Narnaul Civil Hospital for treatment from where Om Prakash was referred to the PGIMS, Rohtak. The police booked a case under Section 307, 506, 323, 325, 148 and 149 of the IPC against the five accused. They were later arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-of-family-get-7-yr-jail-for-murder-bid-284458
17-07-2021||Gurugram||Woman, daughter die by suicide||Avoid going to Haridwar for Kanwar Yatra: PolicePanipat: The Panipat and Sonepat police have appealed to the people not to go to Haridwar for Kanwar Yatra as the Uttarakhand Government has cancelled it. If anyone goes for it, the Uttarakhand Police would quarantine him there for 14 days and a case would be lodged against him. The SPs of both districts have also issued directions to SHOs to keep vigil. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-daughter-die-by-suicide-284460
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Road widening: Punjab and Haryana High Court bans axing of trees||The Punjab and Haryana HC has made it clear that no tree would be cut without its permission for the widening of the Panipat-Rohtak old road section of the national highway.As a petition filed by Amit Kaushik against the Haryana PWD (B&R) came up for resumed hearing before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, Additional Advocate General Deepak Balyan submitted that he had directed the authorities to not cut any tree pursuant to the order passed by the HC and to come up with an alternative realistic assessment of the area for saving the trees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-widening-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-bans-axing-of-trees-284461
17-07-2021||Hisar||Life term for murder convict||The Court of District and Sessions Judge Arun Kumar Singhal on Friday sentenced a truck clearer to life term in jail in a murder case. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on the convict.Driver Sanjay of Dhanana in Sonepat was killed by cleaner of the truck Naveen of Uchana village in Jind in 2018.After the murder, the accused took away the truck loaded with iron rods meant for construction activities. The police found the body of Sanjay from an abandoned place in Gyanpura village and registered a case against Naveen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/life-term-for-murder-convict-284463
17-07-2021||Palwal||Constable held for espionage||A constable posted here has been arrested on the charges of spying for Pakistan.SP Deepak Gahlawat said the accused, Surender hailing from Jhajjar but posted in Palwal, was found sharing classified information to the neighbouring country for three years. He said the accused was nabbed on Thursday on the basis of intelligence inputs.The SP said Surender, who had joined the Police Department in March 2019 after getting retired from the Army, had been in touch with a Dubai-based woman connected with the Pakistan intelligence network since 2018.Two cellphones and as many SIM cards had been recovered from him, the SP said. The accused has been sent to six-day police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/constable-held-for-espionage-284464
17-07-2021||Chandigarh||Rural power consumers to pay 2% panchayat tax||Power consumers in the rural areas of the state will finally shell out more, with the BJP-JJP government finally imposing 2% “panchayat tax” on the power bills of the consumers falling within the limits of the gram panchayats.Over one and a half years after the Haryana Cabinet okayed the proposal, the Power Department has decided to implement the decision aimed at netting an amount of Rs 100-125 crore annually for rural development.The blueprint for the implementation of the decision was chalked out at a recent meeting of the board of directors of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN).Sources said it was decided at the meeting that the amount of the “panchayat tax” shall first be adjusted against the electricity bills of the respective gram panchayats. The balance amount would be refunded to the panchayats through the Power Department for development works in the rural areas.“The property tax shall not be levied on the consumption of electricity by the Government of India or where it is consumed in the construction and maintenance of any Railways project and the consumption by the agriculture consumers,” an order of the Power Department said.The “panchayat tax” would be collected by the UHBVN and the DHBVN, and paid in the same manner as if it was an electricity duty payable to the state government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rural-power-consumers-to-pay-2-panchayat-tax-284465
17-07-2021||Gurugram||Two drown in Gurugram hotel pool||Two men drowned in a pool of a hotel here on Friday.The pool was allegedly being illegally operated against the Covid norms by the hotel on the Pataudi Haily Mandi road. Four friends — Rajesh, Sher Singh, Mehar Chand and Bhajan Lal — who work as daily earners, went to a party at Deep Hotel.All of them had a couple of drinks and then got into the pool. In an inebriated state, Rajesh and Sher reportedly went deeper. They slipped and drowned. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-drown-in-gurugram-hotel-pool-284466
17-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Six-laning of Pipli-KU road at snail’s pace, Haryana CM orders probe||Following continuous delay in the six-laning project of the Pipli-Kurukshetra University road and negligence in construction of drains, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has directed the Additional Chief Secretary of PWD (B&R) to conduct an inquiry and check the quality of material used.Unhappy with the ongoing work that has become an ordeal for local residents and repeated complaints by local traders, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha had raised the issue with Khattar. Subsequently, the inquiry was ordered.The project was announced by the Chief Minister in 2015 and a budget of Rs 57.53 crore is to be spent on the project in which the civil work will be done at a cost of Rs 44.23 crore. The remaining amount will be spent on drains, paver blocks and electrification work.The project began in December 2018 and was scheduled to be completed by December 2019. But only 4 per cent of the work was done, following which the tender was terminated and a fresh tender was allotted by the PWD (B&R).The work resumed in April-end last year and it was scheduled to be completed in 15 months, but it is set to miss its deadline.The local MLA said, “The project has become a cause of inconvenience for the residents and shopkeepers due to the negligence of officials and contractor. I have raised the matter with the Chief Minister.“The work is being carried out without planning. The work to construct the drain has been started from different locations. As a result, shopkeepers have been facing a lot of problems. Now, the rains have started and the work has got affected further. The CM has directed the Additional Chief Secretary of PWD (B&R) to conduct an inquiry and submit a report,” said Subhash Sudha.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-laning-of-pipli-ku-road-at-snails-pace-haryana-cm-orders-probe-284467
17-07-2021||Faridabad||Twice cursed: First cheated by land mafia, Khori dwellers now rendered homeless||The dwellers of illegal colony at Khori village have been hit by double whammy. First they were tricked by the land mafia into “purchasing” government land and now the houses they built with life savings are being bulldozed after a Supreme Court order.While the migrants, settled here from Bihar, UP, West Bengal and other states, have nowhere to go, the land mafia who allegedly duped them continue to roam scot-free. The police have lodged 25 FIRs, but only the land mafia employees who signed plot purchase agreements have been named. They too are learnt to have fled elsewhere long ago, said sources.“The FIRs have been registered against property dealers for selling land to unsuspecting customers and hiding the fact no construction can take place here,” said Sube Singh, police PRO. Located at the tail-end of the Aravallis on the Haryana-Delhi border, the settlements, spread over 172 acres, are learnt to have started in the late 1980s.Initially a mining hub, Khori emerged into a densely populated colony over the decades, thanks to the land mafia that allegedly enjoyed political patronage. “The migrants were sold plots for Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 initially, with a monthly instalment of Rs 1,000. All the settlers got was a note written on simple paper and signed by the land mafia employees, who claimed the sale deed couldn’t be registered as the plot size was too small,” said Subhash Sharma, a Faridabad resident. “Migrants settled here to work as mine labourers. The land mafia sold plots measuring 50 sq yards to them, showing the land as ‘gair mumkin pahad’ (uncultivable wasteland),” said Sharma. Sources said some influential politicians in neighbouring Delhi too played a role in the flourishing of the colony as they facilitated illegal power and water connections.Admitting that 45 connections were given several years ago, DHBVN Superintending Engineer Naresh Kakkar said these were disconnected after the Supreme Court ordered demolition of the illegal structures. There was no rule to deny power connections in unauthorised colonies, he pointed out.Regarding power supply from Delhi to Khori, sources claimed such connections across the border were possible due to the alleged involvement of the supply mafia as meters installed were fraudulently shown fitted in Delhi.“We bought a plot for Rs 2 lakh and spent another Rs 2 lakh on building a house about 10 years ago. Why nobody stopped us then?” said Silvati (58) from Bihar.Deputy Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said the land fell within the Faridabad Municipal Corporation’s jurisdiction. “Being ecologically sensitive, it’s notified under the PLPA Act and any kind of construction here is banned,” he said.Seema Trikha, MLA from Badkhal, a constituency that comprises Khori, was not available for comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/twice-cursed-first-cheated-by-land-mafia-khori-dwellers-now-rendered-homeless-284260
17-07-2021||New Delhi||Farmers' protest: AAP govt rejects Delhi Police's panel of lawyers; ball now in L-G's court||The AAP government on Friday rejected the Delhi Police's proposal to set up a panel of public prosecutors to argue cases related to violence during a tractor rally by farmers on January 26, setting the stage for a fresh round of confrontation with the Centre and the L-G office.Sources, however, said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal is likely to invoke special powers granted to him in the Constitution and approve a panel of lawyers chosen by the Delhi Police.At an online press conference, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the appointment of lawyers comes entirely under the purview of the Delhi government and the L-G can only use his veto power in the rarest of rare cases.He also alleged that the lieutenant governor has been using veto power even in routine matters, terming it as a "murder of democracy" and violation of the Supreme Court's orders.The Delhi Cabinet on Friday observed that letting police's lawyers appear in the case of farmers who have been protesting the three farm laws would seriously hamper legal parity and would not be fair to the accused peasants who bear a right to go through an unbiased trial, the government said in a statement.It also said the cabinet affirmed that prosecutors are meant to be independent and cannot be according to the choice of the police.The cabinet, while deliberating upon the proposal of the Delhi Police to appoint lawyers of their preference, was of the view that as held by various judgments of the Supreme Court, the role of the public prosecutor is not to act as a spokesperson of the police force but to discharge an independent statutory role, presenting to the court the correct picture, the government said.After his cabinet's decision, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it is the duty of every citizen of India to support farmers and that the Delhi government has not done any favour to them."We have only done our duty towards the farmers of the nation. A farmer is not a criminal or a terrorist, but our 'annadata'," he tweeted.Sisodia also claimed that it is very unfortunate that the BJP-led Central government has been interfering in the functioning of the AAP dispensation through the L-G."The Supreme Court has defined the use of this veto power by the L-G on transferred subjects. Doorstep delivery of ration and court matters related to farmers' protests are not the rarest of rare cases."This power cannot be used left, right and centre every day. This is a murder of democracy and violation of the Supreme Court's orders," the deputy chief minister said during the press conference.The cabinet also observed that the demand of the Delhi Police to appoint lawyers of their choice in the case was baseless and unwarranted and that it could not allow the same to happen."The cabinet was satisfied with the performance of the government's present public prosecutors and noted that there were no complaints made against their functioning," it also said.In July last year, Lt Governor Baijal had overturned the AAP government's decision to reject the Delhi Police's panel of lawyers to argue the 2020 northeast Delhi riot cases in the high court and the Supreme Court.According to a Delhi government official, the cabinet's decision to reject the city police's proposal to argue the farmers' protest cases will be conveyed to the L-G."It was decided that the Delhi government's lawyers will be public prosecutors in court matters related to the farmers' agitation," the official said.However, sources said the L-G is likely to invoke his special power under the Constitution and refer the dispute to the President of India.On Thursday, the Delhi government had alleged that it was being pressured by the BJP-ruled Centre to replace its prosecutors appearing in cases related to the anti-farm laws stir, with those of the Delhi Police.The issue pertained to a request made by the Delhi Police for the appointment of special public prosecutors for cases related to violence, disrespect of the national flag and blatant disregard of the rule of law on Republic Day during the tractor rally taken out by the protesting farmers in the national capital."It has nothing to do with the farmers' protest as it is being deliberately made out with ulterior motives," a source claimed.On Thursday, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO), in a statement, had said Baijal "rejected" the panel of Delhi government lawyers appearing in cases against the farmers protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws at the city's borders."The Delhi Police investigating the cases, however, wants the appointment of its own panel of lawyers. Law Minister Satyendar Jain had rejected the Delhi Police proposal but now, the LG has put pressure on the Delhi government to call its cabinet meeting for a decision on the Delhi Police panel," the statement said.It also claimed that the LG, at a virtual meeting with Jain, had "admitted" that the public prosecutors of the Delhi government were doing a "good" job and fighting the cases efficiently.The Delhi Police had registered over 40 cases in connection with the Republic Day violence and vandalism in the national capital. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-protest-aap-govt-rejects-delhi-polices-panel-of-lawyers-ball-now-in-l-gs-court-284172
17-07-2021||  Chandigarh||Custodial death: Two Haryana cops found guilty of setting suspect in murder case on fire||The CBI Special Court, Haryana, convicted two Haryana police personnel over a custodial death 14 years after a person in illegal custody was burnt to death to extract a confession in a murder case.  CBI Special Judge Sushil Kumar Garg sentenced Constable Pawan Kumar to life imprisonment for setting a murder accused Bhavan Dutt on fire after pouring petrol on him, and the then SHO of Madhuban (Karnal) police station Sub-Inspector Ranbir Singh to three-year rigorous imprisonment, for wrongful confinement for extracting confession and making false entries in the record.  Pawan Kumar was fined Rs 61,000 while Ranbir Singh was fined Rs 31,000. The 50 per cent of the fine would be given to dependent of the deceased.  The case dates back to 2007. Police arrested Dutt in connection with the murder of a photographer called Rajinder after a month’s search for him. He was detained from August 30 till September 1.  On September 1, his family was informed that he was admitted to Arpana Hospital, Madhuban, after a fire incident.  By the evening, he was shifted to Parveen Hospital. Here, Dutt gave an interview to a TV channel reporter that he was beaten up mercilessly throughout the night in the custody, and out of frustration he set himself on fire.  The same day, Dutt was further shifted to Civil Hospital, Karnal. At 3:10 am on September 2, 2007, he recorded a statement before a magistrate and told that a motorcycle was parked behind him during interrogation. The petrol was taken from the motorcycle and poured on him, he told the magistrate. His interrogators questioned him repeatedly about his role in the murder. When he refused to admit his involvement, he was set on fire, he told the magistrate.    “He (Pawan) stated that I would not agree in this way and then took out a matchstick and after illuminating the same, threw it on me, due to which I was caught in fire,” Dutt said in his dying declaration.  He was shifted to PGIMS, Rohtak, on September 2, 2007, where he died the next day.  On April 27, 2010, while hearing a complaint case at Karnal, Additional District and Sessions Judge RK Sondhi made a reference to the Punjab and Haryana High Court for CBI investigation in the case. Following a reference from National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Haryana Police finally registered an FIR against Pawan Kumar on November 29, 2010.  The high court entrusted the case to CBI on August 23, 2011.   A board of doctors from PGI, Chandigarh, couldn’t conclude that whether burn injuries were homicidal or suicidal.    The CBI Special Court, located in Panchkula, was to decide whether it was suicide or murder as per his dying declaration.  CBI counsel KP Singh submitted that Dutt was murdered to extract a confession.  Defence claimed that Dutt was 17-year-old and that’s why was not arrested. It added that he was summoned for September 1, 2007, when he attempted suicide.  While relying on dying declaration, the court said that “the situation in which a person is on the deathbed is so solemn and serene when he is dying that the grave position in which he is placed, is the reason in law to accept veracity of his statement”. It added that exclusion of dying declaration would be “miscarriage of justice” as the “victim being generally the only eye-witness in a serious crime”.   “The principle on which dying declaration is admitted in evidence is indicated in legal maxim "nemo moriturus proesumitur mentiri—a man will not meet his maker with a lie in his mouth,” said the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/custodial-death-two-haryana-cops-found-guilty-of-setting-suspect-in-murder-case-on-fire-284159
17-07-2021||Gurugram||Hate speech more fatal than Covid, says Gurugram court; denies bail to Jamia shooter||A local court rejected the bail application of Jamia shooter ‘Ram Bhakt’ Gopal on Friday, saying hate speeches were more fatal than Covid—a development that comes three days after he was arrested over a vitriolic and communal speech delivered in Pataudi that later went viral.Gopal had moved a bail application hours after his arrest.Judicial Magistrate Mohammad Sageer said hate speech based on religion or caste was quickly becoming a fashion, and police were helpless to stop such incidents."Such people who are trying to create disharmony and imparting hatred amongst the common people are actually harming this country more than the pandemic,” he said. “Hate speech lays the groundwork for later, broader attacks on the vulnerable that can range from discrimination to ostracism, segregation, deportation, violence and, in the most extreme cases, to genocide. Hate speech also impacts a protected group's ability to respond to the substantive ideas under debate, thereby placing a serious barrier to their full participation in our democracy."The suspect’s act amounts to hate speech, the court said, and could even lead to "destruction of our society".Gopal has now moved a bail application in the high court. Meanwhile, there’s an online campaign that asks for his immediate release for having “served his religion”. It’s unclear who started that campaign.Gopal’s viral speech at the Pataudi Mahapanchayat shows him targeting a particular religious minority. He’s heard asking the gathering to unite to kill the men of the community and abduct their women. The crowd could be heard cheering him on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hate-speech-more-fatal-than-covid-says-gurugram-court-denies-bail-to-jamia-shooter-284127
