19-07-2021||---||Man drowns in flooded Gurugram underpass||Gurugram, July 18The incessant rains and waterlogging claimed a life in Gurugram on Monday. An unidentified man died after allegedly drowning in an underpass. The body was fished out late evening by divers from Rajiv Chowk underpass which was filled with water up to 6 to 8 ft. A passerby saw a man drowning and called police. The police reached the spot and called fire engines from Bhim Nagar and Sector 29. They fished out the body using boats and divers. No case was registered or youth could be identified so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-drowns-in-flooded-gurugram-underpass-285433
19-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Rain brings misery to protesting farmers at Tikri||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, July 19The first rain of monsoon season on Monday brought misery for protesting farmers camping at Tikri border as the water entered their huts forcing them to spend time by sitting on tractor-trolleys.Their clothes, food items and other belongings kept in the huts got soaked in the water.“No one could sleep after the rain started at 2 am on Monday. The rain was torrential hence it did not take much time to inundate the entire protest site. Those camping at HUDA parks in Bahadurgarh town are worst affected as water accumulated at knee-level there due to being located on low-lying areas,” said Pargat Singh, a BKU (Rajewal) leader.He maintained many farmers were still using tractor-trolleys to take rest and to protect from rain as accumulated water was yet to be drained out. “We have requested local administration to ensure removal of stagnant water at the earliest,” Singh added.Meanwhile, Swaiman Singh from Punjab, an office-bearer of the Five-Rivers Heart Association, a social outfit, has sought help from the people requesting them to provide JCB or other machines to clean the sewerage and drains for immediate removal of rainwater. He has posted a video message to social media.“We have sufficient manpower to clean the sewerage and drains at the protest site but need either JCB or other machines which are used in desilting. Some people earlier assured us of extending succour but they did not move,” said Singh in the video.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-brings-misery-to-protesting-farmers-at-tikri-285424
19-07-2021||---||Heavy rain leaves Gurugram reeling; Ambience mall shut after part of roof collapses||Gurugram, July 18Yet another monsoon and Gurugram again succumbed to perennial woes of waterlogging and flash floods.Drowning tall claims of local administration, GMDA, MCG and government over 120 mm rain in Gurugram left city submerged.While the city became online memfest with people posting mock sale ads of their flats as sea facing or lake view, local authorities failed to rein in the chaos and water was not decanted from many areas even after 12 hours.What added to woes was power outage of around 12 hours in many societies. The DHBVN employees insisted that the power houses were water logged so they could not rectify the faults. Read alsoAfter incessant overnight rainfall roads, underpasses, parking houses, lifts were full of water. Three underpasses -- Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, and Iffco Chowk -- were closed due to rainwater accumulation and the city’s main storm water drain at Badshahpur is running at full capacity.Sheetla Mata road was submerged in over 3 ft of water and devotees walked in waist high water to get to temple. The video of road went viral within minutes.A portion of roof collapsed in Ambience mall and it witnessed massive water seepage. The pictures and videos of mall were circulated on social media and residents demanded strict action accusing mall authorities of putting their lives on risk. Rainwater also entered low-lying houses in DLF phases 1 and 3, and Suncity Township.The heavy waterlogging in basements and lifts imprisoned many society dwellers especially in sector 10 in their homes. Traffic congestions were reported Sohna Road, Mehrauli-Gurugram (MG) Road, Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Jharsa Chowk, Bakhtawar Chowk.While the other authorities were left redfaced, Gurugram police emerged as hero without cape. The entire police force lead by Commissioner KK Rao took to roads not just to manage traffic but were seen even repairing or clearing drains. They managed to keep city’s roads moving and provision of essential services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heavy-rain-leaves-gurugram-reeling-ambience-mall-shut-after-part-of-roof-collapses-285419
19-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav ||After 19-hour operation, three bodies pulled out of collapsed Gurugram building||Gurugram, July 19Three persons died while one was severely injured after a three-storey building collapsed in Khawaspur village in Farrukhnagar near Gurugram on Sunday late evening.All three were workers a neighbouring warehouse and lived in this building which served as their residential quarters and was in a poor condition. The police have booked the company owner and manager while no arrests have been made so far.It took 19 hours of rescue operation to pull out bodies and with no possibility of anybody or a body being in debris the operation was concluded. Two people Robin and Pradeep Choudhary were pulled out last night only. While Robin died, Choudhary suffered injuries and is undergoing treatment at Civil Hospital. On Monday with rains disrupting the operations the Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), state disaster response force (SDRF), police and fire brigade with great struggle managed to retrieve Pradeep Sharma and Tiny Bhardwaj’s who died due to severe injuries. Police registered a case against the company owner identified as Ravinder Kataria and manager Krishan Kaushik under Sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings), 34 (common intention) and 304 (II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC was registered at Farrukhnagar police station on Monday.“We have got a case registered and started an enquiry to ascertain reason behind collapse. We mananged to save one of them with collective effort of rescue teams,” said DC Yash Garg.According to the police, the accused company owner Ravinder Kataria is former chairman of Nagar Parishad, Gurugram. Police have detained the manager for questioning.A senior police officer said that the accused will be nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-19-hour-operation-three-bodies-pulled-out-of-collapsed-gurugram-building-285399
19-07-2021||Sonepat (Haryana)||Why this Haryana village is desperately waiting for wrestler Ravi Dahiya's Olympic medal||Can the fortunes of a village be linked to the Olympic success of a wrestler? Well, at least the 15,000 odd people living in the Nahri village in Sonepat district think so.A village that struggles to get potable drinking water, manages household work with just a two-hour electricity supply, does not have proper sewage lines and in the name of amenities has just one veterinary hospital to show, desperately wants Ravi Dahiya to return from Tokyo with a medal.The quiet and shy Ravi, son of a farmer, is the third Olympian to emerge from this village after Mahavir Singh (1980 Moscow, 1984 Los Angeles) and Amit Dahiya (London 2012).But why do the villagers think that Nahri's destiny will change if the 24-year-old Ravi wins a medal. Well, there is a small story behind it.Mahavir Singh was asked by the then Chief Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal what was his wish after he represented the country twice at the Olympics and he requested an animal hospital in the village.The CM obliged and a hospital was established.The villagers now have a firm belief that if Ravi does well in Tokyo, Nahri will get some spotlight and the government could gift some development projects to the place, where 4000 families live."This village has given the country three Olympians. There is something in the soil of the land. We are sure Ravi will win a medal and with his success, the development of the village will also begin," said Sunil Kumar Dahiya, the Sarpanch of Nahri."There is no good hospital here. We have to go to Sonepat or Narela. There is no stadium. We have built a mini stadium but there is no mat, no academy, no coach. If there are facilities, the kids of this village can get better lives." The villagers have pinned their development hopes on Ravi but his success has much to do with the sacrifices and moral guidance of one man, his father Rakesh Kumar Dahiya.Also read:Rakesh has been toiling hard in the farm fields, taken on lease, for years and never let the struggles come in way of Ravi's training.Rakesh will himself carry milk and butter to Chhatrasal Stadium, about 60kms away from Nahri, every single day without fail to ensure that his son gets the best diet.The routine means Rakesh would wake up 3:30 am, walk about 5kms to the nearest Railway station, get down at Azadpur and then walk another 2kms to the Chhatrasal Stadium, where Ravi trained under Mahabali Satpal.After coming back, Rakesh would work in the fields and it continued for 12 years till the COVID-19 induced lockdown halted the routine in 2020.Rakesh ensured that Ravi learns to respect the sacrifices his family has made. He narrated an incident when he made Ravi eat white butter that he had spilled on the floor by mistake."His mother made butter for him and I was carrying that with me in a bowl. Ravi titled the bowl to get rid of water and ended up spilling all the butter in the ground."I told him that we manage his diet with great difficulty and you must be careful. I told him, you can's let it go waste and he had to pick the butter from the ground and eat," Rakesh said with pride in his eyes that he taught his son a valuable lesson.Ravi was six years old when his father introduced him to the sport. He would carry with him to fields, where his friend Hansraj ran an Akhada."He has only dreamt of winning an Olympic medal since the beginning. He knows nothing else," said Rakesh.Ravi's uncle Anil Dahiya, who is a constable in Delhi Police, also shared how his nephew is so focussed."One day when he was back home, I asked him to learn motorcycle but he refused, saying he does not need it. Well, he is a young guy but nothing interests him except wrestling. He does not want to buy new clothes, shoes, nothing, all he talks about is wrestling," Anil.His consistent focus means that he is now a two-time Asian Champion. He booked his Olympic ticket by winning a bronze at the 2019 World Championship.While Ravi may be a shy guy but what he can't tolerate is cheating and can be very aggressive."At 2016 Delhi senior state, his rival deliberately broke his right-hand middle finger. He was in tremendous pain. But he told me 'competition main ab lad nahi payunga par chacha iss ko to hara k hi chhodunga.' And he beat him before withdrawing," he said.The Nahri village also vouches for his father's honesty and strongly believes that his good deeds are also helping his son.In 2018, the wheat harvest in 10 out of Rakesh's 20 'keela' was burnt due to a fault of the tractor supplier. While other villagers extracted compensation of the tune of Rs 15000 per keela from him, Rakesh did nothing of that sort."'Jo hua so hua', I could not demand money from him. And the villagers now think God has rewarded me by giving success to Ravi," he said.Nahri has seen both Amit Dahiya and Ravi battle it out on foreign lands by using the batteries of their tractors.Ravi's uncle Rajesh, who is an Assistant Commandant in the BSF, tells an interesting story."Since we would not have regular electricity supply, we would gather around the farm tractors and use the tractor battery to get current for the television set. We watched the 2012 Olympics like this on Doordarshan."Now there are inverters and we also watch bouts on UWW website, using our mobile phones. We watched the 2015 World Championship also like this ," said Rajesh Only time will tell if Ravi will return from Tokyo with a medal but Nahri is waiting with bated breath. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/why-this-haryana-village-is-desperately-waiting-for-wrestler-ravi-dahiyas-olympic-medal-285381
19-07-2021||Bhiwani||In solidarity with farmers, Bhiwani residents organise silent protests daily||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-solidarity-with-farmers-bhiwani-residents-organise-silent-protests-daily-285370
19-07-2021||Shimla||Haryana tourist raped in Shimla hotel||A 16-year-old tourist from Panchkula was allegedly sexually assaulted in a hotel at Lakkar Bazaar in Shimla on July 11.In a complaint filed with the Kalka police station, the victim said she, along with her friend, had come to Shimla.Her friend called a person Naveen and his friend to their hotel and Naveen entered her room and forced himself on the victim. On July 13, her friend and Naveen left her at Kalka. A case under the POCSO Act has been registered and the zero FIR has been forwarded to the Shimla police.Two days ago, another minor tourist from Haryana had accused her uncle of sexually assaulting her following which the accused has been arrested.In another complaint, the Theog police have registered a case under Section 376 of IPC and the POCSO Act on a complaint of the father of a minor, who alleged that he, along with his wife, was working in the fields on July 16 and on their return, they found that their 15-year-old daughter was missing.During the search, they found her daughter in the car of Romesh, who allegedly sexually assaulted the minor.A woman working as a tailor in Rampur also alleged that on July 3, Ram Prakash (32) made physical relations with her without her consent and threatened her with dire consequences. The victim is living with her mother in Khaneri. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-tourist-raped-in-shimla-hotel-285313
19-07-2021||Parveen Arora||Heavy rain damages Karnal roads||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 18The first heavy rain this monsoon has exposed the quality of work done by different agencies as many roads of the city and its surrounding areas have been washed away. The roads have developed potholes, posing serious threat to commuters.Karnal has witnessed 296mm rainfall in three days. The heavy rain has resulted in waterlogging in various parts of the city.Be it Sectors 12,13,16, Mughal Canal, Hansi Road, the Kalandari Gate area, road between Guru Brahmanand Chowk and Hansi road, railway road, main road leading to Model Town from Sector12, near old vegetable market, Vikram Marag, or other parts of the city, almost all major roads have developed potholes. Even the National Highway-44 has also developed potholes. “The rain has exposed the quality of work done while constructing roads as almost all have developed potholes, which can result in accidents,” said Jagdeep Singh, a resident of new housing board.“The rain has taken its toll on roads and the metal roads have given way and developed large potholes. The authorities should take action against the contractors for poor quality of work done,” said Shyam Lal, a shopkeeper of Sector 13.Rajesh Sharma, a resident of Sector13, said not only the rain, but the roads being dug up by telecom companies is also a major contributor in damaging the roads. “The telecom companies have been carrying out digging work for laying down wires, but they are not filling the roads properly, which has resulted in potholes after it rained in almost all areas of the city,” he added.He said the open drainage holes are also posing threat to residents passing by.Dr Manoj Kumar, Commissioner, Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), said it was unprecedented rainfall that has damaged several roads of the city. “We have been making efforts to make these roads motorable, for which the roads are being repaired,” said the Commissioner, adding that the stretch of Hansi road will be constructed under the Smart City project, for which the process has been started. “Once the monsoon is over, proper repair work will be done,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heavy-rain-damages-karnal-roads-285083
19-07-2021||---||Haryana's Saraswati heritage board to develop 5 riverfronts||Kurukshetra, July 18The Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board has come out with a plan to develop five riverfronts on the Saraswati river.The proposed riverfronts will be at Pipli and Pehowa in Kurukshetra district, Bilaspur in Yamunanagar district, and on the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway near Dosarka village, and the Kaithal-Guhla road.Dhuman Singh Kirmach, vice-president of the board, told The Tribune: “The riverfront at Pipli will be developed on the pattern of the Sabarmati riverfront. The Chandigarh College of Architecture will prepare its design. A team of three assistant professors from the college and officials of the Irrigation and Forest Department have visited the site. It is expected to submit the design soon.”As for the riverfronts at the other four locations, the board has written to Deputy Commissioners of the districts concerned for demarcating the river area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryanas-saraswati-heritage-board-to-develop-5-riverfronts-285084
19-07-2021||Faridabad||Demand for fee in advance by private schools opposed||The Haryana Abhibhawak Ekta Manch has opposed the demand for advance tuition fee of three months and other charges from senior students (Classes IX to XII) after the start of offline classes in schools. It has also reiterated its demand that an audit of accounts of last five years of all private schools be conducted. Alleging that some of the private schools have started issuing notice to students for depositing tuition fee for July, August and September, OP Sharma, president of the state unit of the manch, said students had also been asked to deposit the annual charge, development fee and transport fee, the collection of which had been stopped last year in view of the Covid pandemic. He said while the pandemic was not over, demand of fee in advance and other funds were in violation of the guidelines announced last year. He said while the parents were paying the fee on month-to-month basis, the government must intervene to check such an irregularity as the financial condition of parents had not yet improved. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demand-for-fee-in-advance-by-private-schools-opposed-285085
19-07-2021||Hisar||Women  protest water shortage in Bhiwani||Women of Kount village in Bhiwani district broke their earthen pots to protest against shortage of potable water in the village. The women gathered at the waterworks in the village with empty earthen pots and then smashed those on the ground as a mark of protest.  Phoolwati, a protester, said a major chunk of the village has not been getting water supply for past three years due to shortage of canal water in the waterworks. “We have raised our demand with the officials of the administration and Public Health Engineering several times in the past three years. Though the officials have often visited the village to take stock of the situation, they have failed to resolve the water supply issue,” Phoolwati said. Other women accompanying her included Sudesh, Santosh, Maya Devi, Neelam Devi, Indrawati, Dhanpati and Santra. They maintained that they would go to the district headquarters and protest. Gram sachiv Manjeet Singh said the water supply to waterworks in Kount village has got affected by the closure of Paluwas minor canal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/women-protest-water-shortage-in-bhiwani-285086
19-07-2021||---||Rohtak tops gender ratio at birth, Jhajjar at bottom||Rohtak, July 18Rohtak has topped the state in terms of sex ratio at birth (SRB) by recording the birth of 962 girls against 100 boys in the first half of the current year. Jhajjar has performed the worst with the lowest SRB of 858.As per the Health Department record, Rohtak has improved by 50 points as compared to last year. A total of 9,603 children were born in Rohtak from January 1 to June 30. Among them, 4,895 were male and 4,708 were female.Rohtak is followed by Charkhi Dadri (945) and Panipat (937). While Mahendragarh (931) secured fourth position, Rewari (927), Panchkula (926) and Jind (925) are at fifth, sixth and seventh position respectively. Fatehabad (862) is the second worst performing district after Jhajjar followed by Bhiwani (887), Karnal (888) and Sonepat (888) and Faridabad (895).The state has witnessed 911 as average SRB till June 30 this year. The figure was 922 at the end of 2020. Total 2,20,841 children were born in the state from January 1 to June 30 this year. Among them, 1,15,586 were male and 1,05,255 female.“Jhajjar is number one across the state this year in terms of cracking down on ultrasound centres by successfully conducting 13 PNDT and three MTP raids this year. The impact of the action will be seen in the coming days,” said Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, Jhajjar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-tops-gender-ratio-at-birth-jhajjar-at-bottom-285087
19-07-2021||---||Restaurants, bars to now open in Haryana till 11 pm||Chandigarh, July 18With Covid cases coming down, the state government today announced more relaxations, including increase in the timings of restaurants, bars and gymnasiums.Other relaxationsOver 69,000 more get vaccinatedHowever, night curfew will remain in force from 11 pm to 5 am, stated an order by the Chief Secretary.Meanwhile, all shops can stay open from 9 am to 8 pm, while malls will be open from 10 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and bars, including the ones in malls, will be allowed to open from 10 am to 11 pm with 50 per cent capacity; home delivery of food is allowed till 11 pm. The earlier timing was from 10 am to 10 pm.Club houses, restaurants and bars in golf courses will also be allowed to operate from 10 am to 11 pm with 50 per cent capacity. Gyms have been allowed to stay open from 6 am to 9 pm with 50 per cent attendance as against 8 pm earlier. The gatherings at weddings and funerals have been capped at 100. In open spaces, the gatherings up to 200 persons are allowed. Earlier, the limit was 50.The spas will be allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity subject to strict Covid protocols. Similarly, swimming pools will be allowed to open only for athletes, who are practising for events. The order stated cinema halls (in malls and standalone) are allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity.“Universities and colleges will be open for students to clear doubts and attend practical classes with adherence to social distancing norms and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” the order said.Similarly, coaching institutes, libraries and training institutes, both government and private, are allowed to open. Industrial Training Institutes will reopen for doubt classes and practical examinations.The Common Law Admission Test to be conducted by Delhi University on July 23 will be held in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/restaurants-bars-to-now-open-in-haryana-till-11-pm-285088
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||71% drop in Covid cases in Haryana after June 22||The state has witnessed almost 71 per cent decline in Covid cases with 146 infections on June 22 this year to 41 on July 17.An official spokesperson said the state’s recovery rate had also improved by 0.15 per cent from 98.50 per cent on June 22 to 98.65 per cent on July 17. However, the fatality rate has increased by 0.04 per cent from 1.21 per cent on June 22 to 1.25 per cent on July 17.Elaborating on the reasons for the slight rise in the fatality rate, the spokesperson said before declaring a Covid death, an audit was conducted as per the medical guidelines. He said though the positivity rate had declined from 0.46 per cent on June 22 to 0.14 per cent on July 17, the fatality rate has increased as the deaths were reported much later after ascertaining the exact cause. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/71-drop-in-covid-cases-in-haryana-after-june-22-285089
19-07-2021||Rohtak||Farmers' dharna against ex-minister Manish Grover ends||Farm activists, who had been protesting near the local residence of BJP leader and ex-minister Manish Grover for five days over the alleged obscene gesture made towards farmers from his car at Hisar on July 10, ended the dharna after an amicable settlement late Saturday night.The dharna ended after representatives of the protesters met the former minister following mediation by some prominent residents and the local administration.As per the protesters, Grover talked to some women who claimed to have witnessed the Hisar incident.The women, however, maintained that they did not recognise the person seated with Vinod Bhayana, the BJP MLA from Hansi, in the car.The former minister touched the feet of the enraged women and sought their blessings.Following that, All-India Kisan Sabha leader Inderjit Singh announced the lifting of the dharna and cancellation of the ‘mahila nyay panchayat’ called at Rohtak on July 19. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-dharna-against-ex-minister-manish-grover-ends-285090
19-07-2021||Faridabad||Day 5: Khori demolition drive resumes||The Faridabad Municipal Corporation resumed the demolition drive in the Khori village on the fifth day on Sunday and razed over 700 structures.Youth ‘spreads’ rumour; hunt onThe drive was halted on the fourth day on Saturday to clear the debris.Though the authorities refused to reveal the total demolitions, sources claimed the number of houses removed so far had touched 3,000. Notably, a total of 6,500 constructions were deemed illegal in a report based on a drone survey conducted last month, locals claim the number of houses in the colony was over 10,000.An official said the drive was resumed on full scale on Sunday, as we wanted to demolish maximum encroachments a day before the July 19 deadline given by the Supreme Court on June 7.Claiming that all encroachments would be removed by the MC soon, he said the drive would continue on Monday as well. “Also, the deadline is likely to be extended in view of the pending task.”However, according to a spokesperson of the Khori Awas Sangharsh Samiti, the number of structures razed on Sunday was over 2,000. Claiming that over 5,000 houses had been demolished so far, he said the authorities did not even spare a religious place and no rehabilitation had been done so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-5-khori-demolition-drive-resumes-285091
19-07-2021||Panipat||4 help aspirants cheat during IAF exam, held||The police claimed to have busted a gang that allegedly helped candidates cheat during the online examination for the post of an airman in the Indian Air Force (IAF).The exam was conducted by the Central Airmen Selection Board in private computer labs from July 12 to 18 across the country.Four members of the gang have been arrested, the police have said. The accused have been identified as Jitender of Hisar’s Gamra village, Ricky of Sonepat’s Baroda village, Dharambir of Rohtak’s Assan village, and Amit of Charkhi Dadri’s Hadodi village.They allegedly took Rs 3 lakh for the written examination and Rs 6 lakh for the final selection, the police have said.In all, 14 ear Bluetooth dots, 11 devices, 35 battery cells; and six mobile phones have been recovered from them.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said, “On a tip-off, the CIA-3 unit raided a private school, New Modern Senior Secondary School, and nabbed four persons who were helping candidates to cheat.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-help-aspirants-cheat-during-iaf-exam-held-285092
19-07-2021||Hisar||To protest arrests, SKM leader Baldev Singh Sirsa begins indefinite fast||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Baldev Singh Sirsa went on an indefinite fast outside the mini-secretariat in Sirsa today in protest against the arrest of five leaders arrested in connection with the attack on Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s car on July 11.More than 100 farmers were booked for sedition in connection with the July 11 protest.The farmers’ outfit served an ultimatum on the district administration till noon tomorrow to withdraw sedition and other charges.“I will fast until the five farmers are released,” Sirsa said, adding he would only drink lemon water during the fast. A team of the Health Department tried to take him to hospital for checkup, but he refused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-protest-arrests-skm-leader-baldev-singh-sirsa-begins-indefinite-fast-285093
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Building collapses in Gurugram, 1 saved||A three-storey building next to a warehouse collapsed in Khawaspur village on Pataudi Road in Farrukhnagar. While locals insisted that 12 persons were buried under the rubble, the administration and police claimed so far, they had verified report of five being buried. One of them had been rescued and sent to hospital.The building reportedly served as the living quarters for labourers of a firm and collapsed due to heavy rain. Over 200 cops and a large number of fire tenders are part of rescue operation. “We are on job. There are no casualties as of now,” said DC Yash Garg. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/building-collapses-in-gurugram-1-saved-285094
19-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Farm activist suspended for hosting Gurnam Singh Charuni in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, July 18Leaders of Punjab’s 32 protesting farmers’ unions have suspended president of one of their unions Harsulender Singh for 15 days for welcoming Haryana farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni during his visit to Punjab.‘Matter of morcha unity & discipline’Charuni had been suspended by the SKM for a week on Wednesday for asking Punjab farm leaders to contest the upcoming Assembly polls.Darshan Pal Singh, a Punjab farm leader and member of the SKM, confirmed that Harsulender Singh, president of the Doaba Kisan Sangharsh Committee, had been suspended for welcoming Charuni. It was the decision of all farm unions of Punjab, he added.Kulwinder Singh Sandhu, general secretary of the Jamhuri Kisan Sabha (one of the organisations), said the suspension was ordered to maintain discipline and unity in the morcha. “It is not the first time that a farm leader has been suspended. Earlier too, some leaders were suspended to maintain the decorum.”Meanwhile, Harsulender claimed the decision was taken by the Punjab outfits, not by the SKM. “They took the decision during a meeting on July 13, and have banned me from participating in any meeting during the period. Some farm leaders even opposed the decision, but they were overruled.”He said his only fault was that he had welcomed and offered tea to Charuni at his village Kishangarh in Jalandhar district.“It is my moral duty to welcome and offer water and tea to any senior farm leader visiting my village,” Harsulender said, adding that he would, however, obey the decision of the group and not run away from the farmers’ protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-activist-suspended-for-hosting-gurnam-singh-charuni-in-punjab-285257
19-07-2021||Ambala||World Skill Day||Fund raised to support studentsGurugram: Several families in the Kunskapsskolan India schools have suffered irreparable losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic by losing their family providers putting the schooling of their children at risk. Cecilia Carnefledt, CEO, Kunskapsskolan Education, decided to initiate a fund amounting to Rs. 2.5 crores to ensure the children who have lost a supporting parent will be able to continue their education with schools of Kunskapsskolan based in India.Essay competitionYamunanagar: A national-level essay competition was organised by the Hindi department of Guru Nanak Khalsa College. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said in the essay writing competition, Khushbu Soni, a second year student of Adarsh Mahila Mahavidyalaya, Bhiwani stood first; Arzoo Tanwar, a first year law student of Maharishi Dayanand University, Rohtak, stood second and Suman Tushir of GVM Girls College, Nangal Kalan, Sonepat, stood third. Trupti Dhiman of SMS Khalsa Girls College Labana of Ambala district received the consolation award.Webinar at GNG CollegeYamunanagar: The Punjabi department of GNG College, Yamunanagar, in association with the Punjabi Literary Academy, Haryana, organised a national webinar to celebrate the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur. Dr Gurvinder Dhamija, chairman of Punjabi Literary Academy, was the chief guest of this event. The eminent speakers of the webinar were Dr Surinder Singh from Kaithal, Dr Paramjeet Kaur from KUK University and Dr Balwinder Singh Thind from Guru Nanak Khalsa College, Jalandhar. Dr Sukhwinder and Dr Gurjinder from Punjabi department said the webinar was organised under the guidance and motivation of director Dr Varinder Gandhi and principal Dr Anu Atreja.All about 5G technologyFaridabad: The department of computer engineering and department of electronics engineering in collaboration with the National Telecommunications Institute for Policy, Research, Innovation and Training (NTIPRIT) organised a one-day webinar on 5G technology: Bridge to future. This event was attended by 250 participants of undergraduate, postgraduate students, research scholars and faculty members. The objective of this event was to provide awareness of 5G technology, its evolution and capabilities.Webinar at Aggarwal CollegeFaridabad: A webinar was organised by Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Company Secretaries. Its theme was "Expanding the possibilities-The Pathway Ahead'. "The main objective of the webinar was to provide information to students about CS as well as BCom", said principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta who explained GROW principle in his talk. He emphasised on how one should set goals and take the right decisions at the right time, and how an opportunity could be converted into possibility. Keynote speaker Rakesh Chawla shared his views on the GST--Evolution of India and indirect tax system.Karnal girl honouredKarnal: Sneha Jain, a BA second year student of Dyal Singh College and author, was given memento of appreciation by the Kalam Foundation. Last month, she was also honoured with Bravo International Book of Records 2021 for being an aspiring author of the year. Her name will be published in the 2021 publication of World Records.International conference concludesFaridabad: The three-day online international conference on "Recent advances in chemical sciences-2021", which was organised by the department of chemistry of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA Faridabad, concluded. As many as 150 participants from across India and abroad participated in the conference. Prof. Om Prakash Arora from Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, was the chief guest at the valedictory session. The session was presided over by Vice-Chancellor Dinesh Kumar.Students shine in NTSE examKurukshetra: Two students of DAV Public School, Kurukshetra, have cleared the NTSE level-II examination, which was held in February 2021. Arpit Kundu and Aryan Gupta are students of Class XII in DAV, Kurukshetra. They cleared level- I in 2019. The result of level II was declared on July 16. Arpit Kundu scored 136 marks while Aryan Gupta Scored 135 marks. The cut off declared this year was 132 marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/world-skill-day-285259
19-07-2021||Chandigarh||War of words between Dushyant Chautala and his uncle Abhay Chautala spice up politics||Later, Dushyant hit back at Abhay, calling him a ‘non-serious politician’. It needs to seen whether the war of words between the family members-turned-foes will intensify after the release of INLD patriarch Om Prakash Chautala, who has thrown in his lot with Abhay, from the jail.Security staff feast, guests stareFaridabad: The recent visit of the Chief Minister to lay the foundation stone of the BJP office here resulted in an awkward situation for the invitees. The security staff accompanying the VVIPs were seen feasting on the food meant for the guests, while the latter stood there helpless. After looking at the rush at the food counters, the invitees, including industrialists, were seen leaving the venue early or awaiting their turn. A guest was heard saying: “The organisers should make separate food arrangements for the security staff so that the guests do not feel cornered at such an event.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/war-of-words-between-dushyant-chautala-and-his-uncle-abhay-chautala-spice-up-politics-285260
19-07-2021||Due to the torrential rains in the past few days||Poles uprooted, Karnal sector gets low-voltage power supply||Shakti Singh, KarnalDirty water being supplied in BhiwaniResidents of the Housing Board locality are being supplied adulterated potable water by the Public Health Engineering Department in Bhiwani town. Since the sewerage pipelines seem to be damaged resulting in leakage of sewage, which gets mixed with potable water. The residents have jointly complained to the authorities concerned several times. We have demanded that the administration lays a new sewerage. Many residents have fallen ill after consuming the adulterated water and there are apprehensions that water-borne diseases might spread in the locality.Dilbag Singh, BhiwaniWaterlogging a chronic problem in KurukshetraSeveral areas of the city witnessed waterlogging after it rained a few days ago. Waterlogging is a chronic problem and it gets aggravated during rain. Unplanned development has led to chronic problems like waterlogging and sewage disposal in the city. The designs of drains are also faulty due to which the water remains on the road even after the rain stops. The government should take immediate steps and come to the rescue of residents.Naresh Kumar, KurukshetraWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poles-uprooted-karnal-sector-gets-low-voltage-power-supply-285263
19-07-2021||---||Haryana eases curbs;  restaurant, gym timings extended||Chandigarh, July 18With Covid cases coming down, the state government today announced more relaxations, including increase in the timings of restaurants, bars and gymnasiums.However, night curfew will remain in force from 11 pm to 5 am, stated an order by the Chief Secretary.Meanwhile, all shops can stay open from 9 am to 8 pm, while malls will be open from 10 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and bars, including the ones in malls, will be allowed to open from 10 am to 11 pm with 50 per cent capacity; home delivery of food is allowed till 11 pm. The earlier timing was from 10 am to 10 pm.Club houses, restaurants and bars in golf courses will also be allowed to operate from 10 am to 11 pm with 50 per cent capacity. Gyms have been allowed to stay open from 6 am to 9 pm with 50 per cent attendance as against 8 pm earlier. The gatherings at weddings and funerals have been capped at 100. In open spaces, the gatherings up to 200 persons are allowed. Earlier, the limit was 50.The spas will be allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity subject to strict Covid protocols. Similarly, swimming pools will be allowed to open only for athletes, who are practising for events. The order stated cinema halls (in malls and standalone) are allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity.“Universities and colleges will be open for students to clear doubts and attend practical classes with adherence to social distancing norms and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” the order said.Similarly, coaching institutes, libraries and training institutes, both government and private, are allowed to open. Industrial Training Institutes will reopen for doubt classes and practical examinations.The Common Law Admission Test to be conducted by Delhi University on July 23 will be held in the state.Other relaxationsOver 69,000 more get vaccinated||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-eases-curbs-restaurant-gym-timings-extended-285236
19-07-2021||Gurugram||Three-storey building collapses in Gurugram's Farrukhnagar||A three-storey building, adjacent to a warehouse collapsed in Khawaspur village on Pataudi Road in Farrukhnagar on Sunday. While locals insisted that over 12 people were buried in the debris, local administration and police claimed so far they had verified reports of five being buried, out of which one was rescued and sent to hospital.The building reportedly served as living quarters for labourers of Cargo Deluxe company and collapsed owing to heavy rains in area. More than 200 policemen and large number of fire tenders are part of rescue operations which were underway till filing of the report. “We are on the job and have rescued one so far. There are no casualties reported as of now. We are hopeful of rescuing all the trapped. We shall eventually conduct an enquiry to ascertain the reason behind the accident,” said DC Yash Garg who was on spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-storey-building-collapses-in-gurugrams-farrukhnagar-285081
19-07-2021||---||Haryana govt extends lockdown till July 26 with more relaxations||Chandigarh, July 18With Covid-19 cases coming down, the Haryana Government on Sunday announced more relaxations, including increase in the timings of restaurants, bars and gymnasiums.The Covid-19 lockdown, has, however, been extended by a week from July 19 to July 26, said an order by the state Chief Secretary.However, night curfew will remain in force from 11 pm to 5 am.Meanwhile, all shops can stay open from 9 am to 8 pm, while malls can open from 10 am to 8 pm. The restaurants and bars, including those in malls, will open from 10 am to 11 pm with 50 per cent capacity and home delivery of food is allowed till 11 pm. The earlier timing was from 10 am to 10 pm.The club houses, restaurants and bars at golf courses will also be allowed to open from 10 am to 11 pm with 50 per cent capacity.Gyms have been allowed to stay open from 6 am to 9 pm with 50 per cent attendance as against 8 pm earlier.The gatherings at the weddings/funerals have been capped at 100 while in open spaces, the gatherings up to 200 persons has been allowed. The earlier limit was 50.The spas will be allowed to open from 6 am to 8 pm with 50 per cent capacity, subject to observance of strict Covid-19 behaviour.Similarly, swimming pools would be allowed to open only for such swimmers/athletes, who are practicing for competitive events.The order said cinema halls (in malls and stand alone) are allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity.“The university and colleges are allowed to open for students for doubt clearance, practical classes and examinations and offline examinations with strict adherence to social distancing norms and Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order said.Similarly, coaching institutes, libraries and training institutes, both government and private, are allowed to open. The ITIs will now open for doubt classes and practical examinations.The conduct of the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) to be conducted by Delhi University on July 23 will be allowed in the state.All production units, establishments and industries will be allowed to function but with strict adherence to Covid protocol.Highlights*Restaurants, bars to open from 10 am to 11 pm*Gyms to open from 6 am to 9 pm*CLAT by Delhi University on July 23 allowed*Night curfew to remain from 11 pm to 5 am||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-extends-lockdown-till-july-26-with-more-relaxations-285024
