20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt sends panel of 3 IAS officers for post of Chandigarh DC||The Haryana Government has sent a panel of three IAS officers to the Chandigarh Administration for the post of Deputy Commissioner (DC).The post is reserved for a Haryana cadre IAS officer. Incumbent Mandip Singh Brar's tenure, who has held the post for three terms, will end in October.The panel received by UT Administration includes the names of Vinay Pratap Singh, Prabhjot Singh and Mukul Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-sends-panel-of-3-ias-officers-for-post-of-chandigarh-dc-285893
20-07-2021||New Delhi||Govt always open to talks with farmers' unions to resolve issues over three new laws: Agriculture Minister Tomar||The government on Tuesday said it will remain open to discussions with protesting farmers' unions to resolve issues over three new agriculture laws passed by Parliament in September last year.In written replies to Lok Sabha on several questions related to farmers' protest, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government had so far held 11 rounds of negotiations talks with agitating farmers' unions to resolve the issues."The government has been engaged in serious, sensitive and active discussions with the farmers' unions to resolve the issues. During various rounds of discussions, government continuously requested the farmers' unions to discuss the provisions of the farm laws, so that if there is an objection to any provision, the advancement can be made towards a resolution of those," the minister said.But the farmers' unions insisted only on the repeal of the farm laws, he added."Government is always open to discussion with farmers' unions and will remain open to discussion with agitating farmers to resolve the issue," Tomar said.In all the rounds of discussions with the farmers' unions, the minister said the government had stressed that instead of insisting on the demand for the repeal of the laws, the unions should discuss their concerns on the clauses of farm Acts so that their concerns can be resolved.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for more than seven months in protest against the three laws that they say will end state procurement of crops at MSP (Minimum Support Price).Supreme Court has put on hold the implementation of the three laws till further orders and set up a committee to find solutions.During the 10th round of talks held on January 20, the Centre had offered to suspend the laws for 1-1.5 years and form a joint committee to find solutions in return for protesting farmers going back to their respective homes from Delhi's borders.The farmers' unions have been agitating against the three laws -- 'The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020', 'The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020' and 'The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The demands of agitating farmers' unions are repealing the three farm laws, keeping farmers outside the penalty provision on straw burning under Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance, 2020, withdrawing the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and issues-related to procurement at Minimum Support Price (MSP)."Giving top priority to the interest of farmers, government vide letter dated 9th December 2020 addressed to farmers' unions, explained point by point, how the concerns expressed by the farmers were being taken care of in the proposal of the Government of India."Government also proposed to constitute a small group consisting of representative of farmers' unions, who can deliberate on farm laws clause-wise in a time-bound manner and can also consider other issues related to farmers, which representatives of farmers' unions have not agreed. However, farmers' unions never agreed to discuss the farm laws except for demanding their repeal," Tomar said.The minister said these laws are intended to provide an ecosystem where the farmers can enjoy the freedom of choice relating to the sale of farmers' produce which facilitates remunerative prices to farmers through competitive alternative channels for selling their produce."These farm Acts will facilitate direct buying from farmers in trade area by traders, processors, exporters, Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs), agriculture co-operative societies etc., so as to facilitate farmers with better price realisation due to reduction in supply chain and marketing cost to enhance their income," he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-always-open-to-talks-with-farmers-unions-to-resolve-issues-over-three-new-laws-agriculture-minister-tomar-285863
20-07-2021||---||Gurugram building collapse: Khattar announces ex-gratia for family of deceased||Gurugram/Chandigarh, July 20Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lives after a three-storey building collapsed in Gurugram district's Khawaspur on Sunday.Besides, the seriously injured in the incident will be provided financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh, an official spokesperson said here.Three people died and one person was injured in the incident. The building was located on the Pataudi road in Farrukhnagar in Gurugram.A warehouse company had built the building to house labourers, police had earlier said.Two of the deceased were from Bhiwani in Haryana and one was from Uttar Pradesh. The injured person was also from Uttar Pradesh, police said. With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-building-collapse-khattar-announces-ex-gratia-for-family-of-deceased-285833
20-07-2021||A big pothole at the intersection of GT Road and Jagadhari Road just outside the Ambala Cantt Railway Station inconveniences commuters. This point is one of busiest interaction in North India||Big pothole in Ambala Cantt bane of commuters||Deepak Jain, Ambala CanttKarnal submerged as all drains choked post rainThe recent rain that lashed the city four days ago has resulted in waterlogging in different parts of Karnal. Rainwater even entered houses and shops. Sewerage was choked and ground floor toilets were practically unusable. Conditions in the so called posh areas of Sectors 13, 7 and 8 were equally bad. It took several hours for the water to clear after it stopped raining. Despite the fact that almost crores of rupees was spent on rainwater drainage system. The fault lies with poor maintenance of the system and negligence in cleaning the drains before the rainy seasonSandeep Chaudhri, KarnalOld trees a cause for concern in AmbalaThis photo pertains to Sector 9 market Ambala City. The dead tree fell to the ground at mid-night in the recent gusty winds three days ago. Had it been day time, there could have been loss of lives. Besides, there are many other suchtrees which can cause harm to people coming for shopping or banking. The present incident has caused damage to floor and cables. It is not understood why officials concerned do not take appropriate action timely?Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityStray dogs attack morning walkers in KarnalWhile jogging at Atal Park in Karnal, I faced a pack of ferocious stray dogs, which have bitten many morning joggers/walkers, including my father. All those who are bitten are forced to take anti-rabies injections. Though there are guards in the park but still the dogs are seen every day there. If some children or elderly happen to be alone anything can happen. The authorities need to take preventive measures before some major mishap takes place.Sankalp Sangwan, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/big-pothole-in-ambala-cantt-bane-of-commuters-285687
20-07-2021||Chandigarh||Nominations invited for Sardar Patel Award||ChandigarhNames of outstanding women employees soughtThe Haryana Women and Child Development Department has directed all departments to recommend names of outstanding women employees. The names of women, who have done exemplary work, especially in the cases of moral courage, are recommended to be sent to the department by October 29. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nominations-invited-for-sardar-patel-award-285685
20-07-2021||Faridabad||Education notes: JC Bose University, Faridabad, to help thalassemic patients||National webinar organisedKurukshetra: A one-day national webinar on "Sanjivani in victory from corona epidemic: Proper treatment, mental health, yoga pranayama and anand anubhuti by meditation" was jointly organised by Technology Education and Research Integrated Institutions (TERii), Kurukshetra, and Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nayas, Haryana. Jagram, convener, North Zone, Shiksha Sanskriti Utthan Nayas presided over the programme, and said, "We have to take inspiration from turtles and save ourselves at home in times of crisis and follow the guidelines laid down by the government to protect ourselves now.Training programme from July 26Faridabad: The department of computer science of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, will organise a week-long online 'Short term training programme' (STTP) on "Emerging research areas in big data computing" from July 26 to 31. The programme is sponsored by the AICTE and it will be conducted by eminent personalities from academia and industry.Online mock ParliamentAmbala:An inter-school mock Parliament 2021 was organised virtually in SD Vidya School with the aim not only to make students understand the parliamentary procedure but also to create awareness regarding public issues and form their opinion on them. It is also meant to be a platform to train the students in the technique of group discussion and develop in them an ability to arrive at a decision while respecting the views of others. The chief guest of the event was Dr Rana, principal, SD College.Plantation driveRohtak: A plantation drive was organised on the premises of Maharshi Dayanand University. Prof Rajbir Singh, Vice-Chancellor, conveyed the message of "Go green" and exhorted the university community members to plant trees and promote the cause of healthy environment. registrar prof Gulshan Lal Taneja, senior university functionaries, faculty members, and non-teaching employees took part in this plantation programme, and planted saplings on the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-notes-jc-bose-university-faridabad-to-help-thalassemic-patients-285684
20-07-2021||---||Courts can’t examine answersheets: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that it was not open for the courts to interfere in the mode and manner of evaluating answersheets of candidates taking examinations and said such an exercise was best left to experts.Justice Arun Monga was hearing a petition filed by Mohit Rathi against the Haryana Public Service Commission, Panchkula, through its chairman. He was seeking directions to the respondent either to rectify alleged mistake in the evaluation of his answer sheets of his papers in the examination conducted for the Haryana Civil Services (Executive) and other allied services – 2017. The rectification, he contended, could be carried out by rechecking, re-evaluation or correction in the result after re-examination of answer sheets, including totalling and awarding marks for the un-checked answers. In the alternative, directions were sought to send the answer sheets to a panel of experts from the Panjab University.The Bench was also told that the Secretary, Haryana Public Service Commission, gave a detailed response to the petitioner’s legal notice stating that rechecking of his answer sheets was carried out in the subjects of English and general studies. No mistake was found in the totalling of marks. Besides, no question was left un-checked as apprehended by the petitioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/courts-cant-examine-answersheets-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-285633
20-07-2021||Kaithal||Teacher gets  5-year jail  for molestation||A special court for SC/ST Act, POCSO and crime against women of the Additional District and Sessions Judge Poonam Suneja has awarded five-year jail term to Sanjeev Kumar, teacher at a government school in Siwan block, for molesting a student. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on the convict. Lokender Singh, Superintendent of Police, Kaithal, said on October 24, 2017, the Siwan police had registered a case on the complaint of a student of Class XII against an English teacher. She had alleged that the teacher used to write obscene comments in her copy, molest and harass her in the classroom. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teacher-gets-5-year-jail-for-molestation-285683
20-07-2021||---||Bodies of  two  teens recovered from Yamuna||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, July 19The bodies of two teenagers of Umedgarh village in the Murthal area were fished out from the Yamuna on Monday. Family members alleged that both were thrown into the river after being murdered. They also blocked the traffic on NH-44 near Bhigan village by keeping one teenager’s body on the road.The deceased have been identified as Annu Miyan (16) and Mohsin (17) of Umedgarh. In his complaint to the police, Khurshid, father of Annu Miyan, said his son and Mohsin were working in a private factory in Ramnagar. His son had told him that they had some feud with a youth, Vikas, of Sanpera village, who was also working in his factory. He threatened them regularly after which his son and Mohsin had left the job.Khurshid alleged that on Sunday, Vikas along with two other youths came to his house and took Mohsin and Annu with them on three motorcycles, but they did not come back. When they started searching them, they found their clothes near the Mimarpur ghat of the Yamuna. With the help of divers, the bodies were fished out on Monday. The Murthal police have registered a case against Vikas and his two friends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bodies-of-two-teens-recovered-from-yamuna-285682
20-07-2021||Faridabad||Faridabad: Demolition drive at Khori takes a hit due to downpour||The demolition of illegal structures was stopped today due to downpour since Monday morning at Khori Gaon colony here. The authorities concerned have decided to resume it after the weather becomes normal again. The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has demolished around 2,700 of the total around 10,000 structures spread over 172 acres of forest land so far.“We did wait for the clearance of the weather till 1 pm today, but decided to stop the demolition drive due to the bad weather,’’ said an official of the civic body.UN rapporteurs urge Centre to halt eviction of Khori villagersClaiming that around 60 to 70 per cent structures were still to be razed in the colony, he said the drive would continue till all encroachments were razed in the area. He said the drive was in compliance with the Supreme court order of June 7.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-demolition-drive-at-khori-takes-a-hit-due-to-downpour-285681
20-07-2021||Gurugram||3 killed in Gurugram building collapse||Three persons died while one was severely injured after a three-storeyed building collapsed in Khawaspur village near Gurugram late last evening. All three victims were employed as labourers at a nearby warehouse. The police have nabbed the warehouse manager while the owner is reportedly absconding.The dilapidated building that collapsed was owned by the warehouse.The rescue operation, launched around 8 pm on Sunday, lasted 19 hours. One body was pulled out from the debris on Sunday night and two on Monday. “While one person was rescued on Sunday, three persons unfortunately died in the incident,” said the Farrukhnagar police station in-charge.The victims, aged between 28 and 35 years, have been identified as Robin and Pradeep Singh from Uttar Pradesh and Rahul Bhardwaj from Bhiwani in Haryana. The injured, Pradeep Choudhary, also from Bhiwani, is admitted in Civil Hospital.The police have registered a case against warehouse owner Ravinder Kataria and manager Krishan Kaushik under Sections 288, 34 and 304 of the Indian Penal Code. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-killed-in-gurugram-building-collapse-285640
20-07-2021||---||Arrest Gurnam Singh Charuni, Rakesh Tikait, demands BKU (Mann)||Kurukshetra, July 19A group of farm activists led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann) state president Guni Prakash today held a demonstration and sought arrest of BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and BKU national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait.BKU activists staged a dharna on the Kurukshetra-Yamunanagar road, burnt the effigy of Charuni. They also submitted a memorandum to the Block Development and Panchayat Officer for CM Manohar Lal Khattar. They also demand release of Vishal Jood, who is in an Australian jail.Guni Prakash said, “The ongoing protest is politically motivated. Charuni and Tikait must be arrested as they have been disturbing the atmosphere for their political gains. They haven’t been allowing the MPs and MLAs to hold events. They have also disturbed the law and order situation. The government has been playing a friendly match with Charuni and Tikait despite the fact that they have been booked in several cases, they are not being arrested.”“We have also served an ultimatum that if Charuni and Rakesh are not arrested by July 22, we will start a permanent dharna at Ladwa of Kurukshetra and block the road. We have invited Chief Minister Manohar Lal to hold a rally at Mathana village of Kurukshetra,” he added.Hooda slams govtChandigarh: Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday strongly objected to the cases being registered against farmers under the sedition law. He said the BJP-JJP government was also not following the directions of the Supreme Court, by using such sections against farmers who were protesting peacefully. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrest-gurnam-singh-charuni-rakesh-tikait-demands-bku-mann-285680
20-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||Administration-SKM talks over farmers’ release fail in Sirsa||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 19Talks today between the district administration and a delegation of farmers who were sitting on dharna at Sirsa failed to end the ongoing stalemate. As a farmer leader, Baldev Singh Sirsa, had started an indefinite fast at the dharna site yesterday, a delegation of farmers comprising Lakhwinder Singh, Manjeet Singh, Prahlad Singh Barukhera, Swarn Singh Virk, Gurprem Singh Desujodha and Kamaljeet Kaur met Deputy Commissioner Aneesh Yadav and Superintendent of Police Arpit Jain at the mini-secretariat.After the meeting, the farmer leaders maintained that the talks failed as the officials failed to give an assurance on the release of the five farmer leaders and withdrawal of the sedition and other criminal charges against the farmers.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Prahlad Singh Barukhera said that it seemed that the administration had adopted a confrontationist attitude vis-a-vis the farmers.“The administration doesn’t seem to be in a mood to accept the demands of farmers. We have told the officials that in case of any mishap with Baldev Singh Sirsa who is indefinite fast, the administration will be responsible for the consequences,” he maintained.Meanwhile, DC Aneesh Yadav informed that they held a meeting with a delegation of farmers in a cordial atmosphere and he urged the farmers to hold the agitation in a peaceful manner. “It was a criminal act to attack the vehicle of the Deputy Speaker and the police have carried out action on the basis of their investigation,” he said. The DC said that the administration has provided the Bhagat Singh Park for holding the dharna, but it was wrong on part of the farmers to stage dharna on the road and cause road blockade, leading to inconvenience to the common man. The SP stated that the farmers’ body had also assured the police of keeping their agitation peaceful after the incidents of Hisar and Tohana in Fatehabad district.“But still the incident of violence occurred on July 11 when the vehicle of the Deputy Speaker was attacked by a group of activists in Sirsa,” he said adding that the police had initiated action into the incident of violence and the farmers could put up their defence in court. He said that the police had not taken any action against any innocent person.Protest erupts after farmers detainedKarnal: Several farmers on Monday protested outside the Assandh police station and also blocked a road near Jaisinghpura village after around 25 protesters were detained for allegedly opposing a BJP eventThey opened the blockade only after the farmers were released. They threatened not to allow any BJP-JJP meeting in the blockAs per information, a meeting of BJP leaders and workers was scheduled on Monday at Punjabi Dharamshala, where former BJP women state president Nirmala Bairagi was the chief guestAfter getting information, farmers started assembling near the dharamshala. When the police stopped them by installing barricades, some farmers overpowered themLater, they were detained by the police. SP Ganga Ram Punia said some farmers were detained, but were released TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/administration-skm-talks-over-farmers-release-fail-in-sirsa-285679
20-07-2021||Parveen Arora||3,500 acres in 25 villages inundated; loss being assessed||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, July 19Even as stagnant water on hundreds of acres of fields is yet to recede, the fresh spell of rainfall has increased to the woes of the farmers and flooded around 3,500 acres more in the Assandh block on Monday.Farmers have been making efforts to drain the rainwater that had accumulated due to the rainfall last week. But, a fresh spell of rain on Monday aggravated the situation.Blaming the authorities for not able to drain rainwater, they said unplanned measures resulted in the flood-like situation in several villages of the district. They said that not only their fields, but also the residential areas had also been submerged.“A drain was constructed several years ago along the National Highway-44 from Uchani to Karnal city, but it was not properly maintained. Due to this our paddy crops have been flooded,” said Yashbir Singh, a farmer of Uchani village.He along with other farmers accused the authorities of not taking responsibility for the situation. “We have approached the Irrigation Department and the Karnal Municipal Corporation, but nobody took our issue seriously,” Rampal, another farmer.“The authorities should learn a lesson from this flood-like situation and should clean all drains,” said Rajinder, another farmer. He said the drains should be cleaned and properly maintained.Shyam Lal, District Revenue Office (DRO), said due to a fresh spell of rain, around 3,500 acres of land in nearly 25 villages had been submerged. Teams of Revenue Department are in field to determine the losses.Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said they had been preparing an assessment of loss and will send it to the government. “Our teams are in the field to drain the water with the help of around 150 pumps,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-500-acres-in-25-villages-inundated-loss-being-assessed-285678
20-07-2021||Jhajjar||Problems galore for Tikri farmers||The first rain of monsoons today brought misery for farmers camping at Tikri border as water entered their huts, forcing them to resort to sitting on tractor-trolleys. Farmers say their belongings, food and other items were soaked.“No one could sleep after the downpour began at 2 am. Those camping at HUDA parks in Bahadurgarh town are the worst affected as water accumulated there till knee-level,” said Pargat Singh, BKU (Rajewal) leader.He maintained that many farmers were still using tractor-trolleys to rest and protect themselves from rain as the accumulated water was yet to be drained out. “We have requested the local administration to ensure the removal of stagnant water at the earliest,” Singh added.Meanwhile, Dr Swaiman Singh, office-bearer of social outfit Five-Rivers Heart Association, has sought help from people requesting them to provide JCB or other machines to clean the sewage and drains for immediate removal of rainwater. He has also posted a video message to social media in this respect.“We have sufficient manpower to clean the sewerage and drains at the protest site but need JCB and other machines used in desilting,” said Singh in the video. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/problems-galore-for-tikri-farmers-285677
20-07-2021||---||Gurugram wakes up to waterlogging||Tribune News ServiceGurugram, July 19Heavy rain lashed Gurugram in the past 24 hours, flooding several areas and halting traffic at major intersections. Several videos emerged on social media that showed vehicles partially submerged and water flowing on the streets. According to reports, 120 mm of rainfall was recorded in the city.On social media platforms, some residents even posted mock sale ads of their flats as sea facing or lake view.Many residential societies remained without power for up to 12 hours. When contacted, DHBVN employees said since power houses were waterlogged, the fault could not be rectified.People had to wade through knee-deep water at several places. Waterlogging was witnessed at underpasses, parking houses and lifts. Three underpasses — Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and Iffco Chowk — had to be shut. The city’s main storm water drain at Badshahpur is overflowing.The Sheetla mata road was submerged in over three feet of water. A portion of the roof collapsed at Ambience Mall while water entered low-lying houses in DLF phases 1 and 3 and Suncity Township.The pictures and videos of the mall were circulated on social media and residents demanded strict action against the mall authorities for putting their lives at risk.Traffic jams were reported on Sohna Road, Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, Jharsa Chowk and Bakhtawar Chowk.While the authorities concerned were found napping, police force, lead by Commissioner KK Rao, took the charge and was seen managing traffic, besides repairing and clearing drains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-wakes-up-to-waterlogging-285676
20-07-2021||---||Downpour brings life to a halt in Haryana, commuters stuck in traffic jams||Chandigarh, July 19The first downpour of the monsoon threw life out of gear in major cities of the state on Monday.While heavy rain provided some relief to residents from sweltering heat, waterlogging and power cuts affected the routine life. The tall claims of the local civic bodies about improved drainage system went for a toss.A realty check by Tribune reportersJind: The Jind-Bhiwani road, Jind-Gohana, Jind-Safidon and Railway road remained waterlogged. Public places such as the bus stand, Civil Hospital and other government offices, including the main road near the Mini-Secretariat, were submerged in three-ft water. Raj Kumar Goal, president of the Jind Vikash Sangthan, said 25 passengers remained stuck in a bus for several hours.Man drownsAn unidentified man died after allegedly drowning in a flooded underpass in Gurugram on Monday. The body was fished out on Monday evening by divers from the Rajiv Chowk underpass that had 6-8 feet water. It was a passerby who saw the body and called the police. TNSSonepat: Vehicular movement came to a grinding halt as Sonepat witnessed 117 mm of rain till 5 pm. Several stretches on National Highway-44 along Panipat and Samalkha remained waterlogged.Ambala: Sector-8, Cloth market, Model Town, Ram Nagar, Kajiwara, Nadi Mohalla and Jagadhri gate witnessed waterlogging.Jhajjar: All major roads remained inundated while water entered in houses in low-lying areas of Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh cities. The Deputy Commissioner, SDM and other officials remained in field to ensure the removal of water. Ambedkar Chowk, Silani Gate, Sitaram Gate, Chhara Chungi and Radha Swami Colony in Jhajjar city remained submerged. Flooding was witnessed in the newly constructed rail underpass, Jhajjar road, Najafgarh road and Dev Nagar in Bahadurgarh town.Kaithal: Nearly 4,000 acres of land in 35 villages of Assandh (Karnal) were inundated.Faridabad: The civic body authorities were caught napping as traffic movement came to a halt following heavy showers. Knee-deep water was witnessed on all major roads and in residential areas of the city. The demolition drive at Khori village had to be stopped amid heavy downpour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/downpour-brings-life-to-a-halt-in-haryana-commuters-stuck-in-traffic-jams-285675
20-07-2021||Faridabad||In Faridabad, Rs3.6 cr recovered from traffic offenders||The police have recovered a penalty of over Rs 3.60 crore from offenders of traffic rules between January 1 and June 30 this year. A total of 51,240 challans were issued in the last six months.The highest number of 12,228 challans was issued in February, while the figure declined to 945 in May, when the second wave of the Covid was on peak.Officials said about one fifth of the total challans were related to driving in wrong direction. “Youngsters often indulge in the violation of traffic rules,’’ says SK Sharma, district coordinator, Road Safety Organisation (RSO), an NGO involved in traffic management.According to information 10,545 persons were challaned for driving in wrong direction while 6,677 drivers were penalised for not wearing helmets.Sources said under the Faridabad Smart City Limited (FSCL) project, 50 cameras had been installed at various intersections and a total of 8,000 postal challans had been issued since October last.These cameras are a part of the red light violation detection (RLVD) system monitored through the Integrated Command Control Centre (ICCC) set up here in Sector 20.The system captures vehicles that jump red lights. It generates an alert, which is passed on to the traffic police control room and postal challans are sent issued to the offenders. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-rs3-6-cr-recovered-from-traffic-offenders-285674
20-07-2021||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak's Chhotu Ram memorial cries for repair||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 19The memorial of late farmers’ leader, Sir Chhotu Ram, located at his native village Garhi Sampla in Rohtak district is in a pitiable condition. Several photo frames bearing images of the late leader and other memorabilia have been infested with termites and the hall housing these is in a bad shape due to poor maintenance.The situation worsens in the rainy season, with a leaking roof and termite-infested damp picture frames greeting visitors. Several visitors have recorded their disappointment on the deplorable upkeep of the historical souvenirs in the visitor’s book kept at the memorial, but to no avail.This, despite the fact that the Garhi Sampla-Kiloi Assembly segment is represented by the Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, while Chhotu Ram’s great grandson (maternal) Brijendra Singh is a sitting Lok Sabha MP of the ruling BJP.A 64-ft statue of Chhotu Ram, which stands tall at the memorial, was unveiled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in October, 2018.“The memorial was established long ago, but it has not been maintained properly. Leaders of different parties, including the descendants of Chhotu Ram and politicians ranging from the wannabe MLAs to the Prime Minister, seek votes in the name of the late leader, but nobody bothers to maintain his memorial,” laments Satpal, a resident. Villagers recall that the memorabilia associated with Chhotu Ram were brought from Pakistan and kept in the memorial to conserve the memory of the late leader, but these have been withering away owing to poor maintenance.On being contacted for his comments regarding the matter, Rohtak Deputy Commissioner Capt Manoj Kumar stated that he would look into it and take appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtaks-chhotu-ram-memorial-cries-for-repair-285673
20-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Built 7 years ago, SAI hostel in Meham lying unused||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 19A 100-bed hostel of the Sports Authorities of India (SAI) in Meham town here has been reportedly lying unutilised for the past seven years. The building was constructed by the Department of Sports in 2014 at the cost of Rs 6 crore, but SAI did not take over the multi-storey building.The district administration has now planned to set up a community health centre (CHC) in it as the building of CHC in Meham is in a dilapidated condition and requires immediate repair.Recently, Deputy Commissioner Manoj Kumar wrote to the Sports and Youth Affairs Department requesting for handing over the hostel building to the Health Department so that it could be used as a CHC.“The hostel building has been in a state of disuse as SAI did not take over the building due to non-requirement. Its staffers are working at the stadium and there are no other takers for the same. The government has approved Rs one crore for the repair of the CHC, Meham, but it might take a long time which is not advisable at this moment in view of an impending third wave of Covid,” reads the letter.The letter further states if the SAI hostel building is handed over to the Health Department, it will not only save Rs one crore, but also facilitate proper use of the Rs 6 crore structure, lying vacant due to disuse.Sharmila Rathi, Working District Sports Officer, said SAI had set up its centre at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium in Rohtak city when the hostel was being constructed. Now, SAI employees work at the stadium and it does not need the building, she added.“A meeting of officers of the district administration, SAI, Health and Sports Department held recently also decided to send this case to state government with a request to hand over the hostel building to the Health Department as a hospital was required for the preparedness of probable third wave of Covid,” said a health officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/built-7-years-ago-sai-hostel-in-meham-lying-unused-285672
20-07-2021||Sonepat||Gang used code to help IAF aspirants cheat: Cops||The gang, which helped candidates cheat during the online examination for the post of airman in the IAF, had fixed special ‘codes’ to provide help to the aspirants. The gang was busted on Saturday.The gang members struck deals with officials at computer labs at 50 per cent commission per candidate of the total money they took from each of the candidates.Inspector Anil Chhiller, in charge, CIA-3, said the accused had fixed some codes based on the supervisor’s body language to tell the answers to their paid candidates in the computer lab.Before sending the aspirants to the lab for taking the exam, they trained them about the codes, he added.“If a supervisor puts his single hand into his pocket, it means ‘A’ is the answer of the question. If he puts both hands in his pockets, it means that option ‘B’ is the correct answer. If he ties his hands at the back, ‘C’ is the answer. If he ties his hands at the chest, then ‘D’ is the answer. If he claps after rubbing both hands, it means go to the next question,” Chhiller said. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gang-used-code-to-help-iaf-aspirants-cheat-cops-285663
20-07-2021||---||Lok Sabha Speaker for separate Haryana Assembly building: Gian Chand Gupta||Chandigarh, July 19Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has supported the demand of a separate Assembly building for Haryana, Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said today.Gupta said: “The Lok Sabha Speaker has fully supported our demand for a separate House. He said our case is the only one in the country where the Houses of two states are located in one building. Otherwise, every state has an independent building for Assembly.”Gupta had met Birla on Sunday night in Delhi and submitted a letter in the matter.“The Lok Sabha Speaker has told me that the new House should come up in Chandigarh and for that, we need to take up the issue with the Chandigarh Administration. Our main ground is delimitation exercise, which will be carried out in 2026. It will enhance our Assembly seats to 126 while the Lok Sabha seats would reach 14. The present House is for 90 MLAs and there is no space to increase the seats,” he said.Punjab Government didn’t provide us space in the Assembly building after the formation of Haryana, the Vidhan Sabha Speaker pointed out. “During the Assembly sessions, there is space for sitting of Punjab ministers in separate rooms whereas for Haryana, only the Chief Minister has an independent chamber. There is no space for ministers and chairpersons of the Vidhan Sabha committees,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lok-sabha-speaker-for-separate-haryana-assembly-building-gian-chand-gupta-285662
20-07-2021||---||Anil Vij: Relief for kids who lost their parents due to Covid in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19To provide secure future to the children who lost their parents due to the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said that state government had launched Mukhya Mantri Bal Seva Yojana.He said that under the scheme, the state government would provide a financial assistance of Rs 2,500 per child per month to the families looking after such children till 18 years of age. Besides, an amount of Rs 12,000 per annum will also be given to such children till they attain the age of 18 years.Vij added that children, who do not have any family members to look after them, would be nursed by Child Care Institutions. For such children, Rs. 1,500 per child per month would be provided by the state government till the child attains the age of 18 years, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-relief-for-kids-who-lost-their-parents-due-to-covid-in-haryana-285661
20-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||7 private hospitals in Rohtak refund excess amount to 13 Covid patients||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, July 19Seven private hospitals in the city have refunded the excess amount charged from 13 Covid patients during the second wave of the pandemic after their kin filed complaints with the district authorities.The refund amount ranges between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 4 lakh.All complainants withdrew their complaints after receiving the refund, saying that they were satisfied with the amount and did not want action against the hospitals.All cases were disposed of after the first hearing before a committee of district officers formed to deal with the complaints. In some cases, sources reported that erring hospitals returned the amount after the speculations that patients would lodge complaints against them.Sources informed a retired army officer was among the fleeced. Similarly, another private hospital also overcharged two brothers for blood and other tests.“The number of Covid patients who were overcharged by private hospitals in April and May are much higher than the complaints registered. A majority do not want to complaint against the hospitals as they secured beds through their near and dear ones. Many, who lost their family members to the virus, are also not interested in filing complaints,” said an officer.Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Mahendra Pal, who led the committee, informed that a panel of doctors calculated the actual expenditure of the medical treatment as per the government rates after receiving the complaint so that correct amount could be refunded to the kith and kin.Hisar hospital overcharges patient A non-Covid hospital in Hisar has charged Rs4.50 lakh for the treatment of a Covid patient. However, the hospital returned Rs3 lakh after the intervention of Dr Ramesh Punia of the Civil Hospital. The complainant is a resident of Adampur village. He stated that he got his wife admitted in the hospital in Sirsa road on May 10 after she tested positive for Covid. She stayed in the hospital till May 26.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-private-hospitals-in-rohtak-refund-excess-amount-to-13-covid-patients-285660
20-07-2021||Sushil Manav||Weekly Covid cases plunge to 14-month low in Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19Weekly Covid infections have dipped to a 14-month low with 260 fresh cases reported across the state during the week that ended on Sunday.The last time fewer infections than 260 were reported was from May 11 to 17 last year when 207 cases were recorded.Fifteen of the 22 districts of the state added less than 10 new cases during the past seven days. Of these, two districts — Charkhi Dadri and Jind — didn’t witness a single new infection during this period.Cumulative positivity rate stands at 7.3 PCThe daily cases being reported in Haryana are now less than half of the lowest number of daily infections after the first wave of pandemic.The cumulative positivity rate since the beginning of the pandemic, however, stands at 7.3 per cent.Gurugram saw the maximum 41 fresh cases, followed by Palwal 26, Karnal 21, Hisar 20, Panchkula, Rewari and Fatehabad 18 each, Sirsa 17 and Kaithal and Karnal 11 cases each.The daily cases being reported in Haryana are now less than half of the lowest number of daily infections after the first wave of pandemic.The daily positivity rate has also come down from over 28 per cent in May to 0.12 per cent on Sunday. The cumulative positivity rate since the beginning of the pandemic, however, stands at 7.3 per cent.The active cases in the state have dipped to 817 now, with five districts. While the state witnessed 181 deaths during the peak of the second wave on May 5, on an average seven deaths are being reported now.The state reported 49 mortalities in the past seven days, which is 18.84 per cent of the total new cases.No new cases in Charkhi Dadri, Jind||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/weekly-covid-cases-plunge-to-14-month-low-in-haryana-285659
20-07-2021||Vijay Mohan||Monsoon revives over North India on a strong note, but rain deficient in Punjab, Haryana||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 19While widespread rain that lashed most parts of northern India during the past 24 hours was significantly more that what is normally experienced during this particular period, monsoon for the month of July still remains below par in Punjab and Haryana.In Haryana, rain was above normal by as much as 580 per cent since yesterday, while it was in excess by 244 per cent and 74 percent in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, respectively.According to data compiled by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Haryana received 31.3 mm rain over the past 24 hours as compared to the normal of 4.6 mm. Himachal experienced 35.8 mm rain against the normal of 10.4 mm while Punjab received 9.2 mm against the normal of 5.3 mm.While the revival of monsoon over north India has been on a strong note rain during the month of July has been below normal by 46 percent in Punjab and 5 percent in Haryana. Himachal has fared a little better with rain being 6 per cent above normal so far during this month.According to the IMD, the present spell of heavy to very heavy rainfall activity is very likely to continue till July 20, with widespread rain and isolated heavy to very heavy falls over western Himalayan region including Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, as well as adjoining northwest India that includes Punjab, Haryana and east Rajasthan. Thereafter decrease in rainfall activity over the same regions is expected.Rain in June had been surplus, with the IMD announcing the arrival on monsoon over north India in mid-June, about 15 days ahead of schedule. In the beginning of this month, monsoon weakened with only isolated showers being experienced in some parts of the region.Though the skies over most parts of the region remained cloudy or partially cloudy with intermittent rain in some parts over the past three to four days, heavy rain were experienced only during the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/monsoon-revives-over-north-india-on-a-strong-note-but-rain-deficient-in-punjab-haryana-285416
20-07-2021||---||Pictures: Heavy rain leads to waterlogging, traffic snarls in Delhi, Gurugram; brings respite to people in Punjab, Chandigarh||Chandigarh/ Gurugram, July 19  Early morning rain brought much respite to the residents of Chandigarh and Punjab after sultry weather conditions persisted for long. It, however, disrupted life in Gurugram and Delhi, Reports regarding waterlogging, traffic snarls, overflow of water in some unplanned residential colonies started to emerge as rain continued in several parts.In South Delhi, where light showers started late on Sunday and continued through Monday, several areas reported waterlogging and traffic snarls.The road from Sangam Vihar to Ambedkar Nagar was overflowing with rain water which obstructed vehicular movement.According to the Delhi Traffic Police, PWD work was underway to clear congestion after a DTC bus broke down at Kanjhawala Chowk. Also, there have been reports of some roads caving in due to the continuous rain.Also read: Pictures: Chandigarh-Manali highway blocked due to massive landslide near Pandoh in Mandi; hundreds of people strandedMost areas of Gurugram heavily waterlogged entered low-lying houses in DLF phases 1 and 3, and Suncity Township.At least three underpasses at Rajiv Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and IFFCO Chowk were closed due to waterlogging.Rescue operation is under way at Khawaspur village in Farrukhnagar, where two bodies have been recovered so far by the NDRF.Power supply was snapped at various parts of the city.  As incessant rain pummelled the NCR region, waterlogging and traffic congestion were reported across Gurugram.The Traffic Wing of the Gurgaon Police remained busy clearing traffic on submerged roads and underpasses. Moderate to intense spell of rainfall was witnessed over parts of Jhajjar, Rohtak, Sonipat, Panipat, Gurugram, Jind, Rewari, Kurukshetra, Kaithal districts and adjoining areas. Light to moderate spell was witnessed in Palwal, Nuh, Ambala, Panchkula , Karnal and Bhiwani districts.Also read:||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pictures-heavy-rain-leads-to-waterlogging-traffic-snarls-in-delhi-gurugram-brings-respite-to-people-in-punjab-chandigarh-285354
