22-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||5 farmers arrested on sedition, other charges by Sirsa police granted bail||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 22The five farmers who were arrested by the Sirsa police on sedition and other charges in connection with an alleged attack on the vehicle of deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa in Sirsa were granted bail by a district court in Sirsa today.According to information, the bail petition was filed in the court today in the court of District and Sessions Judge Rajesh Malhota. Later, the court admitted the bail application and granted bail to the arrested farmers who were lodged in Hisar jail.As the arrested farmers identified Balkar Singh, Nikka Singh, Balkaur Singh, Daljit Singh and Sahab Singh reached amidst the farmers who were sitting on dharna in front of the mini secretariat, the farmers’ body decided to suspend their dharna and also called off tomorrow’s proposed Sirsa bandh and the proposed gherao of the residence of deputy speaker in Hisar on July 24.The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Baldev Singh Sirsa also ended his hunger strike after the release of the farmers on the fifth day of his hunger strike, today.The incident of attack on the vehicle of the deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa occurred on July 11 during the farmers’ protest after which the police registered a case against about 100 farmers slapping the serious charges of sedition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-farmers-arrested-on-sedition-other-charges-by-sirsa-police-granted-bail-286792
22-07-2021||Gurugram||Vij raids Gurugram MC office; orders FIR against officials for 'misappropriation of funds'||Rattling the Gurugram Municipal Corporation Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday conducted a surprise raid at the MCG office. From checking random files to going through pending complaints, Vij took all officials to task for alleged irregularities.Vij held a meeting with MCG Commissioner and Joint Commissioner and suspended two SDOs—Rakesh Sharma and Kuldeep Yadav—for not being available while people waited.He also relieved Executive Engineer Dharambeer Malik, who was on extension post-retirement. An FIR was ordered against officials, including Executive Engineer Gopal Kalawat, for alleged misappropriation of funds in a bill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-raids-gurugram-mc-office-orders-fir-against-officials-for-misappropriation-of-funds-286742
22-07-2021||New Delhi||Gagandeep Singh Wasu is NIA’s spl public prosecutor for Punjab, Haryana||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has issued a gazette notification appointing senior advocate Gagandeep Singh Wasu as the special public prosecutor for representing cases on behalf of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) before special courts for Punjab (Mohali) and Haryana (Panchkula) for three years with effect from July 20.It said he would also represent the NIA in cases before the special court and High Court established by law in the territory of the Union Territory (UT) of Chandigarh. According to the order, Wasu will now handle all terrorism-related cases, which are being investigated by the NIA in Punjab and Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gagandeep-singh-wasu-is-nias-spl-public-prosecutor-for-punjab-haryana-286637
22-07-2021||Panchkula||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta questions BJP MP Maneka Gandhi over sacrifice of animals on festival||As the Muslim community across the globe celebrated Bakrid or Eid al-Adha on Wednesday, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta questioned large-scale animal sacrifice on the festival.In a tweet this afternoon, the BJP leader even questioned animal rights activist and his own party MP Maneka Gandhi on the matter, asking “if this was not cruel to animals”.“On the occasion of Bakrid today, lakhs of goat are being killed. Isn’t it cruel to animals? What steps are being taken by Maneka Gandhi-run organisation to stop the slaughter of voiceless creatures,” he said in the tweet that titles “Please answer Mrs Maneka Gandhi”.Gandhi is the founder and chairperson of “People for Animals”, which works for animal welfare and their rights. Interestingly, Gandhi had earlier this year opposed the Panchkula Municipal Corporation’s plan to confine dogs at Sukhdarshanpur kennel to fulfil its objective of making the city free of strays.After her intervention, the local civic body had formed a committee to treat dogs in a humane manner.The committee then decided that captured stray dogs will be brought to the Sukhdarshanpur dog pound only for treatment, vaccination and sterilisation purpose and would be returned to their original locations thereafter.Relocating dogs was illegal as per the Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001, enacted under the Indian Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and rulings of the Supreme Court and other courts and guidelines of the state government, the MC itself in a statement had said.Before the Assembly elections in October 2019, Gupta had promised to address the menace of stray dogs. Establishment of a dog kennel in Sukhdarshanpur had been his pet project to solve the stray dog menace.In January this year, the General House of the MC in its first meeting had resolved to make Panchkula free of stray dogs by June 23, 2021. However, it remains a distant dream.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-speaker-gian-chand-gupta-questions-bjp-mp-maneka-gandhi-over-sacrifice-of-animals-on-festival-286517
22-07-2021||---||Soon, Rohtak PGIMS to have nuclear medicine centre||Rohtak, July 21The Rohtak PGIMS will soon have a nuclear medicine centre to provide PET scan facility and a linear accelerator unit to ensure precise and accurate treatment of cancer patients.These are among the four projects costing Rs 31 crore slated to be launched by Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij remotely on Thursday. The other two projects are a community centre and a two-storey convention hall.Hospital to have 1,200 oxygen-supported bedsAs many 1,200 of the 2,080 beds at Rohtak PGIMS will now be oxygen supported. no shortage of oxygen in case the third wave of Covid-19 strikes“The Health Minister will also dedicate two oxygen plants – one with a capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute and the other generating 833 litres of oxygen per minute – apart from a medical gas pipeline project costing Rs 6.25 crore,” said Prof OPKalra, the Vice-Chancellor of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), Rohtak.He asserted that there would be no shortage of oxygen in case the third wave of Covid-19 struck, pointing out that 1,200 of the 2,080 beds at Rohtak PGIMS will now be oxygen supported.Addressing a news conference here today, Dr Kalra disclosed that YouWeCan, a non-profit organisation established by Indian cricketer and cancer survivor Yuvraj Singh, was in the process of setting up a 100-bed ICU at Rohtak PGIMS, of which 64 beds would become functional by the end of this month.“With a view to tackling the third wave, a 600-bed facility, including 400 oxygen-supported beds, 100 ICU beds and 100 normal beds is being created for children,” the Vice-Chancellor stated.He, however, cautioned that the third wave could affect adults too, maintaining that there was no room for complacence, although a sizeable population of the country had been vaccinated for Covid and antibodies were found among a major chunk of people.UHS registrar Dr HK Aggarwal, Dean (Academic Affairs) Dr SSLohchab and PGIMS Medical Superintendent were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-rohtak-pgims-to-have-nuclear-medicine-centre-286476
22-07-2021||---||Two more oxy forests to come up in Karnal dist||Karnal, July 21In a bid to get natural oxygen, two more Oxy Vans (oxygen forests) will be developed on 10 acres of panchayat land.Land, identified in Raipur Roran village, has been finalised and the process to develop forest has been started, while for the second forest, a survey to identify the land is under way and is expected to be finalised in a couple of days.On World Environment Day on June 5, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had launched the Oxy Van project in around 80 acres of the Forest Department at Mughal Canal near Sector 4. The authorities claimed that Oxy Van would be developed in all eight blocks of the district.A total of 2,000 saplings would be planted in each Oxy Van, said Nishant Kumar Yadav, Deputy Commissioner. “Plants of Panchavati trees – Bel, Banyan, Amla, Peepal and Ashoka will be planted. Besides, saplings of different varieties of fruits will also be planted,” he added.“We are preferring plants which generate maximum oxygen,” he said.Gaurav Kumar, CEO, zila parishad, said they had already planted over one lakh saplings of different trees in 395 gram panchayats of the district. A portal has also been created on which pictures of all gram panchayats of plantation had been uploaded. Further to strengthen the forest area in the district, eight Oxy Vans were being developed in the district. The process to develop Oxy Van in Raipur Roaran village had been started, the CEO maintained.“We are also identifying land in more villages to develop forest in all blocks,” said the CEO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-more-oxy-forests-to-come-up-in-karnal-dist-286477
22-07-2021||Gurugram||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||The cybercrime unit of the police busted a fake call centre today and nabbed two partners of the owner, who managed to flee from the centre. The accused were duping foreigners through pop-ups in the name of social security number (SSN). They were allegedly threatening them by blocking the SSN and making them pay up. A computer hard disk and a mobile were seized by the police. An FIR was registered at the cybercrime police station in this regard. The cybercrime police got a tip-off that the fake call centre was being run from an office located in the Nambardar market in Sector 40. Following this, cops conducted a raid at the fake call centre where more than 10 men and women employees were busy on computers and laptops.  The workers could not show any valid OSP licences of the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work. Cops arrested fake call centre partners, identified as Akshay Kumar, a native of Ahmedabad, and Bisho Singh, a native of Manipur. Rohit, Bhavesh and Harsh Deep, alias Harsh, were the main owners of the fake call centre who managed to flee from the spot following the raid. The accused were cheating US citizens in the name of the SSN and website development. They used to charge $100 to $800 per customer. An FIR was registered against the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-286479
22-07-2021||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra University  to adopt remote proctoring for distance education pupils||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, July 21Kurukshetra University (KU) has decided to conduct remote proctoring of online examinations through a software prepared by an agency.The Controller of Examinations, Dr Hukam Singh, said, “The examinations of distance education and private candidates will start from July 22. On the recommendation of the university’s standing committee, the exams will be conducted in a blended mode (offline/online). However, this time remote proctoring will be done to prevent cheating. A portal has been prepared and a tender has been allotted to a firm for the remote proctoring of online examinations. Around 10,000 students will take exams. Arrangements have been made for private and distance education students as there was no such facility available earlier. Meanwhile, the exams of regular students have already started and their proctoring is being done through Google Meet like the last year.”Dr Hukam said the students would have to get themselves registered for online or offline examinations and they wouldn’t be allowed to change their option later.For the online option, the candidates must have high-speed Internet, smartphone or laptop. The students will get the question paper through a link that would be shared on the portal. They would have to sit in the front of a webcam.Maintaining exam’s integrity||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-to-adopt-remote-proctoring-for-distance-education-pupils-286480
22-07-2021||Karnal||4,437 families come under BPL status||In the past 16 months, as many as 4,437 families have come under the status of below poverty line (BPL). A total of 9,361 families were added to the BPL list in the past decade, of which 4,437 have been added since April 2020 to date. There were 46,731 BPL families in the district in 2011-12. After the socio-economic caste census (SECC) in 2011, 2,162 more families had been added in the list while during the year 2019-20, a total of 2,762 families were included in the BPL categories.In 2020-21, only two families came under the BPL status while in 2021-22,  4,435 families had been included in the category.“We received around 40,000 applications since November 2020. We conducted a survey of around 28,000 and the survey for the remaining families is being conducted by block-level committees,” said Gaurav Kumar, CEO Zila Parishad and DRDA. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-437-families-come-under-bpl-status-286481
22-07-2021||---||Book Gurnam Singh Charuni for derogatory remark, demands BKU(M)||Kurukshetra, July 21Activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann) led by their state president Guni Prakash today sought registration of a case against BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni for his alleged derogatory remarks against BKU (Mann) chief Bhupinder Singh Mann.The controversyGurnam Singh Charuni had allegedly used derogatory remarks against the Mann faction and termed their leader as a traitor for supporting the WTO during former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s regime and for now supporting the farm laws.Gurnam Singh Charuni had allegedly used derogatory remarks against the Mann faction and termed their leader as a traitor for supporting the WTO during former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s regime and for now supporting the farm laws.Meanwhile, Guni Prakash said, “On Tuesday, Gurnam Singh used derogatory and abusive remarks against former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and BKU(M) leader Bhupinder Singh Mann. He has been instigating the farmers and must be booked under sedition charges. We have submitted a complaint to the Deputy Superintendent of Police. If the case is not registered, we will hold demonstrations.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/book-gurnam-singh-charuni-for-derogatory-remark-demands-bkum-286482
22-07-2021||---||Brick-kilns seek relief from Haryana Govt for survival||Faridabad/ Palwal, July 21The association of the brick- kilns has written a letter to the state government seeking relief to ensure the survival of the industry.The operation period of the brick-kilns based on coal fire energy and zigzag technology has been limited to three months a year in the NCR in view of their inability to switch over to cleaner fuel such as PNG. At present, there are 220 kilns in Faridabad and Palwal.“It is not possible to switch over to PNG in the wake of unavailability of gas supply and technology,” said a spokesperson for the association. He said the brick-kilns that required temperature up to 1,200°C were not supported by the PNG, whose maximum temperature was lower. The temperature required was variable and no technology was available till now, he said, adding that Rs 50 lakh had already been spent for switching over to the zigzag method from the traditional fixed chimney bull’s trench (FCBT) made mandatory in 2018.“Besides technological hurdles, laying a gas pipeline to kilns is an arduous task. The government should either contest the NGT order or provide the technology,’’ says Pradeep Gupta of the association.Earlier in February, the NGT had said that coal-fired brick -kilns could not be allowed to operate in the NCR even if the zigzag technology is used and improved procedures are followed during “severe” pollution. Unless there was a change to a cleaner fuel (PNG), brick-kilns beyond the number specified could not be allowed in the NCR, the green panel had said.Smita Kanodia and Vijay Chaudhary, regional officer, PCB, Faridabad and Palwal, respectively, said the operation of the number of kilns would soon be decided on the basis of carrying capacity (production and demand). The prices of bricks had increased to Rs 5,000 per thousand from Rs 4,500 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/brick-kilns-seek-relief-from-haryana-govt-for-survival-286483
22-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Two get life term for rape, murder||Neha Nohria, Additional Sessions Judge (ASJ), district court, Jagadhri, on Tuesday awarded life imprisonment till death to two persons in connection with the rape and murder case of a 57-year-old woman. Public prosecutor Aman Kaushik said that the ASJ has also imposed a fine of Rs 30,000 each on both persons.The case fileThe ASJ had held Rishipal (54) and Vinod (35) of Gulab Nagar, Jagadhri, guilty on July 16. According to the information available, a 57-year-old woman, who was posted as a clerk in the office of block development and panchayat office, Bilaspur, was found murdered at her house in Jagadhri on February 5, 2018.On the complaint of the deceased’s brother, a case was registered against unidentified persons under Sections 376 and 460 at City police station, Jagadhri. After about two months, the police solved this murder mystery with the arrest of Rishipal and Vinod.Both persons have a criminal background. Vinod was on bail from Punjab and Haryana High Court in a murder and loot case at that time. Rishipal was also booked in four separate cases of loot. During interrogation, Rishipal and Vinod told the police that they entered the house of the woman with an intention to loot on the night on February 4, 2018. They said that when they were committing the loot in the house, the woman woke up.As per the police investigation, Rishipal raped the woman and Vinod strangulated her.The woman was living alone in the house as her two daughters are married. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-get-life-term-for-rape-murder-286484
22-07-2021||---||Faridabad: No structure demolished at Khori Gaon Colony on Eid||Faridabad, July 21The demolition drive at Khori Gaon Colony here remained halted on the eighth day today in wake of public holiday (Eid ul-Adha).The authorities concerned have claimed that it might be resumed tomorrow as a large number of constructions still exist on the government land that had been notified as forestland in 1992. As many as 600 structures were razed on Tuesday.“Though halting the drive could be a temporary relief, the threat of losing one’s house still lingers on as the authorities have reiterated that all the encroachments here will be demolished in compliance with the Supreme Court order,” says Pritam, who had built a two-room structure a few years ago.He said that residents whose houses face demolition were still hoping against hope that the drive might come to an end soon.Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) has removed around 3,300 constructions spread over 172 acres of forestland so far, according to sources, though the officials are tightlipped over the number.“The demolition will continue till all the encroachments are removed,” said an official who said that the drive was in compliance with the Supreme Court order of June 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-no-structure-demolished-at-khori-gaon-colony-on-eid-286485
22-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||In Jhajjar, get ‘birth certificate’ for Rs 2,500||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, July 21Posters asking people to get birth certificate for Rs 2,500 have come up in Jhajjar city. The district health authorities are suspecting the role of a private agency in preparing ‘fake’ birth certificates and have decided to lodge a police complaint in this regard.In a similar incident, two FIRs were recently registered in Gurugram and Kaithal districts for “hacking” the official account of the Register (birth and death) for issuing fake certificates.Using the Registrar’s login ID, fraudsters issued 20 fake certificates in Kaithal and 14 in Gurugram. A health official said similar posters were found pasted in the city last month too, but the cellphone number mentioned on them was different at that time.“I dialed the number mentioned on the poster and the call was received by a woman. She sought the Aadhar Card number of the person concerned with an advance fee of Rs 1,000 to get a birth certificate made from Delhi. She informed Rs 2,500 is charged for the child aged less than 5 years, Rs 4,500 for minors and Rs 8,000 for those above 20 years and above,” he added.She sought advance payment through Paytm and asked to pay the remaining amount after receiving the certificate.Jyoti Nagpal, Civil Registration Assistant, said she learnt about the posters today and informed the higher authorities. “A meeting is likely to be held tomorrow to discuss the issue and take further action in this regard,” she added.Dr Sanjay Dahiya, Civil Surgeon, said the Deputy Civil Surgeon (birth and death) had been asked to look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-jhajjar-get-birth-certificate-for-rs-2-500-286486
22-07-2021||---||War of words between Haryana CM Khattar, Kumari Selja over Pegasus controversy||Chandigarh, July 21Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today lambasted the Congress for disrupting Parliament over the Pegasus controversy. Meanwhile, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja questioned as to why a state CM was giving explanation for it. She announced to hold a protest march over the snooping issue.Khattar, addressing a press conference, here today said that the Parliament session was to discuss enhancing the rights of farmers, women, youth and backward classes, but the Congress was trying to derail it.“The Congress has a character that whatever they used to do (during their tenure), they make similar allegations against others,” he said and added that they not only spied upon their rivals but also targeted their own party colleagues.“We never resorted to such things,” Khattar claimed, adding that during the UPA rule, the then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee had written about phone tapping by then Home Minister P Chidambaram. “The Chandra Shekhar government was dislodged after floating a story about two detectives.”He claimed that as per a list, they had snooped on over 9,000 people including senior leaders. “During the nuclear deal, they snooped on Amar Singh,” he said.He claimed that for the Pegasus controversy, the Congress had conspired with foreign help. “Why do we need to tap phones when without tapping they (Opposition leaders) say such hilarious things that they suffer loss?” Khattar said.He questioned the credibility of Amnesty International and alleged that they are connected with organisations that want to tamper with the image of the country.On Pegasus, Khattar said, “There is no proof that the targeted phones were actually hacked. There are a number of agencies which are doing it, but we are not doing it.”Holding a press conference later in the day, Selja said, “About 300 individuals in the country were targeted, including judges, top officials, journalists and Opposition leaders. Our leader Rahul Gandhi and people associated with him are also on the list.”She alleged, “It is clear that it was not done for fighting terrorism but to infringe on fundamental rights.” She claimed that Congress-JD(S) government in Karnataka was dislodged with the help of snooping. She demanded a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) probe or the SC-monitored inquiry. She called for resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah.She said all the MLAs have been called for a protest march on July 22 from the HPCC office to Governor’s House. She hinted that the march would be held despite imposition of prohibitory orders in Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/war-of-words-between-haryana-cm-khattar-kumari-selja-over-pegasus-controversy-286487
22-07-2021||---||Hisar: Tehsil welfare inspector held guilty in graft case||Hisar, July 21The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Ved Prakash Sirohi has held tehsil welfare inspector Rajkumar guilty in a bribery case.Rajkumar, a resident of Jind district, is employed with the Scheduled and Backward Classes Welfare Department.He was caught red-handed while seeking a graft for releasing grant under the inter-caste love marriage scheme. The quantum of sentence will be announced on July 22.According to information, the state Vigilance Bureau had registered a case against Rajkumar on March 30, 2017, on the complaint of Omprakash, a resident of Hisar.The complainant said he had married a girl belonging to the SC community girl and applied for an incentive of Rs 1.01 lakh announced by the government for inter-caste marriages.Rajkumar deposited the first installment of Rs 51,000 in his account, but demanded Rs 10,000 for releasing the remaining grant of Rs 50,000.Omprakash approached the state Vigilance Bureau, which laid a trap and arrested the official red-handed while accepting an amount of Rs 5,000 from the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-tehsil-welfare-inspector-held-guilty-in-graft-case-286576
22-07-2021||---||1.08 cr jabbed in Haryana so far||Chandigarh, July 21The total vaccinations against Covid-19 were pegged at 1,08,23,925 on Wednesday with 37,947 more being inoculated.Meanwhile, 7, 59,240 persons have recovered from the disease so far.The recovery rate is 98.65 per cent while the fatality rate is pegged at 1.25 per cent.On the other hand, the state on Wednesday reported three Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 9,611 while 35 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 7,69,640, according to the Health Department's daily bulletin. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-08-cr-jabbed-in-haryana-so-far-286575
22-07-2021||Hisar||Farmers to gherao Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa’s house||Protesting farmers blocked the national highway at three points in Sirsa district today to demand the release of five farmers who were arrested on sedition charges. The farmers blocked the road on Bhavdin toll plaza, Khuiyan toll plaza and Panjuana village for two hours.They also gave a call for Sirsa bandh on July 23 and announced gherao of Haryana Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa’s residence at Hisar from July 24 for an indefinite time.Farmer leader Baldev Singh Sirsa has been sitting on indefinite fast in front of the mini-secretariat in Sirsa. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-to-gherao-haryana-deputy-speaker-ranbir-gangwas-house-286574
22-07-2021||---||First human case of bird flu being probed, no suspects so far: Centre||New Delhi, July 21The government on Wednesday said an 11-year-old Gurugram boy who died at AIIMS, New Delhi, recently, had been confirmed through investigations to be India’s first human case of bird flu and Haryana’s disease surveillance unit was probing it.All close contacts of the boy had been put under close surveillance. No suspected cases had been found in Gurugram yet nor had the nurses or doctors who treated the child reported any symptoms, said the Health Ministry today.“An 11-year-old child has been reported as the first human case of H5N1 from Gurugram, Haryana. He was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukemia at AIIMS paediatrics department in June. Later he developed symptoms of fever, cough and breathing and progressed to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. He was admitted to AIIMS on July 2 and died on July 12 after multi-organ dysfunction,” the Health Ministry said today.Advanced tests by the National Institute of Virology Pune, an ICMR lab, confirmed bird flu (H5N1) in the patient. Currently, whole genome sequencing and virus isolation are in process.The government today said the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) received the information about the case on July 16 and the information was communicated immediately to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme State Surveillance Unit, Haryana, to initiate an epidemiological investigation into the case.“The matter was also reported to the Animal Husbandry Department of Haryana,” the government said.Based on the available information, the team of doctors and nurses treating the patient are being monitored since July 16 for the development of any influenza-like illness with no one reported symptomatic till date, said the Health Ministry.Family members, close contacts and health care workers are still under surveillance and none have shown any symptoms yet, said a government statement.Contact tracing, an active search for any symptomatic case has been carried out in the hospital and area where the case resided, said the ministry.The government said people in Gurugram had been advised to report any symptomatic case to the health authorities, but presently there is no symptomatic individual in the area.The Animal Husbandry Department has also not found any suspected cases of bird flu in the area and has enhanced surveillance in a 10-km zone as a precautionary measure.All about avian influenza BIRD FLUAvian influenza is caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other bird and animal species. Avian flu viruses do not normally infect humans. However, sporadic human infections with avian flu viruses (types H5, H7 H9) have occurred.HOW ARE HUMANS INFECTEDInfected birds shed avian influenza virus in their saliva, mucous and feces. Human infections with bird flu viruses can happen when enough virus gets into a person’s eyes, nose or mouth, or is inhaled. This can happen when a virus is in the air (in droplets or possibly dust) and a person breathes it inSIGNSConjunctivitis, influenza-like illness, sometimes accompanied by nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, shortness of breath, pneumonia, acute respiratory distress, viral pneumonia, altered mental statusPREVENTIONAvoid sources of exposure. Most human infections with avian influenza A viruses have occurred following direct or close contact with infected poultry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/first-human-case-of-bird-flu-being-probed-no-suspects-so-far-centre-286573
22-07-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||In Haryana, 2,503 ‘doubtful’ sports certificates issued in 3 years, used for govt jobs: Probe||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 21The veracity of nearly half of the sports certificates issued by various sports federations of Haryana and validated by the Sports Department over the last three years has been categorised as “doubtful” in a preliminary internal inquiry conducted by the department.Sources said of the 5,627 certificates, 2,503 had been labelled as “doubtful” by a committee constituted to look into all sports gradation certificates issued under the state government’s new policy — finalised in 2018 — for sportspersons seeking government jobs. The report was submitted earlier this week.Want vigilance probe, won’t spare guiltyI am in favour of getting it investigated by the Vigilance department or by a retired officer… the guilty will be brought to book. — Sandeep Singh, MoS, SportsComplaints in 2019 overlookedIn all, 5,627 certificates were issued after the new sports policy came into being in 2018Some players were issued certificates by various sports federations for games they never playedComplaints during a job drive in 2019 allegedly overlookedThe committee was constituted after the department received a large number of specific complaints of “fake certificates”. The Director of Sports, Pankaj Nain, said, “The committee has submitted its report. It has been submitted to the higher authorities for appropriate action.”According to information, the initial trigger came from Group-D recruitment for 1,518 jobs, made for those with achievements in sports in 2019. After the department received complaints of “fake” certificates being submitted for jobs, an exhaustive verification was carried out. It was found that 250 certificates were either not as per the existing policy or were “bogus”.However, despite this, complaints kept flowing in. One complaint specifically named the players and mentioned that while they played throwball, the gradation certificates issued to them were for taekwondo. Smelling a rat, the department top brass decided to go in for a closer examination of all certificates issued under the new policy.It found that various federations had issued certificates to players, but did not have relevant entries for the same. Further, the department dealing hands and the district sports officers had issued gradation certificates without verifying details of the player and the sport they were seeking the certificate for.“The federations issued a large number of certificates when those many events could not have possibly been held in one year. This shows they were either careless in discharging their duty or there was some misdeed,” a source explained.Haryana Minister of State for Sports Sandeep Singh said the department wanted a thorough inquiry into the matter. “I am in favour of getting it investigated by the Vigilance department or by a retired officer. One thing is certain, the guilty will be brought to book,” he asserted.The Minister claimed while some federations were doing commendable work, there were others that had made a business out of issuing certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-haryana-2-503-doubtful-sports-certificates-issued-in-3-years-used-for-govt-jobs-probe-286518
22-07-2021||The supply of adulterated water in Chiranjivi Colony in Bhiwani has resulted in potable water crisis. The yellowish water is being supplied by the Public Health Engineering Department which is unfit for human consumption. We have brought the matter to the notice of the district administration. We request the district administration to immediately ensure clean potable water supply in the locality.||Water woes in Bhiwani colony||Rakesh Kumar, BhiwaniKurukshetra roads inundated, commuters a Harried lotThe city gets flooded within a few hours of rain. A majority of the roads in the city are in a poor condition and need immediate repair. The potholes are a major threat for the commuters as the potholes get filled with rainwater and it is impossible to locate the potholes. The situation is not only dangerous for the people but it also damages the vehicles . The local MLA and the council have failed to improve the situation at the ground level. Sailesh, KurukshetraLand mafia rules the roost in FaridabadEncroachment and illegal constructions by the land mafia on public land like drains and green belt have been going on unabated. While this has reduced the space for commuting and provision of civic amenities, it has also led to problems in the drainage system in the city, resulting in acute waterlogging and flooding of both residential and commercial areas during rains. The space meant for parking has also been usurped by the mafia allegedly enjoying the support and patronage of the influential persons. The state government should conduct an audit of the total land under encroachment in the city and demolish all illegal structures to curb the nexus.Krishan Lal Gera, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/water-woes-in-bhiwani-colony-286513
22-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Paper in international journal||Five students get placementsHisar: Five students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Noida-based Veersa Technologies organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students, including Chandani Garg, Jyoti, Neha Sangwan, Ankit and Pushpender of CSE 2021 passed out batch.Second vaccination campKaithal: The second Covid vaccination camp was organised by the administration and the NSS units of RKSD College, Kaithal, here in the main auditorium. It was inaugurated by Civil Surgeon, Kaithal, Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly, treasurer governing body Shyam Bansal and principal Sanjay Goyal. A total of 316 of Covishield and 120 doses of Covaxin were administered.those who were vaccinated were largely students of the college, staff of the affiliating institutions, their families and residents of the city.Online edu for marginalised kidsGurugram: M3M Foundation, the philanthropic arm of M3M Group together with Aide-et-Action, an international development organization, has successfully been running the iMpower programme to ensure online education of marginalised children in Gurugram. The education division of the foundation is thriving and the iMpower programme is being taken up by volunteers and facilitators at the five labourer camps of M3M construction sites in Gurugram. Each iMpower club has created its own WhatsApp group, wherein the facilitators and the children connect every day to guarantee that continuous education is imparted to those marginalised children. "This initiative is ensuring that the children, no matter what their financial or social status is, should get the education they deserve nonetheless, amidst this pandemic situation," said Dr Payal Kanodia, Trustee, M3M Foundation.Admission begins at skill varsityPalwal: The state government owned Shri Vishwakarma Skill University (SVSU) has started the admission process for academic session 2021-22 for various skill courses. Applicants have been invited to apply for their choice of course between July 15 and September 15. Dean Academic Jyoti Rana said students could take admission in various skill courses offered by the faculty of engineering and technology. VC Raj Nehru said all courses were based on the concept of earn while learn model, where students get stipend along with studies. While the updated information has been made available on the university website, applicants can also contact the toll free helpline of 18001800147.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paper-in-international-journal-286506
22-07-2021||---||Haryana probing India’s first bird flu case in humans, no suspects so far: Centre||New Delhi, July 21The government on Wednesday said an 11-year-old Gurugram boy who died at AIIMS, New Delhi recently, had been confirmed through investigations to be India’s first human case of bird flu and Haryana’s disease surveillance unit was probing the case.All close contacts of the boy had been put under close surveillance. No suspected cases had been found in Gurugram yet nor had the nurses or doctors who treated the child reported any symptoms, said the health ministry today.Read also“An 11-year-old child has been reported as the first human case of H5N1 from Gurugram, Haryana. He was diagnosed with Acute Myeloid Leukemia at AIIMS paediatrics department in June. Later he developed symptoms of fever, cough and breathing and progressed to Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome. He was admitted to AIIMS on July 2 and died on July 12 after multi organ dysfunction,” the health ministry said today.Advanced tests by the National Institute of Virology Pune, an ICMR lab, confirmed bird flu (H5N1) in the patient. Currently, whole genome sequencing and virus isolation are in process.The government today said the National Centre for Disease Control received the information about the case on July 16 and the information was communicated immediately to the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme State Surveillance Unit, Haryana to initiate an epidemiological investigation into the case.“The matter was also reported to the Animal Husbandry Department of Haryana,” the government said.Based on the available information, the team of doctors and nurses treating the patient are being monitored since July 16 for development of any influenza-like illness with no one reported symptomatic till date, said the health ministry.Family members, close contacts and health care workers are still under surveillance and none have shown any symptoms yet, said a government statement.Contact tracing, an active search for any symptomatic case has been carried out in the hospital and area where the case resided, said the ministry.The government said people in Gurugram had been advised to report any symptomatic case to the health authorities but presently there is no symptomatic individual in the area.The Animal Husbandry Department has also not found any suspected cases of bird flu in the area and has enhanced surveillance in a 10 km zone as a precautionary measure.All about bird fluAvian influenza is caused by infection with avian (bird) influenza (flu) Type A viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other bird and animal species. Avian flu viruses do not normally infect humans. However, sporadic human infections with avian flu viruses (types H5, H7 H9) have occurred.How humans are infectedInfected birds shed avian influenza virus in their saliva, mucous and faeces. Human infections with bird flu viruses can happen when enough virus gets into a person’s eyes, nose or mouth, or is inhaled. This can happen when a virus is in the air (in droplets or possibly dust) and a person breathes it in, or when a person touches something that has virus on it then touches their mouth, eyes or nose.SignsConjunctivitis, influenza-like illness, sometimes accompanied by nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, shortness of breath, pneumonia, acute respiratory distress, viral pneumonia, altered mental statusPreventionAvoid sources of exposure. Most human infections with avian influenza A viruses have occurred following direct or close contact with infected poultry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-probing-indias-first-bird-flu-case-in-humans-no-suspects-so-far-centre-286339
