23-07-2021||Hisar||Hisar administration files closure report over May 16 farmer-police clash||Hisar district administration filed its closure report into FIRs registered against hundreds of farmers over the May 16 clash with Haryana Police on Friday.The clash, which left people wounded on both sides, occurred after farmers gathered to protest against Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who’d visited the district to inaugurate a Covid-19 hospital. Some 350 farmers had been booked over the violence that left 50 people, 20 of them policemen, wounded. Among the charges they faced was attempt to murder.  The district administration had agreed to drop its charges against the protesters after a meeting between farmer leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha and the district administration.The closure report, which the public prosecutor Rahul Tanwar presented, says that the complainant in the case, Inspector Vijender Singh, had no objection to the case being closed and that he was satisfied with the investigation.Chief Judicial Magistrate Shifa accepted the closure report.“The file be consigned to the record room after due compliance,” the order said.The clash occurred when police intercepted farmers, who’d given a protest call against the visiting CM, while they were on their way towards Hisar on May 16.  The criminal charges over the violence led to a large protest gathering of farmers in Hisar on May 24. A meeting between the farmer leaders and the district administration prevented a potential standoff, and led to the administration agreeing to drop the criminal charges.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-administration-files-closure-report-over-may-16-farmer-police-clash-287194
23-07-2021||New Delhi||Haryana Governor meets President Ram Nath Kovind||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya called on President of India Ram Nath Kovind on Friday and apprised him of development and welfare measures being taken in the State which include efforts to double the income of farmers.Dattatreya informed that the state is committed to the welfare and progress of farmers.Haryana is the first State to purchase 11 farm produce at Minimum Support Price. Payment (MSP). Payments against procurement were made to the farmers within 72, which is exemplary, Dattatreya said.A Haryana government functionary described Dattatreya's meeting with Kovind as a "courtesy call".     Dattatreya informed Kovind that the State has great potential in the animal husbandry sector.While the state is number one in the agriculture sector, it is also a front ranker in the dairy sector. The state is strengthening the cooperative movement to boost the dairy sector.The state is the first to achieve the target of 13,344 gms milk per person per day. Also, the universities in the state are setting new standards of excellence. There is stress on vocational studies and skill training in them to help students become eligible for jobs.He further informed Kovind that the state was preparing to implement the New Education Policy-2020. The process relating to it has been started.Ends||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-governor-meets-president-ram-nath-kovind-287168
23-07-2021||New Delhi||SC rejects Delhi’s contempt plea against Haryana||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the Delhi Government's plea seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the Haryana Government for alleged violation of a 1996 order on the water supply to the national capital.A Bench headed by Justice LN Rao turned down the AAP government’s plea and asked it to negotiate the matter with the Haryana government to resolve the issue."Please advise your client not to file application after application," the bench told Singh and dismissed the contempt plea. Contempt is dismissed," the bench said and asked the Delhi government to undertake a consultation process with the Haryana to resolve the issue.The Delhi Government had moved the top court, alleging that as per the order of February 29, 1996, Haryana had to keep the Wazirabad water reservoir full and this order is being breached, said senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the city government.The Haryana Government had rejected the allegations, saying the Delhi Government was trying to conceal its utter failure in the management of water by accusing it of being responsible for increased Ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to the national capital.In an affidavit filed in response to the Delhi Jal Board’s plea, the Haryana Government had said it’s Delhi which was responsible for increased Ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to its residents as the Wazirabad Water Treatment Plant had not been upgraded to treat water.Haryana had contended that the Central Pollution Control Board had examined the water of river Yamuna on January 13, 2021, and it was found that Ammonia levels rose sharply from Delhi contact point at Palla to Wazirabad.This was due to unauthorised discharges between Palla and Wazirabad and sediment deposition at Wazirabad Pond and therefore it’s up to DJB to control pollution at these points, Haryana had submitted.Ahead of scorching summer, the DJB had on March 8 moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana government to avert a potential water crisis in the national capital.Delhi receives 479 million gallons of water a day (MGD) against 609 MGD from Haryana. Besides, Delhi draws 90 MGD groundwater and receives 250 MGD from the Upper Ganga Canal.As per a Supreme Court order of February 1996, the pond level in Wazirabad has to be kept full. The normal level of the Yamuna near Wazirabad Pond should be 674.50 feet but it has dropped to 670.90 feet.Haryana supplies water to Delhi through the Carrier-Lined Channel (CLC), Delhi Sub-Branch (DSB), and the Yamuna. CLC and DSB supply water from Hathni Kund via Munak canal and BBMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-rejects-delhis-contempt-plea-against-haryana-287163
23-07-2021||New Delhi||President approves appointment of 12 VCs, including universities in Haryana, Himachal||President of India, who is the Visitor to Central universities, has approved the appointment of vice-chancellors in 12 universities, according to Ministry of Education (MoE) officials.The universities include the Central Universities of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Hyderabad.Central University of South Bihar (Gaya), Manipur University, Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU), North-Eastern Hill University (NEHU) and Guru Ghasidas University, Bilaspur are also among the universities for which new VCs have been appointed.Union Minister of Education Dharmendra Pradhan had on Thursday informed the Rajya Sabha that a total of 22 posts of vice-chancellors in central universities are vacant, out of which appointments to 12 posts have already been finalised.Professor Tarkeshwar Kumar has been appointed the vice-chancellor of the central university of Haryana, Professor Sat Prakash Bansal of Himachal Pradesh University and Dr Sanjeev Jain of Jammu University.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/president-approves-appointment-of-12-vcs-including-universities-in-haryana-himachal-287155
23-07-2021||Hisar||11th edition of Azadi Amritmahotsav||Kurukshetra varsity signs pactKurukshetra: An MoU was signed with the Offset Printing Association (OPA) of Punjab with the Institute of Mass Communication and Media Technology of Kurukshetra University on Thursday. Under the chairmanship of KU VC Prof Som Nath Sachdeva, registrar Dr Sanjeev Sharma and OPA president Praveen Agarwal signed the MoU. According to this MoU, teachers and students of Kurukshetra University will be trained in printing and packaging by 150 small and large-scale printing industries, through workshops and seminars on new technologies from time to time.Tributes paid to educationistYamunanagar: Tributes were paid to founder of DAV institutions Yamunanagar, JN Kapur at DAV Public School on his death anniversary. Chairman Vijay Kapur, DAV Schools, Yamunanagar, emphasised that great educationist and freedom fighter JN Kapur played memorable role in the fields of education, health services and social services, which couldn't be forgotten.Budget fixed for cultural activitiesSirsa: The directorate of youth welfare of Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa, has earmarked a budget of Rs 60 lakhs for the financial year 2021-22 to promote cultural and literary activities. The decision was taken at the annual meeting of the youth welfare committee. The meeting was held under the chairmanship of VC Professor Ajmer Singh Malik. The calendar of activities for the upcoming academic session was also released on this occasion. Prof. Malik said that the directorate of youth welfare played a vital role in channelising the energy of youth and promoting culture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11th-edition-of-azadi-amritmahotsav-287078
23-07-2021||One will find 3 to 4 ft deep ditches every 50 meters in Sector 13 dug up by telecom companies and gas agency in the past six months to two-years||Ditches on Karnal roads a threat to passersby||Claims of Gurugram MC, GMDA washed away in rainsThe Municipal Corporation Gurugram and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority's claim made in the past three months that they have taken the necessary steps to prevent waterlogging in the city due to heavy rains has proved otherwise. In certain areas there was waterlogging for several hours and water collected 2-3 ft and people were inconvenienced. The staff concerned of both the authorities may be asked to explain their position on the claim made. — Subhash C Taneja, GurugramBig jolt to stray cattle drive in HisarThe Municipal Corporation, Hisar, has again started a drive to make the city free of stray cattle menace. The authorities have announced an incentive of Rs 1,100 for the official, employee doing exemplary work for the success of the stray cattle capture mission. The efforts made so far have brought a decline in the strength of stray cattle. A couple of days ago some cattle owners forcibly got a milking cow freed during transportation of the captured animal. It was done in the presence of a police constable who was escorting the vehicle. This is a big jolt to the drive. — Baljeet Singh Deep, HisarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ditches-on-karnal-roads-a-threat-to-passersby-287070
23-07-2021||Hisar||One dies in road mishap||A youth died and his friend suffered from serious injuries when their motorcycle fell off an under-construction Railway Over Bridge (RoB) on Jind-Panipat railway line in Jind district on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Krishan. The police have started investigation.TNSKarnalYouth stabbed to deathA 20-year-old youth was allegedly stabbed to death at Jani village in the district. The deceased has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, resident of the same village. The incident took place on late Wednesday night when Kuldeep, along with friends, returned from a birthday party. A casehas been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/one-dies-in-road-mishap-287065
23-07-2021||Parveen Arora||In 47 years, steep decline in groundwater level in Kaithal||Tribune News ServiceKaithal, July 22Kaithal district has been experiencing rapid depletion in groundwater as on an average it has witnessed a downfall of 26 metres in the past 47 years (between 1974 and 2021).The transplantation of paddy and less water conservation are being considered to be the main reasons behind this downfall.The Siwan block of the district has reported maximum downfall of 43.18 metres in groundwater in these years, followed by Guhla (35.99 metres), Kaithal (30.43), Dhand (29.89), Fatehpur Pundri (23.84), Rajound (11.35), and Kalayat (8.13).The authorities claimed that in the past 10 years, the district has reported a steep fall in the groundwater table.At present, the groundwater table of Guhla block is at 42.87 metres, while it was at 29.31 metres in 2011 and 6.88 metres in 1974. Similarly, Kaithal block’s groundwater has reached to 35.05 metres, from 22.20 in 2011 and 4.62 metres in 1974.The groundwater table of Fatehpur Pundri block is at 30.55 metres, which was at 17.03 metres in 2011 and 6.71 in 1974, while the water table of Rajond block is at 18.02 metres in 2021, which was 8.98 metres in 2011 and 6.67 in 1974, the data of Agriculture Department said.Kalayat’s groundwater table reached 11.94 metres now from 6.49 metres in 2011 and 3.84 metres, while Siwan’s watertable is at 51.16 metres, from 37.01 metres in 2011 and 7.98 metres in 1974. The groundwater table of Dhand block is at 34.79 metres, which was at 21.42 in 2011 and 4.98 metres in 1974.“The groundwater cell has installed piezometer tubes in the different parts of the district to measure the water table. We also collect the data from the Public Health Department. Paddy transplantation is a major reason behind this fall in the groundwater table, which is declining at an alarming rate,” said Karam Chand, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), Kaithal.Farmers should come forward to adopt crop diversification system and also direct seeded rice (DSR) technology to save water, he said, adding that “Meri Pani, Meri Virasat” is an ambitious scheme of the state government to save water. “It may take some time to recharge the water table, but efforts should be made by everyone — be it farmer or other person. The farmers should adopt crop diversification system, while the other people should make efforts to conserve water,” the DDA asserted.Around 4,200 farmers have switched their nearly 6,400 acres to other crops to save water. He also claimed that around 10,000 acres had been shifted to DSR technology.Siwan block reported maximum depletion||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-47-years-steep-decline-in-groundwater-level-in-kaithal-286942
23-07-2021||---||A first: 10 girls enrolled in Karnal Sainik School||Karnal, July 22The entry of girls in Sainik Schools will help aspiring girls willing to join defence forces in coming days. It has opened a new horizon for them. This was stated by Sharandeep Kaur, Director, Sainik and Ardh Sainik Welfare Department, Haryana, who visited Sainik School in Kunjpura village of the district on Thursday.After her visit, Kaur said it was an appreciable step of the Union Government of allowing girls to study in Sainik Schools. In Karnal, 10 girl students have been enrolled, who were selected on the entrance test basis conducted by the National Testing Agency.“The government has allowed 10 per cent seats for girls, which is a welcome step and it will help the girls in joining the defence forces. It is for the first time in the history of school when girl students have joined the school as boarding students,” said Kaur.Col VD Chandola, Principal, apprised the Director about the different activities being carried out in the school. He informed that online and offline classes were being conducted now these days due to the Covid-19 restrictions.“I am happy to see the study system adopted by the school. The smart classrooms and hi-tech labs are of world class,” said the Director.She informed that the building of the school was being expanded with the construction of a new block meant for girls’ hostel, which would include all kind of recreational activities for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/a-first-10-girls-enrolled-in-karnal-sainik-school-286943
23-07-2021||---||44 Haryana teachers to be awarded||Chandigarh, July 22The Department of School Education, Haryana, has selected 44 teachers to be felicitated with the State Teacher Award 2020 on September 5, 2021.An official spokesperson said every year, excellent teachers were honoured with the State Teacher Award by the state government. “Last year, this award was not given due to the pandemic. The department has selected 44 teachers for the award this year.”The list of all selected teachers has been uploaded on the website of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/44-haryana-teachers-to-be-awarded-286944
23-07-2021||---||100-day cleanliness drive launched in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, July 22 The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri, has started a special cleanliness drive for 100 days.  This special cleanliness drive was started today by Haryana Education Minister Kanwarpal Gujjar from Nehru Park, Yamunanagar.  On the occasion,  chief guest Kanwarpal Gujjar, Yamunanagar MLA Ghanshyam Dass Arora, Mayor Madan Chauhan, Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Sharma, Municipal Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar, Joint Commissioner Akhil Pilani, Deputy Municipal Commissioners Vinod Nehra and Ashok Kumar cleaned the road with brooms and planted saplings  at Nehru Park. According to information, under this 100-day long drive, places filled with garbage will be identified in every ward and cleanliness drive will be conducted there every day. Besides, under this drive on every Thursday, cleaning work will also be undertaken at public places. “Under this drive, for 100 days, places with dirt/garbage will be identified in every ward, where cleaning work will be done from 2 pm to 5 pm every day. Besides, on every Thursday, cleaning will also be undertaken at public places like bus stands, civil hospitals and mini secretariats,” said Municipal Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar. Kanwarpal Gujjar said the work of keeping the city clean was not only the work of sanitation workers, rather it was also the duty of every citizen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/100-day-cleanliness-drive-launched-in-yamunanagar-286945
23-07-2021||---||Former naib tehsildar of Ambala Cantt held for extortion||Ambala, July 22The Ambala police have arrested former Ambala Cantonment Naib Tehsildar Bodhraj Singh, who was booked under the charges of extortion and Prevention of Corruption Act, on Thursday.He was booked last month after a local Congress leader accused him of seeking bribe of Rs 5 lakh for the mutation of a property in Ambala Cantonment. Bodhraj retired from the post of Naib Tehsildar on June 30. DSP Ambala Cantonment Ram Kumar, said “A case was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act and he was arrested today. He will be produced before a court on Friday.” Onkar Nath Pruthi, a Congress leader in Ambala Cantonment, had accused that the naib tehsildar had demanded Rs 5 lakh for the mutation of a property and threatened to cancel the mutation if the money was not paid. The Congress leader later approached Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij and then a case was registered at the Ambala Cantonment police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-naib-tehsildar-of-ambala-cantt-held-for-extortion-286946
23-07-2021||---||Construction company dupes Olympian Karnam Malleswari of Rs 24 lakh||Yamunanagar, July 22Karnam Malleswari, the first Indian woman to win an Olympics medal, has complained against three partners of a construction company in a case of cheating of Rs 24.70 lakh.On her complainant, a case was registered against Anuj Aggarwal, Nikhil Aggarwal and Nitin Aggarwal under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at Sadar police station, Jagadhri, on Tuesday.In her complaint, Malleswari said her foundation, Karnam Malleswari Foundation, was to start a weightlifting and powerlifting high-performance training and coaching centre at Chaharo village of Yamunanagar district, the tender for which had been allotted to a construction company in February 2019.She alleged that the partners of the construction company overcharged her Rs 24,69,883 by submitting incorrect measurement report of the construction work.“The construction company did the construction work only of Rs 2.03 crore on the spot but the partners of the firm charged Rs 2,28,35,371 from our Foundation by incorrectly calculated the cost of the construction work,” alleged the complainant.She said the centre was being set up with the grant of the Union Sports Ministry and the cheating of excess amount was detected in a report prepared on the basis of measurement of construction work by a the Deputy Director of Sports Authority of India, Sonipat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-company-dupes-olympian-karnam-malleswari-of-rs-24-lakh-286947
23-07-2021||Panipat||Youth, girl jump before train on Panipat-Rohtak railway track, die||A 21-year-old youth and a 17-year-old girl reportedly died by suicide by jumping in front of a train near the railway crossing in Naultha village on the Panipat-Rohtak railway track on Wednesday midnight. The deceased have been identified as Ashish and Bhawna, residents of Bhadar village of Israna block. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-girl-jump-before-train-on-panipat-rohtak-railway-track-die-286948
23-07-2021||---||Haryana approves Rs 883-cr rail line between Karnal, Yamunanagar||Chandigarh, July 22The Haryana Government has given its approval for the Karnal-Yamunanagar rail line project, fulfilling a long-pending demand of people of the region for a direct and fast rail connectivity between the two important cities.Project to be implemented in 4 yearsAn official spokesperson said the rail line would strengthen the original transport infrastructure by providing a fast, safe, economical, comfortable and reliable mobility option to people of Haryana.The government approved the detailed project report (DPR) on July 20 after incorporating all suggestions made by the Ministry of Railways to the draft report submitted earlier in September 2019.Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (HRIDC), a joint venture between the Ministry of Railways and Government of Haryana, finalised the DPR at an estimated cost of Rs 883.78 crore. The project shall be implemented in a period of about four years.The spokesperson said the rail line would take off from the existing Karnal railway station on the Delhi-Ambala railway line and would connect at the existing Jagadhri-workshop railway station on the Ambala-Saharanpur Railway line. The new line will act as a feeder route for the eastern DFC, having an inter-change point with the Railways at Kalanaur station (adjoining Yamunanagar) by providing direct connectivity to Karnal, Panipat and other parts of central Haryana. The existing rail route from Karnal to Yamunanagar, via Ambala Cantt, has a route length of 121 km. The comparative road distance between Karnal and Yamunanagar is 67 km.The proposed railway line, with a route length of 64.6 km, will, thus, provide the shortest link between these two cities and shall greatly reduce the travel time for passengers and freight traffic. The official spokesperson said the major benefits from the project would include direct and faster connectivity between Karnal and Yamunanagar, faster transportation of passengers as the travel distance would get reduced by 50 km and speedier access to market for agricultural produce, plywood and timber, industrial products, metal industry, fertiliser etc from rural regions like Indri, Ladwa and Radaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-approves-rs-883-cr-rail-line-between-karnal-yamunanagar-286949
23-07-2021||Chandigarh||Planning protest, Kumari Selja, Cong MLAs held in Chandigarh||The Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja, along with state in charge Vivek Bansal and party MLAs, tried to take out a protest march over the Pegasus controversy here today, but as soon they came out of the office, the police stopped them.Twentyfour MLAs took part in the protest which included Deputy Leader of Congress Legislative Party (CLP) Aftab Ahmed, party’s chief whip BB Batra and former ministers, Dr Raghuvir Kadiyan and Geeta Bhukkal.Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi and former deputy CM Chander Mohan also participated in the protest.Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and former minister Kiran Choudhry were absent on the occasion. Selja, Bansal and MLAs were kept in preventive custody for about two to three hours at the Sector 3 police station and were released around 3 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/planning-protest-kumari-selja-cong-mlas-held-in-chandigarh-286950
23-07-2021||Hisar||Arrested farmers granted bail by Sirsa court, dharna called off||The five farmers who were arrested by the Sirsa police on sedition and other charges in connection with the attack on the vehicle of the Deputy Speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa in Sirsa were granted bail by a district court in Sirsa today.The bail petition was filed in the court of District and Sessions Judge Rajesh Malhota. The court admitted the application and granted bail to the arrested farmers who were lodged in the Hisar jail.BKU (M) state chief remarks create rowKurukshetra: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Mann) state chief Guni Prakash allegedly made controversial remarks against BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni regarding his turban and beard in Kurukshetra. The remarks reportedly fumed the Sikh community members. TNSAs the arrested farmers, identified as Balkar Singh, Nikka Singh, Balkaur Singh, Daljit Singh and Sahab Singh, reached amidst those sitting on dharna in front of the Mini-Secretariat, the farmers’ body decided to suspend its dharna and also called of tomorrow’s proposed Sirsa bandh and the proposed gherao of the residence of the Deputy Speaker in Hisar on July 24.SKM leader Baldev Singh Sirsa also ended his fast after the release of the farmers on the fifth day of his hunger strike, today.The incident of attack on the vehicle of the deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa occurred on July 11 during the farmers’ protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arrested-farmers-granted-bail-by-sirsa-court-dharna-called-off-286951
23-07-2021||Panipat||IAF exam cheating case: Cop, ex-navy official held||The police have arrested two more persons allegedly involved in helping candidates cheat during the online examination for the post of an airman in the Indian Air Force (IAF).  The accused have been identified as Madan and Vinod. CIA-3 unit in charge Inspector Anil Chhiller said Madan was an international-level wrestler and had bagged the seventh position in the World Wrestling Championship in 1995. He had joined the India Navy under sports quota and retired in 2011.  After retirement, Madan had started a coaching centre  in Rohtak, said the officer. He (Madan) had provided roll numbers of eight to 10 aspirants to the gang for helping them out, the Inspector added.  Vinod, who had joined the Haryana Police in 2008, was posted at the Jhajjar police unit presently. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/iaf-exam-cheating-case-cop-ex-navy-official-held-286952
23-07-2021||---||69,000 jabbed in Haryana||69,000 jabbed Chandigarh, July 22 The state reported 25 fresh Covid cases and two fatalities on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/69-000-jabbed-in-haryana-286953
23-07-2021||Gurugram||In surprise raid, Haryana minister Anil Vij suspends two SDOs||Haryana Home and Urban Local Bodies Minister Anil Vij today conducted a surprise inspection at the Gurugram Municipal Corporation office and suspended two Sub-Divisional Officers (SDOs) found absent.From checking random files to going through pending complaints, Vij took all officials to task for alleged irregularities. He also warned MC Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, whose empty chair’s picture was clicked by him, for not being available at the office. The minister relieved an XEN and ordered registration of an FIR against another for negligence in work.In the surprise check, Vij reached the corporation headquarters in Sector 34 here in the morning. Many Joint Commissioners, including the MC Commissioner, were found absent from the office at 10.25 am. He inspected the offices located on the three floors of the corporation and ordered the suspension of two SDOs Rakesh Sharma and Kuldeep Yadav, who were found absent. In a case of a six-month-old estimate, XEN Dharambir Malik was instructed to be relieved of the said charge.Vij also instructed to deduct two-hour salary of the account branch’s officer Bhupendra Singh. Besides, orders were also issued to take action, as per rules, by registering an FIR against XEN Gopal Kalawat, who allegedly tried to mint crores on the basis of fake satisfaction letters of councillors.During the inspection, dissatisfied with the functioning of the officers and employees, the minister said a report of the work done by all employees and officers till July 20 should be sent to their office. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-surprise-raid-haryana-minister-anil-vij-suspends-two-sdos-286954
23-07-2021||New Delhi||Ruckus in Parliament, Opposition rallies behind farmers as protesters hold ‘Kisan Sansad’||Even as a group of 200 farmers protesting the Centre’s three agricultural laws started a ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar today, Opposition MPs, including those of the Congress, SAD and AAP, staged a protest inside Parliament complex demanding repeal of the legislations.The issues concerning the farmers resonated inside the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha as well and were one of the reasons for adjournment of the Houses for the day. The Opposition members raised slogans and waved placards, demanding a rollback of the laws. In the morning, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi led a protest by party MPs at Parliament complex, expressing solidarity with the agitators at Jantar Mantar. All Punjab Congress MPs were present with several carrying posters reading “justice for farmers”.In Rajya Sabha, breach of privilege noticeCongress MPs Deepender Singh Hooda and Partap Singh Bajwa submitted breach of privilege notice against the Delhi Police to the RS Secretary-General, flagging ‘attempts by cops to obstruct them from briefing the media at Vijay Chowk.’SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Badal too protested outside Parliament and flashed pro-farmer placards at Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar when he arrived for the proceedings. “Akali Dal will not give up till the Centre repeals three farm laws,” said Sukhbir. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann supported the protesters and said they deserved justice.Earlier, Mann, Harsimrat and Congress MPs, including Manish Tewari (Lok Sabha), Deepender Singh Hooda and Partap Singh Bajwa (Rajya Sabha) again moved notices for adjournment of proceedings of the two houses to discuss farmers’ issues. The notices were rejected by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu.Even as Tomar reiterated the government commitment to engage the farmers should they flag specific objections to the laws, BJP leader and Minister of State for External Affairs Meenakshi Lekhi at an official party press conference called the protesters at Jantar Mantar “mawaalis”.“Stop calling them farmers. They are not farmers (but)... a handful of people playing into the hands of conspirators and doing all in the name of farmers,” said Lekhi.Asked again about the protesters, she added, “Again you are calling them farmers. They are ‘mawaalis’. Whatever happened on January 26 in the capital was a criminal act and the Opposition promoted these things.” She retracted after Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh demanded her resignation for using "disparaging references for the agitating farmers”.Meanwhile, the protesters organised a ‘Kisan Sansad’ and debated the changes in the APMC Act in two sessions, punctuated by a ‘langar’ (community kitchen) on the first day.Rejecting Tomar’s claim on the farm laws as “hollow”, the farmers said “he should visit ‘Kisan Sansad’ to understand their concerns. Farmer leaders also said they suspected they were being snooped on.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, denying political ambitions, said farmers would hold a ‘mahapanchayat’ in September to devise a strategy for the upcoming Assembly elections. “We will not contest, nor support any party. But the medicine we gave in Bengal, we will give it in UP and other states too. Till the time the government does not recover completely, we will continue with our ‘ilaaj’ (treatment),” Tikait said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ruckus-in-parliament-opposition-rallies-behind-farmers-as-protesters-hold-kisan-sansad-286807
23-07-2021||Mukesh Tandon||Security beefed up at Delhi's Jantar Mantar as farmers begin protest||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, July 22Following the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmer leaders on Thursday staged a protest against the three central farm laws.As many as 200 protesting farmers from various organisations led by union leaders, including Hanan Molla, Rakesh Tikait, Yogendra Yadav, Manjeet Singh Rai, Ruldu Singh Mansa and Shiv Kumar ‘Kakka’, reached Jantar Mantar in five buses.Farmers of various organisations from Punjab, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and other states have also moved towards Delhi.Rakesh Tikait, SKM leader, reiterated that the protests would be peaceful and they would hoist the National Flag on Independence Day.Yogendra Yadav, another SKM leader, said, "We are going peacefully to protest at Parliament and to tell the government about our objections today. Wherever the police will stop us, we will start our ‘Kisan sansad'."Thousands of farmers were protesting at Singhu, Tikri, Shazanpur and Ghazipur borders in Delhi for the past eight months against the three farm laws enacted by the Union Government and for legal guarantee for the MSP.Meanwhile, security at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi has been tightened in view of the protest amid the monsoon session of Parliament, officials said. Adequate security arrangements have been made and police and paramilitary personnel have been deployed, they said.Jantar Mantar is metres away from Parliament House where the monsoon session is under way.Farmers will hold protest at Jantar Mantar till 5 pm. with PTI inputs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-beefed-up-at-delhis-jantar-mantar-as-farmers-begin-protest-286658
