24-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Bihar man arrested for abducting, killing, mutilating 6-year-old||Gurugram Police arrested a 30-year-old Bihar native on charges of allegedly abducting, strangling, and mutilating his six-year-old relative in what police suspect was an act of revenge, sources said on Saturday.Upon a complaint from a child’s father Budh Saini, police sources began looking for the boy child and zoomed in on the suspect, Guddu Kumar Sahni. Police sources said the suspect abducted the child from a nearby park.Police claim that the suspect confessed to the police that the child’s mother, who was his wife’s aunt, had caused his wife to leave him.He allegedly told the police that his wife’s aunt, Ripal, had tried to intervene when he had a physical fight with his wife a month ago. His wife’s father came to take her home the next day, he said—an act he came to attribute to the aunt’s intervention, police sources said. He allegedly decided to teach her a lesson, police said quoting the suspect.He then allegedly kidnapped the child, took him to a jungle, strangled him, and then hit his face with a brick to hide his identity, police sources said.The confession, police sources said, lead them to the child’s body.Police had previously booked the suspect for kidnapping, but having added murder to the FIR since the discovery of the child’s body, Gurugram ACP, Crime, Prit Pal Singh Sangwan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bihar-man-arrested-for-abducting-killing-mutilating-6-year-old-287713
24-07-2021||Chandigarh/New Delhi||Fire at farmers’ protest site on Singhu border, tent damaged||A tent was damaged as a fire broke out at the farmers’ protest site on the Delhi’s Singhu border on Saturday, police said.No loss of life was reported in this incident, a police official said. However, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre’s farm laws, said two tents were damaged in the incident.“However, the spirit of the farmers is unaffected,” the body said.Meanwhile, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said no person was injured in the incident but things were damaged. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, suspected that it was someone’s doing. “Rain stopped around 5 pm and the fire in the first tent broke out around 5.30 pm. Later, another tent, which was around 100 metres away, caught fire. We suspect that someone has come here and done this thing,” he said. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Centre’s three contentious farm laws and a new law to guarantee minimum support price for crops.However, the government has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fire-at-farmers-protest-site-on-singhu-border-tent-damaged-287697
24-07-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Gurugram businessman woman duped of Rs 9 lakh over matrimonial website||A businesswoman on Saturday was duped around Rs 9 lakh by a man, claiming to be an American, on the pretext of marriage here. The Sector-54 resident had met the man on a matrimonial website.The accused blackmailed the woman by saying, he would upload her pictures on social media. An FIR has been filed. Cyber police are investigating the matter. According to the complaint, the 42-year-old woman got in touch with Mr Rao Conti Donald on January 4 this year through the matrimonial website,  jeevensaathi.com. Donald texted her on WhatsApp, saying that he is an American, and living in Colombia. He added that he was interested in her profile which he came across on the website, and wanted to get married. "I accepted the proposal. We shared a lot about each other, and he told me soon he will be in India. Till March 11, we had normal conversations, and he talked about opening a factory in Nepal, and that he needs Rs 1, 10,000 immediately, and that he will transfer 10000 USD within six days. I blindly trusted him, but I never received the amount. Then, on different occasions, he took around Rs 9 lakhs. After this, I blocked him on June 3, but he started to blackmail me everyday, and finally, I moved to the police", the 42-year-old woman told police. As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the fraudster under section 420 (cheating) of IPC and section 66-D of the IT Act at the cybercrime police station.“We are investigating the matter and hope the accused will be nabbed soon”, said inspector Vipin Kumar, SHO of the cybercrime police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-businessman-woman-duped-of-rs-9-lakh-over-matrimonial-website-287695
24-07-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Video of land suddenly rising in Haryana stuns netizens||An undated viral video clip showing a piece of land rising from a water body somewhere in Haryana has left netizens stunned.The 1:58 minute video was first shared on a Facebook page called Jagat Vani. A man is heard saying in the background: “This is a new experience…We have no idea what’s happening”.The video has since got 6.2 M views and has generated much debate in the comment section.“These things happen due to tectonic activities. It’s very dangerous to stay here. Maybe some volcanic activity happened,” a user wrote.Watch video here“Not really due to tectonic activity, but methane trapped in the earth gets released getting the wet layer to form a bubble. That is what seems to be happening here,” a second said. This view seems to be seconded by another.“Methane gases build up under the earth will force the soil to create a giant bubble. If someone lights a fire, it may ignite,” another user said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/video-of-land-suddenly-rising-in-haryana-stuns-netizens-287689
24-07-2021||---||Haryana govt hikes DA for employees to 28 per cent||Chandigarh, July 24  Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday announced to increase the rate of dearness allowance for employees and pensioners of the state government from 17 per cent to 28 per cent on the lines of the Centre.  This increase in dearness allowance (DA) will be applicable from July 1. An official spokesperson said that this increased DA also includes the DA payable from January 1, 2020, July 1, 2020, and January 1, 2021. The spokesperson said that this will benefit about 2.85 lakh government employees and 2.62 lakh pensioners of the state. The hike in DA will put an additional burden of about Rs 210 crore per month on the state exchequer, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-hikes-da-for-employees-to-28-per-cent-287661
24-07-2021||---||HC puts Haryana on notice on plea of ‘rape victim’||Chandigarh, July 23The Punjab and Haryana High Court today issued a notice to the Haryana Chief Secretary, the State DGP and the Ambala SP on a plea by a minor “rape victim” seeking the constitution of a special investigation team for probing her complaint. Directions were also sought to probe the role of a women police station, including the SHO, for her alleged attempts to shield the accusedThe Bench was told that the minor was raped by the accused several times and had to even terminate her pregnancy. But the women police station did not mention the facts narrated by her in her complaint to mitigate the gravity of allegations.The Bench was also told that the SHO had been booked for her role in the matter. But the entire case was required to be probed by an SIT. Taking up the plea, Justice Arun Monga of the High Court also fixed September 2 as the next date of hearing in the matter.The petitioner added the officers not below the rank of deputy superintendent of police under the direct supervision of some senior police officer were required to constitute the SIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-puts-haryana-on-notice-on-plea-of-rape-victim-287482
24-07-2021||Amit Bathla||Industrial plot allotment case: ‘Absconding’ accused Dagar Katyal declared PO||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, July 23A special ED court here today declared accused Dagar Katyal a proclaimed offender in the industrial plot allotment case for “intentionally avoiding the process of the court”. Katyal didn’t appear before the court despite repeated non-bailable warrants issued against him.The caseThe case pertains to alleged irregularities in the allocation of 14 industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore to former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s acquaintances in Panchkula in 2013.The court in its order said, “Accused Dagar Katyal is intentionally and deliberately avoiding the process of law and thus, is absconding and that his presence can’t be secured through ordinary means of the process.”The court also separated the trial of Katyal from the trial of other accused in the case.As the Leader of Opposition in the Haryana Assembly and senior Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda is also an accused in the case, the court emphasised on expeditious disposal of the case.“It would be expedient and in the largest interest of the justice to separate the proceedings of the case qua accused Dagar Katyal and to regulate the further course of proceedings in respect of remaining appearing accused in accordance with the law. Hence, to sub-serve the best interests of justice, it is hereby ordered to separate the case proceedings in respect of accused Dagar Katyal,” the court ordered.The case pertains to alleged irregularities in the allocation of 14 industrial plots worth more than Rs 30 crore to former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda’s acquaintances in Panchkula in 2013.To probe the alleged irregularities, the Haryana Vigilance Bureau had registered an FIR in 2015. Later, the case was transferred to the CBI, following which the CBI and the ED registered their respective cases.As per the provisions of the PMLA, all 14 plots were attached.In February this year, the ED had filed a chargesheet against 22 people, including Hooda, four retired IAS officers, and some others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industrial-plot-allotment-case-absconding-accused-dagar-katyal-declared-po-287495
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Video of Haryana Roadways bus conductor being thrashed by couple goes viral||The video of a Haryana Roadways bus conductor being thrashed by a couple in the bus went viral. The incident reportedly took place at Tribune Chowk a few days ago.Sources said the conductor, Anil, had an argument with the couple, including a Sub-Inspector of the Haryana Roadways, over some issue. The SI and his wife then thrashed the conductor. The bus driver made the video of the incident.The conductor has submitted a complaint with the Chandigarh Police, following which an investigation has been initiated at the Sector 31 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/video-of-haryana-roadways-bus-conductor-being-thrashed-by-couple-goes-viral-287515
24-07-2021||Ambala||Ambala Cantt: Haryana Democratic Front protests rising fuel prices||Activists of the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF), led by its general secretary Chitra Sarwara, today staged a dharna at the Sadar Bazaar in Ambala Cantonment against the rising fuel prices. They slammed the Centre and state governments for not extending any relief to the general public.Sarwara said: “Rising fuel and gas prices are the result of wrong economic policies of the Central Government. Prices of essential commodities have been increasing continuously, but the government has failed to provide any relief to the common man. The rising prices have been affecting all sections of society. The government has left no stone unturned to empty the pockets of common man and people are forced to use their savings and fixed deposits to manage their expenses. We demand that the government should reduce the excise tax and VAT on petrol and diesel to give some relief to common man. We also demand that fuel must be brought under GST. We have to raise our voice collectively against the wrong policies of the government.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cantt-haryana-democratic-front-protests-rising-fuel-prices-287516
24-07-2021||Gurugram||2 Gurugram XENs booked for fraud||Seven persons — two XENs, one junior engineer, one assistant engineer and three contractors — have been booked for allegedly getting bills of over Rs 2 crore sanctioned fraudulently.The accused allegedly used fake satisfactory certificates of local councillors. The payment was stopped after the fraud was exposed during an audit.An FIR has been registered against XENs Gopal Kalawat and Pankaj Saini, junior engineer Vinod Kumar, assistant engineer Vicky Kumar and contractors Dilawar Singh, Raj Kumar and Pawan Balhara.Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Gurugram, said, “This matter has been under investigation even before I joined. I will ensure a speedy inquiry.”The matter was flagged by Vinay Pratap Singh, the then commissioner of the Gurugram Municipal Corporation, in November last year. In his letter to additional chief secretary of urban local bodies department, he said he had received a number of complaints that payments for development works like repair of roads and streets, drains and laying of sewer lines were being put up in a suspicious manner.Pradeep Ahlawat, Joint Commissioner, who was told to probe the case, found that the accused officers and contractors were involved in the fraud. — OCUsed ‘fake’ papers for bill approvals||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-gurugram-xens-booked-for-fraud-287251
24-07-2021||The board is hanging precariously with steel chains over a busy road with a projected bamboo. I want to bring this to the notice of the authorities concerned before any untoward incident happens. This is near the Karnal bus stand.||Board hanging precariously on road near Karnal bus stand||Renu Malik, KarnalDirty water being supplied to housesI'm a resident of Sector 8, Ambala City, and I would like to bring the plight being faced by residents of the sector who have been suffering on account of filthy water being supplied to their houses. The Waterworks Department and HSVP have turned a blind eye to our plight and there's been no response since the past month. The water is unfit for drinking or even bathing. Moreover, it has even jammed the RO filters, thus incurring financial loses to us.Dr Akhil Bhardwaj, Ambala CityRemove old streetlights stored at Kurukshetra Community CentreIn December 2020, I had requested the Deputy Commissioner, Kurukshetra, to get the old streetlights removed from the Community Centre of Sector 5, Kurukshetra, which are dumped there for the past more than three years. Because of this, residents are not able to book the community centre and make use of it for various occasions. I visited EO, Municipal Council office on December 21, 2020 and was told about this mail to the DC, Kurukshetra. The EO showed me a draft prepared for the auction of these streetlights and told me that it would be done in the next few months. Seven months have elapsed, but to no avail.Sunil Dutt Sharma, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/board-hanging-precariously-on-road-near-karnal-bus-stand-287501
24-07-2021||Yamunanagar||Minor girl sexually abused in Yamunanagar||HisarOne held for issuing fake test reportsThe Uttarakhand police have arrested Ashish, a resident of Bhiwani town, in a case of entering fake Covid test data during the Kumbh Mela. Nalwa Laboratory Private Limited, Hisar, and Dr Lalchandani Lab in Delhi, besides the Max Corporate Service, had been booked for allegedly issuing fake Covid test reports of visitors to the mela on June 17. TNSYamunanagarTwo arrested with stolen motorcycleYamunanagar police have arrested two persons with a stolen motorcycle. The accused have been identified as Aakesh and Aman, both residents of Darwa village, and were allegedly using the stolen motorcycle to smuggle liquor. Police spokesperson Chamkaur Singh said a naka was laid to nab the accused. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minor-girl-sexually-abused-in-yamunanagar-287481
24-07-2021||Karnal||Education notes: Farming community & climate change||Virtual leadership trainingKaithal: The department of economics of RKSD PG College, Kaithal, organised a two-day virtual leadership training programme in association with MR Pai Foundation and Forum of Free Enterprise, Mumbai. The programme was inaugurated by principal Sanjay Goyal, while head of the economics department of the college Virander Goyal introduced the speakers, Rajiv Kumar Luv and Vivek Patki, faculties of MR Pai foundation. They spoke on the topics 'Setting and achieving goals', 'The power of habits', 'Development of important skills', and 'Understanding of the self and others'.Students get placementsHisar: Two students of Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, have been selected in the e-campus placement drive of Hisar-based Repozitory Technologies organised by the training and placement cell of the university. Prof Tankeshwar Kumar, Vice-Chancellor and Prof Avnesh Verma, registrar of the university congratulated the selected students -Sonali Singhal and Jagdeep Khatana of CSE 2021 batch. Pratap Singh, director, placement, said after the online technical test followed by the technical interviews, two students got selected.Selfie point to wish Indian playersHisar: Prof. Avnesh Verma, registrar, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, said the culture of India is a symbol of unity, this has been the reason that Indian players have performed more skillfully in team sports than in individual events in the past. He expressed confidence that this Olympics will give more medals to Indians in individual events also. Prof Verma was addressing after inaugurating the selfie point set up by the sports department of the university to wish Indian players good luck in the Olympics. DrSB Luthra, director of sports, also wished the players good luck for their performance. He said that the selfie point had been kept in the outer area. If any person wanted to increase the enthusiasm of the Indian players, then he should click his picture on the selfie point and put it on social media.Guiding farmers at doorstepHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor Professor BR Kamboj said the university scientists would go to villages and resolve agriculture-related problems of the farmer at their doorstep. The initiative, he said, had been taken so that the farmers did not suffer crop losses, particularly in cotton crops unlike the previous year. Dr Kamboj who himself visited the cotton field along with his team of scientists that the agricultural scientist would guide cotton growers about the proper management of the crop along with their resolving insect-pest and disease-related problems. After the visit, the VC also chaired a farmers seminar (Kisan gosthi) organised jointly by the Directorate of Research, Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhiwani, and Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department at Dhigawa village in Bhiwani district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/education-notes-farming-community-climate-change-287478
24-07-2021||Faridabad||Man arrested for throwing acid on wife in Faridabad||The police today arrested a man in connection with throwing acid on his wife.The accused has been identified as Abdul Kadir (40), a resident of Harkesh Nagar locality. A case was registered on the complaint of the victim’s brother. Kadir allegedly threw acid on his wife’s on Thursday after a domestic dispute. The victim suffered 35 per cent burn injuries and has been referred to Safdurjung Hospital in New Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-arrested-for-throwing-acid-on-wife-in-faridabad-287473
24-07-2021||---||Online portal for villagers to file plaints launched in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 23Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar has said that villagers would now be able to directly submit online demands or complaints and suggestions related to development works to the government on online portal Gram Darshan https://gramdarshan.haryana.gov.in/ for suggestions and complaints related to development works of villages.Khattar said the complaints made by the villagers on the portal would be linked with CM Window so that there is no duplication of complaints. An individual will be able to file a complaint/suggestion on the portal only in respect of the village of his permanent residence.The applicant has to state his point of view in at least 50 characters while registering the complaint/suggestion on the Gram Darshan portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-portal-for-villagers-to-file-plaints-launched-in-haryana-287472
24-07-2021||---||75% kharif sowing target achieved in Haryana||Chandigarh, July 23A good spell of rain has helped Haryana achieve nearly 75 per cent of its kharif sowing targets, with crops sown in over 4.5 lakh hectares in the past week alone.Haryana has recorded cumulative rainfall of 196.3 mm from June 1 to July 22 as against normal rainfall of 156.2 mm.“Haryana has covered 23.18 lakh hectares of area under kharif sowing till Sunday. This is 74.87 per cent of the total target areas of the 30.96 lakh hectare. Since the area covered till July 13 was 18.68 lakh hectares, sowing on 4.5 lakh hectares has been achieved in the past week alone,” said Dr Sumita Misra, Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Haryana.She added that the recent spell of monsoon rains had proved boon for farmers.Notably, kharif sowing was being adversely affected in the state due to delayed monsoon as the state had been able to achieve merely 60 per cent of the targets till July 13, with paddy being the worst affected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/75-kharif-sowing-target-achieved-in-haryana-287469
24-07-2021||---||60 posts of school principal vacant in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts||Ambala, July 23As many as 60 posts of principal in government schools of Ambala and Kurukshetra districts are lying vacant.As per information, out of 93 sanctioned posts, 35 are vacant in Ambala while 25 of 73 posts are yet to be filled in Kurukshetra.Balram Sharma, president of the Haryana School Lecturers’ Association, Kurukshetra, said, “In the absence of a permanent principal, the senior-most lecturer is given the DD (drawing disbursing) power to manage the school. But only a regular principal can lead the team efficiently and can chalk out a strategy to improve students’ strength and resolve other issues.”Ramakant, president of the association’s Ambala unit, said, “Senior-most teachers, who have been given additional charge of principal, have to look after administrative work due to which they don’t get much time to pay attention to their own subjects. There are 27 senior-most lecturers in Ambala who are yet to be promoted. However, the court, in its recent order, allowed the state to promote lecturers with the condition that any promotion made will be subject to the final outcome of the seniority dispute. Efforts are being made to get the seniority list corrected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-posts-of-school-principal-vacant-in-ambala-and-kurukshetra-districts-287467
24-07-2021||Hisar||May 16 violence: Hisar police file closure report against farmers||The district administration has filed a closure report into the FIR against farmers in the May 16 clash between farmers and the police during the visit of CM Manohar Lal Khattar. The violence had resulted in injuries to 50 persons, including 20 police officials.The administration had agreed to drop the cases against farmers after a strong protest, following an agreement on May 24 in Hisar when an 11-member delegation of SKM leaders held talks with the administration.Public prosecutor Rahul Tanwar presented the closure report, which mentioned that the complainant, Inspector Vijender Singh, stated that he was satisfied with the investigation and had no objection if the closure report was consigned to the record room. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/may-16-violence-hisar-police-file-closure-report-against-farmers-287464
24-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court to examine Gurugram vendors’ removal issue||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23In a significant order on right to livelihood, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made clear its intent to examine whether non-speaking and verbatim orders on the removal of registered vendors from vending zones can be passed in a welfare state without examining the issue of providing them alternative sites.The Bench of Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice Karamjit Singh also directed that the vending carts of petitioner-vendors in Gurugram would not be “destroyed or confiscated” and status quo regarding their business activity would be maintained. The order would remain in operation at least till the third week of August, when the case will come up for further hearing.The directions came on a petition filed by Rajender Kumar Meena and 21 other petitioners against the State of Haryana and other respondents. The Bench was told that the petitioners, operating the carts in Gurugram Sector 14 vending zone, were registered under the Haryana Municipal Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, since 2016. They were also paying the vending fee regularly.They filed replies to the show-cause notices issued to them. But impugned orders on the removal of their vending carts were passed in a mechanical manner, stating that the replies were found to be dissatisfactory. As such, they were asked to remove their carts, along with objects/materials, from the vending zone, failing which their carts would be confiscated.Their counsel added that the orders did not depict any violation committed by the petitioners. In fact, computer- generated orders were issued without application of mind. These were not only nonspeaking, but arbitrary. In case their carts were immediately removed in this manner, they and their families would be deprived of the means of their life and livelihood.“Apart from the fact that same are verbatim in nature, they do not contain any reason for taking such action, nor has any change of policy been referred to. It, thus, needs to be examined whether in a welfare State, such action can be taken without the State examining whether any alternative site can be provided to such vendors,” the Bench asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-examine-gurugram-vendors-removal-issue-287462
24-07-2021||---||In Faridabad, deaths in road accidents up 36%||Faridabad, July 23The number of road accidents and deaths of people involved in those in the district have risen in the first six months of this year in comparison to the corresponding period last year.While the number of accidents has increased by 13.87 per cent, the number of deaths has gone up by 36.84 per cent compared to the corresponding period last year. According to the officials concerned, this is perhaps due to easing of lockdown conditions this year.A total of 104 deaths have been recorded till June 30 this year in comparison to 76 casualties in the same period in 2020.The number of persons injured in accidents has also increased by 18.07 per cent, according to data compiled by the Traffic Police Department.Urgent Need to regulate traffic on NHWhile there is an urgent need to regulate traffic crossing the national highway at certain points, metro pillars along the highway should be numbered to ensure immediate help to victims. SK Sharma, coordinator of NGO Road Safety OrganisationA senior official of the department said that movement of vehicles has gone up sharply due to relaxation in the lockdown conditions and the rise in number of vehicles that goes up 10 per cent every year.SK Sharma, coordinator of NGO Road Safety Organisation that is engaged in road safety, claimed that while there is an urgent need to regulate traffic crossing the national highway at certain points, metro pillars along the highway should be numbered to ensure immediate help to victims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-faridabad-deaths-in-road-accidents-up-36-287450
24-07-2021||---||Kurukshetra University goes digital for setting question papers||Tribune News ServiceKurukshetra, July 23Using sheets of papers to set question papers manually has now become a thing of the past at Kurukshetra University as it has gone paperless to set question papers by introducing a software module for online paper-setting.The manual mode of setting question paper was being used since the university’s inception in 1956. More than 10,000 papers are set in an academic year for all semesters and each question paper setting in the manual mode involved about 20 sheets of papers, and eight large and small envelopes sent to each paper setter.The paperless module, on the other hand, is aimed at streamlining the process of creation, distribution, organisation and management of a centralised database of paper-setters. Vice-Chancellor Prof Som Nath Sachdeva said: “In a major initiative to boost the Digital India programme, the university has taken a major step to go paperless for setting question paper and use a software module instead. We have completely changed the old practice of manual paper setting and adopted the digital mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-university-goes-digital-for-setting-question-papers-287445
24-07-2021||Ambala||Anil Vij: 60% work of Shahpur underpass completed||Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said about 60 per cent construction work of the Shahpur underpass in Ambala Cantonment, which was being constructed at a cost of Rs 3 crore, had been completed and it was likely to be fully completed by September.With the construction of this underpass, people of Shahpur and nearby villages will get a great relief. He also said many projects of public interest were going on in Ambala and completion of all these projects would provide better facilities to the common man. The main objective of the state government was public service. The problems of the people were being resolved on a priority basis, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anil-vij-60-work-of-shahpur-underpass-completed-287442
24-07-2021||---||Garg second IAS officer of Haryana to be sacked for graft||Chandigarh, July 23Sandeep Garg, a 1991 batch IAS officer of Haryana cadre, has become the second officer of the Indian Administrative Service from the state to be dismissed from service for corruption.The officer, who was under suspension since April 23, 2016 after his conviction by a CBI court, has been terminated from service following the Centre’s approval conveyed to the state by the Department of Personnel and Training, Government of India.Garg was convicted by the Special CBI court in Delhi for amassing assets to the tune of Rs 3.36 crore disproportionate to his known sources of income.The first caseBefore Garg, another bureaucrat Sanjeev Kumar, an IAS officer of 1985 batch, was dismissed from service after his conviction by a Special CBI Court in Delhi in JBT teachers recruitment scam along with former CM Om Prakash Chautala and his son Ajay Chautala.Garg’s two family members and two other businessmen were also convicted and sentenced in this case.Garg was arrested by the CBI in April 2004 along with a businessman Atul Jindal, allegedly a go-between for him, for graft.The IAS officer was posted as regional director (North), anti-adulteration cell, in the Ministry of Petroleum.The CBI had filed a chargesheet against the IAS officer for possessing disproportionate assets and also under various provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The chargesheet mentioned two flats in Delhi, one property in Panchkula besides some movable assets, including cash, bonds, shares, FDRs and bank balance.On April 23, 2016, the Special CBI Court pronounced its verdict in which Garg, his brother Rajiv Garg, businessman Atul Jindal and another Suman Sarin were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for four years and a fine of Rs 2 lakh each. Garg’s father Swami Saran Garg was sentenced to RI of two years and a fine of Rs 2 lakh.Later, Garg was placed under suspension with effect from the date of his conviction by the Special CBI court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garg-second-ias-officer-of-haryana-to-be-sacked-for-graft-287441
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||39 new Covid cases, three deaths in Haryana||Haryana reported 39 fresh Covid cases and three deaths on Friday. Meanwhile, the total vaccinations against Covid were pegged at 1,09,38,821 with 45,362 more persons being vaccinated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/39-new-covid-cases-three-deaths-in-haryana-287436
24-07-2021||Chandigarh||Retd IAS, Army officers back farmers’ stir||The Kirti Kisan Forum comprising retired IAS, IPS and Army officers today came out in favour of the ongoing farmers’ agitation, now centred at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi.Appreciating the peaceful struggle of farmers agitating for their rights, the forum challenged the supporters of the three farm laws to debate the pros and cons of the new legislation on any platform in the presence of media.By a show of hands, the forum decided to join the ongoing ‘Kisan Sansad’ at Jantar Mantar for a day. The forum appreciated the role of the farmers in unifying the nation and almost the entire political class in the interest of the farmers and workers. The members paid tribute to hundreds of farmers who died during the protest. The meeting was co-chaired by SS Boparai and Ramesh Inder Singh (both retired IAS officers) and was attended among others by MPS Aulakh (retired DGP), GPS Sahi, Brig Harwant Singh, Brig Inder Mohan Singh, and DS Bains, Kulbir Sidhu, Harkesh Sidhu, GK Singh and Iqbal Singh Sidhu. — TNS‘Stalemate due to Insistence on repeal’Insistence of protesting farmers on repeal of the three laws and their reluctance to point out particular provisions of the laws that they find unacceptable is posing a problem on reaching a settlement with the agitators, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written answer in the Rajya Sabha on Friday||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retd-ias-army-officers-back-farmers-stir-287270
24-07-2021||---||Kaithal Civil Hospital to have oxygen plant||Kaithal, July 23With an aim to meet the medical oxygen demand of the District Civil Hospital (DCH), which had faced its shortage during the Covid second wave and got the facility from Jind and Karnal, the state government has started the process to install a pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generating plant on the hospital premises.Compressor and other equipment are being installed by the company assigned for the project, said Dr Shailender Mamgain Shelly, Civil Surgeon.The district has 200-bed hospital, of which 115 have been dedicated as isolation ward for adult patients, while 22 for paediatrics group, said the Civil Surgeon, adding that the new plant would have a capacity to generate 1000 litre oxygen per minute.The PSA oxygen plant absorbs nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen for supply to the hospital, he added.“We are hopeful that its trial run will start in a couple of days,” Dr Shelly further said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-civil-hospital-to-have-oxygen-plant-287428
24-07-2021||---||On Day 1, 42% students attend classes||Karnal, July 23On the first day of the reopening of schools for Classes VI to VIII, majority of the called students skipped classes.Government schools outperformed private schools in terms of attendance as around 42 per cent of the called students came to school. The number was around 33 per cent in private schools.Majority of private schools have decided to call their students for classes from Monday.Protocol followedAll Covid protocol is being followed. Schools have been instructed to get temperature of each and every student checked with thermal scanner at the entry gate. Their masks should be checked along with collecting the consent of the parents. — Rohtash Verma, DEEOThe rise in Covid cases had forced the state government to close education institutes in April. With the cases coming down, the government decided to reopen schools and hold classes physically by following Covid standard operating procedure (SOP).Classes from IX to XII had started from July 16 after getting written consent from parents and Classes VI to VIII from today.As per the data collected by The Tribune, there are 35,978 students enrolled in Classes VI to VIII. Of them, as per the guidelines, the teachers have called 50 per cent students. Of the 17,989 students, around 7,400 turned up to attend classes in government schools on the first day.As per the authorities in rural areas, the number was quite high in comparison to urban schools.The number of students in Classes X to XII is increasing day by day. At present, around 68 per cent called students are attending classes in government schools and around 65 per cent in private schools.Rohtash Verma, District Elementary Education Officer (DEEO), said that Covid protocol is being followed while conducting classes. “All the schools have been instructed to get temperature of each and every student checked with thermal scanner at the entry gate. Their masks should be checked along with collecting the consent of the parents,” said the DEEO.The attendance of each and every teacher and student along with their temperature should be uploaded on AVSAR app everyday by the head concerned as well as the class teacher, the DEEO said.The students were also enthusiastic about attending classes. “I am happy that classes have been started physically as online classes cannot replace offline classes,” said Anu, a Class VIII student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/on-day-1-42-students-attend-classes-287426
24-07-2021||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Illegal mining in Dadam Hills in Bhiwani: Green tribunal asks retired judge to conduct inspection||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23After contradictory reports on illegal mining in Dadam Hills in Bhiwani by an inspection committee and by the forest and mining departments, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has handed over the inspection to an eight-member committee under Justice Pritam Pal (retd) to find out the truth.An area of 55.50 hectares of Dadam village in Bhiwani has been allotted for mining.After an earlier NGT order, a six-member committee had conducted an inspection, dated October 6, 2020, which pointed out that the “mining project has illegally created ways in the forest area without having any valid permission. At the time of inspection, the mining equipment/machines were also found standing in the non-minable forest area”.Reports of depts at varianceBhiwani Deputy Commissioner had called a meeting on December 1, 2020, where differing stands were presented by the mining, forest and groundwater departments at variance with the findings of the site inspection reportThe Dadam Hill is a protected forest area under the Indian Forest Act (IFA) 1927 and the same is found illegally mined at the time of the inspection, said the report.There were allegations of unscientific mining too. At the time of the inspection, it was found that the mining project was using the land of Dadam distributary illegally for mining purposes.The notice was issued to M/s Goverdhan Mines and Minerals. On November 6, 2020, Regional Officer, HSPCB, Bhiwani, recommended closure.Later, the Deputy Commissioner, Bhiwani, called a meeting on December 1, 2020, where the scenario changed. During the meeting, differing stands were presented by the mining, forest and groundwater departments at variance with the findings in the site inspection report.DC Bhiwani then directed the stakeholder departments to examine the presentation of the project proponent for sending a report to the Chairman, State Pollution Control Board.Accordingly, the forest department, vide report dated December 21, 2020, and the Mining Department, vide report dated December 31, 2020, sent their observations to the DC contrary to the findings in the site inspection report dated October 6, 2020.Based on later reports, a submission was made before the NGT that no wrongdoing was done by the present project proponent, while illegal mining had been done by their predecessor. After considering the submission, the NGT bench, headed by Justice Adarsh Kumar Goyal, ordered on July 20 that Justice Pritam Pal (retd)-led committee “may interact with the stakeholders and also study the satellite imagery maps”. Haryana Chief Secretary has also been asked to give action taken report in the light of the report of the committee.“The report may also comment on the conduct of the Forest and Mining departments in giving contradictory reports and also contradictory stand of the investigating officer that no mining was done by the present project proponent,” said the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-mining-in-dadam-hills-in-bhiwani-green-tribunal-asks-retired-judge-to-conduct-inspection-287425
24-07-2021||New Delhi||SC: Remove all structures on Aravali forest land near Khori||All illegal structures belonging to the poor or the rich built on the Aravali forest land near Khori village in Faridabad should be removed, the Supreme Court said on Friday as it once again refused to stay the eviction drive.A Bench of Justice AM Khanwilkar granted four more weeks to the Faridabad MC to complete the “humongous task” after the civic body said that unauthorised structures on nearly half of the total 150 acres had already been cleared. It also brushed aside the concerns raised by the UN regarding people being evicted, saying “UN should have read our previous orders”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sc-remove-all-structures-on-aravali-forest-land-near-khori-287424
24-07-2021||---||800 more constructions razed at Khori Gaon Colony in Faridabad||Faridabad, July 23Another 800 constructions were razed during the demolition drive on the 10th day at Khori Gaon Colony on Friday. The authorities have removed around 4,800 constructions so far.The drive was launched on July 14 in compliance with the Supreme Court’s order on June 7, which had directed the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to remove all encroachments on the land designated as Forest Land.Claiming that the demolition would continue till all encroachments were removed, a senior official of the district administration said encroachments on about 50 per cent of the land had been cleared in the drive to date. Remaining encroachments were likely to be removed within the next couple of weeks, he added.Though the MC has identified around 6,500 illegal constructions in a survey last month, residents of the area claimed that the number of illegal constructions were over 10,000.A spokesperson of the Khori Awas Sangharsh Samiti said while majority of residents were not prepared to leave the area despite demolition of their houses, the affected families were awaiting the notification of the rehabilitation policy.“No notification of the rehabilitation policy has been given so far, with authorities having already demolished around 5,000 houses,” he said.Demanding demolition of all farmhouses and other commercial buildings located in the Aravali belt and immediate rehabilitation of the all affected families, the spokesperson alleged discrimination with the poor in this regard.However, the administration has claimed to have set up a shelter home at the premises of Radha Swamy Satsang Bhawan here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/800-more-constructions-razed-at-khori-gaon-colony-in-faridabad-287398
24-07-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Palwal leads in water conservation||Tribune News ServicePalwal, July 23Palwal district has achieved the target of 146.18 per cent in the implementation of the ‘Mera Paani-Meri Virasat’ (MPMV) scheme launched by the state government to promote cultivation of less water-consuming crops. The government has announced a financial support of upto Rs 7,000 per acre to the farmers who drop the cultivation of water-consuming kharif crops like paddy in favour of pulses or low-water consuming crops.“Against the state average of 47.27 per cent achieved till July 21, Palwal is placed at the top with the achievement of 146.18 per cent of the target fixed for the district. While the MPMV target given to the district had been 1,000 acres, farmers here have already registered for the scheme on a land of 1713.47 acres, which is almost one and half times higher than the given target,” says DC Naresh Narwal. Describing the achievement as remarkable in view of the importance of the implementation of the project, he said it was aimed at conserving water and ensuring higher returns to the farmers without depending much on the groundwater resources or rains. The groundwater level has already gone down sharply due to excessive use of tubewells for the irrigation of paddy, one of the highest water-consuming crops. The total number of farmers who have registered for the scheme till date is 753. Currently, the paddy is grown on 47,500 acres in Palwal. Financial incentive or Rs 7,000 per acre has been announced for the replacement of paddy with crops like moong, arhar, sesame, cotton and sorghum under the scheme for which July 31 is the last date for registration.Remarkable achievementThe achievement is remarkable in view of the importance of the implementation of the project. It is aimed at conserving water and ensuring higher returns to the farmers without depending much on the groundwater resources or rains. Naresh Narwal, DCHisar and Kurukshetra are placed at second and third spot with 71.53 and 71.35 per cent, respectively. Charkhi Dadri is at the bottom with 15.45 per cent. Sirsa, given the highest target area of 27,750 acres, has registered a total of 14,083 acres till July 21, which is 51.88 per cent. Despite zero target, Mahendergarh district has also registered an area of 171.6 acres for the scheme. A total of two lakh acres has been targeted to be covered under the project in the state, according to officials concerned. Paddy cause of fall in groundwater level||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/palwal-leads-in-water-conservation-287389
24-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Haryana unlikely to release Yamuna water ‘in excess’||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 23Haryana is actively considering the issue of sticking to a 27-year old water sharing agreement and not releasing water “in excess” from the Yamuna to the National Capital Territory of Delhi.A statement to this effect has been made before the Punjab and Haryana High Court. The bench, in turn, has directed the authorities concerned to examine and initiate apposite steps on a representation in the matter in addition to all other requisite steps.The submission on water sharing by Haryana Additional Advocate-General Deepak Balyan came during the hearing of a PIL filed by a “public spirited person”, Ashish Chaudhary. He was, among other things, seeking directions to the State of Haryana and other respondents to release water from the Yamuna strictly in accordance with agreement dated May 12, 1994. His argument was that the supply of excess water was not only violative of the agreement, but also Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution.In his petition placed before the Bench of Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, Chaudhary through counsel Chandan Singh submitted that a memorandum of understanding was signed between the basin States of Yamuna River. Delhi was allocated 381 CS — 330 for drinking water and 51 for agriculture.As the petition came up for hearing, Balyan submitted that the issues raised by the petitioner were under active consideration of the state authorities, especially in view of the prevalent water crisis in Haryana.Balyan further submitted that the authorities were examining the viability of administrative and other measures to tackle the problem. Further, the departments concerned were also seized of the issue regarding water supply to the parties to the agreement, besides excess supply of water to the National Capital Territory of Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-unlikely-to-release-yamuna-water-in-excess-287371
24-07-2021||---||Delhi Govt’s contempt plea against Haryana rejected||New Delhi, July 23The Supreme Court (SC) today dismissed the Delhi Government's plea seeking the initiation of contempt proceedings against the Haryana Government for alleged violation of a 1996 order on water supply to the national capital.A Bench headed by Justice LN Rao turned down the AAP government’s plea and asked it to negotiate the matter with the Haryana Government to resolve the issue."Please advise your client not to file application after application," the bench told Singh and dismissed the contempt plea. Contempt is dismissed," the bench said and asked the Delhi Government to undertake consultation process with Haryana to resolve the issue.‘Poor management by Delhi’Haryana had rejected the allegations, saying the Delhi Government was trying to conceal its utter failure in management of water by accusing it of being responsible for increased ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to the national capitalThe Delhi government had moved the top court, alleging that as per the order of February 29, 1996, Haryana had to keep the Wazirabad water reservoir full and this order is being breached, said senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the city government.The Haryana Government had rejected the allegations, saying the Delhi Government was trying to conceal its utter failure in management of water by accusing it of being responsible for increased ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to the national capital.In an affidavit filed in response to the Delhi Jal Board’s plea, the Haryana Government had said it’s Delhi which was responsible for increased ammonia levels in the drinking water supplied to its residents as the Wazirabad Water Treatment Plant had not been upgraded to treat water.Haryana had contended that the Central Pollution Control Board had examined the water of the Yamuna on January 13, 2021, and it was found that ammonia levels rose sharply from the Delhi contact point at Palla to Wazirabad.This was due to the unauthorised discharges between Palla and Wazirabad and sediment deposition at Wazirabad Pond and, therefore, it’s up to the DJB to control pollution at these points, Haryana had submitted.Ahead of scorching summer, the DJB had, on March 8, moved the Supreme Court against the Haryana government to avert a potential water crisis in the national capital.Delhi receives 479 million gallons water a day (MGD) against 609 MGD from Haryana. Besides, Delhi draws 90 MGD groundwater and receives 250 MGD from the Upper Ganga Canal.As per a Supreme Court order of February 1996, the pond level in Wazirabad has to be kept full. The normal level of the Yamuna near Wazirabad Pond should be 674.50 feet, but it has dropped to 670.90 feet.Haryana supplies water to Delhi through the Carrier-Lined Channel (CLC), Delhi Sub-Branch (DSB) and the Yamuna. CLC and DSB supply water from Hathni Kund via Munak canal and the BBMC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-govts-contempt-plea-against-haryana-rejected-287369
