30-07-2021||New Delhi||Delhi sounds flood alert as Yamuna water level breaches ‘danger mark’||The Delhi administration on Friday sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people living in the Yamuna floodplains, as the river in the National Capital breached the 'danger mark' of 205.33 meters amid heavy rain in the upper catchment areas, officials said.The water level was recorded at 205.59 meters at the Old Railway Bridge at 9 pm. It was 205.34 metres at 11 am and 205.10 meters at 6 am, an official said, adding it is likely to rise further.All the departments concerned have been alerted. The irrigation and flood control department has deployed 13 boats in different areas and put 21 others on standby, the official from the irrigation and flood control department said.With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have started evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital.These people are being shifted to shelter homes of the city government in the Yamuna Pushta area, the official said.“In the East District, 15 vulnerable points have been identified. We are erecting tents and evacuating people from these vulnerable points,” another official said, adding all standard operating procedures are being followed and the situation is being monitored round-the-clock.A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the “warning mark” of 204.50 metres. The situation is being monitored round-the-clock, a district administration official said.The river is in spate because of rains in Delhi and the upper catchment areas, a MeT department official said, adding it may swell further as more rains are predicted in northwest India.According to the Delhi flood control room, the discharge rate at the Hathnikund Barrage peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday afternoon, the highest this year so far.The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital.Haryana had been releasing water from the Yumananagar-located barrage at the rate of 37,109 cusecs at 8 pm. It was 19,056 cusecs at 8 am.Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas.One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second.In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 meter-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 meters.The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas.In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 meters.In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 meters. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-sounds-flood-alert-as-yamuna-water-level-breaches-danger-mark-290601
30-07-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||4-year-old girl found stuffed in bag in Gurugram||A 4-year-old girl’s body was found stuffed in a bag near Kisan Bhawan on Friday, police said.A passerby spotted a bag near some bushes on the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway and upon closer examination found it emanated a foul smell. He opened the bag and informed the police about the body inside, police sources said.  Deputy Commissioner of Police West Deepak Saharan said that the body appeared a day or two old. The child has yet to be identified.“We are checking CCTVs in the area to help identify the culprit,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP, west.Authorities will conduct autopsy on Saturday, police said.Police have registered a case against at the Shivaji Nagar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-year-old-girl-found-stuffed-in-bag-in-gurugram-290597
30-07-2021||---||Haryana yet to hand over encumbrance free land for AIIMS Manethi: Govt in Lok Sabha||New Delhi, July 30The government on Friday informed Lok Sabha that the Haryana government was yet to hand over encumbrance free land for the construction of AIIMS at Manethi, as approved by the Union Cabinet on February 28, 2019."Encumbrance free land is yet to be handed over by the state government," the Health Ministry said in Parliament about the status of pending AIIMS across the country.In respect of other AIIMS in the region, the government said, MBBS classes have already commenced at AIIMS Bilaspur (from academic year 2020-21), Jammu (from 2020-21 from a temporary campus) and Bathinda (from 2019-2020).Sixty-six per cent construction work is complete at AIIMS Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh, 22 per cent in AIIMS Jammu, 4.5 per cent in AIIMS Kashmir and 86.10 per cent in AIIMS Bathinda where oPD services became functional from December 25, 2019, the government said.The AIIMS are being built under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY), which aims to establish the institutes in all the states in a phasedmanner.Setting up of 22 AIIMS has been sanctioned so far under the Scheme. Six of the sanctioned AIIMS at Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur, Patna, Raipur and Rishikesh are fully functional.  The remaining 16 are at different stages of operationalisation.The envisioned facilities at each new AIIMS include a 960- or 750-bedded hospital (610 beds in case of AIIMS, Raebareli), facilities for teaching in undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) medical education and nursing, 18 specialty and 17 super specialty departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-yet-to-hand-over-encumbrance-free-land-for-aiims-manethi-govt-in-lok-sabha-290533
30-07-2021||Rohtak||MDU to be developed as sports hub||12th edition of Azadi AmritmahotsavHisar: The speakathon club under the mentorship of training and placement cell, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, organised the 12th edition of 'Azadi Amritmahotsav series' in the form of "online elocution event" to commemorate the 75 years of India's Independence. This week's freedom fighter was 'Shaheed Udham Singh' as his Martyrdom Day falls on July 31. Students from various departments and affiliated colleges of the university participated in the event. Dr Sanjay Kumar from psychology department was the guest of honour for the event. He also encouraged the participants to give their best. The students expressed their views on life, struggles and sacrifices of 'Shahid Udham Singh'.New VC takes over at CUHMahendragarh: Prof Tankeshwar Kumar today assumed the charge of the Vice-Chancellor at the Central University of Haryana (CUH) here. He took over the charge from outgoing VC Prof RC Kuhad while former Education Minister Ram Bilas Sharma was also present on the occasion. After taking charge, Prof Tankeshwar said implementing the National Education Policy-2020 in the CUH would be on his priority.Online literary eventFaridabad: A two-day long online literary event on "polyphony" started on Thursday by the department of literature and languages of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. The event was inaugurated by Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar. More than 150 participants attended the event, including several scholarly faculty members and students from universities across the world.HAU announces entrance exam datesHisar: Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) has announced the dates of the entrance examination for BSc (honours) Agriculture -four years and six years courses. HAU registrar Dr Rajvir Singh said the entrance test for the admission to BSc (honours) Agriculture - four years would be held on August 28 while the tests for the courses, including BSc (honours) Agriculture -six year, BSc (honours) Computer Science and BSc (honours) Fisheries Sciences will be held on September 19. The applicants can apply online for the admission by August 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdu-to-be-developed-as-sports-hub-290374
30-07-2021||Stray cattle can be seen everywhere in Rohtak town. These animals pose serious threat to the lives of passersby and commuters. The elderly and children hesitate to get out of their homes. These animals defecate everywhere leaving the roads filthy. Stray cows search for food in garbage dumps and in the process eat polythenes which may result in their death. So the department concerned must take note at the earliest and remove the stray animals from the roads||Remove stray cattle from Rohtak roads||Viren Hooda, RohtakAdministration should deal sternly with encroachersShopkeepers, dhaba owners, those selling sand, gravel and running other commercial activities have encroached upon major portion of roads in Kaithal, Kalayat, Cheeka, Rajound and Pundri towns thus leaving the roads congested. The Ambala road in Kaithal, the road users and pedestrians find it very inconvenient to move on such congested roads. The inaction by the administration and departments concerned has given leverage to such encroachers who have no respect for law. The administration should deal sternly with encroachers.Satish Seth, KaithalGarbage dots every nook and corner of vegetable marketDespite tall claims made by the Kurukshetra administration regarding upgrading of Kurukshetra in the ranking among the clean cities of Haryana, the reality is far from truth. The New Vegetable Market on Salarpur Road tears into Swachhata Abhiyan. Stinking slush and heaps of rotten fruits and vegetables on both the sides of its entrance give a nauseating feeling. Pigs can be seen eating from the heaps of garbage in every nook and corner of the market. It appears that no cleanliness drive ever takes place here. Accountability needs to be fixed by the administration so that it can be a clean place where people can move around and buy fruits and vegetables.Dr Puneet Kaushik, KurukshetraIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/remove-stray-cattle-from-rohtak-roads-290372
30-07-2021||---||5 Army men suffer injuries in accident near Pipli||Kurukshetra, July 29Five Army personnel have suffered injuries after an Army vehicle they were travelling in was hit by a canter from the rear side the on Ambala-Delhi National Highway near Pipli in Kurukshetra today.CANTER HITS TRUCKThe Army personnel of 100 Medium Regiment Delhi were on their way to Delhi from Ambala. As they reached near Pipli, a canter hit the Army truck on the rear.The Army personnel of 100 Medium Regiment Delhi were on their way to Delhi from Ambala. As they reached near Pipli, a canter hit the Army truck from the rear side.The injured, Surjeet Yadav, Prem Kumar, Kapil Verma, Dilkhush and P Sai Kumar, were rushed to Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital for treatment.A case has been registered under Sections 279 and 337 of the IPC at Thanesar Sadar police station.Thanesar Sadar police station SHO Rajpal said: “There were six Army men in the truck but five suffered injuries. The driver of the canter managed to flee the spot and a case against an unidentified person has been registered.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-army-men-suffer-injuries-in-accident-near-pipli-290366
30-07-2021||Bijendra Ahlawat||Technical problems delaying overbridge projects in Palwal||Tribune News ServicePalwal, July 29The construction of two railway overbridges (ROBs) in Palwal district taken up three years ago, has been marred by delay and sluggish work. Announced to be completed in March 2020, these ROBs are not expected to be ready before another one year.Robs have missed deadlineThe foundation of the ROBs at Rasulpur and Bamni Khera villages in the district was laid in June and September respectively in 2018 to improve accessibility and connectivity between various parts of the district hurdled by the passing of the railway track, said officials in the district administration.While the work was taken by the Haryana State Roads and Bridge Development Corporation (HSRDC), the deadline of both ROBs, which was two years, has already been jumped. The construction work has been hampered due to various factors, including the shifting of power lines and delay in resolving the technical issues with other departments such as The Railways, resulting in the project missing the deadline and increase in the completion time of the projects.Blaming lack of seriousness on part of the authorities, Harit Baisla, a resident of Badoli village, said the delay had inconvenienced commuters of several villages as they had to take a longer route to reach their destination by spending more time and money. Demanding a probe into the delay, Satpal of Kamrawali village said lack of fixing accountability of officials or contractors had led to the slow pace of work. The ROBs are expected to benefit several villages which include Hosangabad, Rasulpur, Badoli, Acheja, Kusak, Batka, Amroli, Sultanpur, Rahimpur, Lohagarh,Lulwari, Bawana, Tappa Billochpur, Satwagarhi, Maholi, Kamrawali, Karimpur, Missa, Batta, Satuagarhi and Hasanpur , it is claimed.Villagers in lurchThe delay had inconvenienced commuters of several villages as they had to take a longer route to reach their destination by spending more time and money, said Harit Baisla, a resident of Badoli villageClaiming that besides the pending work on part of the Railways, certain technical issues have led to the delay, it was expected to pick up speed soon, Rahul Singh, Executive Engineer, HSRDC, said. DC Naresh Narwal said both ROBs were expected to be ready by March 2022.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/technical-problems-delaying-overbridge-projects-in-palwal-290171
30-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram: Accident response team cracks hit-and-run cases||Gurugram, July 29The Gurugram police have formed an accident response team (ART) to nab hit-and-run accused. The team specialises in crime scene investigation and has cracked 12 cases so far, even at places with no CCTV cameras. The team is also revisiting black spots and accidents spots to identify drivers who fled the spot after hitting motorists and pedestrians this year.In Gurugram, most of the accident victims are two-wheeler drivers and pedestrians who are hit fatally and the accused run away and evade arrest in a majority of cases. To nab the accused drivers, Police Commissioner KK Rao constituted an accident response team recently. The team is identifying the errant drivers in cases where there were no leads.The team has been visiting accident spots and scanning footage from the nearby CCTV cameras to check the cause of accidents. The team is working under the supervision of Manesar DCP Varun Singla. The five-member team headed by ASI Harpal Singh solved 12 cases in the last three months and identified 10 blind spot where the police are set to install CCTV cameras.In one case, the police traced the vehicle with just information about a bread company logo on it. In another case, a 12-year-old boy was crushed by an unknown vehicle in Pataudi and the police only knew that spun pipes were loaded in the vehicle and finally the team traced the vehicle and nabbed its driver.“We have solved 12 cases so far and our team is always on wheels trying to make it to accident spots at the earliest and collect evidence and pictures before any of these are tampered with. People are questioned. We also focus on victim compensation and identify the blind spot where CCTV cameras need to be installed,” Manesar DCP Varun Singla said.When contacted, Rao said the task was challenging but our ART had proved to be a great success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-accident-response-team-cracks-hit-and-run-cases-290172
30-07-2021||---||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC junior engineer suspended||Yamunanagar, July 29 Municipal Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar has suspended a Junior Engineer of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Municipal Corporation (YJMC). The action of suspension came against Pankaj Kamboj on Wednesday after he allegedly failed to submit a report regarding the maintenance of street lights to the Municipal Commissioner. “The responsibility of the installation of new street lights and maintenance of the already installed ones was given to Junior Engineer Pankaj Kamboj. Several days ago, I sought a report from him regarding their maintenance but he failed to submit it,” said Tomar. He added that the street lights were the need of the hour, especially during the monsoon and therefore, no negligence would be tolerated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-mc-junior-engineer-suspended-290173
30-07-2021||Gurugram||44 nabbed for flesh trade, illegal liquor party in Faridabad||The Faridabad police busted an illegal liquor and prostitution party that was being held at a local hotel late last night.The police nabbed 44 persons, including 15 women, in this regard. Some of the arrested were nabbed from hotel rooms. The party was being held just 200m from a police station and, according to sources, was a monthly affair.3 women ran prostitution racketThe hotel was allegedly leased out by three women who ran a prostitution racket there and often hosted such parties. They had not paid the rent to the landlord for six months and it was on the latter’s pleas to the Police Commissioner OP Singh that led to the raid.The hotel was allegedly leased out by three women who ran a prostitution racket there and often hosted such parties. They had not paid the rent to the landlord for six months and it was on the latter’s pleas to the Police Commissioner OP Singh that led to the raid.All accused were booked under various Sections of the IPC, Immoral Trafficking Act and Excise Act at the Kotwali police station. All were produced in a city court from where they were sent to judicial custody in the Neemka jail. According to the police, a raid was conducted at the place by them. The police team sent a cop as a decoy customer to the hotel where the party was going on. To join the party, a woman named Nisha took Rs 2,000 from the cop, which was signed by the SHO. After receiving a signal from the cop, the team raided the hotel. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/44-nabbed-for-flesh-trade-illegal-liquor-party-in-faridabad-290174
30-07-2021||Yamunanagar||2 held with 45 boxes of beer allegedly being taken to Himachal Pradesh||The police have arrested two persons with 45 boxes of beer, allegedly being taken to Himachal Pradesh illegally.The accused have been identified as Narayan Singh of Shimla and Surender Singh of Sirmaur of Himachal Pradesh. They were booked under the Excise Act and Section 420 of the IPC at Chhachhrauli police station on Tuesday.A police spokesperson said the Chhachhrauli police received a tip-off on Tuesday that some persons were carrying liquor loaded in a utility vehicle to Himachal Pradesh illegally. The police laid a naka near Balachaur village and nabbed the accused after they failed to produce the bill for the consignment. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-with-45-boxes-of-beer-allegedly-being-taken-to-himachal-pradesh-290175
30-07-2021||Ravinder Saini||Remove blockade at Tikri, Bahadurgarh industry urges Haryana CM||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, July 29The Bahadurgarh Chamber of Commerce and Industries (BCCI), a body of more than 9,000 large and small units in Bahadurgarh town here, has demanded the removal of the blockade at the Tikri border, stating that the industries had suffered a total turnover loss of around Rs 20,000 crore in the past seven months, while around 2,000 units were either closed or on the verge of closure due to the blockade.Rs20,000 crore loss in seven months“Industrialists have been suffering from inexplicable financial and humanitarian hardships due to the sealing of the Tikri border as all vehicles carrying raw materials from Delhi or elsewhere have to take a detour, leading to the escalation of the input cost by at least 300 to 400 per cent. Most of the industries are situated near Tikri and the road facilitates complete movement from their workplace to market to run their business, but the movement remains stopped due to huts set up by the farmers,” said Narinder Chhikara, senior vice-president, BCCI, in a letter sent to Chief Minister on Thursday.He said with no alternative road available for the movement of goods, the arrival of all vehicles was delayed, hitting the supply of raw materials, daily dispatch of ready goods and input materials. The monsoon had aggravated the problem as the industrialists were not getting access even from small kutcha roads from surrounding villages.“Around 7.5 lakh people are directly and indirectly employed at 9,000 industries, including footwear, automobile, spare parts, and industrial manufacturing units, while a significant number of employees travel to Bahadurgarh from Delhi, but they get late in reaching the workplace due the blockade, leading to long traffic jams. Our vehicles too are getting damaged by using poorly maintained interior roads and bylanes,” said Chhikara.He claimed the blockade was also hampering emergency movement of ambulances carrying patients resulting in delay in reaching the hospital. The situation is also taking a toll on business opportunities as foreign and domestic visitors are not visiting their units.Industrialists submitted the letter to Bahadurgarh SDM Hitendra Sharma, demanding the CM’s intervention in the matter to ensure the removal of the blockade at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/remove-blockade-at-tikri-bahadurgarh-industry-urges-haryana-cm-290176
30-07-2021||---||Gurugram-based Ambience group promoter arrested for bank loan fraud||New Delhi, July 29The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today arrested promoter of the Gurugram-based Ambience group Raj Singh Gehlot under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with a bank loan fraud of Rs 800 crore, officials in the agency said.Rs800 crore siphoned offThe ED in its probe has found that “a huge part of the loan amount of more than Rs800 crore, which was sanctioned by a consortium of banks for a hotel project, was siphoned off by Aman Hospitality Private Limited, Raj Singh Gehlot and his associates through a web of companies owned and controlled by them”.The officials said Gehlot would soon be produced before a special court here in the national capital and the agency would seek custody of the arrested accused.Earlier, the ED sleuths had raided Gehlot’s premises including his company Aman Hospitality Private Limited (AHPL) and also a few other firms of the Ambience group.Besides, the agency had also raided the premises of director in the company Dayanand Singh, Mohan Singh Gehlot and their associates in July last year.The officials said the PMLA case against Gehlot, who is also a promoter of the Ambience Mall in Gurugram, is based on a 2019 FIR of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Jammu against AHPL and its directors for alleged money laundering in the construction and development of the five-star Leela Ambience Convention Hotel located at 1, CBD, Maharaj Surajmal Road, near the Yamuna Sports Complex in Delhi.The ED in its probe has found that “a huge part of the loan amount of more than Rs 800 crore, which was sanctioned by a consortium of banks for the hotel project, was siphoned off by AHPL, Raj Singh Gehlot and his associates through a web of companies owned and controlled by them”.“A substantial part of the loan money was transferred by AHPL to several companies and individuals on the pretext of payment of running bills and advance for supply of material and work executed,” the ED has alleged in the FIR.The employees of the Ambience group and Gehlot’s associates were made directors and proprietors in these companies and Gehlot was the “authorised signatory” in many of these entities, it had said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-based-ambience-group-promoter-arrested-for-bank-loan-fraud-290177
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||Setback to outsiders buying property in Faridabad village in Aravallis||In a setback to outsiders buying property, including farmhouses in Kot village in Faridabad district in the Aravallis, the Haryana Government has “denotified” the consolidation proceedings over an area of 3,184 acres of land.Farmhouses built by influential personsAmna Tasneem, Director, Consolidation of Holdings, in her order withdrawing notification notifying the entire area of 3,184 acres in Kot village termed it as “defective” and defeating the objective of the Consolidation Act.“An area of 3,184 acres in Kot village was notified under the Consolidation Act February 1, 2019, for the consolidation of holdings for the purpose of better cultivation of land by the Director of Consolidation,” the order said. However, of the total area of 3,184 acres of land, an area of 2,565 acres was “gair mumkin pahaar” (uncultivable waste land), mostly bought to develop farmhouses by influential persons.“In case the consolidation exercise of the entire village, including ‘gair mumkin pahaar’ is carried out, it would wrongly benefit certain influential outsider-purchasers of ‘gair mumkin pahaar’. The aims and objectives of the Consolidation Act were to consolidate the agricultural holdings for the betterment of agriculture, prevention of fragmentation of agriculture holdings and for the reservation of the land for common purposes of the village. The object of the Consolidation Act would be defeated in case ‘gair mumkin pahaar’ is included in the scheme of Consolidation,” the order said.In the wake of the order, outside investors, who had invested in the property, in Kot village, would not be able to get their land consolidated. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/setback-to-outsiders-buying-property-in-faridabad-village-in-aravallis-290178
30-07-2021||---||Power subsidy scheme for Haryana industry notified||Chandigarh, July 29The Haryana Government has notified the ‘power tariff subsidy’ scheme under the Haryana Enterprises and Employment Policy 2020 with the view to ensure affordable power supply to enterprises located in the state.An official spokesperson said the scheme would be applicable with effect from January 1, 2021. He added that all existing and new enterprises situated in C and D category blocks of the state, having connected load of 40 kW in D category blocks and 30 kW in C category blocks or less, would get the benefit of the scheme.The enterprise will be eligible for this benefit till it remains in production.The spokesperson said enterprises would not be required to apply for availing the benefit. The Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN/ DHBVN) will provide this benefit by deducting the subsidy amount in the electricity bills. The amount of power tariff subsidy granted by UHBVN/DHBVN will be reimbursed by the MSME Department from its allocated budget.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/power-subsidy-scheme-for-haryana-industry-notified-290179
30-07-2021||---||Ambala Administration to re-examine Covid patients’ bills||Ambala, July 29The district administration has decided to re-examine the bills of Covid patients who were admitted in various private hospitals during the second wave to find out if any patient was overcharged for treatment in the district.There are 10 private hospitals in the district where Covid patients were admitted and the district administration will get the bills of the patients re-examined admitted from April 15 to May 31.A team led by City Magistrate Aanchal Bhaskar will examine the bills, especially of the patients who had to stay in hospitals for a longer period and contact the patients. The team will check if the patients were charged more than the rates fixed by the government and submit its report to the Deputy Commissioner (DC). The team will comprise medical officer Kartavya Pratap Singh and officials from the education and roadways departments.The team had randomly examined some bills in Ambala, but no case of overcharging had come to notice during the audit. Again, more bills were examined from all 10 hospitals. However, the report of the second audit is yet to come.The district administration says though there are no complaints regarding overcharging from the patients, several people don’t lodge complaints as many come from other districts and states.The DC said all preparations were being made to combat the expected third wave of Covid. Three oxygen plants, one each at Civil Hospital Ambala Cantonment, Civil Hospital Naraingarh and Community Health Centre Chaurmastpur, were being installed. Besides, vaccination drive was also going on at a good pace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-administration-to-re-examine-covid-patients-bills-290181
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||JJP membership drive from Aug 15||The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) will start a statewide membership campaign on August 15, and the Indian National Students’ Organisation (INSO), will celebrate its foundation day in Rohtak. These decisions were taken at a meeting of the national executive and the district president held in Panchkula, near here today. Ajay Chautala, national president, said suggestions were solicited regarding to the birthday celebrations of Devi Lal from senior officials of the party. He said keepin in view the pandemic, the decision on the place and the mode of celebration will be taken later. He said statues of Devi Lal will be installed in Nuh and Dadri districts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-membership-drive-from-aug-15-290183
30-07-2021||---||Illegal arms from western UP a challenge for Karnal police||Karnal, July 29 Illegal weapons procured from various parts of western Uttar Pradesh continue to be a challenge for the police as most of the illegal arms seized by the Karnal police had been procured from this region. As per the police investigation, the Karnal police have seized 79 illegal weapons from 90 accused in the current year.  The police have prepared a list of around 40 seized weapons. Of those, the majority (21) had been procured from western UP –- Shamli (12), followed by Muzaffarnagar (3) and Saharanpur (3). Besides, a couple of seized weapons had also been procured from MP and Punjab. Among the seized weapons, 51 are .315 bore countrymade pistols, 16 are .32 bore countrymade pistols, 5 of 12 bore countrymade pistols and one is a 9mm countrymade pistol. The police also seized 66 cartridges, the record said. A police official involved in the investigation of a couple of cases of illegal weapons said that these countrymade weapons are easily available to notorious criminals in the various parts of western UP.  The proximity to Karnal and other bordering districts makes it convenient for criminals to bring the arms to Haryana.  “Western UP is well known for manufacturing illicit firearms and it has emerged as a major supply centre to Haryana. The arrested persons revealed that they can easily purchase these weapons there,” said the police official.  The police are also making efforts to break the chain of supply. “We are trying to reach the source of illegal weapons. To break the chain of criminals, we have strengthened the ‘nakas’ on the Haryana-UP border. Besides, we also try to determine the motive of the criminals to prevent any untoward incident,” said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police. He maintained that they have also been checking the records of similar criminals arrested previously to determine the source of weapons. The SP said that the majority of crimes are committed with illegal weapons that are either countrymade or factory made, but not licensed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-arms-from-western-up-a-challenge-for-karnal-police-290185
30-07-2021||---||Four held for attack on men at Karnal shop||Karnal, July 29With the arrest of four persons, the Karnal police claimed to have solved the case of an attack on three persons inside a shop, in Sector 9, here, last week.Surinder Kumar, in charge, Sector 9 police post, said some persons, on July 23, attacked the owner, identified as Krishan, and his two sons Rohit and Rajat inside the shop, following which they started a probe. The arrested accused have been identified as Rajinder and Amit of Ghogharipur village, Rajat of Indri and Vikas of Gurunanakapura in the city, while three other accused, including a girl, are absconding.The girl had hired her driver to attack Rohit, who had allegedly refused her marriage proposal. An engineer of the police control room, Harinder, allegedly helped them in switching off the CCTV cameras at the time of attack. He was also absconding.The arrested accused would be produced in the court, as the police are yet to find out the whereabouts of the remaining accused.During the investigation, Rajinder told the police that he was a driver at the residence of the girl, who had an affair with Rohit, who had refused her marriage proposal. The two laid a trap and involved Hardeep for switching off the cameras during the attack at 2 pm, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-held-for-attack-on-men-at-karnal-shop-290187
30-07-2021||Jhajjar||Jhajjar: Police give clean chit to health team||The probe conducted by a DSP has given a clean chit to a local health team, led by nodal officer (PNDT) Dr Mamta, in a complaint filed by the brother of a private doctor, in which the latter had accused the team of implicating her sister in a false case, planting fake evidences and demanding bribe after raiding her clinic and maternity hospital in Badli town on June 22.The police had registered a case against Dr Neelam under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the MTP Act, Section 15 of the Environment Protection Act and Section 420 of the IPC on the complaint of Dr Mamta.The team recovered an MTP kit from the clinic and tools/instrument from a car parked outside.Later, Neelam’s brother Vikram Kumar filed a counter complaint levelling allegations against the raiding team. He has also attached CCTV footage in support of the complaint.In his inquiry report submitted to the SP on Wednesday, the DSP said no accuracy was found in the allegations while the action taken by the nodal officer against the accused was as per the rules. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-police-give-clean-chit-to-health-team-290189
30-07-2021||Deepender Deswal||Rain leaves urban areas in Hisar, Jind waterlogged||Tribune News ServiceHisar, July 29Heavy rainfall over the past two days has left roads in urban areas of Hisar, Jind, Bhiwani, Fatehaband and Hansi towns waterlogged, raising a question over the civic authorities’ claims of spending funds on laying new drains and cleaning the existing system in the area.In Hisar, even posh areas such as Jindal Chowk, Urban Estate, Sector 13, Sector 15 and Jawahar Nagar, and colonies in Surya Nagar, Mill Gate area, Sabji Mandi and Krishan Nagar were inundated for a long time. Trilok Bansal, a social activist, said it was a recurring feature. “The long spell of rain has exposed the authorities’ laxity in carrying out development works,” he said.Shamsher Singh, a resident of Sector 13, Hisar, said streets near the Dabra Chowk were left waterlogged. “The rainwater discharge system is apparently non-functional,” he said.In Jind, the recent rain has left a trail of destruction, as several roads have been damaged. Rajkumar Goyal, president, Jind Vikash Sangthan, said he had been raising the issue of poor civic infrastructure in the town, but to no avail. “The funds spent in the name of developing the drainage and roads in the town seem to be wasted. The government must initiate an inquiry into the misuse of funds,” he said.Jind MLA Krishan Middha said the contractors would be taken to task if any fault was found in the development works carried out in the town. In Hansi, SDM Jitender Ahlawat inspected several waterlogged localities and issued instructions to the officials concerned to drain out standing water from the area.5 injured in house collapseKarnal: Five members of a family sustained injuries as a two-storey building collapsed at Kathlaheri village in the district reportedly due to heavy rainfall. The injured have been identified as Sunita (48), Sonia (23), Abhi (4), Sonam (4) and Garvi (3). The incident took place at around 4 am today when the family members were sleeping. Family members told the police that after they heard a loud noise, they reached the spot and found that the house had collapsed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rain-leaves-urban-areas-in-hisar-jind-waterlogged-290191
30-07-2021||Rohtak||Groundwater falling in 19 districts in Haryana||A total of 19 districts in the state are among the 256 districts across the nation facing falling groundwater issues.The Centre, through the Jal Shakti Abhiyan, has been working to improve the groundwater-level condition in these districts.A team of the Center, along with technical officers, is deputed to visit these districts and work in collaboration with the district-level officials to undertake suitable intervention in this respect.The Minister of State for Jal Shakti and Food Processing Industries, Prahlad Singh Patel, while replying to a question in the Lok Sabha today about the steps taken by the government to address the constantly falling groundwater table in most parts of Haryana, especially in Rohtak and Jhajjar, said: “In Haryana, the master plan envisages construction of about 7.4 lakhs rainwater harvesting and artificial recharge structures to harness 679 million cubic metre of monsoon rainfall.” —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/groundwater-falling-in-19-districts-in-haryana-290193
30-07-2021||Parveen Arora
||Yamuna water enters fields in Karnal villages, farmers worried||Tribune News Service Karnal, July 29 With the level of water in the Yamuna increasing, farmers of several villages living along it are worried about their crops as water has entered their fields. A large area in seven villages along the Yamuna has been submerged. The administration has sounded the alarm bell for the people living along the river and asked them to remain vigilant. It has deployed teams to assist farmers.  The authorities have been claiming that there has been no major loss due to the increase in water level, but farmers said that their paddy crop has been flooded and it was a loss to them. According to the farmers, the increasing water level in the Yamuna always poses a threat of flash flood in more than 30 villages along it. On the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, water entered fields at Chandrav, Chaugama, Nagal, Sayeed Chapra, Nabiabad, Shergarh Tapu, Mundigarhi and other villages on which hundreds of acres of crops of paddy and fodder were sown. “Due to heavy rain in the upper areas, the water level in the Yamuna has gone up. As a result, our crops have been submerged,” said Rampal, a farmer. Another farmer Rakesh said that the government spends crores every year to make new studs and to repair the old ones along the river, but all goes in vain when the water level increases. Shyam Lal, District Revenue Officer, said that due to increase in level, water had entered fields along with Yamuna, but now, the water has started receding. “Our teams are in the field to assist the farmers and now, there is no need to worry as the water has started receding. At present, the water level has reached around 70,000 cusecs,” said Sumit Sihag, SDM Indri. Meanwhile, scores of residents of Barota village today blocked the road over waterlogging in their fields and houses after heavy rainfall.  The residents blamed the poor drainage system for the flood-like situation in their fields and houses. “The drains were not cleaned on time due to which fields and residential areas were waterlogged. Hundreds of acres of paddy are still flooded, but nobody is making efforts to drain the water,” said Ramesh, a resident.  Another protesting resident said they had witnessed waterlogging last week as well. With another spell of rain, a similar situation has arisen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamuna-water-enters-fields-in-karnal-villages-farmers-worried-290195
30-07-2021||---||Inspect choked sewers: Haryana Sahri Vikas Pradhikaran directs executive engineers||Hisar, July 29 Haryana Sahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) administrator Rajesh Jogpal has sought an explanation from the executive engineers (XENs) on waterlogging and choking of sewerage in Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Jind towns. Servicing notices to the XENs in division 1 and division 2, he asked the officials concerned to explain why the sewerage works were not initiated on time and why they were not supervised and properly executed. “The recurring waterlogging and sewerage-choking problems in the area seem to have been unaddressed in these years,” he said, asking the officials to explain if the works were delayed at the contractors’ level. “In that case, the contractor concerned will be held accountable, and a penalty will be imposed after following a due procedure.”  Jogpal issued directions to the officials to undertake a tour of the area, inspect the areas where problems of waterlogging and sewerage-choking were prevalent, and plan to initiate remedial measures. Jogpal advised the officers concerned and told them that leniency towards development works, which should be initiated before the monsoon in HSVP sectors, disrupted the normal life. Estate Officers, HSVP, Hisar, Jind and Bhiwani, have been directed to inspect the estate under their jurisdiction and coordinate with the engineering wing officials to resolve sewerage backflow or blockage issues, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inspect-choked-sewers-haryana-sahri-vikas-pradhikaran-directs-executive-engineers-290198
30-07-2021||Chandigarh||‘Internship Policy for the State of Haryana’ to educate youth on govt functioning||The Haryana Government has prepared a policy for interns named ‘Internship Policy for the State of Haryana’ to create awareness among the youth regarding the working of the state government.Under this policy, the state government will work to provide internship to talented youth in various departments, boards and corporations.An official spokesperson said the state government had requested various educational institutions several times to allow the youth studying in their institutes to do internships in the departments of the state government. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/internship-policy-for-the-state-of-haryana-to-educate-youth-on-govt-functioning-290200
30-07-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Women cops get hoax calls on helpline||Women operators at ‘Dial 112’ helpline are a harried lot, as they are receiving abusive calls post midnight. From friendship requests and marriage proposals to abuses, the women operators are having a tough time since the past week.The police said they would act strictly against the harassers. The police have tracked such numbers and identified the defaulters.According to the control room authorities, the officials receive eight to 10 prank and abusive calls every day. Majority of callers are drunk, who harass the women cops.Ranveer Deswal, DSP, Telecom, said initially the number of prank calls was higher, but it had declined after efforts were taken to check the issue. “After identifying the numbers of the miscreants, we complained to the nodal officers. ‘Dial112’ is to help people in trouble, but many are misusing it,” said the DSP.Deswal said after getting a call, we always reached within 15 minutes in urban areas and 20 minutes in rural areas. —OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-women-cops-get-hoax-calls-on-helpline-290202
30-07-2021||bala||BJP, Congress hand in glove: Ashok Tanwar||Former Sirsa MP and convener of Apna Bharat Morcha Ashok Tanwar today slammed Congress leaders in Haryana and accused them of being hand in glove with the BJP government.Tanwar alleged: “The government has failed to fulfil its promises. It has been making tall claims and promises of developing smart cities and bringing big projects. But the cities are seen struggling due to waterlogging even after a little rain.”He called upon the youth to boycott Congress youth elections. “There were several important issues including farmers’ agitation, inflation, Covid deaths and unemployment that were to be discussed in the ongoing monsoon session in Parliament. But the entire session got stuck due to the Pegasus issue,” Tanwar alleged. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-congress-hand-in-glove-ashok-tanwar-290204
30-07-2021||Geetanjali Gayatri||No field posts for over 35 Haryana officers under lens||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 29A reshuffle is on the cards in Haryana with the government drawing up a list of over 35 officers of the All India Services (AIS) and three state services who will not be given field postings or assignments involving public dealing.This comes a week after the state government ordered that the officers of the AIS (including the IAS, IPS and Indian Forest Service), and those of the Haryana Civil Service (HCS), Haryana Police Service (HPS) and the Haryana Forest Service (HFS) who are facing an inquiry by the CBI or State Vigilance Bureau will not be given field postings or assignments involving public dealing. Sources maintained that CM Manohar Lal Khattar chaired an informal meeting earlier this week to discuss the matter and identify all such officers who would be impacted by the government order.“The names, the case status and the present postings of these officers were discussed. The government is likely to act on this information which is still being compiled. The Chief Minister was particular that such officers should not hold any sensitive postings,” sources claimed.Officers are divided on what exactly constitutes “public dealing”. While some maintained that the order would be confined to those posted in the field since there was hardly any public interface required by senior officers posted at the headquarters, others felt that the order would impact everyone across the board.Sources said some senior officers had already begun to lobby for “coveted posts”, hoping that the incumbent would be “dislodged” and there would be a vacancy. The sources, however, clearly stated that “policy-makers” did not have any public dealing and no change was likely to be effected.According to the order issued by the Chief Secretary, officers against whom prosecution sanction has been granted and the “competent authority or court” has framed charges in a criminal case involving moral turpitude would also fall in the ambit of the order.Also, the order added that officers against whom departmental proceedings entailing major penalty were pending would not be eligible for field postings and public dealing assignments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-field-posts-for-over-35-haryana-officers-under-lens-290168
