31-07-2021||Saurabh Malik||Case pendency nearing 7-lakh mark in Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 30The problem of plenty is getting worse in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, with the pendency of cases almost touching 7-lakh mark, up by more than 60,000 since the beginning of the year.National Judicial Data Grid — the monitoring tool to identify, manage and reduce pendency of cases — indicates the pendency of 6,99,268 cases in the High Court as against 6,37,188 in January this year and 5,28,340 in January 2020.The only other High Court with pendency more than the Punjab and Haryana High Court is Allahabad with 7,98,976 matters awaiting adjudication. Out of the total pendency cases in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, 304447 are criminal matters, predominantly involving life and liberty.Otherwise, 158570 or 22.68 per cent of the total pending cases are up to a year old; 231637 or 33.13 per cent are pending between one and three years; 92551or 13.24 per cent are pending between 10 and 20 years, and 10519 or 1.5 per cases are awaiting adjudication for last 20 to 30 years.To make the matters worse, the High Court is expected to witness an unmanageable flood of litigation once it reopens for normal “physical” operations.  Available information suggests a substantial number of cases, filed but yet to be numbered, are lying in the High Court Registry to be taken up upon the resumption of physical hearing.The situation is expected to further worsen because of the impending retirement of Judges. The High Court is currently functioning at almost half the sanctioned strength with just 46 Judges against the sanctioned strength of 85. No less than two Judges are retiring this year, including one in August. Another five Judges are retiring next year.The last time the collegium made recommendations for elevation was in August 2020. The names of five advocates — Jasjit Singh Bedi, Pankaj Jain, Vikas Suri, Sandeep Moudgil and Vinod Bhardwaj — were finalised and forwarded. These were further forwarded by the Centre to the Supreme Court as late as in April this year and are believed to be pending. On the other hand, the last time the collegium recommended the names of judicial officers for elevation as High Court Judges was more than two years back.The process of appointing judges is lengthy and time consuming. Once cleared by the States and the governors, the file containing the names with intelligence bureau reports is placed before the Supreme Court when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to Union law ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The process could take several months, if not taken up on priority basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/case-pendency-nearing-7-lakh-mark-in-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-291012
31-07-2021||New Delhi||Oppn parties demand President’s intervention for formation of JPC on farmer deaths||Some opposition parties, led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), met President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday to seek his intervention in asking the government to set up a JPC on farmer deaths and allow a discussion in Parliament on the farmers’ issue and the Pegasus snooping controversy.Leaders of SAD, NCP and JKNC met the president and handed over a letter signed by the representatives of various parties for his intervention.The Congress, however, was not a signatory to it.The letter by various parties, including SAD, Shiv Sena, NCP, BSP, JKNC, RLP, CPI and CPI(M), seeks the president’s intervention to ensure the formation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to ascertain the details of farmer deaths during their agitation against three agriculture laws of the Centre and allow a discussion on their issues in Parliament.After meeting the president, SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the entire Opposition is demanding from the government for the last two weeks to allow them to speak in Parliament on issues concerning people.Among those who met Kovind included Mohammed Faizal (NCP), Hasnain Masoodi (JKNC), Ritesh Pandey (BSP) and Balwinder Singh Bhundar (SAD).Badal said she herself had approached the Congress and the TMC and wanted these parties to accompany them during the meeting with the president, “but unfortunately, it is before you that no one has reached here. We had sought time from the president”.All opposition parties are giving adjournment motions in Parliament on the farmers’ issue and the Pegasus snooping row, she said, alleging that it is the government’s duty to enable Parliament to function, but it is stonewalling the Opposition.“We have come here to tell the president that democracy and democratic traditions are under threat and the voice of parliamentarians is being crushed inside Parliament too. This is a big loss to democracy.“We have appealed to the president, who is the custodian and conscience keeper of the country, to put pressure on the government and admit the people’s issues raised by the opposition parties and allow Parliament to function,” the former Union minister told reporters.She said they may belong to small political parties, but represent people from across the country, from Jammu and Kashmir to Lakshadweep.“We have urged the president to put pressure on the government to let Parliament function smoothly so that people’s issues are addressed,” the Akali leader said.She said farmers are sitting on the roads for the last one year and at Delhi’s borders for eight months, and 500 of them have lost their lives.But when the agriculture minister says no farmer has died during the agitation against the three farm laws, it adds to their anger, Badal said.“The government says this is an issue concerning only one state, but MPs have come here from different states, from every nook and corner of the country,” she added.“The snooping issue is also an issue of national security. Why is the government not agreeing for a discussion on these issues and running away?“We have also appealed to the president to form a Joint Select Committee comprising MPs from both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to work out a solution for the protesting farmers. How many more farmers does the government want dead? Five hundred farmers have already died during the agitation,” Badal said.The opposition leaders have demanded that tributes be paid in Parliament to the farmers who have died during the agitation.“We hope that the president would surely tell the government to allow Parliament to function and let public money not be wasted. At least, listen to the families of those farmers who have died,” Badal said.Masoodi said, “We have also urged the president to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir.”  Badal said they had urged the Lok Sabha speaker on Friday to form a JPC to find out how many farmers have died during the agitation.“We have now urged the president to form the JPC. We want that the government should not run away from Parliament as it has a responsibility,” she added.Asked about the government accusing the Opposition of stalling Parliament, she said the government just wants to buy time.Every party wants a discussion but the government does not, she alleged.“Simply allow a discussion on both these issues and the House will start functioning and everything will settle down,” the SAD leader said.On the absence of the Congress and the TMC from their meeting with Kovind, she said till the time the Opposition is not united, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will continue to benefit. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oppn-parties-demand-presidents-intervention-for-formation-of-jpc-on-farmer-deaths-291011
31-07-2021||---||3 killed, 13 injured as truck hits bus in Haryana's Panipat||Panipat, July 31Three persons were killed and 13 were injured in an accident on National Highway-44 here on Saturday morning.The accident occurred at around 6.15 am.A private bus, which was on its way from Ajamgarh in Uttar Pradesh to Patiala in Punjab, filled with labourers stopped at the side of the NH-44 near Khadi Ashram to drop some passengers.Meanwhile, a speeding truck hit the bus from behind.Police rushed the injured to the general hospital here from where doctors referred eight of them to the PGI, Rohtak.Dr Pawan Kumar, Medical Officer, said 16 injured were admitted to the hospital of which three succumbed to their injuries while eight were referred to PGI, Rohtak.Deputy Commissioner Sushil Kumar Sarwan reached the spot and directed the Civil Surgeon to provide treatment to the injured.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan reached the hospital and interacted with the injured.Chandnibagh police have registered a case against the truck driver under various sections of the IPC and begun a probe.ASI Perminder said a case had been registered against the truck driver.One deceased has been identified as Rahul of Kushinagar district in Uttar Pradesh; they are trying to get details of the two other deceased, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-killed-13-injured-as-truck-hits-bus-in-haryanas-panipat-290944
31-07-2021||Mahendragarh||Hisar man gets 7 yrs for snatching ATM card||A court today sentenced a Hisar man to seven-year imprisonment after holding him guilty in an ATM card snatching case.It also slapped a total penalty of Rs 30,000 on Sanjay Kumar of Hazampura village.The Narnaul City Police had filed a case against Sanjay and two of his accomplices on the complaint of Vikas Dindhwal two years ago.Vikas said three youths were present at an ATM booth when he entered it to withdraw money on September 24, 2019.Vikas said: “One youth asked me to give the ATM card to withdraw money. I gave my card to him who passed it to another youth.“The boy used a small machine and swiped my ATM card on it. I tried to take back my card, but the trio manhandled me and fled from the spot with my ATM card. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-man-gets-7-yrs-for-snatching-atm-card-290663
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Government decides to support new MSMEs||The state government has decided to provide capital support and affordable credit to new micro enterprises in rural areas of ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ category blocks to spur rural industrial growth.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said new micro enterprises established under the Haryana Rural Industrial Development scheme would also get other incentives specified for the MSME sector under the Haryana Enterprise and EmploymentPolicy, 2020. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-decides-to-support-new-msmes-290664
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court dismisses petition challenging constitutional validity of sedition law||Traders incurring losses due to farm stir: VijChandigarh: Home Minister Anil Vij on Friday said traders were incurring losses because farmers protesting against the three new agricultural laws had blocked the Delhi national highway for eight months. The BJP leader further said the decision taken by Jind’s sarv khap banning BJP-JJP leaders was wrong. TNSThree held with illegal country-made pistolsYamunanagar: The police have arrested three persons from different places in Yamunanagar on Thursday and recovered three illegal country-made pistols and cartridges from their possession. Separate police teams arrested Hemant Giri from Badhi Majra village, and Naushad from ITI area and Sumant Kumar from near Hamida Head, Yamunanagar. TNSCabinet meet on August 5Chandigarh: The Cabinet meeting will be held on August 5 at 11 am in the main committee room of the Haryana Civil Secretariat under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. TNSAnand Sharma is new HPSC memberChandigarh: Governor Bandaru Dattatreya on Friday appointed Anand Kumar Sharma as a member of the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC). He administered the oath of allegiance and secrecy to Sharma at Raj Bhavan. TNSGovt invites applications for trade apprenticesChandigarh: The Skill Development and Industrial Training Department has invited applications from ITI-pass candidates for trade apprentices. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-dismisses-petition-challenging-constitutional-validity-of-sedition-law-290665
31-07-2021||Ambala||Ambala Cantt roads to be beautified||A sum of Rs 10 crore will be spent on the beautification of Nicholson road and Durga Charan (DC) Road in Ambala Cantonment. Both these roads are among the busiest and congested roads in Ambala Cantonmen and often witness traffic jams.Road Dividers to be redesignedUnder the beautification project, the dividers will be redesigned, there will be parking lanes, gazebos, and sitting space. There are a large number of shops and showrooms on both roads. Besides the congestion, haphazardly parked vehicles and encroachments by shopkeepers make things further difficult for commuters.The Executive Engineer, Ambala Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, Vikas Dhiman, said “Nicholson road and Durga Charan roads are to be developed and beautified and the project will cost around Rs 10 crore. It will be a nearly 1.2 kilometre-long area in which the work will be carried out. Both roads are congested, so it has been decided to reduce the size of dividers and the lights will be shifted to the sides of the roads. There will be sitting spaces and parking lanes. Utility ducts will be installed and greenery will also be increased on both roads.”“The project is ready but due to the ongoing Ambala-Saha fou-lane project, there is heavy traffic movement on the Nicholson and Durga Charan roads. We are expecting that the work may start in 15 days”, he added.The Subdivisional Magistrate, Ambala Cantonment, Sachin Gupta, who is also the administrator of the Municipal Council, Sadar Zone, said, “It is an ambitious project for Ambala Cantonment that will increase the aesthetic value of both markets. The basic idea is to build model roads for the markets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ambala-cantt-roads-to-be-beautified-290602
31-07-2021||Gurugram||Girl’s body found in bag in Gurugram||In a shocking incident, the body of around 4-year-old girl was found stuffed in a bag near the Kisan Bhawan building in the roadside bushes on the service lane of the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway. The police kept the body in the mortuary and postmortem will be conducted tomorrow. An FIR has been registered against the unidentified accused at the Shivaji Nagar police station, but the body has not yet been identified.The police said a passerby, Hemant, spotted the bag which gave out foul smell and when he opened the bag he found the body and informed the police. The police along with the forensic team and dog squad reached the spot and found a minor girl’s body stuffed in the bag. “The body was decomposing and appeared to be a day or two old. We are exploring the CCTV footages to identify the accused,” said Deepak Saharan, DCP, west. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girls-body-found-in-bag-in-gurugram-290603
31-07-2021||Kaithal||Kaithal: RKSD PG College organises poetry recitation contest||Varsity signs MOU with BoschFaridabad: To provide practical training to engineering students on automation technology, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has signed a MoU with Bosch Limited, a German-based multinational Engineering and Technology Company, to set up a training centre for competency in emerging automation technologies on the university campus. The centre will conduct a joint certification programme for students and industry persons to impart training in the field of automotive technology. The centre will be equipped with the latest Bosch equipment for vehicle diagnostics and testing. Registrar Dr SK Garg signed the MoU on behalf of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof Dinesh Kumar said the university had always endeavoured to bridge the gap between industry and academia to improve employability and self-competence of students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-rksd-pg-college-organises-poetry-recitation-contest-290604
31-07-2021||Before the rainy season set in I had apprised the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation through email to get the drains at different locations such as Inco Chowk||Long-term measures needed to prevent Ambala city from being inundated||Dubaldhan-Palra road in poor conditionA 2-km stretch of the Dubaldhan-Palra road has been in a poor condition since a long time but no one is paying heed despite repeated complaints. The villagers are inconvenienced while driving a tractor or two-wheelers on the potholed road. Several road mishaps have taken place. The district administration must take note and get the road recarpeted at the earliest. —  DHARMENDER KADIAN, JHAJJARNarwana village lacks shed at cremation groundThere is no shed or room at the cremation ground in Kandela village where people can cremate bodies during the rainy season. The villagers erect a temporary shed of tarpaulin to burn bodies. The village is thickly populated and is frequently visited by senior politicians of all parties. The administration must provide the basic amenities to the people. — Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaKarnal-Y'nagar rail route to facilitate commutersResidents of Karnal district are grateful to Union Railway Minister Ashwini Vaishnav and Chief Minister Manohar Lal that they have fulfilled their long-pending demand by granting approval to the Karnal-Yamunanagar rail route and also expect the Central and the state government to complete this project expeditiously within the stipulated time period. With the construction of this railway route, the residents of the district will definitely benefit and time will be saved in commuting to Haridwar. — Shakti Singh, KarnalIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/long-term-measures-needed-to-prevent-ambala-city-from-being-inundated-290605
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana first with 100% marks in crime tracking||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij said Haryana secured first position in crime and criminal tracking network system (CCTNS) with 100 per cent marks in the country.Anil Vij congratulated Additional Director-General of Police, (Telecom & IT) AS Chawla, as well as the Police Department for this achievement.It is noteworthy that this system was implemented by the Union Home Ministry in the country to curtail the incidence of crime and under this system the police in the states had to upgrade the systems under certain parameters. The Haryana Police has secured first position in the country under this system for the first time with 100 per cent marks, while Gujarat has secured the second position with 99.9 per cent marks and Himachal Pradesh is third with 99.6 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-first-with-100-marks-in-crime-tracking-290606
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Proposal to include NCC in curriculum of colleges: Haryana Education Minister||Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said a proposal had been made to include NCC as an elective subject in colleges and a committee had been constituted to explore the possibility of including it in the curriculum.Gujjar was interacting with mediapersons after meeting various teaching and non-teaching organisations of government and government-aided colleges here today. Regarding opening of schools, he said at present, the Covid situation was under control so Classes from I to V in schools could be resumed in August. On the issue related to the fee structure of government-aided colleges and universities for Scheduled Caste students, Gujjar said the rules of the Central Government should be considered in this regard. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposal-to-include-ncc-in-curriculum-of-colleges-haryana-education-minister-290607
31-07-2021||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Gurugram: Youth booked for false marriage promise, rape||A Noida resident has moved the police against a youth for allegedly raping her after promising marriage on a matrimonial site.He also allegedly duped her of Rs 3 lakh by seeking the money for his mother’s operation. An FIR has been registered at Sector 40 police station.According to the complaint filed by the 25-year-old woman working with a private company, she had posted her profile for marriage on a matrimonial site.After this, a man started chatting with her and soon, they shared their mobile numbers.“I came to Gurugram Sector 31 in June to meet him and stayed with him for two days. During this time, he raped me after promising marriage. A few days later, he demanded Rs 3 lakh for his mother’s treatment. Trusting him, I gave him money. But he soon disappeared after blocking my number. I kept searching for him everywhere, but never met him again. Finally, I realised I was duped and moved the police,” the victim told the police.An FIR has been registered against the unidentified man under Sections of rape and cheating at Sector 40 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-youth-booked-for-false-marriage-promise-rape-290608
31-07-2021||Sonepat||Delhi youth shot dead||A Delhi youth was shot dead near a dhaba on the Kharkhoda-Bahadurgarh road near Khurrampur village in Kharkhoda on Friday. The deceased was identified as Gautam Kohli of Subhash Nagar in Delhi. He had gone missing from his home since Thursday evening. Sources said villagers heard the sound of several rounds of firing near a dhaba on Friday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delhi-youth-shot-dead-290609
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana shows signs of economic recovery in 1st quarter||Revenue receipts in the first quarter (April to June) of the financial year 2021-22 indicate signs of economic revival, as the state posted the highest collections in the last four years.This happened despite the second wave of Covid gripping the country.The provisional figures of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) show that the state earned Rs 16,047 crore as revenue receipts in the first quarter as compared with Rs 8,301 crore in the corresponding period last fiscal, when the collections were marred by the Covid-induced lockdown.In the first quarter of 2019-20, revenue receipts were Rs 15,899 crore and, in 2018-19, it was Rs 15,178 crore.“The economic activity has started attaining the pre-Covid levels. Taxes have also been enhanced. So these two factors are responsible for higher revenue. Also, the credit-deposit ratio is higher in Haryana than Punjab,” said Prof Satish Verma, who is the Reserve Bank of India chair professor at the Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh.In 2021-22, the first quarter Goods and Services Tax (GST) collections were Rs 4,919 crore, which is also the highest in the past four years. Only Rs 2,245 crore was collected in the corresponding period last fiscal. This time’s collection has increased by 119 per cent.Sources in the Finance Department say that this time, the state received GST compensation from the Centre for the entire year.This year, revenue from the sale and purchase of properties, till June, at Rs 1,554 crore is more than double from the previous year.The revenue from sales tax, which includes earnings from the sale of petrol and diesel, has been fixed at Rs 11,000 crore for the entire 2021-22. And till June, more than 25 per cent has been earned as Rs 2,755 crore has been collected so far.However, there is a dip in earnings from the state’s share of union taxes. In the first quarter, only Rs 856 crore has been earned while Rs 1,139 crore was earned in the corresponding period last year.Under non-tax revenue — collections from mining, transport, and external development charges (EDC) — Rs 1,127 crore has been earned in the first quarter. In the corresponding period last year, it was a mere Rs 435 crore. However, in the first quarter of 2019-20, non-tax revenue was Rs 1,327 crore.The state earned Rs 1,957 crore in excise duty till June, while in the corresponding period last fiscal, it was Rs 1,369 crore. There has been a jump of 43 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-shows-signs-of-economic-recovery-in-1st-quarter-290610
31-07-2021||Hisar||Hisar: Youth gets life term for murder||A district court today sentenced a youth to life imprisonment for murder. The convict was a minor when the incident took place in June 2018 at Ugalan village of the district.A resident of Ugalan village, Ramesh, was beaten up on May 31, 2018. He died during treatment on June 12, 2018.The police had booked 10 persons, including two minors, for the murder. The Juvenile Justice Board ruled on February 7 that both minors be treated as majors.A district court on Friday sentenced one of them to life imprisonment and acquitted the other. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-youth-gets-life-term-for-murder-290611
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM Khattar: Will implement NEP, bring dropout rate to zero by ’25||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the state government would completely implement the new National Education Policy (NEP) by 2025 and try to bring the school dropout rate to zero.Khattar said this at the launch of the NEP-2020 held in Panchkula digitally. Academics and students participated in the launch ceremony.“The NEP-2020 will be completely implemented by 2025. Although the deadline for its implementation is 2030, Haryana will achieve the target five years in advance,” Khattar said, adding “Haryana aims that by 2025, school dropout rate will be zero”.Along with education and employment, the NEP aimed to make students cultured and atmanirbhar (self-reliant) so that they could contribute to making India the vishwa guru once again, he said.“Today, after 75 years of Independence, the country needs an education policy, which not only makes the younger generation educated, but also inculcates the feeling of nationalism in them,” Khattar said.The Chief Minister further said that as per the new policy, about 4,000 playway schools would be opened in the state, focusing on early-age education.So far, 1,135 schools have been opened.Khattar said that in the NEP-2020, the target of ensuring participation of women in higher education had been set at 50 per cent, which would be achieved by 2025 from the current 32 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-will-implement-nep-bring-dropout-rate-to-zero-by-25-290612
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Uniform must for Class IV employees in Haryana||The Haryana Government has directed all Class IV employees serving in the Haryana Civil Secretariat, Chandigarh, and the servicemen engaged on contract basis to come to the office in uniform.If any employee comes to the office without uniform, action will be taken against him on account of indiscipline. An official spokesperson said the officers of the Secretariat had also been directed to send a report of non-compliance of the rules to the Establishment-3 branch without delay so that appropriate action could be taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/uniform-must-for-class-iv-employees-in-haryana-290626
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||26 new Covid cases, 3 dead in Haryana||Three persons died from Covid in the state on Friday as 26 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 7.7 lakh. The disease has claimed 9,633 lives in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-new-covid-cases-3-dead-in-haryana-290638
31-07-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt labs to get NABL licence||Health Minister Anil Vij today said efforts would be made to get all government laboratories in the state the accreditation of the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).He directed officials of the Health Department to send a team to various laboratories for inspection to get them verified from NABL. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-labs-to-get-nabl-licence-290646
31-07-2021||Hisar||Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind flooded||Monsoon rains continued to lash the region for the second consecutive day today, leading to the flooding of the fields and residential localities in the rural areas in Hisar, Fatehabad, Jind and Charkhi Dadri districts.The IMD data revealed that the districts of Hisar (264.2 mm), Fatehabad (318.6 mm), Jind (339.3 mm) and Charkhi Dadri (260.5 mm) recorded excess rainfall during the monsoon season this year, which is much above the average rainfall.Rain exposes BJP’s claims: HoodaFormer CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the rains had once again exposed the BJP government’s development claims as roads had been washed away like sand. “There is no district in the state where people are not facing the problem of choked sewerage and waterlogging. From Gurugram to Panchkula and Jhajjar to Kaithal, images of submerged roads and streets are getting circulated. Streets in many districts have turned into rivers,” he said. TNSProfessor ML Khichar, head of the Agriculture Meteorological Department at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU), stated that 80.5 mm of rainfall was recorded in Hisar today, which was the highest in 10 years in a day in the month of July.The villages adjoining Hisar, including Sulkhani, Rajli and Kharkhari, feared that the rainwater has started flowing towards the residential areas and could enter the houses if more rains occur in the coming days.Barwala MLA Jogiram Sihag held a meeting of officials of the departments concerned in Barwana town today and issued instructions to officials to install water pumps to drain the water to protect the residential colonies from inundation.Villagers alleged that the district administration was scheduled to complete the work of a new drain to divert the rainwater by June 30 at an estimated cost of about Rs 4.70 crore, but the work of this drain was pending. The MLA stated that the payment to the contractor of the work would be stopped if he had delayed the work on laying the new drain.Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni had also inspected 12 drains across the district on July 6 this year and instructed the officials for proper desilting and cleaning of the drains.She had also interacted with villagers in Sisar and Kharbala who had complained that their fields got submerged in rainwater in the absence of any drain to flush out water.The Deputy Commissioner instructed officials of the Irrigation Department to set up a temporary drain for proper outlet of the rainwater from the two villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-fatehabad-jind-flooded-290651
31-07-2021||Sonepat||Sonepat: Woman stabbed to death over family dispute, probe on||A 20-year-old-woman was stabbed to death on Badshahi road near Panchi Gujran at Gannaur in the district on Friday. The police have registered a case and began a probe into the matter.The deceased has been identified as Kiran, wife of Kishan. Khazan Singh of Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh has three sons Kishan, Dharmender and Jitender.Around four months ago, Dharmender got married. After that, he has been demanding that Kishan and his wife Kiran should move out of the house.On Friday evening, Kiran was standing at a ‘rehri’ along with Jitender. Meanwhile, Dharmender reached there and sent Jitender away. He attacked his sister-in-law Kiran with a sharp-edged weapon, said Jitender.After the assault, Dharmender tried to start the motorcycle but Jitender snatched the key of the bike and Dharmender ran away from there. Family members rushed Kiran to a hospital where she was declared dead.A murder case has been registered against Dharmender. Prima facie, the reason behind the crime appears to be a family dispute, the SHO added. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonepat-woman-stabbed-to-death-over-family-dispute-probe-on-290655
31-07-2021||Faridabad||220 more structures razed in Faridabad's Khori colony||Continuing the drive at Khori village colony, the authorities concerned removed around 220 constructions in the drive that was cut short due to rain on Friday.“Though we started around 10.30 am, the drive was halted at 2 pm due to a downpour,” said an official of the civic body who claimed that around 220 constructions were razed on the 17th day today.The total count of the structures demolished till date has reached around 8,400 though the officials of the Municipal Corporation are tightlipped over the official figure.The drive was launched on July 14 in compliance with the Supreme Court order on June 7. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/220-more-structures-razed-in-faridabads-khori-colony-290658
31-07-2021||New Delhi||Haryana yet to hand over encumbrance-free land for AIIMS-Rewari||The government on Friday informed the Lok Sabha that the Haryana Government was yet to hand over encumbrance-free land for the construction of AIIMS at Manethi (Rewari) as approved by the Union Cabinet on February 28, 2019.“Encumbrance-free land is yet to be handed over by the state government,” the Health Ministry said in Parliament about the status of the pending AIIMS.In respect of other AIIMS in the region, the government said MBBS classes had already commenced at AIIMS Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh (from academic year 2020-21), Jammu (from 2020-21 from a temporary campus) and Bathinda (from 2019-2020).The construction work is 66 pc complete at AIIMS Bilaspur, 22 pc at AIIMS Jammu; 4.5 pc at AIIMS Kashmir and 86.10 pc at AIIMS Bathinda, where OPD services became functional from December 25, 2019, the government said.The AIIMS are being built under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) which aims to establish the institutes in all states of the country in a phased manner.The setting up of 22 AIIMS has been sanctioned so far under the scheme. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-yet-to-hand-over-encumbrance-free-land-for-aiims-rewari-290660
31-07-2021||Kurukshetra||Pehowa youth duped of Rs 1 lakh||An online fraudster allegedly lured a youth from Pehowa over phone into believing that he had won Rs 35 lakh ‘Kaun Banega Crorepati’ lottery and duped him of over Rs 1 lakh on the pretext of security deposit and conversion charges for receiving the winning amount.Deepak (18), a resident of Pehowa, received a WhatsApp call, during which the fraudster told him that his mobile number had won Rs 35,70,535 in a lottery. Believing the caller, Deepak deposited Rs 12,200 on July 24.The fraudster contacted Deepak again and convinced him to deposit Rs 25,000 more with another Rs 65,000 later. Deepak said the fraudster sought another Rs 95,000.A case has been registered against Manish, a resident of Mumbai, under Section 420 of the IPC. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pehowa-youth-duped-of-rs-1-lakh-290661
31-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Haryana: Out on bail, molestation accused shoots father of complainant in the eye, flees||Gurugram, July 30An accused in a molestation case shot the complainant’s father in the eye in Damdama village on Friday. He was out on bail. A case of attempt to murder has been registered with the Sohna Sadar police station. Booked under the POCSO Act in 2019, the accused was granted bail last year.Villagers alleged he was carrying an illegal weapon and that a police complaint in this regard had been filed earlier but nothing was done. “Had the police acted in time, the murderous attack could have been prevented,” they maintained.“We have formed a special team to conduct raids. The accused will be arrested soon,” said Sandeep Malik, ACP, Sohna, when contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-out-on-bail-molestation-accused-shoots-father-of-complainant-in-the-eye-flees-290734
31-07-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Haryana: Out on bail, molestation accused shoots father of complainant in the eye, flees||Gurugram, July 30An accused in a molestation case shot the complainant’s father in the eye in Damdama village on Friday. He was out on bail. A case of attempt to murder has been registered with the Sohna Sadar police station. Booked under the POCSO Act in 2019, the accused was granted bail last year.Villagers alleged he was carrying an illegal weapon and that a police complaint in this regard had been filed earlier but nothing was done. “Had the police acted in time, the murderous attack could have been prevented,” they maintained.“We have formed a special team to conduct raids. The accused will be arrested soon,” said Sandeep Malik, ACP, Sohna, when contacted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-out-on-bail-molestation-accused-shoots-father-of-complainant-in-the-eye-flees-290734
31-07-2021||---||Hold JPC probe into farmers’ deaths during agitation: Opposition||New Delhi, July 30The Shiromani Akali Dal, CPI, CPM, Shiv Sena, BSP, RLP, NCP and the NC today wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla demanding a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe into the deaths during farmers’ agitation. On Saturday, they will meet President Ram Nath Kovind to demand a debate on farmers’ and Pegasus issues.In their letter to the Speaker, the parties said, “We urge you to form a JPC, led by an Opposition member, to ascertain details of the total number of lives lost in the ongoing Kisan Andolan and suggest ways to rehabilitate victim families. The panel could also take feedback from farmers and their representatives about their reservations vis a vis three agricultural laws and submit the same to the government for necessary action.”The letter has been signed among others by Akali Dal MP and former minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, NCP’s Supriya Sule, BSP’s Danish Ali and NC’s Hasnain Masoodi.Writes to speakerSignatories: Akali MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal | NCP’s Supriya Sule | BSP’s Danish Ali | NC’s Hasnain Masoodi and others||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hold-jpc-probe-into-farmers-deaths-during-agitation-opposition-290662
