01-04-2020||Keep students engaged in academic activities through online platforms ||Education institutes come up with digital classrooms||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 31The nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid has been affecting physical classroom teaching.Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has taken proactive steps to overcome the impasse in the academic schedule amid the current situation by providing an alternative in form of using online platforms for disseminating study material to students. The university has been utilising Google classroom, Zoom, Moodle, WhatsApp, and YouTube to engage students in academic activities. The students have been motivated to use other online platforms such as Swayam, Nptel and NEAT. “In the current situation, students are being counselled to use these resources aggressively to overcome the void created in the absence of regular classes. In addition, phone numbers of the faculty members have been shared with students. The study material in the form of presentations, PDFs and word documents are being circulated and a record of the delivery of the study material to the students is being maintained at the departmental level by all HoDs. Besides, the university has also given the access of its digital library to postgraduate students and research scholars,” said VC Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu.Not just the university, several other colleges have also shifted to e-learning. Adopting new applications, including Zoom and WhatsApp, to reach out to students in this time of crisis, the Khalsa College of Pharmacy (KCP) began its online classes on Monday.“We do not want that the students’ studies suffer as this is the crucial time of the year when their academic session is ending and they will appear for the examinations in April,” said Dr RK Dhawan, principal, KCP. “Our college is working as per schedule from 9 am to 5 pm, but online,” he added.The Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) under which the KCP is functioning has already issued instructions to the principals of 19 colleges and schools to adopt the novel way of online learning. “All students are linked through the Internet and they are being provided with necessary study materials, including lectures, assignments and e-lessons,” said KCGC secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina. Even schools in the city have started the new session online to utilise students’ time productively and keep their academic curve up. Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera Zee School, Amritsar, said the move was aimed at ensuring the continuity of learning to keep the students’ academic graph up even during the lockdown. “Tools like Google classroom enable teachers and students to interact with each other through live videos, send and submit assignments online. Besides, they grant them access to archived videos on different topics. Each student is required to join Google classroom through which assignments are sent to them,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-institutes-come-up-with-digital-classrooms-64106
01-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Purse snatched from woman||Helpline for medical adviceAmritsar: The district administration has launched a helpline No. 18001804104 to address the medical need of the public. According to a press release issued by the district authorities, the Indian Medical Council has roped in 1,800 doctors in the state for the purpose. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said a system to identify Covid-19 cases and prioritise them has also been put in place. He said that this system would help identify cases for isolation, home quarantine and for people who need medical care. He said that the case would be notified to the health department for further investigation and action. TNSAIT purchases spray machineAmritsar: The Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) has purchased a heavy duty spray machine to disinfect offices, shops and residential colonies. The functioning of machine inaugurated by Member Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla, Cabinet Minister OP Soni and AIT Chairman Dinesh Bassi at Ranjit Avenue here on Tuesday. Aujla said earlier, the Municipal Corporation was also spraying sodium hypochlorite with sprayer machines on the city streets and small roads, but they were facing difficulty while spraying on wide roads of the city. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/purse-snatched-from-woman-64102
01-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Covid curfew curtails intake of junk food||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 31What doctors and health organisations could not achieve, despite issuing constant advisories, the fear of catching coronavirus has.The national lockdown enforced to avoid the spread of Covid-19 has successfully kept people, especially children, away from junk food. People of various age-groups are sharing pictures of junk food on social media expressing their cravings, underlining the message of keenly missing these delicacies. Prabhleen Kaur, a mother of two school-going children, said: “It is very difficult to keep growing-up kids at home these days. It’s only been a week and they sometimes express their desire to eat pizza, burger and other junk food. It takes a lot of time to convey that all shops, except that of essential commodities, are closed.” Palak, a college-going student, said just a passing reference of these snacks was enough to remind her of those evenings with friends. “We used to assemble at our favourite eating joints, savouring mouth-watering dishes and gossiping.” Prof Bhupinder Singh, a father of two college-going children, said” “Every change brings with it the good and the bad. Parents did not achieve much success in curtailing the habit of junk food consumption among children despite repeated advisories and warnings issued by health experts and organisations. Lockdown considerably has brought down junk food consumption."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-curfew-curtails-intake-of-junk-food-64098
01-04-2020||---||29 persons who returned from Rajasthan home quarantined||Amritsar, March 31The Health Department has instructed 29 passengers, who reached city from Rajasthan here on Tuesday, to quarantine themselves at home. Officials said the passengers had reached the city around 2:30 am and were received at the Urban Community Health Centre (UCHC), Naraingarh. All are Punjabis working in different parts of Rajasthan. Civil Surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said a medical examination of all passengers was conducted and the complete history of each case was recorded. Later, the authorities stamped home quarantine and sent them to their homes. She said the addresses of all passengers were noted down and they have been asked to quarantine themselves at their homes. She said the teams would keep a check on all home-quarantined persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/29-persons-who-returned-from-rajasthan-home-quarantined-64093
01-04-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Scarcity of alcohol leads to shortage of hand sanitisers||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, March 31  In view of exorbitant prices being charged by shopkeepers, the district administration had fixed the prices of hand sanitisers and face masks, but sanitiser manufacturers have expressed their helpless in preparing the same to meet the demand.  Surinder Duggal, president, Punjab Chemist Association, said the manufacturers were facing shortage of alcohol and packaging material, including plastic bottles. Due to the curfew imposed by the Punjab Government in view of coronavirus pandemic, transportation has been suspended for the past over a week now leading to the shortage of raw materials.  The curfew restrictions have now been extended till April 14 in conformity with the 21-day national lockdown announced by the Centre. Earlier, it was imposed till March 31.  Duggal said the manufacturers were ready to prepare adequate quantity of hand sanitisers, but due to the shortage of raw material, they were unable to do so. “We urge the government to intervene and direct wine companies to arrange for the same for pharma companies to meet its shortage,” he said. Before, there was limited supply of hand sanitisers, as it was majorly required by doctors in hospital or clinics. But coronavirus outbreak, which has claimed thousands of lives globally, has led to panic purchase among common citizens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scarcity-of-alcohol-leads-to-shortage-of-hand-sanitisers-64092
01-04-2020||---||Special arrangement for collecting garbage from quarantined homes||Amritsar, March 31  To prevent the spread of coronavirus, people from abroad or those directly in contact with them have been quarantined at their homes. The Health Department has displayed notices outside their houses. The Municipal Corporation (MC) has made special arrangements for garbage collection from these houses. Talking about the arrangements, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said: “We have received data of about 500 such homes in Amritsar, from where we have stopped our workers from collecting garbage. After consultation with health professionals, we have arranged PPE kits from the Red Cross, which are used by the health workers to care for patients. In addition, a fully closed vehicle has been arranged to collect garbage from these houses.”  She said two teams of four persons have been trained and sent to these homes. “These arrangements will protect the sanitary workers and people will also get a message about maintaining social distance from such families during the quarantine period.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-arrangement-for-collecting-garbage-from-quarantined-homes-64091
01-04-2020||---||Unemployed start selling veggies to earn livelihood||Amritsar, March 31 With a spurt in the demand for home delivery of vegetables due to relaxation given to vendors in the curfew, a large number of unemployed persons have started selling vegetables and fruits in the city.   Mitha Singh, a construction worker from Indira Colony, is now selling vegetables in the streets of Majitha road area. “I stayed inside my house for four days. I don’t have much savings to feed my children. Instead of staying inactive at home, I took my bicycle and a bucket and went to the vegetable market on Saturday. The administration allowed vendors to provide vegetables on the doorstep of residents. I bought two bags of cauliflower and sold in the street. I have saved Rs300 and it is sufficient for my family.”        Keepa, a school dropout from Pandori, has also started selling palak as no one in her family is earning these days. “My mother works as a domestic help. She was the sole breadwinner in my family as my father died in a road accident a few years ago. After the Covid outbreak, she was sitting at home as residents of posh areas asked domestic workers to leave the work. We have only Rs1,500. I bought palak from a local farmer and start selling it. Instead of waiting for any aid, I am buying ration for my family members.” After the curfew was imposed in the state to contain the spread of Covid 19, daily wagers have been hardships to manage a square meal per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unemployed-start-selling-veggies-to-earn-livelihood-64090
01-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri---||Social activists providing cooked food to villagers||Tarn Taran, March 31 Social activists of Plasaur Kalan and Plasaur Khurd villages are providing cooked food to around 1,200 needy families of these villages for the last five days. The two villages have a total population of more than 10,000. The service of providing free food for the needy has also strengthened social bonding in the area. The village has a large population of daily wage workers. The Covid-19 curfew has robbed the daily wage workers of their earnings. The district administration has failed to make this section satisfied in providing essential commodities particularly food. Social activists  under the guidance of Gurpreet Singh Babbu, a former sarpanch, Tehalbir Singh and others, have come forward to help the needy families. Gurbhej Singh, a former sarpanch, said as many as 1,200 needy families are getting meals twice a day with the joint efforts of social activists for the last five days. The well-off families are coming forward to cooperate for this noble cause. Manjinder Singh Bablu, sarpanch of Plasaur Khurd, who failed to come back from the US due to curfew, has been sending help from there. For the supply of dry ration, the social activists have divided the area into six zones.  The cooked food is being supplied to needy families by the youths. Village women are cooking the food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-activists-providing-cooked-food-to-villagers-64089
01-04-2020||Amritsar||Food kits distributed among needy persons||With contributions pouring in to help migrants in the crisis during Covid-19 shutdown, several local businessmen and NGOs have collaborated to provide food and shelter to the needy.  The Madad Charitable Foundation and Khanna Paper Mills, too, have initiated a campaign to provide aid to the needy.  Contributing to District Red Cross Society, the Madad Charitable Foundation has been providing 1,500 packed meals to Police Lines staff daily and food kits to daily wagers.  “We have set up teams of volunteers for each campaign to deliver food kits and packed meals. Also, we are identifying and helping senior citizens in need with food, medicines and healthcare. We aim to provide over 50,000 cooked meals to police personnel on ground,” said Suneet Kocchar, director, Khanna Papers and managing trustee, Madad Charitable Foundation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/food-kits-distributed-among-needy-persons-64088
01-04-2020|| ---||Three vegetable vendors booked for overcharging||Amritsar, March 31  Although the district administration has warned against selling vegetables and other essential commodities, several shopkeepers gave a scant regard to such instructions.  The police have arrested three such shopkeepers and vendors selling vegetables at higher prices than that stipulated by the administration here on Tuesday.  Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in charge CIA staff, revealed that the police got a tip-off about such vendors near Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh. The police have nabbed three vendors identified as Shamsher Singh, Amarnath and Mukesh. Shamsher was selling vegetables near the shrine, while the other two were selling vegetables near White Avenue. He had opened the shop without requisite permission from the administration. Randhawa said the administration had fixed the prices of vegetables but the accused were selling vegetables almost at double prices from wholesale rates. The administration had asked them to deliver items door to door instead of gathering people at shops.  He said shadow customers were sent at these shops and the vegetables procured at the rates were compared with the prices fixed by the administration. When the accused were found indulging in overpricing, action under Section 188 of the IPC was taken against them.  85 held for violating curfew restrictions  Around 85 persons were arrested by the rural police on Monday for violating curfew restrictions imposed in view of the Covid pandemic in the country.  They were found roaming aimlessly on roads during the relaxation given to residents to procure household goods from shops in the time period allotted by the administration.  Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP Amritsar, rural, said cops were deputed on roads in civil dresses to check violations. He said they rounded up around 78 persons who were out on roads without any valid reason or curfew pass. The police have registered a case against them. Seven others were arrested under the similar offence. They were later released on bail.  Banks and clinics were given relaxation but people were seen giving lame excuses for getting out of their homes, which defeats the purpose of curfew. He said the restrictions were imposed for the benefit of people. He said the policemen were also ensuring supply of essential goods at home.  He warned those who were spreading fake messages about shortage of essential items in villages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-vegetable-vendors-booked-for-overcharging-64087
01-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill---||Overpricing of masks, sanitisers to attract penal action, says admn||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 31 The district administration has warned medicine sellers against overpricing face masks and sanitisers.  The administration stated that overpricing may attract a minimum imprisonment of three years and a maximum of seven years under Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.  District Food and Civil Supplies Controller Lakhwinder Singh said as per the notification issued by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the prices of two-layer is fixed at Rs8 per piece and the price of three-layer mask is fixed at Rs10 per piece.  The price of 200 gm sanitisers is fixed at Rs100. He said as per the notification, the orders would remain effective till June 30 and any shopkeeper, wholesaler or retailer found overcharging would be booked for violating the Essential Commodities Act.  With civil and police administration encouraging public to wear masks and use sanitisers, the shortage of these items is being faced from the past many days. To cope up with the shortage of masks, those made of cloth are also being sold in market. A few organisations are also distributing these.  Two chemists arrested for fleecing customers The police on Tuesday nabbed two medical store owners — Gaurav Kakkar and his father Pawan Kakkar — for black marketing of hand sanitisers. They have been booked under Sections 420, 120-B and 188 of the IPC and Sections 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. DSP Gurbinderbir Singh, in a statement issued here, said the police got a tip-off that the suspects were selling 400ml hand sanitisers bottle at Rs 450, whereas the District Food and Civil Supply Controller has fixed its price at Rs 200. He said a policeman was sent in civil to the shop to purchase a bottle of hand sanitiser. When the shop owners handed over a bill of Rs 450, the police raided the shop and confiscated five 400ml bottles, 10 bottles of 60ml each and 20 bottles of 30ml volume filled with sanitising liquid. The DSP urged the people to inform the police if they find anyone indulging in black marketing of essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/overpricing-of-masks-sanitisers-to-attract-penal-action-says-admn-64086
