01-05-2020||Dr Harinder K Bali & Dr Priyanka Goyal||India needs ICUs, not just ventilators||As India battles Covid-19, a number of serious fault lines have been exposed in our public health system. We seem to have done reasonably well in limiting the spread of the disease till now. This has been possible despite and not because of our public healthcare system.The real challenge will arise when there is a progressive easing of the lockdown. In the absence of widespread testing, we have no idea about the extent of the spread of the disease in the community. Are we just seeing the tip of the iceberg? We also have started to believe that a majority of our citizens are immune to serious consequences of the disease. The widespread use of hydroxychloroquine to the national policy of uniform BCG vaccination have all been offered as possible explanations for this hypothesis.Worldwide, there has been lot of talk about ventilators. This is because lungs are the predominant organs that are affected by this disease and ventilators are used to provide temporary support to patients who are unable to get enough oxygen for their body on their own. A feeling seems to have taken root that if we have enough ventilators, we can save more lives.Ventilators are certainly one of the most essential components for management of these critically sick patients, but certainly not the only components. What we need are fully equipped and optimally managed intensive care units (ICUs). We need:Manpowera) Enough trained intensivists to manage these ICUsb) Specially trained nurses to handle critically sick patientsc) Medical officers trained to evaluate patients and carry out instructions under the supervision of intensivistsd) Respiratory therapists/ physiotherapistse) GDAs to assist medical officers and nursesf) Biomedical engineers to regularly check the medical equipment, identify trouble shooting.g) Sterilisation departmentEquipmenta) Ventilators, obviously the most important partb) All patients with critical diseases need to have monitorsc) Minimum of three to four infusion pumps would be required per patientd) Portable dialysis machineWith a few exceptions (Kerala, Himachal Pradesh and J&K), most states have a completely dysfunctional public healthcare system. Most hospitals have no ICUs. There is no infrastructure, no qualified manpower and no equipment. Either there is no equipment or whatever is present is lying defunct for want of maintenance and qualified manpower.It is ironic that even small nursing homes have 6-10 bed functional ICUs in the private sector. The present pandemic has completely exposed the inadequacies of our public healthcare system. It is a huge opportunity to get it back on track.The government has already placed an order for around 50,000 ventilators. We also need to have all other equipment that is essential to run these ICUs. More important, we need to rapidly train manpower required to manage these units. If we start now, it will take nine months to a year to have these ICUs in an optimally functional state.Till more trained intensivists become available, we should have aggressive short-term training for physicians and anaesthetists. We can also utilise the services of second and third-year DNB students to tide over the acute manpower shortage.We must not lose this opportunity to reboot our dysfunctional public healthcare system. India needs more fully equipped and properly manned ICUs in each and every sub-district.Dr Bali is a leading cardiologist and Dr Goyal a cardiac anaesthetist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/india-needs-icus-not-just-ventilators-78875
01-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Post lockdown, will gradually scale up output as per demand’||Gurdeep Singh, director and CEO, GNA Gears Ltd, and president, GNA University, talks to Aakanksha N Bhardwaj on the strategy to bring the industry back on track. But, he believes that the lockdown will have a psychological effect on working efficiency.How has the lockdown affected the industry?The industry will not be able to completely get back on track till the retail trade is started. It may take another six months for normalcy in the business. Besides, there will be a problem in performing regular work. Earlier, if there used to be a problem with the product, everything was on tips and would give solution instantly. Now, I have even forgotten where my files are kept. This is also the problem that humans will face now.What will be the challenges after the lockdown?Restarting industrial units, which have been shut for long, will be a major challenge. I think apart from cash challenges, gaining momentum for workers and employees will be another issue. After a long break, people will not be habitual of working at a fast pace. So after the lockdown, it will take some time for them to work with full energy.Is any there issue with migrant labourers?I would like you to tell that my grandfather was always of the view that we would always have local labour. So, not even a single migrant labourer is working for us. But, I will definitely face the problem of the manpower.What will be your strategy to restart the work?My team and I have made a strategy that we will start with 30 per cent of the work and will keep on increasing the same after looking at the demand in the market.What problems will you face in running the university?There will be a problem in taking fees from students because of the ongoing situation. Despite it, we have been organising online classes and the syllabus has been completed. I have personally been taking care of the classes. Every day, I take the progress report on online academic activities. I have been managing everything regularly. Fee doesn't matter as of now. We only want to provide education to students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-lockdown-will-gradually-scale-up-output-as-per-demand-78874
01-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||District TB officer ensures every patients gets medicine on doorstep||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 30Doctors have been leading the fight against the coronavirus from the front and Dr Naresh Chawla, district TB officer, is no different. While performing his routine duties at the hospital, he has also been making sure that no TB patient suffers for want of medicine.He has constituted a team of around 10 community volunteers who have been providing medicines to TB patients on their doorstep."We can't neglect TB patients during the curfew. The patients had shared that they were facing problems in getting medicines as many directly observed treatment (DOT) centres were closed. Now whenever I get a call from a patient, we provide him or her medicines through community volunteers, who are associated with us, on the doorstep. Therefore during the lockdown, we are able to provide medicines to every patient," he said.Dr Chawla added, "If a patient does not get medicine due to curfew restrictions, it can prove to be fatal for him or her. I keep a stock of TB medicines in my car. We are receiving every call whether it is from a TB patient or not. We try to accommodate and prescribe the medicine to the patients who fail to approach any physician for checkup."Besides, he has been attending webinars and taking classes to know new developments in his field. "During webinars, I have been listening to some of the prominent doctors and specialists about Covid-19 and other developments in my field," he added.Besides being committed to his profession, Dr Chawla also runs an NGO, JIYA (Joint Initiative by You and All) foundation, which is doing yeoman service by providing necessary items to the needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-tb-officer-ensures-every-patients-gets-medicine-on-doorstep-78873
01-05-2020||Harminder Singh Gill||‘Time to think about the welfare of humanity’||I am totally dedicated towards the cause of Dalit people, who comprise 30 per cent of the population in my constituency, and to serve the farming community, as it is the back bone of society.I am in touch with all residents of my constituency. I make sure cooked meal is supplied to needy families in all 113 villages and Patti town. The services of six social organisations of Patti town were taken to serve cooked meal in the town. I gave 10 quintal wheat and 2 quintal dal to each society. Around 9,000 ration kits were sent by the state government, while I, with the assistance of my party workers and friends, distributed total 16,000 kits to poor families. Wheat under Atta Dal scheme, too, has been distributed among poor families without any discrimination.The number of grain markets has been increased from 15 to 30-31 to conduct hassle-free wheat procurement and it is due to this reason, that wheat procurement has doubled as compared to the last year.I am satisfied as the chain of drug supply has been broken, which is indicated clearly from the number of addicts coming to get treatment at government run de-addiction centres, where about 5,000 more patients have been registered during the lockdown period. The administration will handle anti-social elements responsible for robberies in the area in the last few days with an iron hand.Tarn Taran district remained the Green Zone but after sudden emergence of eight Covid-19 positive cases, the situation has taken an ugly turn.Five Covid-19 positive cases, belonging to Sursing village, were due to community spread, which is more serious. So, no relaxation in curfew should be given. I have expressed my views with Captain Amarinder Singh. It is not the time to do politics, let’s think about the welfare of humanity.(As told to Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-to-think-about-the-welfare-of-humanity-78872
01-05-2020||Amritsar||Man booked for raping woman||Grain markets lack amenitiesAmritsar: Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have complained over the lack of basic amenities like washrooms and drinking water for farmers at grain markets in Ajnala. AAP's Majha zone incharge Kuldeep Dhaliwal said they had filed a complaint with the Ajnala SDM in this regard. He said the farmers were facing problem in bringing their crop to mandis and demanded from the administration that number of daily passes issued to farmers for the purpose should be increased. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-woman-78871
01-05-2020||---||Former Indian cricketer donates PPE kits to civil hospital||Amritsar, April 30Former Indian cricketer Harvinder Singh along with We Care for U, an NGO run by local youngsters, donated 100 PPE kits and masks to Jallianwala Bagh Martyr’s Memorial Civil Hospital here on Thursday.  Harvinder said he was watching a video about the services rendered by the NGO after which he decided to associate himself with it and to contribute something for the cause. As a batsman is not safe to face a fast bowler in cricket, the medical professionals too are not safe without proper safety equipment, he further added. In a message to cricket fans and young players, he said, “I feel playing cricket is not possible for next few months. Residents and young players should stay at home to stay safe.” Dr Charanjit Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, said, “The government no doubt is providing safety equipment but the gesture of local youth is laudable and heartwarming. It has made us feel that people too care for their health professionals,” he said. Sahil Bakshi, Sachin Dhingra and Pardeep Dutta from the NGO were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-indian-cricketer-donates-ppe-kits-to-civil-hospital-78870
01-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Cops probe possibility of smuggling pills into Himachal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 30The district police have initiated a probe into the possibility that the tramadol consignment seized from a godown by the CIA staff on Wednesday was to be smuggled into Himachal Pradesh. Besides, the police are looking into other theories to break the entire nexus involved in illegal smuggling of banned drugs.According to the police, they have documents to suggest that it was to be smuggled into Palampur in Himachal Pradesh. However, it is a matter of an investigation whether the firm, which had a Palampur address on the consignment, exists or not.Similarly, the police are also looking into the address of a New Delhi-based firm, which had supplied the eight boxes of tramadol by a train carrying essential items a few days ago.The CIA staff had confiscated 4 lakh tablets of tramadol stashed in a godown belonging to Harminder Singh King. His role is also being looked into. According to information, the banned medicine came by the train on April 26.The police have booked a chemist, Naval Sood of Dhariwal, Gurdaspur, and a local resident, Mukesh Yadav, under the NDPS Act. The police said raids were on to arrest them as they were absconding since the seizure.Sukhwinder Singh, in charge of the CIA staff, said the police were taking the help of the cyber crime unit to ascertain who was involved in the racket of smuggling tramadol from Delhi.The police said though no case was registered against Naval in the past, the amount of seized tablets suggests that he is not new in smuggling.The Himachal Pradesh firm is also under scanner as the drugs were to reach there. However, the ongoing curfew restrictions proved to be an obstacle as they could not move out the drugs.Tramadol, an opioid-based tablet, is a scheduled H drug under the NDPS Act and used as a painkiller. It can be sold only on prescription.Following the repeated incidents of seizure of the tablets, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had prohibited the chemists from selling the same in July last year.In one of its biggest drug hauls in the state, the drug wing of the district Health Department had seized 12.5 lakh tablets of tramadol from a local pharmaceutical firm here on December 18 last year. The estimated cost of the seized medicines is around Rs87 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-probe-possibility-of-smuggling-pills-into-himachal-78869
01-05-2020||---||Administration teams up with Uber||Amritsar, April 30The district administration has joined hands with Uber India to start free taxi service for patients and their family members during any health emergency. Uber India will operate 25 taxis in the city for this purpose 24X7. DC Shivdular Singh said: “The taxis will operate as per the online booking system for Uber and provide pick and drop service for health emergency patients and their family members. Only two members will be allowed to travel in the taxi to maintain social distancing norms. These taxis will be available 24X7 for in-city travel only.” The service will be called Uber essential and Uber will charge its standard price for the service. The DC said according to the standard protocol, taxi drivers will be subjected to regular health check-ups and , too, will be sanitised regularly. Uber India has also announced to launch its Uber Medic service, especially for ferrying doctors and healthcare professionals during the lockdown. Uber medic will operate 20 taxis in the city for this purpose. “The taxi service is for frontlines healthcare service providers and will be operated via booking calls to control room 0183-2535322, 2535323. All travel details and records through these services will be maintained by a district nodal officer appointed for the purpose,” the DC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-teams-up-with-uber-78867
01-05-2020||---||Nanded-returnees made to wait for 2 hours on roadside||Amritsar, April 30The pilgrims who returned to the city from Hazur Sahib (Maharashtra) in the wee hours on Thursday were made to wait for over two hours before they were taken to quarantine centres.The government had earlier announced a mandatory quarantine of 21 days for all persons returning to Punjab from other states. Around 150 persons who had been stranded in Hazur Sahib after the lockdown reached here in six buses sent by the government.Veer Kaur, a woman from Ajnala, said, “We had travelled not-stop for the last 14 hours. We were forced to wait on the roadside for two hours outside the city.” She claimed that they had been screened three times in Nanded and insisted that as they were all healthy they should be dropped at their homes.Another person Harpal Singh said, “The government should have made arrangements as it knew that buses are coming.” He added that there were many small children among them and it was very difficult for them to wait.District officials stated that they had received a total of 600 returnees from other states so far. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said samples of 480 persons had already been sent for testing. He said while 23 persons tested positive, 307 tested negative. The samples of the returnees who returned in the last 24 hours had also been taken, he said.Around 170 passengers who returned from Nanded in six buses in the wee hours today were not allowed to enter the city for two hours. The passengers complained that the administration should have made arrangements in advance instead of forcing them to wait on the roadsideMeanwhile, the district’s first positive case, 30-year-old Gurpreet Singh of Guru ki Wadali village was discharged from Government Medical College after 41 days of hospitalisation. Gurpreet Singh, who had returned from the UK, was admitted to hospital on March 21 and declared positive for Covid-19 on March 22. Besides, Ragi Darshan Singh (65-year-old), who had come in contact with Ragi Nirmal Singh, was also discharged from a private hospital here.GMC Principal Dr Sujata Sharma said Gurpreet had tested negative in two consecutive tests after which he was discharged. The district reported fresh 23 positive cases on Thursday. Of the 14 cases reported earlier, seven had been discharged while two had died. The total Covid-19 patient count till date is 37.Akali dal demands Sidhu’s resignationThe SAD on Thursday urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to ask Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu to tender his resignation as the pilgrims who had returned from Hazur Sahib were neither quarantined nor tested properly. The directions of quarantining the pilgrims had been received by the district headquarters on April 27 even though the pilgrims had started coming in on April 24 and 25. It was unfortunate that the Health Department did not follow the ICMR guidelines, said Majithia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nanded-returnees-made-to-wait-for-2-hours-on-roadside-78866
01-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja ||Shops opened amid confusion, 66 booked||Tribune news Service Amritsar April 30 Confusion prevailed among residents and shopkeepers about the reopening of commercial establishments over separate directions of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Deputy Commissioner here on Thursday morning. Several residents assumed that the curfew would be relaxed from 7 am to 11 am, as per the CM’s statement. However, Deputy Commissioner Shivdullar Singh had clarified last evening that there would be no relaxation in curfew, but still several shops were opened in the morning after misinformation spread through social media. The rural police have booked 66 shopkeepers for violating the orders of the Deputy Commissioner in this regard. Charan Singh, in-charge Jandiala Guru police post, said a large number of shops were opened in the morning and residents gathered, thereby violating the curfew.The DC had made it clear last evening that there was no relaxation in curfew and shops would not open on April 30, he said. However, residents criticised the government for creating confusion among people.Kuljit Singh, a resident, said: “We are facing a tough time and everyone is concerned about his health and trade. The government’s instructions should have been clear. The Centre issued different instructions and the state government is saying something else and Deputy Commissioners are implementing different instructions. The government departments should strengthen their coordination.” Sukhwinder Singh, a shopkeeper, said: “I got a WhatsApp message late in the evening that Deputy Commissioner has not allowed anyone to open their shop. There should be no confusion in the directions in this age of technology.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shops-opened-amid-confusion-66-booked-78865
01-05-2020||Says cops not arresting leaders of ruling party in case||SAD leader accuse police of helping Congress men||Tribune News ServiceBatala, April 30Ravi Karan Kahlon, Majha in-charge (youth wing) of the SAD and son of former Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon, along with scores of Akali workers, laid siege to the Ghanian Ke Bangar police station to protest against the alleged harassment of Akali leaders “at the behest of local Congress leaders” by the police.Kahlon claimed that a few days ago, local Congress men entered into a fight with one of his supporters, Lakhbir Singh of Langarwal village, and grievously injured him in the head. “Fearing arrest, the Congress men inflicted injuries upon themselves at the insistence of the cops. A cross FIR was registered but instead of arresting the culprits, the cops, on the directions of a senior minister from the area, took the SAD worker into custody. What sort of justice is this?” asked Kahlon.He accused SHO of Ghanian Ke Bangar of helping Congress men. SSP Opinderjit Singh denied the accusations made by Kahlon. “I am busy deploying my forces to fight Covid and I am not even aware of the incident. I will hold an inquiry and only then will I be in a position to comment,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-leader-accuse-police-of-helping-congress-men-78864
01-05-2020||---||Woman critical after ‘set on fire’ by in-laws||Amritsar, April 30 A woman was allegedly set on fire by her parents-in-law at Pandori Waraich village here on Tuesday evening. She was rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where her condition is stated to be critical.A case was registered after the victim recorded her statement before the duty magistrate. The victim, identified as Kanwaljit Kaur (30), sustained around 60 per cent burn injuries and her condition is critical, said Sub-Inspector Gurwinder Kaur, who is investigating the case.Those booked were identified as Sukhdev Singh and his wife Amar Kaur. Both have been absconding since the incident.Kanwaljit Kaur told the police that her father-in-law used to harass her sexually and force her to make a physical relationship with him but she refused. She said on Tuesday evening when she was making tea, the accused poured oil and set her on fire. As she shrieked with pain, her husband and neighbours came on the scene, doused the fire and rushed her to GNDH where she was admitted with serious burn injuries.Gurwinder Kaur said a case under Sections 307, 354-A and 34 of the IPC has been registered against Sukhdev and Amar Kaur and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-critical-after-set-on-fire-by-in-laws-78863
01-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Patients allege poor sanitation at quarantine centre||Tarn Taran, April 30Some of the pilgrims, who were brought from Hazur Sahib to be adjusted at the local Mai Bhago College of Nursing for quarantine, protested the poor sanitary condition in the rooms here on Thursday. Local SDM Rajnish Arora reached the spot and pacified them, assuring that they would be provided with better facilities.The patients refused to stay in the rooms as these were neither cleaned nor sanitised. They came out of the rooms, broke the locks of the main gate of the college and tried to run outside.They apprised the SDM of the lack of facilities, including drinking water and toilets, at the centre.A phone call was made to Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar in this regard, but he did not answer it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patients-allege-poor-sanitation-at-quarantine-centre-78862
01-05-2020||
||Re-opening of colleges, conducting online exams a challenge: Principals||Amritsar, April 30 The UGC has issued new guidelines for reopening colleges and universities. According to the instructions, the new academic session for the already enrolled students will begin on August 1 and for new students on September 1.  In a fresh set of advisory guidelines, the UGC has said the colleges and universities will conduct the semester examinations by implementing safest possible measures while also giving a detailed academic calendar. Schools and colleges have been shut for over 45 days due to the coronavirus pandemic. Most of the institutes have been conducting classes online.  Dr Sanjeev Sharma, principal, Hindu College, also said conducting online examination would not be a practical option.   “We have a majority of students from the rural and border belt where the Internet connectivity is dismal. Besides, one of the challenges is to chalk out a cheat-proof way of conducting online examinations, which is a tough task. Another improbable factor is the re-opening of colleges by August as it all depends on the intensity of Covid-19 cases. To open colleges, we need to work out an extensive plan to maintain social distancing, ensure health safety and sanitised the premises. It requires a lot of resources. So, I feel a lot needs to be worked out before the implementation of guidelines,” he added. Dr Mehal Singh, principal, Khalsa College, said re-opening of colleges might not be possible even in August as social distancing would be a major concern. “Even if the lockdown is lifted, the risk of infection will remain there. It will not be a responsible move to open colleges as students would hesitant in coming to the college,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/re-opening-of-colleges-conducting-online-exams-a-challenge-principals-78861
01-05-2020||
||Doctor-cum-social worker, he is working tirelessly||Amritsar, April 30 Dr Rakesh Sharma, a professor of surgery at Government Medical College here,  is contributing his bit in fight against Covid-19 not only as a convener of a special coordination committee constituted by the government, but also as a social activist.  Talking to The Tribune, Dr Sharma said, “The purpose of the committee is to plan beforehand and get the same executed. It is an unprecedented situation and nobody knows how to proceed. Our objective is to see behind the wall and take measures.”  Dr Sharma is also the founder patron of the local NGO, Voice of Amritsar, initially an online group started during the civil society movement of Anna Hazare. Over time, the organisation has also changed into a strong pressure ground as well as social organisation.  The NGO has been instrumental in providing ration to 5,000 poor families in the city, apart from donating PPE kits, masks and even infrared thermal scanners. It had also set up a sanitisation tunnel at the GMC earlier.  Talking about seriousness of the situation, he said, “On the unfortunate day of the Jaura Fatak train accident, it was my duty at the emergency block. I still remember how hard it was for us to manage the entire affair medically. But now as we are face to face with the deadly virus, it seems that that the train tragedy was nothing in comparison.” Dr Sharma said people should follow social distancing norms and other hygiene-related instructions even if the lockdown was lifted in the coming weeks. “We should avoid gatherings and follow proper hygiene. Besides, we also need to cooperate with medical teams and administrative officials who are trying to enforce government instructions,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctor-cum-social-worker-he-is-working-tirelessly-78860
01-05-2020||---||‘Hungry’ labourer climbs electricity tower, rescued||Amritsar, April 30A migrant labourer on Thursday climbed a high-voltage electricity tower in the Ram Talai area, lamenting that he had been rendered unemployed by the lockdown and had not received any help from the administration.The labourer, Shamu Awasthi, hails from Barley in Uttar Pradesh. He worked at an industrial unit in Partap Nagar. Some passers by saw Shamu and asked him to come down. He told them that he had not got food or other relief material since the lockdown was imposed and had not eaten for days.On getting information, the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP), Harpal Singh, reached the spot and asked officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) to snap power supply through tower. Later, the police convinced Shamu to come down.The ADCP said: “The claim that he had been hungry does not seem to be true as langar was being organised regularly by a nearby gurdwara. Even before an hour he climbed the tower, an organisation had arranged langar of tea and bread.”The official said Shamu seemed disturbed over losing his job. He was rushed to the Civil Hospital and his condition is stated to be normal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hungry-labourer-climbs-electricity-tower-rescued-78859
01-05-2020||---||Women pitch in to contribute their bit||Amritsar, April 30Several women in the Krishna Nagar area on Tarn Taran Road have been contributing their bit in the united fight against novel coronavirus that has claimed thousands of lives across the globe. They are preparing special face masks with transparent screen fitted to see across and are distributing at free of cost to people.Harjit Kaur, a local resident, said they had been preparing the masks for the past two weeks. She said she had around seven women living the neighbourhood who have joined hands for the purpose. She said while the cloth was donated by someone, they were also contributing from their own pocket for getting raw material.“We know that in order to defeat the deadly virus everybody in the society have to join hands. Besides, abide by the government guidelines on social distancing, the people should also take precautions like washing hands and wearing masks,” she pointed out. Another resident Balwinder Kaur said they thought of manufacturing masks as they learned that there was shortage of the same. She said they were now getting demands from several organisations for the same. She said the demand for masks from orphanage centres, Pingalwara, blind school, besides police stations had gone up exponentially after restrictions came into place to contain the spread of the virus. She said they were making around 250 masks daily.It is evident to mention here that women in the rural belt have also come forward and making masks for the people. The Punjab has also seen a spurt in the Covid-19 cases after devotees from Nanded Sahib landed here and they are being examined by the Health Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-pitch-in-to-contribute-their-bit-78858
