01-07-2020||---||House robbery: Cops working on leads||Amritsar, June 30The Amritsar rural police on Tuesday claimed to have found vital clues in the robbery in which armed persons looted a family of cash and gold ornaments worth lakhs in Attari on Monday morning. They gained entry to the house by posing as cops and police volunteers.SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police have identified the suspects but their names could not be disclosed at the moment, as it would hamper investigation. He said raids were on to nab them.Jaswinder Singh, a cold drink agency owner, said: “Around 7am on Monday, two Sikh youths in police uniform knocked on our door. As I opened the gate, they said our SUV was involved in some accident and demanded its papers. Immediately after entering the house to check the vehicle and papers, they took out pistols and tied my hands. The accused locked my family members and demanded whatever cash and jewellery I had. They threatened to shoot my family if I failed to hand over the valuables.”He said the accused took away Rs6 lakh cash and gold ornaments weighing around 140gm, worth over Rs6 lakh. The accused also decamped  with .12 rifle along with 25 cartridges from the house. Later, they fled in a car and a bike. They went towards Amritsar side, he told the police.According to information, the police analysed the CCTV cameras and got the registration plate numbers of the car and bullet motorcycle used in the crime. While four persons went inside to commit the robbery, three persons remained outside.DSP Attari Gurpartap Singh Sahota said according to preliminary investigations, the accused were posing as cops to commit the loot. He said the police have credible leads in the case. Hopefully, the suspects would be arrested soon, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/house-robbery-cops-working-on-leads-107023
01-07-2020||---||MTP submits list of 150 illegal under-construction buildings||Amritsar, June 30The officials of Municipal Town Planning wing submitted a list of ongoing illegal under-construction buildings and illegal colonies in the city.As per the list, there were more than 150 illegal buildings under construction. Now, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal will review the list and prepare the action plan.In November 2019, the Mayor had instructed officials of the Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing to submit lists of illegal buildings in their areas during a review meeting. The Assistant Town Planners (ATPs) and building inspectors took more than six months to submit the list in their respective areas. It has been learnt that most of the illegal constructions are going on in the central and north constituencies.After the outbreak of Covid-19, revenue sources of MC were badly hit and these illegal buildings can be a good source of revenue if the MC acts. The number of illegal construction was also increased during lockdown.Apart from illegal buildings, ATPs also submitted a list of 13 illegal colonies. However, the number of illegal colonies was more than 100 in the city. The state government had invited application for the regularisation of illegal colonies till March 31. According to information, only 18 colony developers submitted the applications.It is worth mentioning here that the MTP wing had failed to curb the practise of illegal constructions in the city. Hundreds of commercial buildings have been constructed illegally and now functional in the city. The higher officials of the MC also seem helpless in front of violators as not a single building had been demolished so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mtp-submits-list-of-150-illegal-under-construction-buildings-107025
01-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||After ED, ECHS also seeks records||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 30After the Enforcement Directorate(ED) started a probe into the alleged fake Covid reports scam, Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS), Ministry of Defence, has also sought details of the case and documents pertaining to the case.Reliable sources in the Vigilance Bureau here have confirmed the development, adding that EMC Hospital was among the empanelled list of ECHS hospitals.Earlier, the Enforcement Directorate had started a probe into the scam to ascertain whether money changed hands through illegal means. It has asked for the records and FIR in this connection.The Vigilance has booked five doctors and a hospital owner on charges of murder bid, fraud, forgery, criminal conspiracy and corrupt practices on June 23 after a number of patients, who were tested positive by a private laboratory and under treatment at hospital, were found to be negative. More complaints have been coming to the Vigilance Bureau in this connection, it is learnt.Earlier, the hospital owner and its doctor have applied for bail. Today, the remaining suspects also applied for bail in the local court which has fixed July 3 the next date of hearing.The lab authorities had also approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court demanding that the Vigilance Bureau be restrained from conducting raids and release the machine and records seized illegally. The High Court has also fixed July 3 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-ed-echs-also-seeks-records-107027
01-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Virus claims 2 more lives, 12 new infections in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 30With two more patients losing their lives to the Covid-19 disease here on Tuesday, the death count has risen to 43 in the district. The authorities also reported 12 new positive cases. The total count of positive cases now stands at 957 in the district.One of the deceased has been identified as 60-year-old Nirdosh Kumar, a resident of Friends’ Colony. He was admitted to Government Medical College. The other deceased has been identified as 78-year-old Madan Mohan Seth, a resident of Gate Khajana. He was admitted to Amandeep Hospital.Of the new cases, 10 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and two are contacts of positive patients. The localities such as Majitha Road and Tarn Taran Road reported two ILI cases each while Fatehgarh, Ajnala, Attari, Hargobind Avenue, Bhagtanwala and Jandiala reported one ILI case each. Besides, one contact of a positive patient from Varindavan Enclave and one from Hargobind Avenue tested positive. Of the 164 active cases in the district, 114 are admitted in hospitals and 50 mild cases are home-quarantined.Meanwhile, for the first time, the Health Department deployed a vehicle to collect samples from Azad Nagar in the Chheharta area. Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said 54 samples were collected from Azad Nagar. He added that the vehicle would be sent to containment zones and micro-containment zones to collect samples en masse so that people did not have to travel to hospitals.Inspection panel members appear before investigatorMembers of the inspection committee constituted at Government Medical College after the allegations of purchase of alleged substandard PPE kits by Government Medical College, appeared before the investigator appointed by the state government on Tuesday. However, as the complete records of the purchase were not presented by the college, the Chief Administration, Amritsar Development Authority, has instructed the officials to present the same on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-claims-2-more-lives-12-new-infections-in-amritsar-107028
01-07-2020||---||Hike in fuel prices: Farmers burn effigy of  Prime Minister||Amritsar, June 30 Farmer activists from various unions today burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for hike in diesel prices and for bringing three ordinances associated with agriculture recently.  The farmer leaders stated that the diesel prices have increased astronomically in the current sowing season when farmers needed to use the machinery for work. Farmer leader Lakhbir Singh Nizampura said, “The increase in diesel prices has increased the input cost of the agriculture.” He said farmers had been hit hard as input costs are increasing and profits are going down.  Another farmer leader Bhupinder Singh Tirathpura said, the government had brought the three new laws by bringing the new ordinances. He said as these laws would impact the agrarian community, the laws could have been passed after proper discussion and keeping in view the problems of the farmers.  The farmer leaders stated that they would not allow the Centre to withdraw Minimum Support Price (MSP) as it would leave the farmers at the mercy of private traders. The farmer leaders demanded that the government should withdraw all the three ordinances and keep a check on high prices of diesel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hike-in-fuel-prices-farmers-burn-effigy-of-prime-minister-107030
01-07-2020||Our Correspondent ---||KMSC leader detained, later released after protest||Tarn Taran, June 30 Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, on Tuesday demanded release of their leader who was detained by the Sadar police.  KMSC leader Harbinderjit Singh Kang said Gurpreet Singh of Bhaini Sidhwan on Tuesday went to the police station to enquire about the complaint. He alleged Sub-Inspector Baljit Kaur, SHO, Sadar police station, instead of giving information about the status of the complaint, ordered policemen to put him (Gurpreet Singh) in lock-up.  On getting information, activists of the KMSC gheraoed the police station in the scorching heat. They condemned the police action and alleged that it was being done at the behest of ruling party leaders.   Kang said a deputation of the organisation met the SHO and later on Gurpreet was released. On the other hand, SHO Baljit Kaur said that no one gheraoed the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-leader-detained-later-released-after-protest-107032
01-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Encroachments on roads a bane for city commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 30Encroachments on the roads have become a bane for the residents of the holy city. There is hardly any road in the city that does not witness encroachments with shopkeepers having extended their shops on the footpaths leaving no space for pedestrians. Encroachments also lead to traffic chaos in the city.The municipal corporation, the district administration and the police seem to have turned a blind eye towards the menace. Encroachments not only create trouble for commuters and local residents, but are also an eyesore for tourists visiting here from other parts of the country and abroad.“Roads inside the walled city and in other areas like Civil Lines, Majitha Road, Batala Road, Putlighar and Chheharta have been encroached upon by shopkeepers and street vendors, leaving no space for pedestrians to walk. As most of them use political clout, no action is taken against them in this regard,” said Raghav Sharma, a resident of Putlighar area.“In the Putlighar area, shopkeepers have encroached upon at least 10 to 12 ft of the road and footpaths. Also, vendors park their carts on the roadside while haphazard parking of cars, bikes, scooters add to chaos. Tandoors can be seen kept on footpaths by sweet shops. The situation is more worrisome on the railway link road,” said Saurav Kumar.A police officer requesting anonymity said, “Until there is political will, there is no other way to end the menace. Whenever the administration and the police take tough stands, politicians come on the scene and create hurdles. “Vote bank politics nullifies whatever positive steps we want to take in this direction,” he pointed out.DC of Police Jagmohan Singh said, “They can intervene when officials of the municipal corporation seek their help for removing encroachments,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachments-on-roads-a-bane-for-city-commuters-107034
01-07-2020||Amritsar||5,603 challaned for violating norms, Rs 17.66 L collected as fine||Even as there has been no let-up in Covid-19 cases, people have failed to realise the gravity of the situation. Amritsar rural Police, SSP, Vikram Jeet Duggal stated this in a press release issued here. The rural police had challaned as many as 5,603 offenders from March 23 to June 25 for violating norms.Maximum persons who were challaned were those who failed to wear masks before coming out of their house. The SSP said out of 5,603 persons challaned, 3831 were not wearing masks while 542 were challaned for spitting at public places. Ten persons were challaned for violating social distancing norm and 22 were those who violated the home quarantine orders issued by the health authorities. The rural police collected Rs 17.66 lakhs as fine from challans. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-603-challaned-for-violating-norms-rs-17-66-l-collected-as-fine-107035
01-07-2020||---||CKD passes budget of Rs 147 crore, says will prioritise infrastructure||Amritsar, June 30The executive and general committee of the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Tuesday held its annual meeting through video-conferencing and passed Rs 147.50 crore budget for 2020-21. The CKD will prioritise infrastructure development for colleges and other institutions, and build seven new schools in current year.The meetings were presided over by CKD vice-president Inderbir Singh Nijjar, who while giving information about the budget said that the estimated budget of the Chief Khalsa Diwan for the year 2020-21 has been kept at 147.50 crore. He further said Rs 7 crore for the construction of new CKD school at Ajnala Road, Rs 1.62 crore for Adarsh schools, Rs 20 lakh for dharam prachar, 2 crore for upgrading CKD rural schools, Rs 1 crore for development of Central Khalsa Orphanage old-age homes and other institutes have been assigned under the budget. He said Rs 3 crore for the purchase of land and Rs 2 two crore for the construction of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Bhagatwala, has been earmarked. Rs 50 lakh for further acquisition of land and Rs 80 lakh for construction on it for a CKD School at Sur Singh has been reserved. Apart from this, three badminton halls are also planned to be constructed at Sri Guru Harkrishan International School, Ranjit Avenue, in the year 2020-21.Secretary Surinder Singh Rumalianwale said the total revenue in the year 2019-20 was Rs 116.42 crore, which is projected to increase to Rs 137.98 crore this year. He said that the increase this year in revenue was Rs 21 crore over the last year, which is 18.5 per cent. He also informed that hi-tech solar systems had been installed in four CKD schools at a cost of Rs 4 crore.High-tech system installed in schoolsSecretary Surinder Singh Rumalianwale said the total revenue in the year 2019-20 was Rs 116.42 crore, which is projected to increase to Rs137.98 crore this year. He said the increase this year in revenue was Rs21 crore over the last year, which is 18.5 per cent. He also informed that hi-tech solar systems had been installed in four CKD schools at a cost of Rs 4 crore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-passes-budget-of-rs-147-crore-says-will-prioritise-infrastructure-107037
01-07-2020||Neha Saini||Beauty & wellness industry now focusses on hygiene||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, June 30After the Covid-19 lockdown, the wellness and beauty industry has undergone a complete change. With focus primarily on reducing contact-based services and maintaining highest levels of hygiene, the industry insiders say that the new normal would change the industry forever.Working on appointment mode only, a majority of salons that have re-opened, are strictly following the safety guidelines, some even going an extra mile. Face shields, masks and gloves have become an essential part of services. Disposable equipment is widely in practice and the premises are being disinfected multiple times.“Our services were never essential, but before the pandemic, beauty and wellness were among the most flourishing businesses. Post pandemic, it has become a luxury-based service. So all our efforts have been directed to build customer trust and maintain high standards of hygiene,” said Monika Kashyap, owner, Wellness Experts. She says that in totality, one cannot define the new normal for the industry but the way of functioning would definitely change forever. “The cosmetic procedures are being done with zero touch technology, professionals in the salon wear safety kits and selective clients are allowed to avoid overcrowding,” she says.Screening of clients is also done in all major salons. Detailed precautions are taken. “We need to strictly put such safety practices in place in order to get clients and the business going. The industry’s survival and future depends on adopting new safety practices,” says Ritesh Rana, owner, Bridal Villa Salon.QuotesWe are working with 50 per cent staff, trained in working with safety gear on. Premise and all equipment being used for services are being sanitised after every use. We are using face shields, gloves, masks and disposable linen and towels for clients. ……………… Vandana Kaur Walia, owner, Texture SalonSeeing is believing and so for every client coming in, we are sanitizing the equipment in front of them to built that trust. We have screening and sanitising process for customers and staff and our opening hours are not fixed as we are only taking clients through appointments. Zero touch services are being offered. …………. Monika Kashyap, a wellness industry expertWe are disinfecting the premises and the customers by spraying sanitisers before every service. We are reducing surface contact by covering chairs arms and other surfaces that usually the customers might come in contact with. We are providing shoe covers, head covers and gloves to clients and our staff is wearing all the mandatory safety gear. …………………. Ritesh Rana, owner of a salon.For every service we have prepared protocol that has to be maintained by the staff and by the client. Disposal kits are being given to customers to wear and staff is also wearing safety gear. Glass protection shields are being used by us to ensure zero risk of infection of any kind. ……… Amar Sachdeva, owner, Colour Lounge||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beauty-wellness-industry-now-focusses-on-hygiene-107039
01-07-2020||---||GNDU postpones exams for exit classes till July 15||Amritsar, June 30Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has postponed the exit classes’ annual system and semester system theory and practical examinations (including Credit-Based Evaluation System) till July 15. “These were earlier scheduled to be held on July 1 as per the uploaded datesheets on the university’s website,” said Prof Manoj Kumar, Professor incharge (examinations). But after the Punjab government’s decision to announce postponement for exit classes for all colleges and university, the varsity too has pushed the date to July 15. The students, however, have given a mixed response to the development. Aditya Takiar, Btech Student at GNDU who was set to appear for exit exams, said, “It’s welcomed but it doesn’t provide solution to our concerns. The government has postponed the exams instead they could have either devised a way to conduct them online or indefinitely postpone them till the situation improves. Currently, the cases are on the rise and it shall continue for another month or so as predicted by several medical and health agencies.” While the delaying is seemingly a temporary solution, students are not in favour of cancellation of the exams. “It will not be a good move to cancel the exams as the results are defining for students who want to pursue higher education overseas. We want the exams to be held but in a safe way and doesn’t raise concern over risk of infection,” said Tarun Khanna, another exit class student of BSc from GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-postpones-exams-for-exit-classes-till-july-15-107043
01-07-2020||Tarn Taran||College ties up with Google||21 sent home after -VE reportTarn Taran: Twentyone persons, who were isolated at the hostel of Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, were found Covid negative and sent back to their homes after providing certificate of their well-being on Tuesday. Bhai Nirmal Singh of the Kar Sewa sect Khadoor Sahib said seven of them returned from USA, 13 from Dubai and one from Australia. The isolated persons praised the services provided by the sect. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/college-ties-up-with-google-107046
