01-08-2020||---||Covid-19: 4 more succumb to virus, 71 fresh infections in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 31The district reported four deaths due to the Covid-19 disease and 71 fresh infections on Friday. The health authorities stated that the death toll had increased to 78 and the total number of cases climbed to 1,859. The district had 460 active cases.Contacts of positive cases were traced from the office of Commissioner of Police, certain police stations and BSF (Khasa).The deceased have been identified as Vaseek Singh (61) of Guru Ramdass Nagar and Shama Rani (75) of Pandori Ramana, who were under treatment at GNDH; Mohinder Singh (76) of Saidpur Khurd village, also under treatment at GNDH; and Saroj (62), a resident of Shariffpura, was also under treatment at Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital.Of the new cases, 36 persons showed symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI). One ILI case each was reported from Sundar Nagar, Lahori Gate, Waryam Nangali, Guru Nanak Pura, Gopal Nagar, Pawan Nagar, Milap Avenue, New Rajesh Nagar, Ramana, Haripura, Nangali village, Chehratta, Guru Nanak Nagar, Baba Darshan Singh Avenue, Daburji, Holy City, Varindavan Enclave, Sidhar, Golden Avenue, Jandiala Guru, Pheruman, Dhariwal Ajnala and Guru Nanak Nagar.Two ILI case each was reported from New Gurnam Nagar, Chheharta and Jasonda Singh Road, besides three from Nehru Colony.The remaining 36 are contacts of positive patients. One contact of a positive case each was reported from Chheharta, Shariffpura, BSF Khasa, and CIA staff. Two contacts each were traced from Chicha village, Gurnam Nagar, Verka, Bal Kalan, Partap Avenue, police department and the Islamabad police station. Three contacts each were reported from Military Hospital, Amarkot and IVY Hospital. Four contacts each were from Friends Avenue, Palah Sahib Road and the office of Commissioner of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-4-more-succumb-to-virus-71-fresh-infections-in-amritsar-district-120433
01-08-2020||---||NSUI launches online youth parliament debate series||Amritsar, July 31The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Punjab, has launched a series of debates on online youth parliament to commemorate the martyrdom day of Shaheed Udham Singh. While addressing an inaugural session here on Friday, NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan said the contribution of the great martyr towards the country’s freedom struggle was more pronounced in the present fight against the Centre’s fascist mindset.The country’s youth has the potential and courage to transform it into a world leader. The need is to make them more conscious of our incomparable legacy and glorious traditions of nation building. — Ruchi Gupta, AICC SecretaryInteracting with schoolchildren during his address, Kundan laid emphasis on disseminating knowledge about our martyrs and risks they undertook to ensure the country’s freedom. Hundreds of students from across the country took part in the event through videoconferencing and shared their thoughts about topical issues, including Legacy of our martyrs - A message for Youth, Participation of Youth in Nation Building and National Education Policy 2020.Akshay Sharma, president, NSUI, Punjab, said the event had been crafted to engage youngsters in the process of nation building. “It would be a regular feature and would be extended to include more schools and colleges from next year,” he said.Earlier, inaugurating the event, Cabinet minister O P Soni exhorted youngsters to learn from the great sacrifices made by our martyrs. “We must do everything to sustain that freedom and liberty, which is under attack today,” Soni added.Ruchi Gupta, AICC secretary and national in-charge of NSUI, said, “The country’s youth has the potential and courage to make the country a world leader. The need is to make them more conscious of our incomparable legacy and glorious traditions of nation building,” she said. Vikas Soni, a Youth Congress leader from Amritsar, said the future of the country as a secular country depended on our youth’s ability to rise to the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nsui-launches-online-youth-parliament-debate-series-120434
01-08-2020||---||Academics across Amritsar hail National Education Policy||Amritsar, July 31The New Education Policy — 2020 approved by the Central Government has received a positive response from most academics in the city. With focus on practical education and reducing burden on students, some senior academics have praised the move calling it a welcome change.Among other recommendations of the New Education Policy, the one that stands out is the move to introduce regional language (mother tongue) as the medium of instruction up to Class V. This recommendation will relieve the students of the undue stress. — Kulwant Singh Ankhi, president of the Amritsar Vikas ManchKulwant Singh Ankhi, president of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, and retired educator, said the new policy was expected to discourage cramming or rote learning through repetition and promote teaching by focussing on practical aspects.“Among other recommendations of the New Education Policy, the one that stands out is the move to introduce regional language (mother tongue) as the medium of instruction up to Class V. This recommendation will relieve the students of the undue stress. It is also a step towards saving our regional languages from extinctionbyv giving them their due importance,” he said.He said another important recommendation to give students a free hand regarding subjects of their choice from Classes IX to XII will help reduce the academic stress. “In the present system, students interested in science subjects had to study History, Political science, Geography etc, without adding any value to their academic pursuit,” he said.Renu Sharma, a government school teacher from city, too said the standards of education are also expected to improve as the investment in education has been raised from 4.43 to 6 per cent of the total GDP.“This academic year has already paved way for educational reforms and with the New Education Policy, government must ensure that the implementation of the recommendations is quick and without any glitches so that students can reap maximum benefits out of it without any hassle,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/academics-across-amritsar-hail-national-education-policy-120435
01-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Online workshop on direct seeding||Tarn Taran, July 31The local Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) working under the administrative control of GADVASU organised an online workshop on management of direct seeded rice in which farmers from Tarn Taran, Ferozepur and Kapurthala districts participated.Dr Balwinder Kumar, deputy director (T), in his address highlighted the importance of direct seeded rice and said that due to labour shortage for paddy transplanting owing to Covid-19, many farmers have adopted direct seeding of rice in Punjab.He said the KVK experts are visiting farmers’ field regularly to inspect the direct seeded rice and giving guidance to the farmers in managing it. Dr Simarjit Kaur, senior agronomist, PAU Ludhiana, in her address discussed in detailed about the production technology and weed management in direct seeded rice and also elaborated about identification of weeds and choosing right herbicide according to particular weed.She said the herbicide should be sprayed at ideal stage or at 2-3 leaf stage rather than allow weeds to develop followed by spray on later stages.Dr Anil Kumar, soil expert at KVK, interacted with farmers on the aspect of fertiliser management. He especially focused on iron deficiency management in direct seeded rice. The farmers also interacted with experts on DSR especially on weed management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-workshop-on-direct-seeding-120436
01-08-2020||Amritsar||15 booked for thrashing husband of sarpanch||Around 15 persons were booked on the charge of murder bid after they intercepted and brutally thrashed the husband of a woman sarpanch at Saran village falling under the Ajnala police station here on Wednesday.The victim, identified as Harpreet Singh of Saran village, was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. Those booked were identified as Davinder Singh, Manraj Singh, Harpal Singh, Shamsher Singh, Gurmej Singh, Amrik Singh, Narinder Singh, Kulwant Singh, Gurlal Singh, China Singh, Harwinder Singh, Sonu, Charanjit Singh, all residents of Saran village, Satinder Singh of Jagdev Khurd and Lovely of Ugar Aulakh village.Ajit Singh, father of the victim, told the police that former sarpanch Baldev Singh was nursing a grudge against Rajwinder Kaur, the present sarpanch. He said the suspects, armed with firearms, arrive in three SUVs, and fired at him. Harpreet had a lucky escape.Ajit Singh said they went to lodge a complaint with the police in this regard. He said when Harpreet was returning to the village, the accused rammed their vehicle into his car. They pulled him out and brutally thrashed him and left seriously injured.He was immediately rushed to GNDH where he is under treatment. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-booked-for-thrashing-husband-of-sarpanch-120437
01-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Rich tributes paid to Shaheed Udham Singh||Workers of the Communist Party of India paid tributes to Shaheed Udham Singh on his death anniversary at a function in Chabal on Friday.Prithipal Singh Marimegha, state deputy secretary of the party, said: “The present governments have forgotten the ideals of patriots who sacrificed their lives in the country’s war of Independence. The aim of Shaheed Udham Singh, Bhagat Singh and their revolutionary comrades was to expel the British from the country and establish a system in which food, housing, health and education could be provided to every human being for free.”— OCSarb Kamboj Samaj pays tributes to Udham SinghAmritsar: Members of the Sarb Kamboj Samaj on Friday remembered Shaheed Udham Singh on his martyrdom day at Jallianwala Bagh.They paid floral tributes at his bust. Mangal Singh Kishan Puri, district president of the samaj, narrated the story of his martyrdom. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rich-tributes-paid-to-shaheed-udham-singh-120438
01-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Nimbale takes charge as SSP, Tarn Taran||Green drive at GurdwaraTarn Taran: Followers of Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, planted saplings at Gurdwara Damdama Sahib in Khadoor Sahib on Friday. Baba Davinder Singh of the sect said it was the 57th forest of 550 mini forests to be planted to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. “A total of 550 saplings of 50 varieties were planted on two-kanal land,” he added. Meanwhile, manager of the Gurdwara Baba Bhima Singh said the forests would help clean the environment and would be a home for a variety of birds and animals. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nimbale-takes-charge-as-ssp-tarn-taran-120440
01-08-2020||---||Poor response to 10% rebate offer on property tax||Amritsar, July 31The 10 per cent rebate on property tax offered by the state government under the one-time settlement policy has received a lukewarm response as the Municipal Corporation (MC) has collected only around 2.40 crore as property tax in the current fiscal.The over four-month lockdown imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19 has led to a heavy financial loss to the MC as various departments have failed to recover taxes and bills during the period.Till Thursday, the civic body had recovered only Rs 2.22 crore as property tax from 19,439 property holders. The amount was collected after the 10 per cent rebate offer was given. On Friday, ie, the last day of the scheme, the MC collected Rs 14.23 lakh. During the last fiscal, the civic body had recovered Rs 26.71 crore.Officials of the MC said the decline in recovery of property tax was due to Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer (property tax), said: “Residents should avail the benefit of the scheme. We are aware of the financial condition of the public. The one-time settlement policy was an opportunity to pay the pending tax but not many residents responded to it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/poor-response-to-10-rebate-offer-on-property-tax-120441
01-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||No time for games, Covid keeps sporting activities at bay||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, JULY 31The entire sports calendar this year has been in pandemic’s grasp with no signs of slipping out of it. All competitions were wiped off, preparation of players severely hit ever since the virus broke out and the ensuing lockdown did the rest of work. A screeching halt of all sporting activities was witnessed globally and here as well.With their respective games shuttered, the players and coaches were confined to their houses. All of it was so sudden and plans were thrown so off balance that they are still picking up the pieces. Many prominent faces, just over a month after the restrictions had set in, gained weight and saw fitness levels dwindle drastically.Eventually, coaches moved to online mode of training. They started video-conferencing, online sessions and telephones to get in touch with players. For physical fitness, players carried out practice sessions at their houses, came up their own equipments and drills. But all along these tough months technical training remained fully suspended. Only in May had the NIT Patiala resumed outdoor training laden with stringent precautionary measures, but only the Olympics-bound athletes were allowed to train.Coming down to the national-level players, even a nutritious diet was something they have had a hard time getting their hands onto as they could neither stock nor buy due to the closure of shops and markets.Prabhdeep, an athelete, says “In track and field games players depend upon 33 per cent nutritious diet, 33 per cent training and equal proportionate of technique.” But the recent times had deprived him of it. Not only this, the school and university level games have suffered. A complete year of all beginners of sports has been washed away as the pandemic enforced closure at the time when new sessions start ie March and April. Thus, educational institutions saw a big fall in sports quota admissions as many did not enroll themselves in games at all. Similarly, competitions like inter-school, inter-district games, inter-state games etc could not be held. Usually, these competitions commence from July-August and help in gradation besides future job prospects.Ishwanpreet Singh, a national-level swimmer, rues that he could not participate in the Senior State Championships, usually held in July or August, which could have paved his way for the Senior Nationals. “These championships are very helpful in getting jobs,” he says, before lamenting the lack of infrastructure, “Since we do not have an indoor gymnasium in the entire district we lost touch with the game when the winter had set in last November.” And then the pandemic struck down his and peers’ plans — there are 28 swimming players, including eight girls, in the district. Of these, 14 have participated in national competitions.Meanwhile, a large number of sports infrastructure available in the city remained underutilised. The holy city boasts off grounds like the Gandhi Ground, used for cricket, Guru Nanak stadium, for athletics, hockey and bodybuilding, wrestling stadium, the swimming pool and gymnasium in Gol Bagh, Guru Nanak Dev University’s badminton hall, AstroTurf, swimming pool, football ground, velodrome and archery compound in remained out of bound for players.Though Union and state government initiated several measures under the unlocking phase, still, many games remain untouched. Experts are of the view that touch and exchange of breathe are almost unavoidable in many games – boxing, swimming, tennis, badminton to name a few. A small mistake can prove costly for the health of players which would have a cascading impact on their long term career.Therefore, it is natural that many players and coaches have flayed the government for ignoring the needs and not chalking out any plans which could help in maintaining minimal physical contact and technical training sessions. “The department got instructions to open up three games, including yoga, golf and athletics for players,” says Gurlal Singh, district sports officer. He added: “Gradually all games would be opened but competitions may take some time to take place.”He says that these restrictions were neither state nor district specific. He also told that at many places stadiums were converted into hospitals to house the virus-stricken patients.Acclaimed players of the districtArjuna awardees Harcharan Singh Brig (retd), hockey, and Suman Sharma (basketball), Olympians Hardeep Singh Bhullar (kabaddi), Balwinder Singh (hockey), Jugraj Singh (hockey), Dilpreet Singh and Harmanpreet Singh (hockey), 2018 Asian Games bronze medallists, Arpinder Singh (triple jump), gold medallist at 2018 Asian Games, Gurjeet Kaur (hockey), a silver medallist at 2018 Asian Games, Navjot Kaur Dhillon (discus thrower) and bronze winner at 2018 Commonwealth Games.Liquor vends and public places like the malls were opened but playgrounds continue to remain closed for players where at least they can ensure social distancing. At the international level, the resumption should be fast-tracked as players are losing that feel of competing, which takes them to extra-mile amid preparations. Rankirat Singh Sandhu, Athletics coachAs far as swimming is concerned, the governement has taken the right decision as the infection spreads rapidly in the water. Many are sure to suffer due to decision but health is first. Risking of lives isn’t going to benefit anyone. Swimming with a player infected with cough and cold is sure to pass on the infection to other players. Vinod Sangwan, a Swimming coachPhysical fitness was maintained through online classes. Each batch containing 20 players was trained through an app. It is necessary for this game, as it demands body preparation, flexibility, zumba, belle dance and strength training. If we do not keep them engaged, they will have to start afresh after such a long gap. Neetu Bala, Gymnastic coachI participated in senior national and All-India Inter-University Games. In an aerobic game like swimming, gym comes secondary, which was not allowed. Third comes running, which was allowed on roads a month ago. However, long exposure to road running can be harmful to body, and last is cycling but it does not burn enough calories. Ishwanpreet Singh, a National Level SwimmerHaving played in the National Junior Athletics Championships last year and National School Games in 2018 I was to prepare for Under-20 this year. I was expecting tougher competition there to improve the throw with 1.75 kg iron ball from 53.34 metre to a new level. However, the Asian Junior Athletics Championship got postponed in May. Harnoor Singh, Discus throwerI had taken part in the third Dubai International Rhythmic Gymnastics TU Cup held in 2018. The game requires certain infra and equipment like floor, arena, gym and other operatives which one cannot keep at home. Despite online training, we were certain that many flaws in movements would have gone unnoticed. Anikta Sachdeva, a Gymnast||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-time-for-games-covid-keeps-sporting-activities-at-bay-120443
01-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Despite budgetary announcement, no market fee waiver yet||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31Despite announcement of market fee reduction from 4 per cent to 1 per cent by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal in his last Budget speech, the Market Committee continues to charge 4 per cent.Even boards displaying photographs of Capt Amarinder Singh sharing space with farmers and announcing the reduction in the market fee from 4 per cent to 1 per cent on fruit and vegetables were installed at wholesale vegetable and fruit markets across the state.Some such display boards have been installed at the Vallah area. The Wholesale Fruit and Vegetable Merchants Union and the Fruit Merchants Welfare Association have been demanding the waiver of market fee for a long. They are disappointed over the non-implementation of the announcement.Arvinder Singh and Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, president and general secretary, respectively, of the association, stated that Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal had announced the reduction in his last budget speech.The Market Committee manages the upkeep of wholesale vegetable and fruit markets, charges 2 per cent market fee and equal quantum of rural development fund (RDF). The market fee is invested in development of mandis and the RDF is invested in development of villages.Leaders of the associations said the large-scale vegetable production and low rates of crops in the market compelled farmers to throw vegetables on roads.So, traders of Punjab prefer to purchase fruit and vegetables from border towns like Jasoor in Himachal, Ambala in Haryana and Sri Ganganagar in Rajasthan. Subsequently, they sell these in internal markets of the state to earn maximum profit which hurt the interests of indigenous vegetable and fruit growers.They stated that Himachal, Haryana and now Rajasthan had also abolished the market fee and the RDF completely, while Delhi levies 1 per cent, Gujarat .80%, MP 2% and Maharashtra 1%.Amardeep Singh, secretary of the market committee, said his office had not received any notification regarding the reduction in market fee but confirmed there was a budget proposal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-budgetary-announcement-no-market-fee-waiver-yet-120446
01-08-2020||Neha Saini||Most public parks cry for attention post lockdown||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31The attempt to create green spaces in the city by developing and restoring several old parks has again failed to bear fruit as the lockdown led to the suspension of maintenance works for an indefinite period.The city has several prominent old public gardens, including Shakatri Bagh, also called Raminder Singh Bolaria Memorial Park, Company Garden, Gol Bagh, Amrit Anand Park, also known as Rose Garden, and Challih Khuh, known as Leisure Valley. Apart from that, there are several parks being taken care of by Resident Welfare Associations.Most of these public parks now paint a picture of neglect as one can see growth of wild plants and weeds, puddles of standing water, dysfunctional fountains and lights and broken toilets in these parks. While the MC and the Amritsar Improvement Trust have been carrying out development works at a slow pace, the public parks are yet to get the attention of the authorities concerned."Most of the historic parks, including Company Bagh, Shakatri Park and Rose Garden, have been under restoration for the past two to three years under the Smart City and HRIDAY schemes. While these parks did get a makeover, but their condition post lockdown really cries for attention as these parks get a lot of evening and morning walkers now," said Ravinder Khanna, a resident of Joshi colony, who visits Company Bagh daily.Varun Sharma, a botany student, said, "The Company Bagh has earmarked a small space for herbal plants and plants with medicinal properties and these plants too lie untended. "A small herbal garden was also set up at Gol Bagh, where there is no sign of cleanliness. People want to visit the garden but are unable to do so as it poses a health risk with the monsoon already set in. Besides, it can become a breeding-ground for mosquitoes."On the other hand, the condition of a number of small parks being maintained by different resident welfare associations is better than public parks or those which are looked after by the civic body. "No doubt, the public parks cover a huge area with multiple structures to be maintained inside the premises. Though they require a lot of time and effort, the civic body has the resources to maintain them," said Varun.Many gardens overgrown with wild plantsMost of these public parks now paint a picture of neglect as one can see a wild growth of wild plants and weeds, puddles of standing water, dysfunctional fountains and lights and broken toilets in these parks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/most-public-parks-cry-for-attention-post-lockdown-120449
01-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Spurious liquor: Prime suspect Balwinder Kaur nabbed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 31The Amritsar rural police have nabbed Balwinder Kaur, prime suspect in the spurious liquor tragedy, which claimed 11 lives in the past two days at Muchhal and its adjoining villages here. Residents said she had been in this trade for the past over two decades. Her husband Jaswant Singh also died in the yesterday’s tragedy.Balwinder Kaur was booked under Section 304 of the IPC, besides the Excise Act. She is known as Pattian Wali and has three children. Locals claimed her entire family was into this illegal trade.They alleged that she was a regular supplier in the area and this fact was in the knowledge of the police. According to information, she used to supply industrial alcohol (spirit) mixed with water.Yesterday, the liquor was allegedly sold by her daughter as she was not at home. Residents claimed they had informed the police a number of times, but to no avail. “She used to claim that she gave huge amounts to the police every month for continuing her business,” a resident said.The family made property worth lakhs through the illegal business. They recently bought a plot in the village, the residents said. They alleged the accused used to run the bootlegging business from an old building owned by them near the village pond.Gurjant Singh, president, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Naujwan Sabha, claimed drug peddling and bootlegging was rampant in the village while the police looked the other way. “Some other families are also into this illegal trade. After the tragedy, they all fled after locking their houses,” he added.SAD for probe by sitting HC judgeChandigarh: SAD on Friday rejected the Divisional Commissioner-level inquiry ordered into the multiple spurious liquor tragedies in Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran by CM Capt Amarinder Singh and demanded a judicial probe by a sitting judge of the High Court. SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the Divisional Commissioner-level inquiry was too little, too late. He said preliminary reports indicated that supply of spurious liquor was widespread and required a thorough probe by an independent agency. TNSExpedite investigation: LoPAmritsar: AAP MLA and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema blamed the CM for “giving a free run to liquor mafia in the state”. He visited the aggrieved families at Muchhal and Tangra villages and offered condolences. He demanded a judicial probe by a High Court sitting judge. He demanded that the government should expedite the process of bringing the culprits to justice. TNSWon’t spare those involved: JakharChandigarh: Expressing shock and grief over deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar has urged the Chief Minister to get the probe completed at the earliest and take stern action against the guilty. He expressed sympathy with the affected families and said the government would not spare those involved in the crime. These anti-social elements should be punished as per law by cracking down on liquor smugglers across the state and those making spurious liquor. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spurious-liquor-prime-suspect-balwinder-kaur-nabbed-120533
01-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Hunt on to arrest supplier ‘Faujan’||Tribune News ServiceBatala, July 31The Batala police are on the lookout for a middle-aged woman known as ‘Faujan’, who is said to have supplied spurious liquor to 10 persons who lost their lives after consuming it late yesterday evening. The tragedy occurred in the busy Hathi gate area of the city.‘On police radar for quite some time’“Faujan is a regular supplier in the narrow lanes of the city. She has been on the police radar for quite some time. The irony is that the tragedy occurred despite the fact that previous SSP Opinderjit Singh Ghuman, who relinquished charge today to pave the way for Rachpal Singh to be the incumbent police chief, had initiated an intense drive against bootleggers operating in the town,” said an officer.The new SSP could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. After the news of the incident spread, Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq rushed a team of senior officers, including ADC (General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu and AETC Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa, to the spot. “I have asked my officers to look into the sequence of events leading to the fiasco,” he said.People of the area were trying to brush the incident under the carpet by claiming that a majority of people had “died due to heart attacks and had nothing to do with consuming liquor”.A police source said the toll could rise in the next few days. “Investigations are in progress,” he added.The deceased have been identified as Buta Singh, Bhupinder Singh, Jatinder Singh, Kallu, Bitta, Kala, Naresh Kumar, Surinder, Rahul and Jagdeesh. Two persons were rushed to an Amritsar hospital in a critical condition. They have been identified as Dharmendra and Darshan Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hunt-on-to-arrest-supplier-faujan-120534
