01-06-2020||---||Railways to start limited train services from Amritsar today||Amritsar, May 31The Railways has announced to resume limited train services from the Amritsar railway station tomorrow (Monday). The Haridwar-Amritsar Jan Shatabdi Express (02053) and the Amritsar-Haridwar Jan Shatabdi Express (02054) will start plying from June 1. The train services were suspended following the nationwide lockdown imposed to check the spread of Covid-19.On the request of the state government, Shramik trains were plied to facilitate return of migrants to their native states recently. The Amritsar-Jaynagar Shaheed Express (04674) will be run on June 2 while the Jaynagar-Amritsar Shaheed Express will be run on June 3.The Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri Karmabhoomi Superfast (02408) will resume operations from June 5. Officials of the Punjab Government will distribute self-declaration forms to all passengers wherein they will have to declare home quarantine.Ashok Salaria, Area Officer of the Amritsar railway station, said all safety norms would be maintained at the railway station and on board trains. He said all tickets for the trains were sold out.He said as per the guidelines issued by the Railways to handle the rush of passengers in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, they must maintain social distancing.Thermal screening of all passengers would be done by medical staff of the state government. One room had been earmarked for keeping symptomatic passengers detected during the screening.Those with confirmed tickets will only be permitted to travel and those whose names will be in the waiting list would not be allowed to enter the station. The wearing of face masks at the station and during the journey and Aarogya Setu App on mobile phones are mandatory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railways-to-start-limited-train-services-from-amritsar-today-92604
01-06-2020||---||2 UK returnees among five new cases; district count 392||Amritsar, May 31With five fresh cases of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, the count of positive patients has now reached 392 in the district. The district health authorities also reported discharge of three patients after complete recovery, taking the tally of cured patients to 310.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said of the new cases reported, two are residents of Mehta village who had returned from the UK recently. He said two other patients were contacts of a positive case from the Hathi Gate area. They are a Covid patient’s son and granddaughter. A person from the Park Avenue area, who had complained of influenza like illness (ILI), also tested positive, said the civil surgeon. Now, 75 active cases are admitted to the Covid care centre, the district has reported seven deaths due to Covied-19 so far.Meanwhile, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, who visited the city on Sunday, said most of the persons testing positive returned from foreign countries or other states. He said local spread of the disease was minimal. Sidhu claimed that only 151 cases of local spread had been reported so far.Talking about the growing number of positive cases in the state, Sidhu claimed that it was because the government had managed to detect all positive cases and their contacts. He said the state government’s efforts to contain the spread of the disease had been lauded at the national level.The Health Minister later visited the Golden Temple. Responding to a query about opening of religious places, he said that it was the purview of the Chief Minister and he would take the decision in this regard. The minister lauded the role of government employees and health care professionals for their services. He urged the general public to take precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-uk-returnees-among-five-new-cases-district-count-392-92605
01-06-2020||GS Paul||Amritsar lad develops software to monitor social distancing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 31As the government has started gradually reopening the Covid-19 lockdown, it will be a daunting task for the authorities to maintain the social distancing norms to check the spread of the disease.TECH CAN CALCULATE PHYSICAL DISTANCEBut, Amarjot Singh, who born in the city, has come up with a software that can assist the police in this direction. Amid the Covid-19 threat, he has offered to provide it free of cost.At present, the police had little idea about vulnerable points, especially in the interiors of the city, where people give two hoots to the social distancing norms.The software can keep a hawk eye on them round the clock either through drones or CCTV cameras. The system has capability to calculate the physical distance, as set, between two or more individuals and pass on information the police team at the surveillance centre. The police can then visit the location and issue a fine if they see people breaching the rules.Amarjot (32), who has now moved to the US, did thorough research on this issue and zeroed in by developing a software that can be fitted in CCTV cameras or drones to view a larger area.A camera-enabled drone equipped with this software can detect the movement of human with a range up to 5 km. Similarly, it can be helpful if a CCTV camera is connected to the system.Amarjot, who is an expert in computer software technology and has set up his own software firm, Skylark Labs, in San Francisco, said, “The required distance could be fed into the software application before connecting it to CCTV cameras or drones. If it spots people defeating the distance norms, it can send an alert to the police. We offer this technique free of cost to the government to install in the whole state.”His brother Paramjot Singh, who lives in the city, said the application can be connected to the police surveillance room through a login ID and password. While drones can cover a larger area, it will function in CCTVs generally installed in airports, malls, residential streets, shops and key locations of the city.Explaining its functioning, Paramjot said markers will emerge on the monitor in ‘green’ and ‘red’ boxes that indicate the status of public movement in a particular market or any public place. “The group of people who have been maintaining the prescribed distancing would be spotted in ‘green boxes’ whereas the offenders would be indicated in ‘red boxes’. This prompt detection will help the police react,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-lad-develops-software-to-monitor-social-distancing-92606
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Physical distancing goes for a toss||Tarn Taran, May 31The social distancing norm was thrown to the wind when Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria visited the Civil Hospital here on Sunday to preside over an event as the chief guest.He was accompanied by MLAs Dharambeer Agnihotri and Harminder Singh Gill, Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, SSP Dhruv Dahiya, SDM Rajnish Arora, Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar, besides others politicians and officials from various departments.Many rushed to get a photo clicked with the minister, paying no regard to the precautions being recommended the government to prevent spread of Covid.Addressing the gathering, the minister highlighted various developmental works by the state government and also advised the people to abide by precautionary norms to keep Covid-19 at bay. He also held a meeting with district officials to take stock of measures taken to contain the pandemic.SP Singh Oberoi, the patron of Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, who was also present on the occasion, donated a ventilator to the Civil Hospital. He said the Trust had reserved an amount of Rs20 crore to help the people affected by Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/physical-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-92607
01-06-2020||---||Procurement of wheat dips by 9% this year||Amritsar, May 31With the wheat procurement by government agencies ending on Sunday, the district has registered a fall of 9 per cent in procurement this season as compared to last year. The district has recorded procurement of 6,23,788 tonnes at all 55 grain markets and nine temporary procurement centers. Last year, it had procured 6,82,905 tonnes.While farmers still have a day to bring any crop kept at their homes to the markets, officials of the Mandi Board stated that they expected that only around 2,000 tonnes to arrive on Sunday.The decline in procurement can be attributed to the loss in yield. Farmers stated that rough weather conditions during the entire wheat season resulted in the decreased yield.While Agriculture Department officials, in their assessment of trial fields, had assessed loss to be at one quintal per acre, many farmers have reported a loss of up to 4 quintals per acre.The district usually records average wheat yield of around 20 quintals per acre. However this season, many farmers had reported a yield of around 16-17 quintals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/procurement-of-wheat-dips-by-9-this-year-92608
01-06-2020||---||MC sanitises offices after employee tests positive||Amritsar, May 31The Municipal Corporation (MC) sanitised its various offices, including head office at Ranjit Avenue, after an employee was tested Covid positive here on Sunday. Deepak Kumar, a resident of Gilwali Gate and working at the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of the MC, was admitted to hospital following the symptoms of virus a day before yesterday.Deepk was deployed at the CFC, where he used to collect the water supply bill, property tax and all other taxes of the corporation. Since May 12, the he was deployed at the CFC Zone No. 2 to collect taxes. After working at the zone office from 9 am to 2 pm he used to visit head office to deposit the amount.After fever and shortness of breath, he was admitted to the hospital where he was tested positive.After sanitisation of office, the MC will also quarantine some of its staff members, who were in direct link with Deepak. Staff members of different departments, including IT wing, Municipal Town Planning, Civil, O and M, who came in contact with Deepak, the list is being prepared by the sector magistrate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-sanitises-offices-after-employee-tests-positive-92609
01-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Crisis of survival for this rickshaw puller||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 31The nationwide lockdown has adversely affected rickshaw pullers, who are struggling hard to make both ends meet. Rajinder Kumar (45) says he has taken the rickshaw on rent. However, amid fears, people were avoiding venturing out, although major relaxations were given in lockdown 4.0.“It has become difficult to arrange even two meals a day. We have no customers. All those coming out in the market have either car or two-wheeler,” he said.He says amid the scorching heat, they wait for customers and return home with a meagre earning. “It is difficult to pedal a rickshaw in this scorching heat. These days we are taking home only Rs 100 or Rs 120 every day, which is not enough,” he adds.He says he has three children and wife at home, and this small earning is not enough to meet the daily necessities.“I pay Rs 30 as rent per day for the rickshaw, which comes out to be Rs 900 per month. It is better to switch to some other work. I did receive free ration supply twice, but it was not enough to support a family of five,” he rued.His two sons aged 16 and 14 had been working at a printing press and a furniture shop to support the family. His third son is a student of class III. He recalled that he used to earn nearly Rs 400 a day before the lockdown was imposed.“Panic-stricken people are not coming out of their houses and have restricted their movement. I don’t expect the situation of rickshaw pullers to improve anytime soon,” he rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crisis-of-survival-for-this-rickshaw-puller-92610
01-06-2020||---||Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust donates PPE kits, masks, sanitisers||Amritsar, June 1 SP Singh Oberoi, managing trustee, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, on Sunday donated PPE kits, surgical masks, infrared thermometers and sanitisers to the Civil Surgeon’s Office here. In the presence of Cabinet Minister OP Soni and MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Oberoi said in order to deal with the situation caused by the Covid-19, he had earmarked a budget of Rs20 crore to provide necessary equipment to protect the health of frontline workers, including administration officials and police personnel,  at medical colleges, government hospitals and airport authorities.    Apart from providing dry rations to 50,000 families monthly, several other essential services are being provided to the economically weaker section of society. He said on the request of the Civil Surgeon’s office, 400 PPE kits, 100 masks (N95), eight infrared thermometers, 75 liters of various sanitisers, 4,000 triple layer surgical masks, 1,000 gloves and three sanitiser stands were donated on Sunday.  Cabinet Minister OP Soni and MP Gurjit Singh Aujla thanked SPS Oberoi on behalf of the Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhala-charitable-trust-donates-ppe-kits-masks-sanitisers-92611
01-06-2020||Amritsar||55-yr-old found killed in Attari||Webinar on cyber securityAmritsar: A webinar titled ‘Cyberdemic’ was conducted by Mount Litera Zee School on Sunday. Rakshit Tandon, a cyber security expert, in his address as a part of series ‘The Caucus: Lockdown or Knockdown’, urged the audience to ensure cyber security and protect themselves and their children from the ravages of the excessive use of the Internet. Held under the tutelage of Manjot Dhillon, director of the school, the webinar, which witnessed participation of more than 500 people from members of the school management, staff, students and their parents, dealt with the increased exposure of children to online activities during the lockdown and the emergence of adverse cyber psychology, the increasing threat to their cyber security due to lack of awareness of cyber laws and the need to acquaint them with cyber ethics. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-yr-old-found-killed-in-attari-92613
01-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Gang of bike lifters busted, 2 arrested||Tarn Taran, May 31A team of the local CIA staff, led by Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh, busted a gang of vehicle lifters from Thakarpur village here on Saturday. Two of the gang members were arrested and five stolen bikes seized following their interrogation.The gang was involved in many incidents of bike theft and taking away vehicles at gunpoint in the area.The police officer said here on Sunday that the arrested members were identified as Kanwalpreet Singh and Harpreet Singh while the absconding members were identified as Dharampreet Singh Dhanma, Harman Singh, Sukhpal Singh, Dilraj Singh, Joban and Amritpal Singh, all residents of Cheema Kalan village here.The police officer said the gang members were planning to commit some crime at Thakarpur village when the police arrested two miscreants during a raid but others absconded.They were also involved in incidents of snatching and vehicle theft. The police were conducting raids to nab the absconding accused, said the police. A case under Section 379 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered by the Patti Sadar police, said the police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-bike-lifters-busted-2-arrested-92615
01-06-2020||Amritsar||Mystery shrouds death of woman||Mystery shrouds the death of a woman, who was allegedly found murdered at Arjanmanga village falling under the Mehta police station here on Saturday.However, her brother had accused her husband for the murder while alleging that he had illicit relations with a woman and the victim, identified as Daljit Kaur (52), used to object to this. Following the statement of the victim’s brother Gurmukh Singh, the police have registered a murder and criminal conspiracy case against his husband.Besides her husband Palwinder Singh, the police have booked Jatinder Singh, his wife Sandeep Kaur, Sarabjit Kaur, Paramjit Kaur, all residents of Arjanmanga village.Gurmukh said around 10 days ago, his sister had a quarrel with Palwinder and she asked him to stop meeting Paramjit. He alleged the accused beat her and throw her out of the house. He said relatives of both sides gathered and a compromise was made and Daljit was sent back to her husband’s house. He alleged that on Saturday, the accused hatched a conspiracy and killed his sister. He said the victim had strangulation marks on her neck and chin.Satpal Singh, SHO, Mehta police station, said the body was taken into custody and sent for postmortem. The accused were yet to be arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mystery-shrouds-death-of-woman-92617
01-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covid-19 shatters her dreams for better future in Australia||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 31Her plans to fly to Australia for a better future came to a standstill unexpectedly with countries all over the world imposing restrictions on international travel in order to contain the spread of Covid-19.Manpreet Kaur, who has done a master’s degree in nursing, was all set to pursue her bridging course in nursing, ‘EPIQN-RN’, in a Perth institute from March 19. The course could have opened doors of a well-paid nursing job and the subsequent permanent residency in Australia for her.Manpreet said, “More importantly, it could have given my mother and me an opportunity to be with my brothers in Australia. My mother was to leave for Australia with me, but now the dream has been shattered.”For once, she thought that she had all figured it out. “I was so close to realising my dream and suddenly everything has come to a halt,” she added.While the institute asked international students to wait till Australia opens its borders, it had started the course for local students. “I had received an email asking me to wait for some time. Now, I do not know if I will be allowed to join the course in the coming days,” she said.Her biggest fear now is that her score of OET, an English language test for healthcare professionals, will expire in August and she does not know if she will have to take the test again or will be eligible to join the course later with her current test score.“For now, everything is uncertain and obscure. I hope the future will be bright and clear,” she said. Manpreet said life of many students aspiring to study abroad has stuck after the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-shatters-her-dreams-for-better-future-in-australia-92619
01-06-2020||WHAT CAN BE DONE TO MITIGATE THE WOES OF MIGRANT WORKERS?||Arrange more trains for their safe return||Treat them in a dignified wayIt's painful to watch men, women, tiny tots and elderly people venturing out on foot, cycles, rickshaws, in asphyxiating containers and cement mixers to their far-off home states without having any food or eatables to eat during their arduous journey. The government is wholly responsible for their plight. We followed the European model of lockdown to contain the virus without giving a second thought to the consequences it could have on poor people and daily wagers. Much damage has already been done. We have a crisis of monstrous magnitude staring at us. Still, we can do a lot to restore the confidence and restore the faith of migrant workers. First and foremost, they need to be treated in a dignified way. Standing for hours under the sizzling sun for medical check-up and then at railway stations to board a train is strenuous and tiresome. The administration must make sure that they wait for their turns in well-ventilated waiting rooms and drinking water and refreshments are made available to them during the arduous wait. They are the real nation builders. We have to be sensitive towards them and try to mitigate their woes.Rajiv SharmaSet up shelter homes at colleges, varsitiesFeeling betrayed and cheated, most of the jobless and penniless migrants are left with no choice but to leave for their home states. Local administrations have also failed in making proper arrangements for their transportation to home. The Centre should notify all universities/colleges with hostel facilities as shelter homes for migrants till their departure. To mitigate their sufferings, medical screening, physical documentation and ticketing should be arranged at these temporary shelter homes. District Transport Departments should ferry migrants to makeshift centres for their onward journey. A nodal officer must be appointed at the state headquarters to fulfil all needs of migrants to prevent their exodus. A 24-hour help desk should be formed to process the death and accidental claims of migrants on priority.Anil VinayakDeposit cash in migrants’ accountsHad employers assured their workers of taking care of their all needs immediately after the first lockdown, they would not have left for their homes in other states. A previous experience of the 2008 economic downturn showed that those industries that retained their workers were quicker to recover. Most migrant workers send money to their family members living in other states. Owing to the loss of work or job, how will these migrants feed their dependants? So, returning to their home states is the only option available to them. They know very well that they are being provided food, lodging and other facilities only on a temporary basis. The government must deposit some cash into their accounts so that all migrant labourers and their families can survive this global crisis.Amarjit KalsiDon't force them to pay rentState governments have miserably failed to check mass exodus of migrants to their home states triggered by the lockdown. At least, the government should arrange transport for them to reach their home towns safely. Those who are willing to stay back should be provided means of subsistence till the time the lockdown is in force. The landlords should not force them to pay rent for a certain period of time. A sense of belongingness should be created so that migrants do not feel isolated. They should not be coerced to go or stay back. They should be allowed to act according to their own free will. The need of the hour is to treat them with sympathy. The Centre has initiated several measures to alleviate the lot of the migrants but so far they have turned out to be futile and directionless. They should not be left to fend for themselves.Tarsem S BumrahPly more trains for themThe lockdown has affected everyone in one way or the other, but migrant workers are the worst-hit. The decision to send them to their home was taken too late. Moreover, government officials should collect data of migrants from all the cities like their name, address, contact information and their occupation, etc. Also, state governments should work in tandem with the railways to ensure the plying of a large number of trains in a day to the states, such as UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, etc. An adequate amount of food, water and a safe shelter should be arranged for those whose names are included in the waiting list. Vulnerable groups such as pregnant women, children, elderly people should be sent to their native places on a priority basis. No worker should be forced to stay. However, if anyone is willing to stay as factories are reopening, owners should offer them accommodation, food and good salary. Cooperation and communication between states are important so that necessary arrangements can be made by those states to which migrant workers are returning. Everyone deserves to be with their loved ones in these difficult times, so every possible step should be taken to make their journey safe and hassle-free.Anureet BalProtect their jobs in hour of crisisThe lockdown was announced suddenly and affected migrant workers the most. Some of the measures that can be taken to mitigate their woes are: provide them with food and other essential items to make their stay comfortable at places they are at present staying in, run special trains for those who are walking to their home on foot and take action against employers who fire workers during these times of crisis.IzleenCompensate migrants for loss of wagesBefore finding a solution to the problems of migrant labourers, let us discuss the reasons behind their pains. First, the Central Government did not have a data on migrant labourers residing in different parts of the country. Second, public representatives, such as MLCs, MLAs or MPs, are aware that migrant labourers are not voters in their constituencies and therefore, they haven't come forward to mitigate their sufferings. The task of rehabilitating migrants must be carried out by the Centre and state governments. The labourers should be compensated for loss of wages due to the lockdown.Naresh JoharGive minimum wages, medical facilitiesBe it a big mansion or a slum, home is where the heart is. The sudden announcement of the nationwide lockdown has left several migrant labourers devastated. Rendered jobless, the only option they had was to go back home. However, they were denied this right. They took the suicidal step to go to their home states, some as far as 2,000 km, on foot. Their plight depicts the inhumane attitude of the authorities towards workers who make a significant contribution to the Indian economy. Their return has halted economic activity in the country. The Shramik Special trains will neither wipe away their tears nor benefit the economy. The government must fix minimum wages for the workers so that even in adverse situations, they are paid a fixed income. This income assurance will enable them to financially support their families. In addition, free medical facilities must be provided to them by states they are residing in as the labour class is more vulnerable to health hazards.Gulshakh KaurTake care of their urgent needsLittle do we think about the concerns of migrant labourers who play an active and strong role in our economic growth. Our top leadership, led by the Prime Minister, did not plan anything before announcing the lockdown overnight, especially how the migrant labourers will manage during the shutdown and what if they want to return home? As a result, chaos prevails and its dust will not settle soon. We can’t forget the many deaths caused by the chaos. However, it is never too late to act. The government must put the PM-CARES Fund to use. Many Bollywood celebrities have contributed to it generously. The states should also pitch in and a plan must be formulated to reach needy persons during the crisis. We must begin by taking care of health and other basic and urgent needs of the migrant labourers. The employers who have turned their back on workers should be encouraged to help them. Ideas given by several IAS and PCS officers should also be considered to devise creative solutions.Rameshinder Singh SandhuQUESTIONThe MHA has announced the opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship in Lockdown 5.0. Do you think it is wise to open these places of high footfall at a time when Covid positive cases are on the rise?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 4).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrange-more-trains-for-their-safe-return-92620
