01-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Chaos, concrete jungle & distinct — the story of Mall Road||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30The Mall Road, a famed British era locality, today dons a completely different look and is enveloped in a rather chaotic atmosphere. Once a popular residential area, especially for gentry, it has now developed into an upscale shopping centre with several malls and leading brands opening their outlets.Built nearly 130 years ago by the British after the annexation of Punjab, it was known for its shady trees, sylvan natural surroundings and resonates with history as ancestral house of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw is also located here. RL Bhatia, former Governor of Kerala and Bihar, too, resides here.The British had drafted the rule at the time that no residential unit less than 2,000 sq ft can be constructed on the stretch, dotting with trees on either sides of the road. Its intrinsic beauty lay in incomparable infrastructure provided in shape of wide footpath with slopes at each turn and service lanes.My family moved here during 1966-67. At that time, the stretch was popular for its green verdant beauty, serene environment, birds chirping and reminding dwellers and passers-by of the replicated calmness of hilly areas. The blemishing of the road’s beauty was deliberate. Blatant violations of the municipal rules and regulations have encouraged residents. —Piara Lal SethHowever, the times have had a dramatic impact turning it into a concrete jungle over the years. Now, only high-rising hotels, hospitals, restaurants, besides commercial complexes and countless kiosks can be spotted.Piara Lal Seth, a resident and also a leader of the business community, recalls that his family moved here during 1966-67. “At that time the stretch was popular for its green verdant beauty, serene environment, birds singing and reminding dwellers and passers-by of the replicated calmness of hilly areas.”My late father Gajanand Dalmia had procured 1,650 sq yard plot in 1966 at a price of Rs25 per sq yard. Time never remains the same. So, it is wise to change and adapt to its new necessities. Since a large number of shopping malls and other commercial activities have happened we need to beautify these at the same magnitude as overseas. —Kamal Dalmia, Of Dalmia Charitable TrustThe service lane was gobbled up in the frenzy of commercialisation. Many hospitals were set up followed by a passport office, Suvidha centre and other government offices which added to the traffic and more parking spaces was required. As a result, service lanes were flattened and turned into parking lots.Interestingly, the fact that mansions of the Police Commissioners and Municipal Corporation’s top brass were on the said road, such activities continued to take place. Seth adds: “The blemishing of the road’s beauty was deliberate. Blatant violations of the municipal rules and regulations have encouraged the residents. Instead of raising voice against such irregularities, more and more people are encroaching upon government land.”As if this was not enough, a corridor for the BRTS was laid right in the middle ending its heritage character altogether. Kamal Dalmia, who is looking after the Dalmia Charitable Trust, situated here, recounts that his departed father Gajanand Dalmia had procured 1650 sq yard plot in 1966 at a price of Rs25 per sq yard. “Time never remains the same. So, it is wise to change and adapt to its new necessities. Since a large number of shopping malls and other commercial activities have happened we need to beautify these at the same magnitude as overseas.”‘The British had set up the Mall for their comfort’Conservationist Balvinder Singh, former head of the GNDU’s Sri Guru Ramdas School of Planning, said the British had set up the Mall for their comfort. Due to the change of land use (conversion of residential to commercial) the Mall Road lost its historic serene character. It used to have service lane on both sides. Another major change came with the introduction of the BRTS. “I had an opportunity to visit the Mall road of Lahore in Pakistan and found that they have not disturbed its character till date. It’s almost same…as was at the time of foreign invaders.” Although the Mall road here has had drastic changes but it is suggested that the change of land use be stopped along with the walled area if we want our city to be among World Heritage List of the UNESCO. Also, the proposal to set up a heritage cell never fructified in the holy city even as umpteen number of heritage structures are housed here. Shimla is the only city in this region having Heritage Advisory Committee (HAC) and Singh is one of its two members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chaos-concrete-jungle-distinct-%E2%80%94-the-story-of-mall-road-149103
01-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Positive cases see biggest surge in September||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30With an addition of 5,939 positive cases in the month of September, the count of positive patients in the district has increased to 9,981. The district, till August end, had reported only 4,042 positive cases. The 146 per cent surge in positive cases during the last 30 days has resulted in approximately 123 per cent increase in casualties as well.With an addition of 203 deaths in September, the toll in the district reached 368. Till the end of August, the district had reported 165 deaths only. However, the mortality rate in the district has come down to 3.68 at present, which hovered around a maximum of 4.90 per cent.The last week of September, as compared to the remaining period, has shown a decline in the number of deaths. The district health authorities claimed that increase in testing has helped as timely detection helps in early medical intervention.The nodal officer for Covid-19 control and additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal said the testing capacity would be enhanced to 5,000 per day from existing 3,000. He said the cooperation of general public had helped in checking the increase of positive cases and casualties.Talking about the efforts being made for the treatment of Covid patients, he said an oxygen storage tank at GMC with a capacity to store 6 tonnes of oxygen would be made operational from the next week. “It is being done so that no shortage of oxygen is faced. The district hospitals have ample number of beds to cater to the needs of Covid-19 patients,” he said.Admn all praise for GNDH staffersThe district administration has acknowledged the services of two Guru Nanak Dev Hospital staffers — Dr Gagandeep Kaur, assistant professor, and Dr Arshdeep Singh, junior resident, for serving patients with missionary zeal. In an appeal to the general public Himanshu Aggarwal said people should thank them on behalf of humanity, if they happen to come in contact with them.2 die, 164 test +ve in districtWith two more deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll in district reached 365. The district also reported 164 new cases. The new cases include 90 influenza-like illness cases and 74 contacts of positive cases. The deceased include Pardeep Kumar (55) of Guru Amardas Avenue and Harinder Singh (64) of New Partap Nagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/positive-cases-see-biggest-surge-in-september-149104
01-10-2020||---||Railways cancels four trains, short-terminates many||Amritsar, September 30With the agitation against the farm laws at Devidas Pura village here entering its seventh day on Wednesday, the Railways cancelled four trains and short-terminated many trains at the Ambala railway station.Famers protesting at the village, which is situated on the city’s outskirts, burned packets of SIM cards of Reliance Jio to protest against the entry of corporate in crop procurement. The protest has been continuing since the introduction of the three Bills in Parliament.Pairs of trains including the Amritsar-Haridwar express (02053/54) and New Delhi-Jammu Tawi Rajdhani express (02425/02426) were cancelled on Wednesday.The Mumbai Central-Amritsar express (02903) and Amritsar-Mumbai Central express (02904) short- originated from Ambala and remained partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala on Wednesday.Terminus express (02926) will short originate from Ambala on October 1 and will remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala.The Amritsar-Nanded Exp (02716) commencing on October 01 will short-originate from New Delhi and will remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi. The Jaynagar-Amritsar Exp (04649) short-terminated at the Ambala railway station on Wednesday. Consequently, the Amritsar-Jaynagar Exp(04650) short-originated from Ambala and remained partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala on Wednesday.The Jaynagar-Amritsar Exp (04651) short-terminated at Delhi on Wednesday. Consequently, the Amritsar-Jaynagar Exp (04652) short-originated from Delhi on Wednesday and remained partially cancelled between Delhi-Amritsar-Delhi. The Kolkata-Amritsar Exp (02357) short-terminated at Ambala. The Amritsar-Kolkata Exp will short-originate from Ambala on October 01.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railways-cancels-four-trains-short-terminates-many-149105
01-10-2020||GS Paul||Pak couple leaves with happy memories of first child born in India||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30A Pakistan-based couple could not have asked for more! They were blessed with a child in India during the Covid-19 lockdown. Along with them, 88 Pakistani nationals and 127 Jammu and Kashmiri students crossed the Attari-Wagah border from here on Wednesday.Naresh Chawla and his wife Ashi Chawla hail from Sindh in Pakistan. They were overwhelmed that their only son was born in Indore, India, on May 18.“But due to the lockdown restrictions, we got stranded here and are happy to go back home now. We were under treatment in Indore for the past 16 months, which was successfully executed and we were gifted with a baby boy. Since he was born during the corona period, our ‘guruji’ named him Avtar Chawla,” he said.While expressing gratitude towards the Indian government for allowing them to overstay, an equally excited Ashi Chawla said she got the best of treatment in India.Meanwhile, around 127 J&K residents, who were pursuing professional courses, too, left for Pakistan.Kashmir resident Masina Mustafa, Atia Malik and Haida said they were studying in Lahore and had come home during the lockdown. The academic session for students commenced since September 15.Another Pakistan resident Kailash Kumar said he belonged to Sindh province and had come with his family to visit relatives at Indore nine months ago, but got stranded due to the lockdown. Protocol officer at Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, Arun Sharma said clearance for approximately 315 students from Jammu and Kashmir and 100 Pakistan nationals was granted on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pak-couple-leaves-with-happy-memories-of-first-child-born-in-india-149106
01-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Past had bitter moments, but future is sweet for Avtar Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 30Working at a cloth showroom for 20 years, Avtar Singh had never imagined that his owner one day would wrap up his services in a bitter fashion. But it happened; the farewell was a forgettable one. As pandemic-triggered lockdown gobbled jobs of many a workmen, so was his fate – the owner showed him the door, without budging an inch.“It was quite depressing and I didn’t have any alternative source of income. The showroom owner lay off a large number of workers during the lockdown. They didn’t even recognise our services and contribution to their business and left us in the time of crisis,” Avtar laments.But it was only a matter of time before fortunes straightened out. Since Ram Singh, his nana ji, is a well-known face as a sweet maker in Gilwali area known for his delicious delicacies such as jalebis and other traditional sweets. On his advice, Avtar initiated his own sweet shop in back market of New Amritsar.“My family is very supportive, especially my nana ji. He asked me to start a business of sweet and shakes and even joined hands in the process. I know preparation of all sweets but he is a master. He works only for the marriages and fairs,” he says. Now, he is reminded of his time at the fairs with the elderly. “During my childhood, we would visit all melas, where he used to vend jalebis,” he reminisces.Presently, both have full time job and are managing the sweet shop for last one month. “I used to hesitate to start my own business as it needs more time than job. But now I realise that private job is very insecure. I got good response in first month. We are providing fresh items with proper hygiene,” Avatar tells. They prepare all kind of sweets but their jalebis and samosas are favourites with the people. And home delivery is on the cards as well. “There is no other sweet shop in the area. Moreover, we are focusing on quality and hygiene. The feedback is good. We will start home delivery soon,” the sweet maker shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/past-had-bitter-moments-but-future-is-sweet-for-avtar-singh-149107
01-10-2020||---||Implement ‘Walled City Act’ to protect heritage, urges NGO||Amritsar, September 30The Sikh intelligentsia on Wednesday demanded a comprehensive plan on the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Teg Bahadur in the holy city, which is his birthplace.The Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) urged the Central Government to set up All India Institute of Medical Sciences in the city. Members of the AVM said this would be an appropriate tribute to Guru Teg Bahadur.Kulwant Singh Ankhi of the AVM said Guru Teg Bahadur was born at Guru Ke Mehal in the walled city on April 1, 1621.“The heritage of the holy city is being destroyed by demolishing old structures. To save old buildings, ‘Walled City Act’, should be implemented on the pattern of ‘Lahore Walled City Act’,” he said.All the streets and bazaars leading to Guru Ke Mehal gurdwara should be developed as Smart Bazaars under the Smart City project. Roads starting from the ISBT and Ram Talai Chowk, Sheran Wala Gate and Mahan Singh Gate leading to the Golden Temple should also be developed under the Smart City project. The state must establish an information technology centre in Amritsar as tribute to Guru Guru Teg Bahadur. Manmohan Singh Brar, chief of the AVM, said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and the state government should set up a museum depicting teachings, principles and history of Guru Teg Bahadur and philosophy of Guru Granth Sahib.The state Language Department, National Book Trust of India and the SGPC should publish literature to create awareness among the international community, especially youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/implement-walled-city-act-to-protect-heritage-urges-ngo-149108
01-10-2020||---||Mayor tells firm to instal GPS on garbage collection vehicles||Amritsar, September 30Municipal Corporation (MC) asked solid waste management company AVERDA to instal GPS trackers on garbage lifting vehicles and set up GPS control room for good and timely service.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal held a meeting with Amit Bhajpai and Manoj Gautam, managers of AVERDA company and discussed the matter.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said there was still some problem in many areas regarding the lifting of garbage. Following this, he told the company officials to ensure that there was no complaint about any kind of lifting of garbage in the city.The Mayor gave instructions to the company officials to instal GPS on every vehicle and set a control room to track these vehicles. At the same time, he said a complaint number regarding the dumping of debris and green waste should be issued separately, so that people do not face any difficulty in lodging their complaint.It was revealed in the meeting that the MC was facing problem in lifting garbage from south constituencies. Now, AVERDA will provide 50 vehicles for the lifting of garbage to solve the issue.The MC also flashed a toll-free number for the lifting of garbage i.e. 1800-121-4662. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu also instructed to issue challans for littering. He said there would be no compromise with those littering the city and strict action would be taken against defaulters.“Various efforts are being made by the MC to improve the ranking in nationwide cleanliness survey. The garbage collection vehicles are also required to update. It will benefit and improve the service,” the Mayor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-tells-firm-to-instal-gps-on-garbage-collection-vehicles-149109
01-10-2020||---||Amid zero traffic, Ferozepur Division of Rlys upgrades scissors crossover||Amritsar, September 30The Ferozepur Division of the Railways has turned the crisis into opportunity by completing a safety upgrade during the rail blockade by farmers.Taking benefit of the zero rail traffic, members of the Civil and Signal Engineers wing, in collaboration with the officials of the workshop of the Ferozepur Division, upgraded a scissors crossover (a diamond crossing track assembly on wooden sleepers layout) to pre-stressed concrete (PSC) sleepers layout with complete renewal at the Amritsar railway station, said Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager.Aggarwal said a highly engineered and high-precision task made the elimination of a safety bottleneck possible, the work which had been pending for years. The quintessential upgrade was planned to provide the PSC with a special tailor-made twin set sleepers from the Railways’ own sleeper manufacturing plant at Khalispur in Varanasi.Being a daunting task, the renewal required long preparations and traffic closure for five days. As the trains were cancelled due to the ongoing farmers’ rail blockade, works was completed in four blocks of five hours each for four days, from September 25 to September 28.A team of engineers machined the special kind of steel structure for the diamond-shape portion. It was followed by a precision drilling of holes and installation over a prototype near its site, then matching assembly and fitting work was completed in a few days. “The scissor crossover works like a king point of yard to help in most train movements of the Amritsar yard,” Aggarwal said.The upgrade was unthinkable of amid usual train traffic. Only unfavourable traffic conditions would have afforded an opportunity to complete it without affecting travel of passengers.The Divisional Railway Manager congratulated the team of engineers for accomplishing the long-pending safety upgrade on time. The new tracks of the layouts would make train movements in the Amritsar yard smoother and safer and were like a feather in cap of the Ferozepur Division, said Aggarwal. The General Manager of the Northern Railway also appreciated the Division and over the achievement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-zero-traffic-ferozepur-division-of-rlys-upgrades-scissors-crossover-149110
01-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Magazine of Nishan-e-Sikhi International School released||The magazine of Nishan-e-Sikhi International School, Khadur Sahib, 25-km from here, was released today. International environmentalist and Head of the Kar Sewa sect Baba Sewa Singh released the magazine.Baba Sewa Singh said the magazine would be helpful to develop the writing skill and intellect of the students.Principal Kanwaljit Singh, principal Amarjit Singh, principal Beerinder Singh, principal Simirpreet Kaur, Avtar Singh Bajwa, secretary, Nishan-e-Sikhi Trust and Baba Baldev Singh also spoke on the occasion. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/magazine-of-nishan-e-sikhi-international-school-released-149111
01-10-2020||Amritsar||Workshop on designing ends||Prof Saroj Sharma of the University School of Education, GGS, Indraprastha University, New Delhi, presided over the valedictory session. She shared various provisions and initiatives of NEP-2020 for technology use and its integration for making teaching, learning and evaluation effective.Earlier, while inaugurating the workshop Parameswaran N, advisor, Ministry of Education (MoE), New Delhi, who is looking after online education (SWAYAM), elaborated on the progressive higher education scenario and exponential increment in the enrolment of learners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-on-designing-ends-149112
01-10-2020||The hooch tragedy that had claimed 125 lives in the district two months ago has forced the district administration to crackdown heavily on the element distilling illicit liquor in the Mand area. The area has no permanent roads and covered with elephant grass. Moreover||Production of illicit liquor goes unabated in district||23 villages to be developed under Adarsh Gram YojanaAs many as 23 villages have been chosen to be developed under the Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojna. Gandiwind village will be developed in the very first phase under the scheme. There are nine villages of Tarn Taran block, six Khadoor Sahib, five Bhikhiwind, two Gandiwind and one village of Chohla Sahib block selected under the scheme. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said each of the villages had a population of 500, while half of them are from the scheduled caste community. These villages will get the facility of drinking water, sanitation, pakka roads, 24-hour domestic power supply, building for anganwari centre. The data of 20 of the 23 villages had been uploaded on the portal.Tarn Taran-Ferozepur rail line hanging fire for 18 yearsHeera Singh, a social activist of the area, has raised an 18-year-old issue of laying the railway line linking Tarn Taran and Ferozepur. Heera Singh said earlier the issue was raised by late CPM leader Harkishan Singh Surjit during a public gathering in Tarn Taran on February 11, 2003. He said due to his cordial relations with the then Union Railway Minister Lalu Praahsd Yadav, Surjit Singh discussed the issue with him. The Ministry of Railways started the initial proceedings and assured that the project would be completed very soon. Heera Singh said Dr Manohar Singh Gill during his tenure as minister and Rajya Sabha member in Dr Manmohan Singh's Cabinet raised the issue with the authorities concerned but yielded no results. The activist said the linking of 24-km line would shorten the Tarn Taran-Ferozepur distance by 71 km. He said Ferozpore had already been linked with road but the rail-link too was necessary in the era of speedy world specially for business purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/production-of-illicit-liquor-goes-unabated-in-district-149115
01-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Nutrition Month concludes||Tarn Taran, September 30The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, concluded National Nutrition Month at its campus and different villages in the district on Wednesday. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Deputy Director (Training), said that anganwadi supervisor, anganwadi workers, farm women and farmers interacted and highlighted the significance of adequate nutritional status in women and children and emphasised on the use of biofortified wheat and rice for household consumption. Harminder Singh Gill, MLA, also visited the KVK and planted trees for the better environment and emphasized on the role of plants/trees in human life. Dr Piverjeet Kaur Dhillon, scientist; Baljeet Kaur, Child Development Project Officer, Patti, too addressed the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nutrition-month-concludes-149116
01-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran SSP interacts with retired cops||SSP Dhruman H Nimbale presided over a function organised on the retirement of 15 policemen here on Wednesday and learnt about their experience regarding the period of militancy.The district police chief appreciated the services of the retired policemen and prayed for their long and happy life. The Police Department in a press release said the retired employees were Jasbir Singh, Balbir Singh and Satnam Singh of the Inspector rank; Pooran Singh, Rajwant Kaur, Santokh Singh, Amrik Singh, Sahib Singh and Manmohan Singh of the Sub Inspector rank; and Parkash Singh, Sarabjit Kaur, Jasbir Singh, Bhupinder Singh and Ashok Kumar and cook Bua Das.The SSP appealed to the retired employees to be active in the common cause of society. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-ssp-interacts-with-retired-cops-149117
01-10-2020||---||Agitating farmers burn Jio SIM cards||Amritsar, September 30Agitating farmers burnt Jio SIMs here today. Blocking the rail track near Devi Daspura village, they urged “dhadis” , “raagis”, “kavishries” and preachers to sensitise people against the corporate culture.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said they would boycott products of multi-million business houses trying to invade the farm sector. “First, they will try to lure us with good offers, and then render us helpless. We have approached every household in remote areas, asking residents to oppose the move,” he said. In Amritsar and other mandis, 1509 basmati was yet to be procured. He said the situation would go from bad to worse once the farm Acts came into force.“The NDA government said private companies would provide us seed, urea and pesticides, which they already have been doing. The companies are robbing the farmers,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agitating-farmers-burn-jio-sim-cards-149069
