02-01-2021||---||Meet the ‘one-man NGO’ who lives for others||Amritsar, January 1Jaswant Singh, a resident of Inderpuri, doesn’t have any registered organisation for social work but dwellers of nearby financially deprived localities know him as someone who is available 24x7 for his assistance. Most of the people visit him when authorities won’t help them.“I have no particular field to work. I get call from public anytime for any job. Sometimes, I fight to get rid of swine menace in the area. Several people call me when sewerage line chokes and no officials of the MC hear them. I even fight for the sanitation in slums. I make rounds of the police station, DC and social welfare department office almost daily for the help of residents,” said Jaswant.He is a teacher at a brick-kiln in Dhapai village under the umbrella of National Child Labour Project (NCLP). However, he has not been getting salary for last three years and it is reportedly a common delay in these Central Governments’ projects.“I am serving the society for last several years. I don’t need any NGO to help the people. My philosophy of life is very simple: if we work for ourselves only then we are selfish. We have to do something for others. I have been doing it for long. From morning to evening, my doors are open to help anyone,” he added.Jaswant often writes letters to the officials to report the flaws and shortcomings regarding functioning of government offices. He meets officials, tries to convince them to finish off the pending work. Sometimes, when things go out of reach, he demonstrates against the office and is also pushed to take help of politically influential persons to get the work done.“I visit slums and find school dropouts or children who are stripped of the opportunity. Then we have to make efforts for admissions. When school denies it, we fight for the child. It is one of the major tasks, which I do with help of my wife,” he told. He distributed 10,000 masks with the help of some organisations after the pandemic and keeps a vigil on the distribution of government aid released for the needy persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/meet-the-one-man-ngo-who-lives-for-others-192582
02-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja---||Septuagenarian’s love for folk songs lingers on||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, January 1  It took septuagenarian Gurmeet Kaur Bhullar from Patti nearly three years to come up with a book on folk songs of Punjab. Titled ‘Chiriyan da chamba’, it is her first book, which she had been dreaming about for almost a decade. Retired as a PTI teacher in 2004 from Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Patti, where she headed extracurricular activities, she terms this book as a dream come true.  “I had begun forgetting several folk songs that I had picked during my childhood. Considering the richness of the songs, I always felt the need of collecting them, as much as I could, and turn the collection into a book. I ensured that I include all those songs too which got missed in several other books on folk songs. When I finally saw the final draft, followed by the book, it was certainly a dream come true moment for me,” said Bhullar (74). There were also many who approached her often to know more about these songs, which was another factor that motivated her.  She also thanks her grandchildren, Ravleen Hundal (21), Jaideep Pannu (12) and Ridhiman Pannu (11), whose illustrations have been used in the book to depict various scenes from the rural social life. Interestingly, Hundal’s illustration is also used for the cover.  “With grandchildren around, it wasn’t always easy to find time to write the book, which is why I extensively used hours my morning hours to write the book, shared Bhullar, adding that she also has plans to start penning down another book, which will be on children’s traditional tales.” To keep youngsters connected to their roots, she opined that educational institutions, beginning with schools will have to play an active role.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/septuagenarians-love-for-folk-songs-lingers-on-192583
02-01-2021||---||Now, SGPC staff to don traditional attire||Amritsar, January 1Ushering in the New Year, the SGPC staff will be seen dressed in a traditional look. In what could be termed as going ‘back to basics’, the staff will also be seen imparting knowledge to visitors at the Golden Temple. After taking over the reins of the SGPC, Bibi Jagir Kaur has embarked on a change-over of its staff, in sync with the Sikh ethos.This change will be reflected in their appearance. The kurta-pyjama will replace coat-pent while the staff will keep an open flowing beard. Besides, the 225-member staff will also be trained in etiquettes, humility and Sikh history.The entire office staff, which otherwise used to wear western clothes, has been strictly asked to don traditional attire such as kurta-pyjama and have SGPC identity cards around their necks. Similarly, they have been asked to grow beard.Mukhtar Singh, manager of the Golden Temple, said the training was imparted to them by the officials of the SGPC’s Information Department. He announced that appreciation letters will be given to those who will achieve excellence during the course.The course is likely to be concluded in the second week of this month. They are being trained to courteously handle tourists and provide them factual knowledge of the Sikh history and Gurus, during their stay in the Golden Temple.The staff will also be trained in Punjabi, Hindi and English. They will also be in a specific dress so that they could be easily distinguished in the public. They will be seen in blue-coloured gown over kurta-pyjama during the summers. During winters, black long coat will replace the blue gown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-sgpc-staff-to-don-traditional-attire-192584
02-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||Beating the blues with terrace gardening||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 1Government school teacher Manpreet Singh Sandhu’s love for plants began when he was entrusted with the job of plantation in the government school campus located at Harad Khurd village just close to the Indo-Pak border, around a decade ago.He, along with his staff members and students of the school, developed three parks in the school. “It was a proud moment for us that the pictures of our government school remained on the department’s website for over five years,” Sandhu said.As his love for plants grew, he turned his terrace into a beautiful garden having not only floral plants but also medicinal plants and vegetables. Belonging to a teachers’ family, his wife Kuljit Kaur, also a government teacher also helped him in the cause.“We use grow bags most of the times. It is conducive for terrace garden which not only helps in healthy growth of the plants but also puts less weight on the rooftop,” he said. He has been taking guidance from different gardening channels on the social media.“I have grown lemons, guava, lemon grass, tulsi, aloevera, insulin plant besides vegetables such as coriander, fenugreek leaves, spinach, two kinds of brinjals on my rooftop,” he said, adding that his kids also join hands with them.His terrace rooftop is decked up with beautiful flowers and pots which motivated many persons in his circle, who requested his help for turning their terrace into garden.Yes, growing plants on the terrace has its challenges. “The major challenge is to make a light weight soil so that it does not become heavy. It should also be healthy for the plants,” he said.Sandhu grows vegetables in an organic manner as no pesticides of fungicides are used in these plants. “We take natural measures for dealing with pests and fungi that harm plants,” he said.“During lockdown, working on my rooftop garden helped me remain stress free,” he pointed out. I don’t have hired any gardener for upkeep of my terrace garden. I do all the physical work in maintaining my garden, he added. We make compost and liquid fertilizers from fruit peels etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beating-the-blues-with-terrace-gardening-192585
02-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||Newborn’s half-eaten body found||Tarn Taran, January 1 The local Sadar police recovered the body of a newborn baby girl which was half-eaten by animals from bushes on the outskirts of Kamalpur village here on Thursday. ASI Amarjit Singh, who is the investigating officer (IO) of the case, said Jaswant Singh, a resident, informed the police about it.  The ASI said according to the evidence collected from the spot it was learnt that the body might be thrown soon after the birth, wrapped in a piece of cloth. Stray animals might have eaten the nose and the mouth. The ASI said the body had been kept at the local Civil Hospital for 72 hours for identification.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/newborns-half-eaten-body-found-192586
02-01-2021||---||Phulkari volunteers launch drive to adopt street dogs||Amritsar, January 1 PhulkariCAN, the philanthropic wing of Phulkari WOA, on Thursday conducted an Indies adoption drive in collaboration with The People For Animals, Amritsar, here. Inviting passers-by and interested people to adopt Indies, a dog breed native to India and mostly living as stray street dogs, volunteers from Phulkari also facilitated documentation work required for adoption. The drive was part of a larger campaign by Phulkari CAN called Humanity for Animals launched in collaboration with the NGO, Oh My Dog, which works to help dogs on the streets. Phulkari president Deepa Swani said, “Our campaign aims to address the problem of stray dogs in a humane manner. We sensitised the public to their plight on the streets and the benefits of adopting stray and abandoned dogs as pets over buying pets. This would not only save them from suffering but reduce their numbers on the streets, thereby reducing the problem.” Phulkari CAN president Nidhi Sindhwani added, “We also encouraged people to co-exist with them on the streets with kindness. Citizens’ fears and misgivings about stray dogs were answered by leading animal welfare organisations and individuals to change their mindsets. We encouraged neutering as a humane solution to reducing their numbers.” Ambika Shukla, animal rights activist and sister of Maneka Gandhi, who supported the campaign, also addressed the drive. The Humanity for Animals campaign is also supported by cricketer Kapil Dev and Punjabi film actress Wamiqa Gabbi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phulkari-volunteers-launch-drive-to-adopt-street-dogs-192587
02-01-2021||Our Correspondent---||DC warns of action against government officials||Tarn Taran, January 1  A meeting between officials of the district administration and the ‘Guardians of Governance’ (GoG) has put the former in a tight spot over the indifferent attitude of government officials in addressing the problems of poor and marginalized sections of the society. DC Kulwant Singh presided over the meeting in which Col Amarjit Singh (retd) of the District Sainik Welfare Office, Major Hardeep Singh (retd), district president, GoG , Dr Amandeep Singh Saini from the statics department , Harnandan Singh, District Development and Panchayat Officer, and other officials were present. The GoG raised fingers over not solving the issues related to the poor and marginalized sections of the society despite raising them time and again in the meetings. The GoG said they had brought the issue of irregularities in the distribution of wheat and chhole (channe) by the ration depot holders in the notice of officials concerned, besides repair of veterinary hospitals in the village, delay in the payment of  MGNREGA workers, etc. The Deputy Commissioner instructed the District Food and Supply Controller to regularly check the records of depot holders. The DC warned the officials of stern action against any negligence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-warns-of-action-against-government-officials-192588
02-01-2021||---||Helping students with sensory impairments||Amritsar, January 1Over 60 participants from various institutions and different parts of India collaborated on virtual platform for knowledge sharing and assimilation with the best experts of the country during a three-day national online workshop on “Addressing Students with Sensory Impairments Single and Dual Sensory Impairment” concluded on Friday.The sole aim was to remove the learning barriers and implement teaching-learning strategies for children with sensory and multiple disabilities.Prof Saroj Sharma, chairperson, NIOS, New Delhi, in her valedictory address congratulated the team of School of Education for such capacity building endeavours for teachers, administrators and stakeholders for setting a future roadmap for an inclusive education.She shared that the definition of disability had undergone change from divyanjanas to the differently abled persons. She spoke on the challenge of inclusive education as envisaged by NEP 2020, voiced in the 2030 Millennium Development Goals and Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disability (CRPD), a UNO forum to include divyanjanas into the mainstream education. The concerns from framing of the educational policies, outreach programmes and skill development programmes for self sustainability need to be addressed. She also shared the innovative initiatives undertaken by NIOS under Pradhan Mantri schemes and sign language programme.Joseph Puthenpura, secretary-cum-coordinator, Saint Francis Home, Pathankot, inaugurated the workshop. Saint Francis Home is home to a large number of disabled students with the vision of educating and empowering the children for the main stream.Speaking on the occasion, he emphasised that the success of inclusive and equitable policy was contingent on the availability of trained special teacher educators. Compassion, commitment and love on the part of teacher educators can go a long way to accept and respect differences.He reiterated on the importance of sign language, speech therapy, voice training and vocational training, besides hygiene training. He extended gratitude towards Guru Nanak Dev University for taking the initiative in introducing higher education courses in the campus for the differently abled students.Prof Amit Kauts, project coordinator, shared the theme, objectives and schedule of the programme with the participants. Dr Deepa Sikand Kauts, head, department of education of the university emphasised the need to implement inclusive practices for the enhanced development of social and academic skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helping-students-with-sensory-impairments-192589
02-01-2021||---||66,000 LED lights installed in Amritsar city not enough for lighting?||Amritsar, January 1Even after the installation of 66,000 LED lights under the Smart City project, the installation of street lights was the major demand of most councillors during the general house meeting of Municipal Corporation held here on Thursday.Several councillors rued inadequate arrangements of street lights in their respective areas.Congress councillor Ajit Singh Bhatia said several localities in his ward needed street lights. He demanded to provide street lights in all the streets in his ward.Sandhya Sikka, leader of opposition in the House, raised a question on the non-completion of Smart City’s street light project.“Installing street lights is the basic facility and the core responsibility of a civic body. It is sad that the MC has failed to install street lights in several localities of the city. The Congress leadership has made promises to install street lights on every corner several times but no promise has been fulfilled. The installation of LED lights under the Smart City project is still incomplete. The Mayor should be answerable to the MC’s failure to provide the basic infrastructure to city residents.”Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said LED street lights were being installed under the Smart City project in the city. After the completion of the project, the MC would check the requirement of such lights. Street lights would be installed in every area of the city. I assure the public of 100 per cent installation of street lights.”In October 2019, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu launched a project to install LED street lights under the Smart City mission. He had announced to install 66,000 LED lights at a cost of Rs 34 crore. The Mayor also announced that the project would be completed within six months.It is worth mentioning here that residents face inconvenience in the absence of street lights in the night and during the foggy season. The LED lights were installed in posh localities on priority but most of the areas along the outer bypass road are badly in need of street lights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/66-000-led-lights-installed-in-amritsar-city-not-enough-for-lighting-192592
02-01-2021||Satinder singh||‘Positivity shipped him across choppy waters’||Next day Dr Rajbir Kaur, his wife, also tested positive. She was also home quarantined and the children were sent to their maternal parents. “We were quarantined at home and my father and mother were taking care of us. We took all the precautions during that period,” Satinder said.He stated that they only talked to those people who made them feel positive and good during the quarantine. His mother used to prepare 'kara' (a drink of tulsi, ginger, honey and glow plant)“We were missing our children during the lockdown but thanks to the mobile networking that I was able to spend my time productively. I have played online games with them. I ate only healthy food and took basic medicine for relief from fever. After 15 days, I felt fit. On October 17, I tested negative for virus and next day I joined my office," he added.“I found that there is nothing to panic even if one contracts the virus. We have to take care of our body well. The precautions should be followed quite religiously. One can defeat the virus with a great degree of positivity. I offered my prayers daily, which also gave me strength.” (As told to Charanjit Singh Teja)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/positivity-shipped-him-across-choppy-waters-192593
02-01-2021||---||‘AAP will form govt in 2022’||Amritsar, January 1 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will form the government in Punjab with a landslide victory in the 2022 Assembly elections. Punjab had been looted by the SAD-BJP and Congress government while in power. Now, the people of Punjab have made up their minds that only one party can take Punjab on the path of progress, and that is AAP. These views were expressed by the newly appointed AAP Punjab co-incharge Raghav Chadha during a press conference on Friday, on his first visit to the state since taking over. Chadha said that Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh had betrayed his own people.“Before the elections, the Congress had made many other promises besides waiving all the debts of the farmers, ‘Ghar-Ghar Rozgar’, eradicating drugs in four weeks, but none of them were fulfilled. Intoxicated with power, the CM forgot his people and reneged on all his promises,” said Chadha.AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann said the PM Modi-led government was not convening a session of Parliament under the guise of coronavirus in a bid to run away from answering the questions, while on the other hand BJP was gathering thousands of people. He said that Aam Aadmi Party had been strongly opposing the anti-farmers ‘black laws’ of the Centre since Day 1 and would continue to do so.Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in Punjab Legislative Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said that in 2017 elections, the people had given the responsibility of opposing to AAP, which the party had done well. “AAP will form the government in Punjab in 2022,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-will-form-govt-in-2022-192594
02-01-2021||Amritsar||Two booked for duping resident||One succumbs, 18 new casesAmritsar: The Health Department authorities reported one death due to the Covid-19 contagion in the district on Friday. With this, the toll has increased to 556. The victim has been identified as 45-year-old Sukhwinder Singh, who was a resident of Chheharta. There has not been reported any case of new strain in the district so far. Besides, the authorities reported 18 new positive cases which took the total count of infections to 14,528. The new cases include nine influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and an equal number of contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 42 patients, the recovery count has reached 13,603. At present, the district has a total of 369 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-duping-resident-192595
02-01-2021||---||Drug peddler brought on production warrant||Amritsar, January 1Two days after the seizure of 7 kg of heroin and three Chinese .30 bore calibre pistols from across the border from Dera Baba Nanak area in Gurdaspur by the BSF, the Amritsar rural police on Friday brought dismissed cop and notorious drug peddler Ranjit Singh of Modhe village on three-day production warrant.Alarmed over the seizure, many intelligence and security agencies are also grilling Ranjit Singh. He was currently lodged in Ludhiana Central jail. Following the information provided by the rural police, Ludhiana Central jail authorities also confiscated a mobile phone from his possession from there.The mobile phone was taken into custody which was being examined to establish his links with Belgium-based alleged Indian terrorist Jagdish Singh Bhura who had pushed the drugs and weapons into the Indian territory through his Pakistani links. Bhura has been a proclaimed offender in three terrorism-related cases in Punjab.Ranjit was also in contact with Simranjit Singh and Surjit Masih who are prime suspects in the drone module racket busted by the police this month. A heavy duty quadcopter was recovered from their accomplices.The police were also looking into Ranjit’s backward and forward links to expose the entire drug nexus. Ranjit had played a key role in the smuggling of the consignment seized two days ago.Ranjit was recruited as a constable in the 80th battalion of the Punjab Armed Police in 1989 and rose up to the rank of ASI. In 2011, he was nabbed by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence for smuggling 23 kg of heroin. He was dismissed from service thereafter. He had around five cases registered under the NDPS and Arms Acts against him.The police said Ranjit developed close links with Pakistan-based cross-border smugglers. Both Bhura and Ranjit Singh have been nominated in the FIR registered with the Gharinda police station here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-brought-on-production-warrant-192596
02-01-2021||Amritsar||Murder convict flees Amritsar jail||A murder convict fled the high-security Amritsar Central Jail complex after pushing a guard on duty today.Baldev Singh of Mullechak village was clearing the vegetation in the outer cordon area of the complex when the incident happened.According to sources in the department, Baldev scaled the six-foot wall in the outer cordon before fleeing the jail premises. While a search was carried out in the nearby areas, he could not be traced.Baldev was arrested and lodged in the jail in 2010. He used to regularly go out on parole.A jail official said Baldev, along with several others, was tasked with clearing the wild growth in the outer cordon area today. During the cleaning, Baldev pushed a jail guard and scaled the outer wall. “We are submitting a complaint to the police,” said the official.Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh could not be contacted for comment.In February last year, three undertrials, including a rape accused and two brothers accused of theft and dacoity, had escaped by scaling the boundary wall after making a hole in their barrack wall by removing bricks. They were later nabbed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-convict-flees-amritsar-jail-192398
