02-05-2020||---||Dental care in times of Covid||Dr HS ChawlaEver since the emergence of Covid-19 in Wuhan, China, it has spread across the world and become a global pandemic.The present situation is a relatively new infliction as not everything is known about Covid. One aspect, which is widely accepted, is that it spares no one and fast spreads through contact with oral (mouth) fluids, nasal (nose) secretions and/or eye secretions. Droplets, apart from spreading through coughing and sneezing, also fall from mouth during normal talking, which we generally ignore. Many of us may have noticed small droplets of saliva/spit dribbling out of one’s own or somebody else’s mouth. There are many such instances where such accidents, like clearing throat with slight cough, happen and are not in one’s control.Large droplets, which are visible, fall just a few feet away from us, whereas small particles, which are not seen with naked eye, float around in the air to longer distance.This is why social/physical distancing and covering mouth is important to avoid getting infected with Covid-19. Besides, spitting on road should be completely discouraged.It is also important to maintain oral hygiene. The real problem is how to keep mouth clean and free from at least bacterial infections? A cleaner and healthy mouth may be less prone to viral infections as it is well known that a healthy body is less prone to get any other infections. The bacteria lives in everyone’s oral cavity, predominantly sticking on the teeth, the top surface of the tongue and below the visible margin of the gum that touches the tooth. So, it is important to thoroughly brush teeth concomitantly using the following three methods: i) short horizontal, ii) small clock-wise & anti-clockwise, and iii) vertical strokes from gum downwards for upper teeth and gum upwards for lower teeth on both sides of the teeth, that is, cheek and tongue sides of all teeth. The tooth has two more surfaces i.e. sides in-between teeth, which remain unattended by many of us. To clean these surfaces, use dental floss and interdental brush.The main aim of tooth brushing is to reduce the number of bacteria in the mouth. First brush without toothpaste i.e dry brushing, which would dislodge bacteria settled on the teeth and gums. The bacteria gets dislodged by frictional action of bristles on the teeth. After brushing, the bacteria will float in the mouth mixed with saliva. It is natural to spit out the dislodged material. It takes about 5-8 minutes to reasonably clean the teeth if done properly. Next, brush with toothpaste for 30 seconds to one minute. This is followed by flossing and interdental brushing to dislodge bacteria from the sides of the teeth. Finally, it is important to brush once again with toothpaste. This sequence is very important to achieve optimal cleaning of teeth.To check if one has effectively cleaned the teeth, one should run finger on last teeth; if it feels greasy/slippery then there is a need to brush once again thoroughly. Since the oral and food passage to stomach is in continuation, bacteria from the oral environment would influence the tonsillar health and teeth inversely. Tonsils are considered as a line of defence, preventing the infection to spread. The remnants of food often stick to the tonsillar area, more so in cases where tonsils, which have small crypts or pits in them (follicular tonsillitis). The tonsillar health also contributes to bad breath. In order to keep tonsils healthy and to ward off any bacterial and viral attack, we should keep the tonsillar area clean by frequent gargling with warm water preferably saline water at least after major meals and at night time after brushing.The third important factor is the hygiene of nasal passages. This also influences oral cleanliness. The nose harbours bacteria, Staphylococcus species being predominant. For the nasal hygiene measure, one should clean the nasal passages at night. This is achieved by taking some warm water or saline warm water from one (right) nostril and blowing it out from the same nostril. Repeat the same with the other (left) nostril. People who are familiar with ‘jal neti’ can also follow the same for cleansing the nasal passage. The posterior nasal discharge is a known phenomenon and is likely to influence the throat.These three methods (cleaning of teeth, gargles for tonsils and nasal health) if followed together and properly, would guarantee long-lasting oral health and could also contribute towards total health and combat the infliction of bacterial and hopefully viral infections. It is expected to lessen the viral load in this period of Covid-19 susceptibility.The writer is formerHead, Oral Health Sciences Centre, PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dental-care-in-times-of-covid-79354
02-05-2020||Amritsar||AAP seeks Rs50L relief for driver Manjit Singh||The Aam Aadmi Party has deplored the state government’s meagre compensation of Rs 10 lakh given to Manjit Singh, a driver who died while bringing back the devotees stranded in Nanded.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, the Majha zone president of the party, said though the Punjab Government had announced Rs 50-lakh compensation for those who lost their lives while fighting the deadly virus, it has adopted double standards in the case of Manjit Singh.Jeevan Jyot, party’s state co-president (women wing), said the party volunteers had staged a state-wide protest by holding banners and wearing black badges outside their respective residences against the state government.“Manjit Singh died while on duty, so it becomes imperative for the government to stand by its words and give the promised compensation to his family,” she said.AAP leaders Ashok Talwar, Inderbir Singh Nijjer, Rajinder Palah, Sarabjot Singh, Manish Aggarwal and other members of the party’s Amritsar unit took part in the protest from their homes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-seeks-rs50l-relief-for-driver-manjit-singh-79353
02-05-2020||Mukesh Nanda||‘Govt should promote setting up of modernised brick-kilns’||How has the lockdown impacted your brick-kiln unit?Brick-kiln is a labour intensive and seasonal industry. Bricks are produced between February and June as the hot weather aids the functioning of furnace and diminishes the requirement of fuel. So, five types of labour are involved in brick-making. Labour involved in the baking and nakasi process usually comes from UP, Bihar and Rajasthan. But due to the lockdown, labourers are unable to reach the unit, leading to shortage.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?The Ministry of Environment and Forests issued a notification on February 25, 2019, that the conventional brick-kilns situated within 300 km of a thermal power plant should be switched to using fly ash and pond ash as fuel for their furnace. They were contemplating to add another unit to the same line this year. However, the plan has been deferred and will now be executed only after evaluating the situation next year.How are you managing the issue of paying salaries to labourers?We have been providing wages to workers. The expenditure of a brick-kiln per day is at least Rs70,000. Permission has been granted for the sale of bricks in some districts. But, it should be allowed in all districts of the state. Lack of sale will only lead to a liquidity shortage, which will accentuate the existing problem adversely and affect the construction sector as a whole in immediate future. Construction as a whole involves cement, steal, iron, furniture, sanitary and daily wagers.Have any of your major investments got deferred due to the lockdown?Last year, a majority of the brick-kilns in Punjab were converted into the induced draft technology, while the remaining units were planning to adopt it this year. Those converted to induced draft technology planned to recover their investments this year, but Covid-19 hit their business investments.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?The Almighty is great. Without God's grace, movement of even a leaf is not possible. Seeing the current situation, it is felt that the God is servicing our earth.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is a great challenge for the brick-kiln industry to overcome the crisis and absorb its impact. Huge daily expenditure is intact, but there is no income. Once the markets are opened, it will take some time for the demand for construction material to pick up. After sometime, the demand will increase.What are your expectations from the government?The government should promote setting up of new modernised kilns and offer subsidies in their modernisation. It is tough time for the trade and the industry. The government should boost MSME as it provides employment to a large number of people. Taking a leaf out of China, the government must step in to boost R&D in the brick-kiln and other industries to improve quality of products. In addition, the government should reduce interest rates on demand loans and enhance loan limits of the MSME. It should create a labour welfare fund from unclaimed EPF.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-should-promote-setting-up-of-modernised-brick-kilns-79352
02-05-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Amid crisis, she performs her duty with utmost care||Tarn Taran, May 1Dr Sukhbir Kaur, an ENT Surgeon at the Civil Hospital here, has been working on the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. She takes samples of suspected Covid patients and ensures safety of every health worker and patient during this process.She, along with her medical colleagues and health workers, carries out screening the masses for the coronavirus.She feels that with the rise in the number of positive cases, it is the duty of all health professionals to protect themselves and make patients and people aware of preventive measures required to fight Covid-19. "Education is the biggest weapon against the virus," she says.Wearing the protective gear time and again and taking various precautions for her family members utilise a lot of time and energy. She has taken 500 samples till date with great precaution. She has been highly appreciated by the district administration and her department for her duties.As surgery takes a backseat, her primary role at the moment is to educate the masses about preventive measures against the spread of Covid.Apart from her professional duties, she performs her household duties with a smile. An early morning endeavour to prepare meals for the family leaves no time for physical fitness. Watching historical movies and serials had been her favourite picks, which have been replaced by portable audio humming old melodies. She believes in self-exploration to boost the hidden talents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-crisis-she-performs-her-duty-with-utmost-care-79351
02-05-2020||---||Ensuring food for needy is her priority these days||Amritsar, May 1Before going to sleep every night, she ensures that no one near her house sleeps on an empty stomach.While staying at home, former Health Minister and social activist Lakshmi Kanta Chawla is coordinating all activities very well. “When the lockdown was announced, the first thing that we did was preparing the list of vulnerable section to which the help is required to be extended. We identified needy families and made arrangements for their ration through the government and even our personal resources. Our Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Club is regularly serving food to the needy,” she says.Lakshmi Kanta has also been distributing masks to vendors and sanitation workers on a regular basis. “I keep masks in my car and wherever I see someone without it I give them. Similar initiatives are being taken by our club members.”She says, “The lockdown has not brought much change in my personal routine. I do puja and yoga in the morning, and then read newspapers and books. I keep in touch with party workers over the phone and listen to their issues.”Lakshmi Kanta Chawla also writes regular columns for several newspapers and magazines. “Now I get more time for writing. I express my worries about small shopkeepers who are not earning anything for long. If the lockdown extends, small traders and shopkeepers will face more issues. I write about government policies and ground-level problems, and my articles appear in national and vernacular dailies,” she said.The former minister urged social and religious organisations to come forward to help the weaker section of society. She requested the government to provide free treatment to needy people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensuring-food-for-needy-is-her-priority-these-days-79350
02-05-2020||---||Centre ignoring Punjab’s interests: Cong, BJP denies||Amritsar, May 1On a day when Congress leaders accused the Union Government of not giving its due share from GST collections to Punjab, former BJP Cabinet Minister Anil Joshi held a symbolic hunger strike and claimed that the state government had failed to distribute relief material sent by the Centre among the needy.Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka on Friday accused the BJP-led Union Government of discriminating against the Congress government in the state. He, along with his supporters, waved the Tricolour on the May Day and said both farmers and the labour community of the state were on the brink of poverty while the Centre was being a mute spectator. He urged the Centre to release Punjab’s share of GST so that it could effectively fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. He said as Punjab was the food basket of the country and well being of the people of the state was necessary for the prosperity of the whole nation.Meanwhile, former Punjab Minister Anil Joshi alleged that the way the state government brought its citizens from Nanded that later resulted in spurt in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state shows the utter negligence on the part of state machinery. He said recent incidents in which patients refused to sit in a “dirty” ambulance in Tarn Taran spoke volumes about the state of health infrastructure in the state. He claimed the uninterrupted curfew had broken the back of people from the middle and lower-income groups.Joshi said various NGOs and philanthropists were filling in the void by distributing food packets among the needy.^^^^^^^^^^AAP seeks Rs50L compensation for Manjit SinghThe Aam Aadmi Party has deplored the state government’s meagre compensation of Rs 10 lakh given to Manjit Singh, a driver who died while bringing back the devotees stranded in Nanded.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, the Majha zone president of the party, said though the Punjab Government had announced Rs 50-lakh compensation for those who lost their lives while fighting the deadly virus, it has adopted double standards in the case of Manjit Singh.Jeevan Jyot, party’s state co-president (women wing), said the party volunteers had staged a state-wide protest by holding banners and wearing black badges outside their respective residences against the state government.“Manjit Singh died while on duty, so it becomes imperative for the government to stand by its words and give the promised compensation to his family,” she said.AAP leaders Ashok Talwar, Inderbir Singh Nijjer, Rajinder Palah, Sarabjot Singh, Manish Aggarwal and other members of the party’s Amritsar unit took part in the protest from their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-ignoring-punjabs-interests-cong-bjp-denies-79349
02-05-2020||Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa controls strings of Cooperative||‘Releasing prisoners was biggest challenge’||The first thing I decided was not to lock down entities like Sugarfed, Milkfed and Markfed. The growing unrest among sugarcane farmers following the non-payment of dues was nipped in the bud following confabulations with Sugarfed officials. The nitty-gritty of how to release the money was worked out and 72 hours later the farmers were laughing all the way to the bank.In between, I was asked by the government to procure 21 lakh kg of sugar from Sugarfed. This, in turn, was to be distributed through the Food and Supplies Department, Markfed and Milkfed.However, the biggest challenge for me, in my capacity as Jails Minister, came when the Supreme Court ordered states to release prisoners to avoid overcrowding. The lockdown was fine, but the question was how to release the prisoners locked up in jails?Jail officials burnt midnight oil to prepare the papers for the release of 6000 prisoners. In an army-style operation, the Patti and Barnala jails were vacated and converted into 'isolation jails'. The logistics were mind-boggling, but somehow we managed.You just cannot take decisions based on fear and the possibility of what might happen. All you have to do is to put your best for forward and leave the rest to God.(AS TOLD TO RAVI DHALIWAL)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/releasing-prisoners-was-biggest-challenge-79347
02-05-2020||  ||Over 2.22 lakh MT of wheat arrives at grain markets||Agencies have procured 2.14 lakh MT in district till date   Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 1  Over 2.22 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat has arrived at grain markets in the district so far.    Mandi Board officials said almost 32 per cent of the crop has arrived at the markets and harvesting will be completed with next 10 days. Government agencies have procured around 2.14 lakh MT of wheat till date.  District Food Supply Controller Lakhwinder Singh said, “Till Thursday evening, of the total 2.22 MT of wheat, which has arrived at the grain markets, 2.14 MT has been procured by government agencies. Pungrain has bought 56,333 MT, Markfed purchased 46,739 MT, Punsup procured 44,234 MT, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation bought 35,755 MT and Food Corporation of India procured 29,645 MT.”   Last year, the government had procured 6,82,905 MT of wheat in the district.  Control rooms to remain functional till May 17  As the curfew in the state has been extended, the Agriculture Department has extended the services of the control room till May 17. The control room provides assistance to farmers on the issue of crops, use of fertilisers, seeds and pesticides during the sowing of kharif crops.  District Agriculture Officer Harinderjit Singh said, “It is the right time to cultivate kharif crops. The control room will remain functional. Officials are being appointed to answer the queries of farmers. They can call daily from 8 am to 8 pm.”   He said as per the roster prepared till May 17, Sukhminder Singh Uppal , Agriculture Development Officer (ADO) (Enforcement), will provide assistance to farmers on May 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15 on his phone number 8872900030.   Similarly, Sukhchain Singh, ADO (Seed), will be available on May 2, 5, 8, 11, 14 and 17 on 9814860114.   He said that Balwinder Singh Chhina ADO (plant protection) will provide assistance on May 4, 7, 10, 13 and 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-2-22-lakh-mt-of-wheat-arrives-at-grain-markets-79346
02-05-2020|| ||Beopar Mandal gives suggestions on resumption of trade||Amritsar, May 1After the rapid spread of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, the district administration is busy chalking out modalities to partially lift the curfew as per the instructions released by the state government. Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has recently released the instructions to all district administrations in the state to lift the curfew for four hours in the morning. However, the instructions remained unimplemented in the border district so far as many returnees from Maharashtra were found positive and are lodged in different isolation wards of the city. Meanwhile, traders, industrialists and their associations were looking at the district administration for resumption of trade. Samir Jain, general secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said the local administration must replicate the model adopted by Sangrur administration. As per which the days are fixed for trades. Members of the CII local unit on Friday held a video conference with Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon and interacted on the issue.  The Deputy Commissioner assured of all possible support and cooperation within permissible limits as laid down by the state and the Central authorities. He informed that all day-to-day problems, hindrances faced by the MSME sector were fully understood by the administration and every effort was being made to ensure that industrial activity was put back on track. He also advised industrialists to ensure all adequate standard operating procedures for social distancing.Various issues pertaining to industry were taken up for discussion including issuance of permission to small enterprises with limited workforce to pack and sell goods produced before lockdown, issuance of permission to traders and to distribute goods to industry based on purchase order or requisition by the running industrial unit. Issuance of permission for contractors from unorganised sector, such as shawl and warp knitting industrial units, to distribute material in rural area for work at home option. Besides, bringing industrial units which are on the Batala Road Verka and Chheharta under industrial zones to be allowed to operate. Naavniit Miterr, chairman, Amritsar Zonal Council, in his opening remarks sought clarity on implementation of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs and relaxations with effect from May 3. He sought issuance of group curfew passes for staff and workers of industrial units based on the request made by the employer.Rajiv Sajdeh, vice-chairman, Amritsar Zonal Council, thanked the Deputy Commissioner for attending the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beopar-mandal-gives-suggestions-on-resumption-of-trade-79345
02-05-2020||---||Civic body to disinfect quarantine centres daily||Amritsar, May 1The Municipal Corporation has decided to disinfect all the quarantine centres, established by the district administration in and around the city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu reviewed the arrangements of sanitation at all the quarantine centres.The district administration has set up six quarantine centres — one each at Verka, Fatehpur and Chheharta Radha Soami satsang ghar and Janana Hospital at Dhab Khatika and a dispensary at Naraingarh and the Swami Vivekananda De-addiction Centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The pilgrims, who returned from Hazur Sahib, are quarantined in these centres.Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal held a meeting with health officials and instructed them to sanitise these quarantine centres. “These sanitation facilities are continuously maintained and the surroundings of these centres would also be kept clean,” said the Mayor.The MC has also deputed sanitation workers to collect garbage twice a day from the quarantine centres. The MC has also provided PPE kits to the workers who are working at these centres.The rapid response teams, constituted by the Municipal Corporation to keep a check on the suspected Covid-19 patients, are working efficiently. The automated calls are being made to residents from the Covid-19 control room. MC officials claim that following the response of the residents on automated phone calls, the rapid response team immediately calls the person and verifies the claim. In case of illness, the team members keep a check on the health condition of residents.The Covid control room’s aim is to make automated computerised calls to 5 lakh persons of 2.5 lakh households in the city and get information about the health status of residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-disinfect-quarantine-centres-daily-79344
02-05-2020||  ||Minor brawl over dog-bite incident leads to firing, 1 hurt||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 1    A brawl over a dog-biting incident turned ugly when a man opened fire at the owner of the dog here on Thursday evening.  The police have booked three persons, including a woman, in this regard. The police have arrested a person as well. A case under sections of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered against them. The suspects have been identified as Micky, his father Ravi Shanker and mother.  Munish Sharma, a resident of Shakti Nagar area, told the police that he was walking, along with his pet dog, on Thursday evening. He said when they reached near the Mahajan cloth shop, a dog bit his pet. When he shooed it away, Micky and his mother came out and threw a piece of glass at him and entered into a brawl. He said later, Micky took out a revolver and pointed at him.  The complainant said his brother Nitish Sharma also came and tried to pacify the suspects. However, Micky fired gunshots at his arm and his right foot. He said his brother was immediately taken to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for treatment.Sub-Inspector Manohar Lal said while Micky was arrested, the others would be arrested soon. He said the weapon used in the crime, along with five live cartridges and a shell, had been seized.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-brawl-over-dog-bite-incident-leads-to-firing-1-hurt-79343
02-05-2020||    ||Wheels of Hope gives final salutation at int'l airport||Tribune news service   Amritsar, May 1   Applauding the dedicated frontline workers in their efforts to reach out to people and perform their duty during the Covid-19 pandemic, FICCI FLO’s Wheels of Hope campaign held a salutation ceremony at the SGRDI airport. The campaign that was kicked off as a mark of respect and gratitude towards the frontline warriors had the Punjab Police band performing live at various key places, including Government Medical College and Hospital.     In its concluding ceremony, Wheels of Hope acknowledged the services of airport staff, CISF security personnel, fire rescue staff, airport ground staff and air traffic control, along with staff of Indo-Thai and Qatar airways.  “The campaign was aimed at celebrating the frontline professionals who have been continuously working despite the risk of infection. We lauded the airport and airlines staff for the extreme courage, making it possible for flight  rescue  operation of international passengers . The final salutation was to the international, national as well as state agencies who have exhibited their exemplary humanitarian side and helped stranded people reach home amid the Covid crisis,” said Aarushi Verma, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar.   The campaign had previously toured several areas, including hospitals, administrative officials’ residences, sanitation and other staff workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheels-of-hope-gives-final-salutation-at-intl-airport-79340
02-05-2020||PK Jaiswar
||17 more Nanded pilgrims test +ve||Tribune News Service Amritsar, May 1  With 17 more Nanded returnees tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the total number of infected pilgrims has risen to 93.  Besides, the test reports of a lab assistant posted at the Community Health Centre at Lopoke also came positive. Dr Jugal Kishore, Civil Surgeon, has confirmed the development. The total number of infected pilgrims has been pegged at 93. With 14 previous cases, the total count of the holy city stands at 108, including the lab assistant, he said. According to information, the Health Department had taken the samples of health staff working at the CHC at Lopoke. Of them, the reports of the lab assistant came positive. He was admitted in the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The Health Department was now preparing the list of those persons who came in contact with him so that they could be quarantined for avoiding the further spread of the virus. The district administration has received a total of 600 returnees from other states. The samples of all of them were sent for testing. Meanwhile, the final report of the 25-year-old Tarn Taran woman came negative. As per the latest information, she was admitted at the CHC in Sursing village on the same day of her delivery on April 25 when the pilgrims were screened after their arrival from Hazur Sahib. The Health Department also confirmed that the samples of the newborn baby, which were sent to the lab of Government Medical College, Amritsar, came negative. As per the daily bulletin issued by the government, there was no new case of Covid-19 reported in Tarn Taran district. On Thursday, as many as 14 pilgrims were declared positive for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/17-more-nanded-pilgrims-test-ve-79339
