02-06-2020||---||Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust donates PPE kits, masks, sanitisers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 1SP Singh Oberoi, managing trustee, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, on Sunday donated PPE kits, surgical masks, infrared thermometers and sanitisers to the Civil Surgeon’s Office here.In the presence of Cabinet Minister OP Soni and MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Oberoi said in order to deal with the situation caused by the Covid-19, he had earmarked a budget of Rs20 crore to provide necessary equipment to protect the health of frontline workers, including administration officials and police personnel, at medical colleges, government hospitals and airport authorities.Apart from providing dry rations to 50,000 families monthly, several other essential services are being provided to the economically weaker section of society.He said on the request of the Civil Surgeon’s office, 400 PPE kits, 100 masks (N95), eight infrared thermometers, 75 liters of various sanitisers, 4,000 triple layer surgical masks, 1,000 gloves and three sanitiser stands were donated on Sunday.Cabinet Minister OP Soni and MP Gurjit Singh Aujla thanked SPS Oberoi on behalf of the Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhala-charitable-trust-donates-ppe-kits-masks-sanitisers-93361
02-06-2020||---||With nine new cases, dist tally reaches 401||Amritsar, June 1With nine new cases reported from the district on Monday, the total count of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has increased to 401. The district health authorities said while three patients were suffering from influenza like illness, the remaining six were contacts of positive cases.With more and more areas reporting coronavirus cases from the district, it seems that the disease has spread its tentacles in all directions. The new localities which reported Covid-19 cases are Ganda Singh Colony, Labour colony, Sarifpura and Katra Moti Ram areas. Areas like Vijay Nagar and Rani ka Bagh have also reported at least 10 cases each.Earlier, cases were reported from Hathi Gate, Islamabad, Chehharta, Green Avenue, Palm Avenue and Gate Hakeema. While the movement of residents is going on unabated due to relaxations in the lockdown, residents are fearful that cases would further increase. With 84 active cases, 310 recoveries and seven deaths due to the disease, the district has reported the highest number of coronavirus cases in the state.Meanwhile, the Health Department has transferred Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore to Fatehgarh Sahib. Fatehgarh Sahib Civil Surgeon Dr NK Aggarwal, who has been appointed the new Civil Surgeon here, is expected to join tomorrow (on Tuesday). The transfer orders came a day after Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu visited here on Sunday. Sidhu had conducted a meeting with Dr Jugal Kishore for 10 minutes his office. Officials of the department stated that transfer was a routine matter.Curfew from 9 to 51 recovers in Tarn Taran||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-nine-new-cases-dist-tally-reaches-401-93344
02-06-2020||
||Stranded people leave for homes||Amritsar, June 1 Paramjit Kaur, who had been stranded in Gurdaspur district, was all cheerful to board a train to Delhi. She was forced to live separately from her family members as she was stranded here for over the two months. After the easing of curbs, train services resumed from the Amritsar railway station on Monday, giving a much-need relief to thousands of passengers like Paramjit who were stuck following the introduction of restrictions in the wake of the coronavirus. Recently, some Shramik trains were run from the Amritsar railway station to ferry migrant labourers to their native states. Another passenger Preeti, a resident of Delhi, said she had come here to meet her relatives just two days before the first lockdown and could not return to her home. I kept watching online news as soon as I heard of resumption of train services I immediately booked a berth for myself. I was able to catch the first train today.” The Amritsar-Haridwar (02054) train departed at 6.50 am and the Amritsar-Jayanagar (04650) train departed at 11.55 am. Both of them were carrying 244 and 83 passengers, respectively. The Jan Shatabdi from Haridwar will arrive the station at 10 pm. All of them will have to sign the self-declaration form given by the Punjab Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stranded-people-leave-for-homes-93345
02-06-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Govt fails to tackle stray dog menace in villages||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 1  Repeated incidents of mauling of children by stray dogs have failed to wake up the local government from its deep slumber and find a solution to the stray dog menace in rural areas.  On Saturday, a 2-year-old boy was mauled to death by stray dogs at Varpal village here. Similar incidents were also reported in the past.  Maninder Singh (4) was mauled to death by canines at Kaironwal village in Tarn Taran on February 18, 2017, while Karandeep Singh (5) of Sarhali Kalan village in Tarn Taran was a little lucky as he survived the attack by canines two weeks after Maninder Singh was killed. Angandbir Singh of Hardkhurd village in Ajnala was killed by stray dogs in January 2018. A similar incident was reported in Khanna in which a 4-year-old boy, Viraj Kumar, was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs at Bahomajra village in January this year. Jasbir Singh, an employee of the Revenue Department, said these were those incidents which were highlighted in media after stray dogs killed humans. People in rural areas, especially those having their houses in the fields, are in constant fear of stray dogs. Several instances have occurred in which stray dogs killed calves and milch animals, including goats. Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader, said it was the prime duty of the governments to find a solution and arrange funds for dog sterilisation. Even village panchayats, municipal councils or committees paid no heed to the problem. A retired official of the Animal Husbandry Department said the only way to control the menace was birth control of canines by way sterilization. However, the Local Bodies Department does not have the funds for the purpose while in villages it is the duty of the Panchayati Raj Department.  Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal said as far as the death of Gursanjhdeep was concerned, officials were asked to probe the matter. Initially, it was found that stray dogs were from Haddorodi (where animal carcasses are dumped and skinned).  The local Municipal authorities were to start a dog sterilization a project but due to the Covid-induced lockdown it got delayed. “Once the MC authorities complete the project in the city, we would look into the menace in rural areas also,” added Himanshu Agarwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-fails-to-tackle-stray-dog-menace-in-villages-93346
02-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Powercom employees, farmers stage protest||Tarn Taran, June 1On a call for a nationwide agitation against the proposed amendment to the Electricity Act, employees of Powercom staged protests in the areas by wearing black badges.Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, also staged protests at the subdivisions of Powercom.Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, a member of the Powercom employees’ union, said the Union Government had made a passage to get the Bill passed in Parliament, which is a way towards privatisation of the power sector. He said with this, people will have to shell out more money for bills and employees will be exploited.Satnam Singh Manochahal, a protester, said that the farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharash Committee presented memorandums to officials and demanded the rollback of the proposed amendment keeping in view the interests of the countrymen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/powercom-employees-farmers-stage-protest-93347
02-06-2020||
||Edu institutes rush to make their campuses Covid safe||Amritsar, June 1  In the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, educational institutions are taking strict preventive measures to avoid the spread of the deadly virus in the campus and the nearby areas.  After announcing examination schedule for its exit courses, Guru Nanak Dev University has also started sanitising the campus on a regular basis. The university has set up thermal scanners to monitor visitors and staffers coming to the varsity daily and two sanitisation vehicles to spray chemical sanitiser inside the campus. “We have been continuously sanitising our campus. We have also instructed to all employees working during the lockdown to wear masks and protective gear,” said Prof KS Kahlon, the registrar of the university.  DAV College is following the measures suggested by the UGC/MHRD and the state and the Central government advisories to prevent the spread of the disease. Principal Rajesh Kumar said: “Several precautions are being taken to prevent the transmission of the disease and ensure the safety of both students and the teaching and non-teaching staff of the college.  In order to observe social distancing, circles are marked at various places to maintain a safe distance among students standing in a queue to clear their dues. Thermal scanning is being carried out to check the body temperature of everyone entering the college premises. A disinfectant tunnel will be installed at the main entrance to ensure that everyone gets properly sanitised before entering the college premises. No one is allowed to enter the college without wearing a mask,” informed Kumar.  Several other colleges in city too have been preparing for safety measures along the directives of the MHRD and the government. Khalsa College had already installed a sanitisation tunnel and made wearing masks mandatory inside the campus for students and staff and visitors. Similarly, BBKDAV too has been carrying out sanitisation of its campus. The colleges are open for students seeking to clear their dues ahead of the proposed examinations due to be held in first week of July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/edu-institutes-rush-to-make-their-campuses-covid-safe-93348
02-06-2020||
||2 drug-peddlers held with heroin||Amritsar, June 1  In a major breakthrough, the city police on Monday nabbed an inter-state drug-peddler, identified as Munish Kumar, a resident of Anand Vihar Colony, along with his accomplice Karan Kumar of the Gilwali Gate area. The police recovered 50 gram of heroin, over 1,000 sedative pills, a .32 bore pistol along with five live bullets and Rs 4.5 lakh of drug money from their possession. Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in charge, CIA staff, said following a tip-off, a team of CIA staff headed by ASI Vijay Kumar intercepted a car. The occupants of the car tried to flee, but were chased and nabbed by the police party. During the search, the police found the contraband, a pistol and drug proceeds from their possession. Randhawa said the accused were brought on police remand and further investigation was under progress. Their properties were also being looked into which would be attached. He said Munish Kumar had a theft case and four cases registered under the NDPS Act at different police stations. A fresh case under Sections 21, 22, 27-A, 29, 32, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the duo at the Gate Hakima police station here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-drug-peddlers-held-with-heroin-93349
02-06-2020||---||Migrant labourer climbs electricity tower again||Amritsar, June 1Exactly a month after a migrant labourer, Shamu Awasthi, climbed a high-voltage electricity tower in the Ram Talai area, he again scaled the tower sending officials of the police and the district administration in a tizzy.The police team, headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police Sushil Kumar, reached the spot and urged him to come down. The police summoned a team of commandoes to convince him and brought him down.Shamu, who hails from Barley in Uttar Pradesh, worked at an industrial unit in Partap Nagar before the lockdown was imposed.It took over five hours for the police to convince him to come down. When the police commandoes tried to climb up to bring him down, he threatened to jump from the top of the tower. They later forego the idea of going up.Earlier on April 30, he climbed up the same tower near the Ram Talai temple saying that the lockdown had rendered him jobless and he had not received any help from the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrant-labourer-climbs-electricity-tower-again-93350
02-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Remaining afloat amid new normal a challenge for traders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 1The Covid-19 pandemic has posed major challenges not only for the general public, but also for the trading community.With road transport services yet to be fully operational, shopkeepers are facing a shortage of goods. Nevertheless, they are working overtime to meet the shortage and trying to remain afloat during these testing times.“Since the lifting of the curfew restrictions, we are working 12-hour a day to meet the shortage of goods and trying to maintain the faith of our customers,” said Prem Kumar Seth, owner of ‘Sethan Di Hatti’, having customers’ base from Putlighar, Rani Ka Bagh to the Chheharta area.“Before the imposition of the curfew, companies used to deliver goods at shops. Now, they ask us to pick from them,” he said, adding that they start the day early in the morning and go to wholesalers to get the goods.He said the freight charges of goods coming from Delhi had also been increased. “We have cut our margins so that customers do not suffer due to the increase in the freight charges,” said Prem Seth.“Another major challenge before us is maintaining social distancing with customers. Though as per the guidelines we have put sanitisers and provided masks to our staff, sometimes people forget the norms,” he said.“We have strictly told our staff to wear masks and take all precautions,” said Prem Seth. He said they were also offering the home delivery facility. “Customers send us their requirement on WhatsApp and through other mediums, and our men deliver the same on their doorstep. This facility was widely used during the curfew and lockdown restrictions,” he said, adding they were also more comfortable with this.“The safety of our staff and customers is the topmost priority, therefore we prefer online orders,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remaining-afloat-amid-new-normal-a-challenge-for-traders-93353
02-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Covid crashes his Harvard summer school dream||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 1The great Harvard dream nurtured by Gurdaspur school student Manjinder Singh Dala (17) came crashing down the day when Lockdown 1.0 was announced in the country.Last year, the Class XII student of Kids International Public School, attended two 15-day courses in ‘Business Entrepreneurship’ and 'International Development' at the Oxford University Summer School. He now wanted to attend a fortnight-long course in ‘Economics and Management’ at Harvard Summer School when the Covid-19 played a spoilsport.Before his Oxford sojourn, Manjinder was sent to NASA by his father Manjit Singh Dala, a realtor, on a “knowledge learning trip”.Missing the Harvard bus did disappoint him, but he has now learnt to move on in his life.After his schooling, he plans to do graduation in economics after which he will either join his father's business or will execute his own venture.“Harvard was going to be a learning curve for me. My teachers have taught me that education opens up the mind, expands it and allows you to improve your life in so many ways. At Oxford, I was told to keep on experimenting. Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried something new. Life is all about hit and trial. You always learn from errors you commit in life. Studying in Oxford also taught me a very important thing. That is your attitude, not your aptitude and determine your altitude,” he said.On being asked why he wants to study when he can easily slip into the shoes of his successful father, he said, “I want to be independent. My father worked hard to achieve success. I do now want to construct a building based on the foundation laid by him. I have my own ideas and ideals. I aim for success, not perfection. Never give up your right to be wrong because then you will lose the ability to learn new things and move forward with your life. Remember that fear always lurks behind perfectionism.”Sharing his views on life after school, he said, "The difference between school and life is that in school you are taught a lesson and then test is given. In life, you are given a test that teaches you a lesson.”He has a penchant to study economics. “Economics is the study of how individuals, groups, and nations manage and use resources. Students like me who chooses to study economics not only gain skills needed to understand complex markets, but also learn strong analytical and problem-solving skills as well as business acumen necessary to succeed in the professional world,” quips Manjinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-crashes-his-harvard-summer-school-dream-93356
02-06-2020||---||Online session on menstrual health, hygiene conducted||Amritsar, June 1An online session on women’s health and hygiene was hosted by the Majha House on Saturday. Gulneer Puri, a renowned dietician, and Gurleen Arora, a member of an NGO, ‘Bloody Pure’, talked about women’s health and hygiene. The session was aimed at promoting awareness about women’s menstrual health and hygiene. Gulneer, MSc in food technology and MSc in food and nutrition from New York, has a rich and varied experience of more than 15 years in India, USA and the UK. She is also a consultant with MNCs such as American express, IBM and many others.Gulneer said nutrition plays an important part in women’s health. “I was dismayed by lack of attention to the diet in India, especially among the poor. Many people, even the youngsters, are suffering from diet-related and lifestyle-related diseases. I determined to devote myself to this area and hence the vocation.” She said a well-functioning immune system is of great importance in the maintenance of good health. “The diet is the most important factor in building up immunity and incorporating citrus fruits such as orange, malta, lemon, kiwi and green leafy vegetables are of prime importance,” she said. She also stressed on the importance of low fat food, curd and yoghurt and zinc-rich foods such as oysters, shell fish and lentils in our diet. She also talked about a common women’s malaise, which is Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) that affects hormonal levels in women. Gurleen, who has been working in the field of menstrual hygiene with the NGO, ‘Bloody Pure’, said they visit schools and colleges to create awareness about menstrual hygiene among young girls.“Initially, we found that both teachers and students were quite hesitant and shy about taking about these issues. But slowly the barrier was broken and students felt free and comfortable with us in voicing concerns and questions,” she said. “Till date, we have visited more than six schools, addressed1,500 students and have more than 30 volunteers working in tandem with us,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-session-on-menstrual-health-hygiene-conducted-93358
02-06-2020||RAJIV Sajdeh||‘Govt must provide direct tax benefits to companies’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Our major consumers, including steel mills, automotive industry and fibre optic cable, were severely impacted by the lockdown. As a result, in this first quarter, we could only touch 30 per cent of the turnover in comparison to the corresponding period last year. Export orders scheduled for April-May could not be placed and some have been cancelled. Low sales have resulted in piling up of raw material, affecting the flow of liquidity.How do you expect resumption of your business with full capacity?We expect that our supplies related to some essential production-based industries will come back on track soon. As other industries come back on line, things should get better in the next quarter. At present, we are operating with 30 per cent capacity and hopefully we will start working with 50 per cent capacity by June-end if things remain normal. Further projections are difficult at the moment as some major industrial states like Gujarat and Maharashtra will take more time to resume industrial activities.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?We paid full salaries for March and April in a phased manner to our employees. We hope to continue with the same mode during this quarter until we regain the previous speed. Our employees have been very understanding and co-operative in this regard.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Liquidity is the key to our survival. Excellent relations with our suppliers and buyers helped us during these hard times. Raw material suppliers have been coporative with us as far as payment extensions are concerned.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?This unprecedented crisis posed a big challenge and brought out some opportunities, which we never thought. The Indian textile sector accepted the challenge and rose to the occasion by producing PPE kits and will soon export them. The government has also recognised the role of the technical textile sector in providing protection to our frontline warriors.What are your expectations from the government?The textile sector is reeling under inverse GST. The raw material is charged at 18 per cent, yarns at 12 per cent and fabric at five per cent. This results in huge liquidity blockage and needs to be immediately rectified. The government should provide some direct benefits in taxes to those companies who have continued to pay full salaries to their employees during this period. Undoubtedly, we expect so much from the government, but at the same time, the district administration, District Industry Center and police also assisted the industrialists in the resumption of their stalled factories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-must-provide-direct-tax-benefits-to-companies-93359
02-06-2020||---||Medical students flay increase in MBBS fee||Amritsar, June 1The medical students’ body at Government Medical College (GMC) has criticised the state government for increasing 80 per cent fee of the MBBS course. The Medical Students’ Association at GMC said even before the recent fee hike announcement, medical students in the state were already paying more fee than their counterparts in many other states.Vaibhav Chawla, president, Medical Students’ Association, said the government has increased the fee arbitrarily. “In 2015 when the fee was revised, it was a hike of 160 per cent and students were required to pay Rs4.40 lakh. Now, the government has again increased the fee and students would have to pay RsRs 7.80 lakh for the course.”MBBS students had been paying approximately Rs80,000 till 2012. However, with a fee revision in 2013, it was increased to approximately Rs1.50 lakh, he added. “The increase in the fee will badly affect the prospects of meritorious as well as poor students because they will not be able to join the course. Students have termed the fee hike decision harsh and discouraging,” he said. In a letter to the Chief Minister, the students’ body has demanded the rollback of the fee hike decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medical-students-flay-increase-in-mbbs-fee-93360
02-06-2020||Neha Saini||Designers from Amritsar are ready to make PM’s ‘vocal for local’ call a part of their sensibility||While most businesses are either facing or set to face the aftermath of the Covid-19 lockdown, the fashion industry is set for a re-invention, pushing for the ‘vocal for local’ call by the Prime Minister. Amritsar, a fashion hub of Punjab, where tradition has always found a perfect partner in global trends, too is undergoing a transformation in the post-Covid-19 world. It means major home-grown designer labels have found the perfect opportunity to develop a sustainable, co-dependent market to keep the business going.Starting from scratchBhawna Sajdeh, who has been running her label Kasbah, says the road to revival of local fashion industry must be inclusive and focused on the basics. “It will be like starting from scratch, with focus on inclusive growth and not just profits. It’s challenging but not impossible.”She says that since re-opening, she has been taking limited orders. “My label specialises in wedding trousseau but now we are thinking of creating cost-effective attires. Doing business with local suppliers and working with local artisans will support the community,” she says.Himani Arora, whose label has been featured in several fashion magazines, also bats for responsible and sustainable fashion. “For a long time the fashion industry was moving at the break-neck speed. This pause should be good for us to re-invent as a responsible and inclusive industry. When we make clothes, we have to think about our dyers, our cloth vendors, suppliers and karigars. We were always co-dependent, but now we need to be sustainable. Using locally manufactured and sourced fabrics, working with local karigars, making pieces that are timeless and shunning designs that require wastage—are some of the simple measures that can go a long way.”Cutting down on expenditure and moving towards affordable couture, most designer studios are looking towards casual prêt. “Usually, this is the time when we get ready for the wedding and festive season. But due to the recession and Covid-19 outbreak, weddings are not happening, so the bulk orders for clothes are not coming. The next best option is to create casual wear collection, clothes that are simple yet appealing and affordable,” says Sargun Seth, owner, The Closet.Mehak Gupta, who had just launched her label Laaj a week before the lockdown, says that re-branding is the new mantra. “I had launched as organic-only collection of clothes. Now, it’s about making cost-effective clothes that would prompt clients to invest, despite the recession.”From walk-ins to on-callDealing with clients has also transformed as social distancing becomes the new normal. “Earlier, we would prefer walk-ins for measurements, detailing and designing of the outfit. Now, everything is decided either on a video call or WhatsApp,” says Sargun Seth, owner of the Closet. “We try to maintain as much social distancing as possible.We have cut down on our staff. Also, we make sure to dry clean our clothes before delivering to the client.” She hosts most of the clients in her studio by appointment only.Himani Arora too takes orders on appointment basis. “We carry out sanitization in our premises daily and every member of my team makes sure to wear masks and follow the safety protocol.”Mehak Gupta too takes her orders on video calls. “I have to show the clients sketches of their dress before getting approval and eventually designing the outfit to avoid any wastage.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/designers-from-amritsar-are-ready-to-make-pms-vocal-for-local-call-a-part-of-their-sensibility-93278
