02-04-2020||---||Sanitisation drive by GNDU||Amritsar, April 1After finding increase in the number of people coming out of their houses to buy essential commodities, the police on Tuesday started questioning them.They were asked the reason for moving out of the houses despite the enforcement of curfew. People with plausible reasons were let out and the rest were asked to return to their houses.The police had laid nakas on major streets by installing barricades and declaring some road out of bound for any kind of movement.Wholesale markets and shops of groceries, chemists and others were opened. People were seen buying cooking commodities and fresh vegetables.However, norm of social distancing went for a toss in residential areas where mature people were seen chatting in groups. Many groups were seen playing cards. Youngsters were seen playing cricket, volleyball and gossiping around in groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitisation-drive-by-gndu-64414
02-04-2020||Amritsar||SGPC divides state into 3 zones to streamline langar distribution||To streamline langar distribution, the SGPC has divided the state into three zones and deputed dedicated staff members to oversee the arrangements.In a meeting conducted here on Tuesday, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the state had been divided into three zones — Majha, Malwa and Doaba. Besides, Haryana too had been identified as a separate zone when it comes to supplying food to needy persons.For the Majha zone, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Dr Roop Singh, personal secretary Mahinder Singh Ayali and additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakon were entrusted with the responsibility of monitoring the arrangements.For the Malwa region, Longowal himself will look after it. Additional secretary Paramjit Singh Saroa, deputy secretary Sukhwinder Singh Garewal and PA Darshan Singh will assist him.Similarly, for the Doaba region, general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami, secretary Mohinder Singh and additional secretary Sukhminder Singh will take care of preparations. Longowal said SGPC employees too were appealed to contribute as per their capacity towards langar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-divides-state-into-3-zones-to-streamline-langar-distribution-64413
02-04-2020||Amritsar||Man booked for airing rumours||2 booked for attacking copAmritsar: Two persons have been booked for attacking a police constable after he stopped them at a checkpoint. The suspects have been identified as Kulbir Singh and Gurjit Singh of Heir village. Jagroop Singh from Division B police station said he was on curfew duty near Dhingra Hospital. He intercepted the suspects to inquire of the reason of their travel during the curfew. The suspects attacked him with a baseball and tore his uniform, he said. Other police personnel present at the spot caught the suspects. According to the police, the suspects later revealed that the bike they were travelling on was a stolen one. ASI Chiman Singh said a case under Sections 353,186, 323, 34, 379-B and 188 of the IPC has been registered. TNS31 booked for violating curfewTarn Taran: The district police have booked 31 persons under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC for violating curfew orders. The Sadar police booked 11 persons of Kad Gill village who had gathered in a group. Similarly, the Valtoha police booked 20 residents of Sidhwan village who assembled at the spot when a team of the Food and Civil Supplies Department was distributing slips to the beneficiaries of Atta-Dal scheme. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-airing-rumours-64412
02-04-2020||---||Stay indoors, cops tell Amritsar residents||Amritsar, April 1After finding increase in the number of people coming out of their houses to buy essential commodities, the police on Tuesday started questioning them. They were asked the reason for moving out of the houses despite the enforcement of curfew. People with plausible reasons were let out and the rest were asked to return to their houses.The police had laid nakas on major streets by installing barricades and declaring some road out of bound for any kind of movement.Wholesale markets and shops of groceries, chemists and others were opened. People were seen buying cooking commodities and fresh vegetables. However, norm of social distancing went for a toss in residential areas where mature people were seen chatting in groups. Many groups were seen playing cards. Youngsters were seen playing cricket, volleyball and gossiping around in groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stay-indoors-cops-tell-amritsar-residents-64411
02-04-2020||---||Amritsar students run online campaign to raise awareness||Amritsar, April 1Students of Khalsa College of Nursing (KCN) on Wednesday launched an awareness campaign against coronavirus. They, while staying at home, connected online and got united through social media groups and jointly put posters and graffiti in front of their homes and on social media to make the general public aware about the deadly disease.KCN Principal Dr Kamaljit Kaur said the final year students guided by their teachers, including Prof Yashpreet Kaur, took the initiative to spread awareness about how important it was to stay indoors and adopt social distancing in the present emergency scenario.“As a duty to serve the public, students have come up with an online campaign to educate people about the disease and combat it by encouraging them to stay indoors. Despite the government advisory, some are still not taking it seriously. It becomes imperative to run as many awareness campaigns as possible,” she said.She said the students of B.Sc third year took part in the drive, in which they installed already prepared posters in streets, that had information about taking precautions to ward off the disease and changing lifestyle, keeping high spirits and strong willpower, exercising while staying indoors and dietary plans.“The drive also focused on how preliminary precautions are a must as there is no treatment of coronavirus and it is also important to detect dry cough, flu and fever early,” she said, adding that students were regularly in touch with their teachers due to the ongoing online e-classes programme under way by the college.Staff salaries to be released on timeKhalsa College Governing Council, secretary, Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, said the salaries of all staff in 19 educational institutions were being released. He said the Principal offices were already preparing the salaries, which would be released in the next two-three days as the banks will open on April 3.Chhina said the staff, especially Class IV, need not worry at all because as per the government orders, they would be treated on duty during the closure of the institutions due to the lockdown and curfew in the state. “It is a difficult time when the poorer sections and employees are finding it difficult to make two ends meet. The salaries are being released directly in the bank accounts of employees.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-students-run-online-campaign-to-raise-awareness-64409
02-04-2020||---||Govt schools to promote students without exams||Amritsar, April 1The District Education department has issued further implementation of the decision by the Department of School Education, Punjab, to promote all students of pre-primary and primary classes up to Class IV, in the wake of Covid-19 shutdown. The students will be promoted under the Right to Education Act. The decision comes after most private schools in Punjab have already promoted the students and begun with new session online.According to the orders issued on Tuesday, the department has asked the all the government schools in the state to promote the students, under the prevailing circumstances, without any further delay. In Amritsar, 75,059 students from pre-primary to Class IV will benefit from the decision. “We have already prepared and sent the list of students who will be promoted to next class. These students will be informed about the decision through phone call. As far as the middle school students, there two examinations that were postponed will be re-scheduled later on,” said Rekha Mahajan, deputy DEO. Mahajan says it is likely that the same procedure will be adopted to promote Class VI, VII and IX students. “The results of these senior classes will be prepared on the basis of their past academic performance as it is quite likely that similar announcement might come for senior classes as well in the wake of curfew being extended in Punjab.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-schools-to-promote-students-without-exams-64405
02-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Milk producers suffer losses as procurement prices dip||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 1Milk producers in villages are at the receiving end as procurement prices have witnessed a dip after bulk buyers such as sweets and dairy shops are closed due to the lockdown. Verka is procuring one liter of 6.5 fat quality milk for Rs44.25 and its price in the open market has crashed to around Rs25 per litre. But, the production cost of one liter of milk is more, causing losses to milk producers.Sweats and dairy shops use lakhs of liter of milk daily after procuring it from suppliers. People associated with dairy farming said about four lakh liter of milk was distributed through this unorganised sector in the city and private milk processing plants in Amritsar and Tarn Taran had the capacity to handle seven to eight lakh liter of milk daily. But after the intervention of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, private milk processing plants in these two border districts were opened on Monday.However, sources said these plant owners have expressed reluctance in regularly operating them without the restoration of the supply chain. In this scenario, milk producers in villages were donating surplus milk in nearby gurdwaras. People associated with dairy farming demand that the government must appoint a regulator to monitor the situation daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/milk-producers-suffer-losses-as-procurement-prices-dip-64404
02-04-2020||---||Vallah fruit market to shut from today||Amritsar, April 1Alarmed by a record number of people visiting the wholesale fruit and vegetable market at Vallah and the fear of probable spread of Covid-19, the Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Union on Wednesday decided to close the mandi for a week beginning April 2. The decision was taken at a union meeting held here on Wednesday.They said the district administration had permitted them to open mandi from 3 am to 8 am. They said it was not practically possible to reach the mandi in midnight besides there was no availability of labour following the imposition of curfew. The union demanded sanitisation of all vehicles bringing vegetables and fruits in the mandi.Commission agents and operators were also concerned about their well being as a large number of people started arriving to buy vegetables following the imposition of curfew.The police warned of strict action against the people venturing out of their houses on the pretext of looking for essential commodities. We are issuing challans and seizing vehicles of curfew violators, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vallah-fruit-market-to-shut-from-today-64403
02-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Curfew pass must for staff working at chemist shops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 1The police on Wednesday found some representatives of drug wholesale firms with ‘fake’ curfew passes and asked them to apply for new passes. The two persons were allegedly carrying photocopies of curfew passes. Shivdarshan Singh, SHO, Civil Lines police station, said the representatives of medical stores must use original curfew passes for travel. “We have asked them to obtain passes according to the government’s directions,” the SHO said.A large number of chemists, led by Surinder Dugal, the general secretary of the Punjab Chemist Association, gathered at Novelty Chowk and protested against the move of the police. “We are following the state government’s directions which allow chemists who have passes to further issue them to their workers. The government has authorised chemists to give signed copies of our passes to our workers,” Duggal said.He said if the police continued to “harass” their representatives, they would take up the matter with the Deputy Commissioner. The chemists claimed that cops were misbehaving with their representatives delivering medicines on the doorstep of the people.SHO Shivdarshan Singh said: “The instructions are clear that everyone should have a curfew pass. But we are giving them relaxation for a time being so that they can obtain one.” The police have issued several challans, booked many people and impounded vehicles for violation of the curfew.IMA donates masks, sanitisers, safety kitsThe Indian Medical Association, Amritsar Chapter, came out in support of government staff fighting coronavirus at hospitals and donated medical equipment, including N95 masks, PPE kits and hand sanitisers to Government Medical College and office of the Civil Surgeon.Rabinder Singh Sethi, IMA Amritsar, said city private hospitals had set-up isolation wards for 361 patients, 155 beds for ICU, and 53 ventilators at the government disposal. Sethi said medical staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics have also been imparted training to deal with coronavirus positive and suspected patients.He added that in addition isolation wards had been prepared in various private hospitals for an emergency situation. The IMA is also organising awareness programmes in various institutions to educate public about precautions that need to be taken, he said.Civil Surgeon Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said flu desks had been set-up in all hospitals including private. She added a list of doctors and paramedical staff volunteers would also be prepared. She said there was no need to panic about the coronavirus, as it can be avoided with just few precautions foremost is staying at home.Bizmen seek relief on electricity billsWith industrial units lying shut down for over a week due to the curfew, industrialists have sought relaxation in electricity charges.They have requested the government to allow a three-month moratorium on the monthly consumption bills. “We must be allowed to pay the bills in 12 monthly instalments without late payment charges. In addition, fixed charges for the period from March 22 to until the curfew is relaxed should be waived,” an industrialist said.“Owing to the curfew, all sources of income have dried up. We are also bearing the cost of retaining labour in addition to the fixed electricity charges. The production and dispatch of finished material has ground to a halt and payments for sold articles aren’t forthcoming as banks, too, are shut,” Kamal Dalmia, a member of PHD Chamber.Chemist held for selling sanitisers at higher pricesTarn Taran: The police on Wednesday arrested Ranjit Singh, owner of JK Medical Store, Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here, under the Essential Commodities Act, 1955.Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the accused, Ranjit Singh, was selling hand sanitisers at the rate of Rs 90 per 100 ML for which the price was fixed at Rs 50 per 100 ML by the Government of India (Ministry of Consumer Affairs) vide its notification No SO 1197(E) (March 21, 2020).The DC said the information was received from a social worker when the inspection was conducted jointly by District Drugs Inspector Sukhdeep Singh and ASI Harbhajan Singh. The DC said all the 23 pieces of sanitisers of 100 ML and 30 ML had been seized. The DC had warned the shopkeepers against charging more than the fixed price for essential commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-pass-must-for-staff-working-at-chemist-shops-64402
