02-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Day after probe begins, GMC-Amritsar Principal, deputy removed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 1Dr Rajiv Kumar Devgan is new GMC PrincipalThe Department of Medical Education and Research on Wednesday appointed Dr Rajiv Kumar Devgan, Professor and head, department of radiotherapy, as the new Principal of Government Medical College. The department has also appointed Dr Jagdev Singh Kular, Professor, anatomy, as the new Vice-Principal of GMC.A day after inquiry into the alleged PPE kit scam begun, the Department of Medical Education and Research has removed Government Medical College Principal Dr Sujata Sharma and Vice-Principal Dr Veena Valecha from their respective posts.According to sources, the move was linked to the recent PPE kit scam at the college. The college had purchased PPE kits worth over Rs60 lakh in April to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.Insiders claim that more heads are expected to roll within the next few days, as the issue of mismanagement in funds meant for battling Covid-19 pandemic was serious.After the college made the PPE kits available to medical professionals, they complained that these were of poor quality. Later, a re-inspection committee constituted to report about the quality of these PPE kits had also rejected the kits on four grounds, including the material being non-water resistant and absence of N-95 masks with the kits.Though the committee submitted its report on April 25, the college authorities continued to sit on it for over more than two months. Local MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, who issued a grant of Rs1crore to GMC for fighting Covid-19, had written to the government demanding a probe after the allegations of medical staff.In mid-June, Aujla again wrote to the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation complaining that the inquiry was being deliberately delayed.In response, the ministry had on June 23 written to the state government to complete the inquiry in a time-bound manner. The state government then had entrusted the inquiry to Chief Administrator, Amritsar Development Authority. Beginning the probe on June 30, the investigator held the second meeting on Wednesday and recorded the statements of members of the inspection committee and nursing staff representatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-probe-begins-gmc-amritsar-principal-deputy-removed-107387
02-07-2020||Amritsar||Guru Nanak Dev  University first to conduct PhD viva online||Recently, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued instructions that viva of doctorate degrees be conducted online given the Covid-19 scenario. Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), however, on its own, started the conduct of online viva voce for its doctorate programmes way back in November 2018.  The university has become one of the first to conduct viva for PhD  online and till date 154 viva have been conducted using the facility of video conferencing. The viva is recorded and becomes the part of the records of candidates and verified not only by the supervisor, head of the department concerned but also by Dean of the concerned faculty.  Vice Chancellor Jaspal Sandhu said the purpose of the online switch was not only to reduce the time for awarding the degree but also unnecessary wait and expenses incurred on the examiners, visit. He further informed that two special rooms have been designated with latest video conference facilities to conduct viva which are not only attended by candidates and examiners but also by the students and faculty. “On the financial side, keeping in view the scarcity of funds and limitation of grants given, this process of online viva has substantially reduced the expenditure of the university,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-first-to-conduct-phd-viva-online-107388
02-07-2020||---||100 books donated to quarantine centre in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 1 Dr Prabhjot Kaur, Chief Librarian, Musafir Memorial Central State Library, Patiala, and district librarian, Amritsar, along with Dr Naresh Chawla, JIYA Foundation, founder, donated 100 books for people quarantined at the rehabilitation centre here. They said that these books will motivate and inspire them while they are away from their families and friends.  “While being quarantined and isolated, one can get surrounded by negativity, and books as we all know, are one’s best companion. We have donated these books in hope that these people will read and make the best of their time,” said Dr Prabhjot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/100-books-donated-to-quarantine-centre-in-amritsar-107389
02-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga ---||Bus fare hike invites commuters’ ire in Amritsar||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 1 The petrol and diesel prices are already touching the sky. The coronavirus is showing no signs of relenting as it continues to spread it’s tentacles. To deepen people’s woes and add to their pile of misery, the government recently hiked the bus fare as well.   To no surprise, the move has not gone well and the passengers are kicking up a fuss about the hike, which has been raised by seven paise per kilometre. Even the bus operators feel that it will only discourage the commuters who are already scared to travel in buses. After the hike, passenger tariff comes at 122 paise per km a person and AC bus at 146.20 paise per km.  Raju Tomar, a cloth merchant, says: “I visit remote parts of the local and adjoining districts to sell suiting shirting and other dress material. From now on, I will have to shell out more on commuting.” Tomar in the business is not the only one who will be impacted, the entire chain will bear the effects as the material used in textiles passes through various checkpoints before reaching the final destination – the shops. Cost hike of finished fabric seems next on the cards.   “The middle-class families did not receive any aid from the government during the lockdown. Immediately after easing of the curbs they were burdened with the hike in fuel prices and now this,” Pawan Singh, a city resident, fumes.  Krishna, a shopkeeper, says, he strongly feels that the reduction in rate of interest on small savings in banks and post offices seems next in line of government’s stratagem. “The government is favouring corporate houses and share markets only. When it comes to common people it has nothing, except offering few kilograms of grains to the economically weaker sections,” he adds, before saying, “The claims of providing more jobs evaporated into thin air and on the contrary people are losing their jobs.”  Jagtar Singh, flaying the Union government for passing on the constant hike in crude oils to common people, says, it was a double blow to them as they lost a big chunk of their income during the 2-month lockdown. He also adds that the impact would be visible on all kinds of products and the residents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bus-fare-hike-invites-commuters-ire-in-amritsar-107390
02-07-2020||---||Farmers seek withdrawal of cases for protests in lockdown||Amritsar, July 1Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee on Wednesday staged a protest outside the office of the Senior Superintendent of Police (Rural), demanding that all cases registered against farmer leaders under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for protests during the lockdown be withdrawn.Satnam Singh Pannu, the president of the committee, said the cases were registered against farmer leaders at Khalchian, Mehta, Kathunagal, Majthia and Lopoke police stations for holding village-level protests over the issue of wheat procurement for three days, starting from April 28, and later staging a protest outside the Power Corporation office in Mehta.Pannu also demanded withdrawal of cases registered against residents for violation of curfew. “By registering FIRs against farmer leaders, the government is trying to muzzle the voice of people in the name of safety requirements against Covid-19,” he said.Sarwan Singh Pandher, a farmer leader, said dozens of complaints against immigration agents for defrauding innocent youth were lying pending at the police stations. “Snatching and theft incidents are also on the rise. The police must register cases against anti-social elements instead of booking farmers who are raising their justified demands,” he said.Protest in Tarn Taran tooTarn Taran: A large number of members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, staged a protest infront of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Wednesday to reiterate several pending demands, including cancelation of criminal cases registered against the members and leaders of the organisation. Women also took part in the protest.Addressing the protesters, Sawinder Singh Chutala, a state leader of the committee, alleged that the police and other officials had become puppets of the ruling Congress party and were working under their pressure. “Several false cases have been registered against workers of the opposite sides who pointed fingers at the government over its alleged wrongdoings,” said Chutala.He sought cancelation of cases registered against leaders of the KMSC, including Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra and other 60 workers of the KMSC by the Harike police.Leaders of the organisation said the police must focus on checking drug peddling, snatchings, encroachments and other crimes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-seek-withdrawal-of-cases-for-protests-in-lockdown-107394
02-07-2020||---||SAD asks state govt to pay fee of ‘poor’ kids at private schools||Amritsar, July 1The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) today asked the Punjab Government to pay private school managements tuition and admission fee of all children whose parents’ financial status had been adversely affected by the Covid-19 lockdown for a six month period from April to September this year.SAD leader and former minister Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that the Congress government and Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla had surrendered before the private school managements and even submitted in the Punjab and Haryana High Court that private schools had the right to fix fee. “If the state has lost the case in the high court it is a direct result of collusion with private school managements,” he alleged. “This is the reason why the Punjab Government has failed to win any relief for stressed parents while the High Courts of Uttarakhand, Delhi and Kerala have given relief to parents,” Majithia further added.He also called Singla’s response to file a review petition against the High Court order on this issue ‘lip sympathy’. He said the Education Minister should realise that thousands of parents were in no position to pay huge fee after losing their jobs or reduced income due to shutdown and losses in businesses. “In such a situation direct compensation is need of the hour to save the future of affected children. The government should give tuition and admission fee on behalf of these children for six months, including the three month period of lockdown and another three months during which schools are likely to remain shut down,” he said.He said if no assurance was forthcoming on this account the SAD would launch an agitation in support of parents from YPS, Patiala. He said the SAD would also offer parent associations all help in fighting the case in court.Meanwhile, several parents associations also held protests against the HC order of allowing schools to charge fee. Calling it one sided, Mandeep Kaur, president, Justice for Parents, said, “This is a decision that only favours school managements and does not consider the financial difficulties being faced by parents. This will put burden on lower- middle class families. The online classes are not up to the mark as compared to classroom education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-asks-state-govt-to-pay-fee-of-poor-kids-at-private-schools-107396
02-07-2020||---||Shopkeepers start tiff with Amritsar MC over encroachments||Amritsar, July 1 Heated arguments were witnessed between shopkeepers and employees of estate wing of the Municipal Corporation during anti-encroachment drive at the Putaligarh area here on Wednesday.  A team of the estate wing was there to remove the encroachments from the Putaligarh Bazar in the afternoon. Some traders entered into heated arguments with employees of the estate wing. A shopkeeper threatened to set MC’s truck on fire. Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, reached the spot and seized the goods displayed on the road. “I gave them two-day ultimatum to remove the encroachments, otherwise cases would be registered against the traders”, said Bhatia.Apart from Putaligarh, the MC removed encroachments from Lawrence Road, Batala Road and Majitha Road under its anti-encroachment drive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shopkeepers-start-tiff-with-amritsar-mc-over-encroachments-107397
02-07-2020||---||Septuagenarian succumbs, toll in Amritsar disrict 44; total cases 966||Amritsar, July 1With the death of a septuagenarian due to Covid-19 here, the toll in the district reached 44 on Wednesday. The district also reported nine new positive cases today with which the total number of positive cases has increased to 966.The deceased has been identified as Om Parkash, a 73-year-old resident of Green Avenue, who was admitted to Amandeep hospital.The health authorities reported that of the new patients, five are ILI (influenza like illness) cases reported from Diamond Avenue, Kamla Avenue, Raja Sansi, Katra Moti Ram and Joshi Colony.The remaining four patients are cases with contact history. Of these, one was reported from Basant Avenue, two from Jujhar Singh Avenue (Ajnala) and one from Kamla Avenue. The district has so far witnessed 759 recoveries, while 107 active cases are admitted to various hospitals and 56 have been kept in home isolation.Meanwhile, the suspected patients, whose samples were sent for Covid-19 testing, continue to complain of delay in getting reports. Even as Cabinet minister Om Parkash Soni had instructed the health administration to ensure the availability of test reports, whether negative or positive, to the concerned patient within 24 hours, the reports in many cases were being delayed.An insider at Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital, where at least three positive employees have been reported so far, said: “One of the radiographers at the hospital tested positive on Tuesday. The samples were sent for testing on June 23. It took seven days for him to know that he was positive.”The employee’s sample was sent for testing as two employees at the hospital had tested positive earlier and the employee had developed fever. Even though he kept himself in self-isolation at home, chances of a gullible person acting as a spreader when he or she does not even know about his health status cannot be ruled out.Tarn Taran reports another +ve case||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/septuagenarian-succumbs-toll-in-amritsar-disrict-44-total-cases-966-107398
02-07-2020||GS Paul||Chief Khalsa Diwan nominations under Akal Takht scanner||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 1The recent move of nominating fresh members into its fold by the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) has come under scanner if the Akal Takht directions is any indication.Taking note of number of complaints received at Akal Takht secretariat about ‘patit’ (Sikhs with shorn hair and trimmed beard) persons being included in the CKD, Giani Harpreet Singh, acting jathedar of Akal Takht, had put a blanket ban on fresh appointments in the body.The jathedar had also called up CKD management to submit the requisite declaration forms, mandatory to be furnished by the candidate before seeking membership. He said that the president of CKD had committed to furnish it, but in vain.“Till the eligibility declaration forms of all members reach the Akal Takht, CKD has been directed that no new appointments could be made”, said the jathedar.Nonetheless, before these directions could deliver, the CKD had inducted approximately 60 new members against the vacant positions during an online executive and general body meeting held on Tuesday.CKD president Nirmal Singh told that he could not attend the meeting due to domestic exigency, but assured that he would personally meet the jathedar to clarify it at the earliest. He said that a dedicated panel was always there, which ensure that every member should comply the laid down criteria and only the Gursikh should be included in the body.CKD vice-president Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar, who had conducted the session, told that it was a communication gap due to which jathedar’s directions could not be delivered on time.“It was an online meeting already scheduled two weeks ago. We were all on Zoom portal and my phone remained occupied. I was not aware of Akal Takht’s directions till the culmination of meeting. We are devoted to the Akal Takht and would approach jathedar soon to explain every query”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chief-khalsa-diwan-nominations-under-akal-takht-scanner-107399
02-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Two arrested with weapons||UBI’s regional office in cityAmritsar: Union Bank of India (UBI) has opened its regional office in Ranjit Avenue here, bank’s MD and CEO Rajkiran said on Wednesday. The bank now has four zonal offices in Chandigarh, Jaipur, Mangalore and Vishakhapatnam to increase its penetration. The bank has more than 9,500 branches and over 13,500 ATMs in the country. “We are strengthening our pan-India presence to ensure focus on business growth and customer service”, Rajkiran said. TNSPatwar Union Office-bearersTarn Taran: The local tehsil unit of the Revenue Patwar Union in the delegate session of the organisation on Wednesday elected Ramandeep Singh Pannu and Sahibbeer Singh as president and general secretary, respectively. Surjit Singh Sandhu, who remained tehsil president for decades, presided the delegate session. Pannu said that other office bearers had been elected on the occasion as well. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-with-weapons-107402
02-07-2020||---||Health hazard: Garbage heaps on roadside paint a picture of neglect||Amritsar, July 1An area on the side of the well-maintained road leading to two prestigious educational institutions in the vicinity of Guru Nanak Dev University is being used as an open dumping ground by city residents for years. Several cleanliness drives conducted under the Swachh Bharat Mission and by the Municipal Corporation have failed to rid the road of heaps of garbage that have become a breeding ground for stray animals.With the IIM and CIPET campuses situated nearby, the stretch has become a bane for students, most of who are from other states. “The otherwise well-maintained road and the newly developed footpath, which is used by morning and evening walkers, fail to impress residents because of the garbage on the roadside. The stench emanating from the waste and stray animals searching for food add to the problems of students, especially those living in hostels nearby,” says Abhilash Singh, a student of CIPET’s Centre for Skilling and Technical Support.Parminder Singh, a resident of Dashmesh Avenue, said the stretch was being used as a dumping ground for locals and industrial units in the nearby lanes for long. “The site never really became free of garbage despite efforts by the MC to clear the place of waste. Only when some dignitaries come to attend events at the IIM campus that we get to see it cleaned.” Employing measures such as landfill disposal and regular collection of garbage from homes could change the situation considerably, he added.Poonam Sharma, another resident of the area and an evening walker, said the site was a menace because to the stray animals roaming there. “There are a lot of pigs and dogs roaming around there. Because of absence of any maintenance work during the lockdown, the roadside has also seen excess growth of Congress grass, which adds to the woes of morning and evening walkers. During the monsoon approaching, the place might turn into a breeding ground for dengue as well if it is not cleaned.”The entire stretch of the road leading to the CIPET and IIM campuses was developed under the Smart City project. A footpath has been laid to facilitate joggers. The road is one of the busiest in the city as the area also has several small-scale industrial units.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-hazard-garbage-heaps-on-roadside-paint-a-picture-of-neglect-107404
02-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Not ‘open for everyone’ now, civic body encouraging few visitors only||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 1The Covid-19 outbreak has changed the functioning of the Municipal Corporation (MC) offices. Call it the new normal, these offices are no more ‘open for all’, especially for those who used to while away their time by visiting one office after another without having any important work.Before Covid-19 outbreak, activists, local leaders, unionists, agents and residents used to sit at the municipality offices. The MC staff used to accommodate them by providing chairs inside the offices.But now, direct entry of residents has been restricted in most of the offices. Desks have been installed to prohibit the entry to the offices. Extra chairs have been removed from offices where people used to sit for work. The staff has been asked to listen to visitors through windows to prevent the spread of virus.Visitors are being asked about the purpose of their visit. The entry of visitors is not allowed without mask. The Fire Department is sanitising the premises regularly and sanitiser stands have been installed outside the office for sanitisation of hands.MC officials said the number of visitors, too, has decreased due to the pandemic. Residents are being motivated to use online mode for payment of fee, tax and bills. They claimed that they have strengthened the complaint redressal system to avoid physical visit of public to MC offices. After an employee of the citizen facilitation centre was infected last month, the public dealing staff is taking all precautions, making it a point to adhere to social-distancing norm.A large number of employees are working with rapid response teams and taking care of persons who are quarantined. Special arrangements have made for home-quarantined persons. They were provided PPE kits. The field staff is also taking all precautions recommended by the government.Speaking out No one is being allowed to sit inside the offices without work. Extra chairs have been removed. As soon as someone enters the complex, we ask the purpose of visit. — Sushant Bhatia, Estate officerEarlier, the office was open and everyone could meet the computer operators to know their status of application. Now, we have restricted the entry and listen to visitors from windows. — Dharminder Singh, nodal officer for death & birth certificatesFrom day one, we are working as per the directions of the government. We are taking all precautions, even in the field. Challans are being issued to violators everyday. — Jatinder Mohan Sharma, InspectorMore than 4,000 sanitary workers are doing their work by adopting all safety measures. They maintain social distancing and change their routine to prevent the spread of Covid-19. — Ashu Nahar, driver and a unionist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-open-for-everyone-now-civic-body-encouraging-few-visitors-only-107405
02-07-2020||The Tribune interview||‘Waive off fixed power charges on hotels, restaurants in Punjab’||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has hit the hospitality industry hard, including the hotel business, says the owner of Avi Inn, Jatinder Singh Bhatia, who is also the chief patron of the Federation of Hotel and Guest House, Amritsar. He also represents the residents of Ward No. 28 in the Municipal Corporation's General House. Bhatia made efforts to raise the voice of hoteliers during the time of crisis. In an interview with Charanjit Singh Teja, he sheds light on problems being faced by the hotel industry and help expected from the Centre. Excerpts:How has the lockdown affected the hotel industry?The hotel industry suffered a deadly blow with the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 800 hotels in the city and a medium-sized hotel provides employment to an average of 15 persons, including the manger, security guards, sweeper, cook, waiters, service boys and laundry service. Thus, over 12,000 persons were directly employed by the hotels and if the indirect beneficiaries and family member of the workers are counted, the lockdown has affected lives of over 1 lakh persons associated with the industry. As most hotels in the city are medium-sized units, the owners don't have enough savings to pay power bills, loan instalments, salaries of staff and maintenance expenses for months. A number of hotels would have to be shut permanently due to the pandemic.Do you expect the resumption of business in near future?Though the government on June 8 allowed hotels, restaurants and resort to resume services, over 95 per cent of hoteliers did not open their units as they can't bear the expenses while complying with the conditions, including the social distancing norms, set by the government. Hotels will likely not open even after the government ends the lockdown as people these days are abstaining from dining out and going for outings.Are the employers paying salaries to their staff?Most hoteliers paid half salary to their employees staying in hotels. A large number of migrant workers associated with the industry returned to their home states. Following the uncertainty about the revival of business, more workers are leaving. The hotels being run by individuals are not able to pay salaries but assured the staff to re-employ them when the situation turns normal.What is the scope of online trade in the industry?Around 40 per cent room booking are done online through several aggregators who work on commission basis. Since the outbreak of Covid, hotels bookings have declined to almost zero. Booking apps and portals can't help revive the business.How do you consider the current crisis — as a challenge or an opportunity?The Covid outbreak and the subsequent lockdown are major challenges for the hotel industry, especially for medium and small-sized units. The lockdown has broken their spine. A large number of hotels are on lease. We have asked the owners to not charge rent till the revival of business. All hotels have availed large-scale power connections of load from 100 kVA to 800 kVA. The connections carry fixed minimum charge regardless of power consumption. Amid zero revenues, it is difficult to pay the power tariff. Moreover, the hotel buildings and other infrastructure need regular maintenance. Payment of loan instalments is an added burden.What are your expectations from the government?Himachal Pradesh has forgone the interest on bank loans availed by hoteliers. Punjab must also follow in their footsteps and waive the power bills. Workers associated with the industry must be given financial help. We have written to the Chief Minister, requesting him to give a special package for the revival of the hotel industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waive-off-fixed-power-charges-on-hotels-restaurants-in-punjab-107407
