02-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||This potholed stretch gives jitters to commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1Hundreds of Sikh devotees visiting the holy city make it a point to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh belonging to the legendary Sikh warrior Shaheed Baba Deep Singh. Besides devotees from outside the city, local people also throng the shrine in huge numbers daily. However, they express their dismay over the condition of the outer circular road, especially the stretch from Sultanwind Gate to the holy shrine.The stretch is dotted with big potholes. A vendor selling fruits said due to lots of potholes, the road has become highly accident-prone.“As the civic body authorities have failed to repair the stretch, some people fill the potholes with debris. Most of the two-wheeler riders fear to pass this stretch as they know they can lose control of their bikes/scooters and fall. Many people had a narrow escape while others suffered injuries in the past,” he said.“Though a road accident takes place almost daily here, the MC authorities hardly think of repairing the stretch,” said vendor Manish Kumar. Raminder Singh, a regular visitor to the shrine, points out that roads are in a deplorable condition at many points.Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh is situated near the Chatiwind gate near Tarn Taran Road Chowk. Baba Deep Singh, the first head of the Shaheed misl, is revered as one of great Sikh martyres. He was the first head of Damdami Taksal. He was baptised by 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh in Anandpur Sahib and spent a considerable time with him in learning how to use weaponry and other Sikh martial arts. In 1757, when Afghan prince Taimur Shah and his general Jahan Khan desecrated the Golden Temple, he vowed to avenge it. He led an army and fought a fierce battle with Afghans in Amritsar in which he was decapitated and attained martyrdom.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the beautification of the outer circular was already underway under the Smart City project worth Rs 125 crore. He said all works would be done under the project. As far as filling the potholes on the stretch was concerned, I would look into it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-potholed-stretch-gives-jitters-to-commuters-164694
02-11-2020||---||Snatchers on the prowl? Four incidents rock Amritsar city||Amritsar, November 1Four snatching incidents rocked the holy city as well as the rural belt of Amritsar here on Saturday.In the first incident, Sukhdev Singh, an employee of a finance firm, was looted by five armed persons near Wadala canal here. After collecting payments, he was returning home, when the accused decamped with Rs4.97 lakh from him.He told the police that as banks were closed on Saturday, he was returning home to Wadala Kalan village after collecting payments. He said when he reached near Wadala canal, five persons came on two bikes and hit his bike, due to which he lost balance and fell. The accused, who had covered their faces, snatched the cash and fled.In another incident, a truck driver was robbed by a ‘cop’, when he was returning to Rajasthan after unloading his truck at Bakkar Mandi area here. Mohammad Irfan of Ganga Nagar told the police that he came to Amritsar on Friday. After unloading his truck ferrying goats at Bakkar Mandi area here, he was returning, when he a man posing as a policeman stopped him near Sohal hotel, New Amritsar area. While searching, he took Rs60,000 from the truck and fled. The police said a case was registered while investigations were on to identify the ‘cop’.Meanwhile, a man identified as Satinder Singh of Judge Nagar was shot at by unidentified persons, who snatched his bike and fled away. He told the police that his wife Sapna works at a car agency on GT Road. He said about 9 pm, he came to pick her up, when three bike-borne youth shot at him and left him injured near New Amritsar Service lane. He fell on the road and the accused fled with his bike. His wife took him to the hospital. The police have registered a case.In another incident, unidentified persons snatched a motorcycle from Dildar Singh, a resident of Krishna Nagar area. He told the police that he, along with his relative, came to meet another relative on Majitha Road on his bullet on Friday night. He said when he was passing through Akash Avenue and reached near a secluded place, around five persons suddenly appeared on two bikes. They hit their bike, following which his relative fell and the accused fled with his bike and some cash.Police officials said separate cases have been registered and further investigations were under progress to identify the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/snatchers-on-the-prowl-four-incidents-rock-amritsar-city-164695
02-11-2020||---||Now, defaulters will have to pay penalty on property tax in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 1The Punjab Government’s exemption of interest and penalty on the property tax ended on Saturday. Now, those filing the pending property tax will have to pay interest and penalty along with the tax amount.Civic body to collect tax from 2013 to 2020The Municipal Corporation has to collect crores of rupees as property tax from defaulters from 2013 to March 2020. The state government had issued the orders to deposit property tax till October 31 without interest and penalty. Now, the MC will charge 138 per cent interest and penalty on the pending tax.Despite the one-time settlement offer of the state government, the municipal corporation collected Rs 11.35 crore till October 31 this financial year. In the last financial year till March 31, a tax amount of Rs 26.67 crore was collected.As compared to the last fiscal year, the MC collected Rs 7 crore less property tax till September (which was 10.50 crore). Last year, it was Rs 17.89 crore till September. MC officials claimed that residents were not showing interest in the one-time settlement policy of the government due to the Covid-19 lockdown.The Municipal Corporation has to collect crores of rupees as property tax from defaulters from 2013 to March 2020. The state government had issued the orders to deposit property tax till October 31 without interest and penalty. Now, the MC will charge 138 per cent interest and penalty on the pending tax. As far as tax collection of the current year is concerned, residents can deposit it without interest and penalty. A penalty of 10 per cent will also have to be paid after December 31.As the one-time settlement offer ended on October 31, the municipal corporation recovered a low amount of pending property tax. MC officials claimed that due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the MC did not pressurise anyone to pay the tax.Pardeep Rajput, Nodal Officer for property tax collection, said, “The residents missed a good opportunity to pay the pending tax with a 10 per cent rebate without any penalty and interest. Now, they have to pay a heavy penalty on the pending tax. The government had extended the offer twice due to the Covid-19 disease, but got a lukewarm response.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-defaulters-will-have-to-pay-penalty-on-property-tax-in-amritsar-164696
02-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Industries almost run out of stock, closure imminent||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1The city-based manufacturing units were on the brink of closure as stock of raw material has almost dried up due to non-operation of trains in the state.Samir Goyal, who owns a wire drying and screw manufacturing unit, said wire rods used in industries come from Andhra Pradesh’s Vizag. After paying advance, he ordered wire rods worth Rs 80 lakh, but the rakes had been stuck at Ballabgarh for the last 20 days. His 20 workers had been sitting idle for a month and he has paid Rs 2.5 lakh salary to them. Goyal has also paid one lakh bill for 600 kW in this period.Due to closure of industrial units, competitors from the National Capital Region (NCR) have taken a lead in supplying finished goods. He said all these factors were enough for the collapse and decline of industry in the state.Piara Lal Seth, chief, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), claimed that raw material worth Rs 2,500 crore was lying at dry ports. He said labourers were out of job and manufacturers were incurring losses in the festive season. He said it was the second string of loss after the lockdown was introduced in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak in March.He urged the Central Government to relinquish its stand of not sending goods trains when farmers had already announced that they were ready to give passage to trains. He said raw material for local industrial units, including textile, yarn, iron and steel, comes from other part of the country. Commodities such as grains, dry fruit and finished material go out of the state, he said.‘Centre must revoke agri laws’ Amritsar: The farmers’ protest at Buttari railway station near Beas against the three agri laws entered 32nd day on Sunday. The farm leaders reiterated that they would not relent unless the Centre revokes the agri laws. The leaders said instead of providing profitable prices to farmers for their produce, the government was trying to demolish a market system, which had developed over decades. They said farmers had been demanding improvements in the existing system, but instead the Centre has brought laws, which were detrimental to the farming community, especially those with marginal land holdings. The protest under the banner of 30 kisan unions were being held at Gehri Mandi railway station, outside the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik, toll plazas and petrol pumps of Reliance. Participating in the protest, a group of shopkeepers said that with income of the farming community dwindling, they would be the first to suffer loss. They said rural economy has already taken a hit with corporate houses entering their segment. The shopkeepers expressed solidarity with farmers and promised to support their cause. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industries-almost-run-out-of-stock-closure-imminent-164697
02-11-2020||Amritsar||One held with 1.7-kg ganja||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-1-7-kg-ganja-164701
02-11-2020||---||Dal Khalsa slams Centre for farmers’ distress||Amritsar, November 1To commemorate the 55th Punjab Day, the Dal Khalsa today held a rally to highlight contentious issues related to denial of rights and farmers’ distress.Kanwar Pal Singh, spokesman, Dal Khalsa, released a policy document which reiterated for Punjab’s sovereignty and self-rule through right to self determination.The organisation blamed the Centre for looting river water and natural resources of the state. The leaders demanded visa-free entry and free trade for accessing central and western Asian markets via Wagha border.Remembering 1984 killings of Sikhs in Delhi, the Dal Khalsa activists held a march.Terming Prime Minister Narendra Modi as anti-farmer and pro-capitalists, party chief Harpal Singh Cheema slammed the dictatorial attitude of the government.The activists carried placards highlighting November 1984 justice denied and UN silence baffling. Another placard supported agitating farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-slams-centre-for-farmers-distress-164702
02-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Zila parishad member among 16 booked for hooliganism||Tarn Taran, November 1The Sarai Amanat Khan police have booked Congress zila parishad member Munish Kumar along with 16 others (two groups) for hooliganism and firing in the air in Cheema Kalan village on Saturday.Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Narinder Singh said besides Munish, his associates Hanspal Singh, Malkiat Singh, and Gurwinder Singh, all residents of Cheema Khurd, with six unidentified associates had been booked.Those booked from the rival group include Baba Dilbag Singh and Sahib Singh of Cheema Kalan village along with five of their associates.Possession of a ‘gaushala’ situated in Cheema Kalan was the bone of contention. Baba Dilbag Singh was having control of the said gaushala.The ASI said the rival factions had clashed earlier as well over the same issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/zila-parishad-member-among-16-booked-for-hooliganism-164704
02-11-2020||Amritsar||Man files plaint with SC panel||Resham Singh, a resident of Kohali village, alleged his four- wheeler was forcibly taken by Ranjit Singh, Station House Officer, Police station cantonment, and Assistant Sub-Inspector Davinder Singh, a few days ago.In his complaint to the Punjab State SC Commission, Resham claimed that the incident occurred when he was not at his home. He alleged the vehicle belonged to Naresh Kumar, who had taken a loan from him. He added that the vehicle was returned without paying his dues.SHO Ranjit said as per the directions of the SC Commission they were resolving the tussle between two groups. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-files-plaint-with-sc-panel-164705
02-11-2020||---||Three-day polio drive begins||Amritsar, November 1The three-day pulse polio immunisation drive to immunise children below five years of age was initiated by the Health Department today. Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh inaugurated the drive.Dr Navdeep said they want to create awareness among residents regarding immunisation and administer polio drops to kids.He said successful completion of the drive during the Covid-19 pandemic would be a big challenge.He said 1.27 lakh children below the age of five years would be immunised during the drive. The department has constituted 695 teams, which would be overseen by 130 supervisors.District Immunisation Officer Dr Sukhpal Singh said though India has been declared a polio-free nation by World Health Organisation, but in the wake of the polio cases emerging from neighbouring countries, including Pakistan and Afghanistan, the government was taking precautions.He urged masses to cooperate with health teams and get their children immunised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-day-polio-drive-begins-164706
02-11-2020||---||Golden Temple illuminated on Guru Ram Das Gurpurb eve||Amritsar, November 1Holiday todayThe Punjab Government has announced a holiday in the district to mark the birth anniversary of fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das. All government offices, boards and corporations and government educational institutes would remain closed.On the eve of the birth anniversary of Guru Ram Das, founder of the holy city, the entire Golden Temple complex was decked up with rare varieties of flowers and illuminated on Sunday. Congratulating the Sikhs on the eve of Gurpurb, Gobind Singh Longowal, president of the SGPC, said the life of the fourth Sikh master was an inspiration to the entire humanity. He appealed to them to adopt the principles of service, ‘simran’, politeness and humility out of the life of the fourth master.Devotees from Delhi and Mumbai brought different varieties of ornamental flowers to tastefully beautify the entire holy complex. About nine tonnes of flowers were used by about 120 people to beautify the sanctum sanctorum, Akal Takht and Parikrama.Jalaun (a show of splendour), showcasing precious and historic artefacts, will be displayed at Harmandar Sahib, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai tomorrow.Besides the historic gurdwaras, all those buildings which are under the control of the SGPC, will illuminate with lights. The SGPC illuminated not only historic Gurdwars for the occasion but also those buildings, which are under its control.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-illuminated-on-guru-ram-das-gurpurb-eve-164707
02-11-2020||---||Pind bachao, Punjab bachao kicks off from Jallianwala Bagh||Amritsar, November 1A unique mass contact campaign Pind bachao, Punjab bachao kicked off from Amritsar today. Activists from different backgrounds will hold dialogues with residents of the Majha, Malwa and Doaba regions regarding major issues affecting the state.Former jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib Giani Kewal Singh led the march by paying tribute to martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh.He said they would sensitise the Punjabis to their rights, mother tongue and other issues. “The Centre is bent on handing over all the assets of the country to corporate houses. Farmers are in a do-or-die situation. By implementing the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), labour laws, farm laws, CAA and Electricity (Amendment) Bill, the Central Government has encroached upon the powers of the state. We want to interact with a large section of society in the state”, he said.The activists will stay for four days in each district and hold at least three conferences daily. In the first phase, the march will be held in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran.In the second phase, the march will start from Ferozepur and cover four districts of Malwa. Advocate Jaswinder Singh, convener, Akal Purakh ki Fauj, said, “Natural resources of Punjab are under pressure. Youths are frustrated due to unemployment and are putting their parents under debt by going overseas.”“Health and education services need to be revamped. We intend to discuss these issues during the march, which will last for three months. Each delegation will comprise at least 20 representatives from different fields who will participate on rotational basis,” he said. Senior journalist Hamir Singh, Dr Pyara Lal Garg , Tarsem Jodhan , Dr Sham Sunder Deepti, Karnail Singh Jakhepal, Dr Megha Singh and Prof Manjit Singh, among others, are associated with the campaign.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pind-bachao-punjab-bachao-kicks-off-from-jallianwala-bagh-164708
02-11-2020||---||2 deaths, 20 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, November 1With two more deaths in the district in the last 24 hours, the toll reached 456 on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Sarwan Singh, a 30-year-old from Chogawan village, near Ajnala; and Ramlian, a 68-year-old from Haripura.The district health authorities have also reported 20 new positive cases, with which the total count of infections has reached 11,894 in the district. The new cases include 17 influenza-like illness cases and three contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, with the recovery of 21 patients, the recovery count has increased to 11,140. The district, at present, has a total of 298 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-deaths-20-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-164710
02-11-2020||Open House||Complacency can prove fatal, intensify awareness campaigns||Although we are witnessing a downward trend in the cases, yet complacency can prove fatal. We haven’t got rid of the virus completely. Continuing with the basic precautions to stall off the virus is the need of the hour. Social distancing and face masks are extremely helpful. The government must make the use of the mask mandatory and the offenders must be punished on the spot. The face mask is the second best option until a vaccine is available. People should be warned about their complacency through different campaigns and awareness camps. All bustling parts of the state must be sanitised and made immaculate frequently. Use of firecrackers on the coming Diwali can be banned too as its smoke is deadly for the Covid patients. Public should understand that protection from the virus is the responsibility of one and all. The English proverb ‘Everybody’s responsibility is nobody’s responsibility’ must not be followed in these times. The Health Department staff must be helped in all possible ways as they are the frontline workers. There shouldn’t be any room for complacency in the festive and winter season ahead.Anil SharmaQUESTIONAir pollution has already witnessed a spike in the state due to stubble burning. What steps should be taken to keep pollution levels in check during festival season?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 5).‘Intensify awareness programmes’People at large are gearing up for the festive season, planning reunions, going on shopping spree and eating at their favourite restaurants as before the pandemic. But there is no guarantee that things will be back to normal as experts have warned of another Covid wave if proper precautions are not taken. Actually the reports of substantial increase in recovery rates have instilled a false sense of security in the general public. A feeling of complacency has set in due to the number of positive cases going down considerably. Also people seem to be fed up with an element of pandemic fatigue, tired of staying indoors. Wearing masks and maintaining social distancing have devastatingly impacted their nerves. Hence, they are out under the illusion that virus has vanished. This thinking along the line has the potential of playing havoc with the prospective victims of the impending second wave. From a period of the strict lockdown they have come to a stage of sheer recklessness because of which Punjab is likely to witness a resurgence of cases as of USA and Europe. Hence, the government must persevere with strenuous efforts of social distancing, wearing of masks and practising frequent hand washing. These three are the golden rules. If the government does not prepare properly and adequately, there is the lurking fear that the healthcare infrastructure may collapse completely without any warning making things go haywire. The onset of winter could lead to a spurt in the Covid cases as respiratory viruses thrive profusely and better in cold conditions. Therefore, the government ought to be extra vigilant in following the standard protocols. Public awareness programmes should be intensified. People’s cooperation should be solicited. Strategic testing, contact tracing through apps, effective public communication, involvement of citizens and taking care of all the aspects of the adverse impact of the pandemic on society should be pursued vigorously and calculated efforts should be footed without any laxity.Tarsem S BumrahKeep your guard up with the maskThe Punjab Government does not heed the current scenario. It is busy in pulling out the legs of other leaders. They do not have any idea what is going around. In fact, now the people are not expecting anything from the government. People are smart enough to understand the incumbent situation, but sometimes they resort to reckless behaviour like not wearing masks in public. This should not happen. Festivals are in sight and markets are packed with masses because festivals like Karwachauth, Diwali are on the way. There is nothing wrong going to the market with precautions. One should always wear mask outside.Saahil HansNo complacency, People following measuresKeeping in view the fear of second wave, it is wrong to presume that people are developing complacency during festival season. Ten days of Navratri are proof of it. Even your newspaper reported ‘Dasehra festival a low-key affair’. People on their part are cautious of ill-effects of the virus; it is for central and state governments to stop pushing the panic button and taking practical steps to uplift the declining economy. They should be equally concerned with the public gathering at protest sites and election rallies as with the gatherings at social and religious functions. Just watch the election rallies of different political parties, addressed by top leadership during the ongoing election campaign in Bihar. Our politicians are throwing to winds all norms of distancing during their rallies. They should practise what they preach. It’s been more than a month since farmers of our state have been agitating the agri Bills. Instead of fighting a political battle on this issue all political parties should sit together to solve it and avoid public gatherings at protest sites. On one hand not more than 100 persons are allowed in a social gathering and on the other hand hundreds of farmers are protesting at a single site. Though we should take all the precautions to avoid spread, yet media should dispel the panic created by the Centre. Due to this, the central government took an easy route to enforce farm laws. Without issuing ordinances they could have directly brought in the farm laws in the Parliament. It is high time for central and state governments to give a push to the declining economy instead of creating panic and fearful atmosphere of the virus.Harsh N JoharState must learn from past complacencyThe onerous task done initially by the Punjab government to curb the spread of is quite commendable. Even the people stood by the current regime at dispensation and abided by and adhered to the timely instructions. Consequently, Punjab’s share in covid-19 cases was quite low. But since the time Union government initiated the process of unlocking, the state machinery also followed the bandwagon without giving a second thought oblivious of the fact that the cases started rising in Punjab by that time. So the point to be noted down, is throwing caution to the wind and developing complacency have proved to be extremely detrimental for the health and hygiene of all and sundry. The AQI in Punjab and its surrounding area is rising by the day, which again is not a good sign as people commonly suffer from cold and cough in the winters. The contagion being an air-borne disease can spread its tentacles in the cold season. The European countries have already been under the spell of this deadly pandemic and have adopted even stricter and more deterrent steps for the safety of their citizens. Both the central and state governments must take a leaf of wisdom not only from their own past experience, but also from the Westerners to prevent their people from falling prey. The State should issue an advisory and start implanting the stern measure to safeguard its people the way it did in the beginning. There is no need to open all the commercial sectors in one go. The human resource is the biggest repository and it must not be put to risk at any cost. As an adage goes, ‘prevention is better than cure’ and this is the best time to exercise and implement it for our own welfare.Simranjeet Singh SainiStrict adherence to rules only way outPunjab Government should not open schools as the attendance is very low and schools can become a hotspot for transmission. People have become very complacent not knowing that the second wave has already hit Europe. A casual stroll in the market will reveal the careless attitude of some people towards the pandemic. The guidelines issued by global organisations such as WHO are for own safety and there is no harm in following them. Strict adherence to rules by all stakeholders is the best way to deal with the Covid-19.Jatinderpal Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complacency-can-prove-fatal-intensify-awareness-campaigns-164711
02-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Afghan onion brings down soaring price||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 1Afghan onion imported through the Integrated Check Post (ICP) at the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post is replenishing supplies and bringing down the soaring prices.Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal in Delhi on Friday had announced to import 25,000 tonnes more onion before Diwali. All these moves contributed in crashing of onion price in domestic markets on Sunday, indicating hoarders offloading their holding in the open market.Importers said in the wholesale markets of Delhi, the rate nosedived from Rs 50 to Rs 35 per kg, in Maharashtra from Rs 70 to Rs 40 and Punjab between Rs 28 and Rs 30 per kg. Red onion brought from Afghanistan’s Balkh and Ghazni through the ICP is being supplied to Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir.Charanjit Singh Batra, a wholesale trader, said the domestic supply of onion from Rajasthan’s Alwar and Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur commenced, which bridged the supply and demand gap.Jatinder Khurana, a leading importer and exporter, rued that they were incurring losses on account of not only crashing trend in the market but also due to various other reasons.He said the authorities at the ICP had objected to its packaging in gunny bags, increasing chances of contraband being concealed in them. Therefore, repackaging was ordered at the ICP. “It escalated the cost and denied the much-needed supply to timely reach the market,” he said. About five tonnes of onion either got damaged or stolen from each truck, carrying at least 35 tonnes.The arrival of trucks increased from 10 to 70 a day after Indian importers asked Afghan exporters to pack onion in plastic bags. It takes about six days for import consignment to reach here from Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/afghan-onion-brings-down-soaring-price-164725
02-11-2020||Amritsar||Capt Amarinder Singh lays stone for Rs 50 cr works in Amritsar||A state-level function to commemorate the birth anniversary of Bhagwan Valmiki was held at Ram Tirath, believed to be the ancient hermitage site of the sage, near here on Saturday.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh virtually laid the foundation stone for projects worth Rs 50 crore at the Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal (Ram Tirath), which includes a panorama on the sage, facade illumination, filtration plant in the sarovar, furniture for the sarai and construction of a ‘parikrama’. Technical Education Minister Charanjit Singh Channi was present during the function.The CM also virtually inaugurated a new Ram Tirath ITI and gave the go-ahead for the establishment of a Skill Development Centre to prepare Dalit students for competitive exams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-amarinder-singh-lays-stone-for-rs-50-cr-works-in-amritsar-164750
