02-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Easy availability of illegal weapons a headache for cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 1A sharp rise in the seizure of illegal and country-made weapons has become a headache for the Punjab Police even as the crime rate has shot up in the holy city.According to the police, these arms were being supplied from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh at cheaper rates.Ironically, the Punjab Police are finding it difficult to check the easy availability and sneaking of these illegal weapons into the state, if the recent seizures are anything to go by.In November alone, the Amritsar rural police confiscated seven pistols, five revolvers, two desi kattas and ammunition. Besides, the police arrested 18 persons in this connection. Among those arrested included two suppliers who used to supply weapons to unscrupulous elements after procuring them from Madhya Pradesh. They were identified as Karanpreet Singh, son of Shankar Singh, and Karanpreet Singh, son of Heera Singh, both residents of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area here in the city. The police confiscated two pistols with four live bullets from their possession. They used to sell the same to their ‘clients’ here for around Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. One of the pistols has the marking of ‘Made in Italy’ and Beretta Gardonevt CAL 78mm, PAT 7421.A police official requesting anonymity said as per the investigation carried out in seizures of arms, these weapons were manufactured in Meerut, Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Munger in Bihar and Malwa-Nimar region of Madhya Pradesh. He said these weapons were being sold at a cost between Rs 5,000 and Rs 1 lakh depending on their calibre and quality. He said as manufacturing was done in other states, higher police officials had taken up the matter with other state counterparts.“If you go by the recent incidents, even petty criminals have access to these weapons and they do not think twice before using it. Firing incidents even over minor quarrels have increased, creating a law and order problem,” pointed out Sarabjit Singh Verka, principal investigator, Punjab Human Rights Organisation, an NGO.“It is not only criminal elements like gangsters and snatchers who are in possession of illegal arms, many youths, too, have these weapons, pointing towards growing gun culture among youngsters,” he adds.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “The police have been taking measures to check the supply of illegal weapons. The city police have confiscated around 25 country-made weapons this year. Until and unless the smuggling and illegal manufacturing of arms are dealt with iron hand, efforts would bear no fruit.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/easy-availability-of-illegal-weapons-a-headache-for-cops-178583
02-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Life is getting tough for him with each passing day||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, DECEMBER 1The Covid pandemic has left him all alone with the chores of his shop. He was forced to lay off the two employees he had hired before the lockdown as the pandemic had eaten into his profits.Raju, a salon owner, is now looking after the shop and customers on his own. His day starts at 7 am as he hurries to open his shop an hour later after completing his morning tasks and shutters are downed at 7 at night, with one hour lunch break in between.They were not called back even after the opening of the lockdown because expenditures had to be brought down. The customers were most welcomed but owing to virus threat they were holding their horses lest they should get infected. Gradually, the people regained confidence and started coming as they used to do.On the other hand, domestic expenditure also kept rising. His daughter is studying in Class X and son is a Class VII student. The shift to digital mode compelled him to buy a PC. “I had to buy a computer to continue their studies,” he feels the pinch.Now, the competition in the field has also become thicker. “The virus taught people the value of skilled hands. The renewed attraction has beckoned many youngsters to start their own salons. Higher competition means that customers have more choices.”Earlier, there were only a couple of salon shops in the locality. “Competition is becoming tougher and shriller with each passing day, requiring us to invest frequently in upgrading infrastructure and equipment at shops”, he tells as he gets down to business with a customer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/life-is-getting-tough-for-him-with-each-passing-day-178584
02-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Love triangle claims 17-yr-old’s life, 8 booked||Tarn Taran, December 1A love triangle claimed the life of a 17-year-old boy Anmolpreet Singh of Mehmudpur village on Monday. He was accompanying his cousin Gurbhinder Singh, who had come to meet his girlfriend Ninder Kaur, alias Maro, of nearby Bhura Kona village.As many as eight persons, including two women, have been booked by the Khemkaran police.Inspector Shaminder Singh, SHO Khemkaran, who was the investigating officer (IO), said the accused included two sisters identified as Ninder Kaur, alias Maro, of Bhura Kona village; her married sister Amarjit Kaur of Manawan village; Lovepreet Singh Labha; Aman Singh, both of Bhura Kona; and Nishan Singh of Bhura Karimpura.The SHO said three more persons were involved in the crime. He said accused Ninder Kaur had an affair with accused Lovepreet Singh of her own village and she was dating Gurbhinder Singh of nearby Mehmudpur village at the same time.Lovepreet Singh, belonging to a well-off family, wanted to eliminate his rival Gurbhinder Singh.He, in connivance with Maro, made a conspiracy to eliminate Gurbhinder. Maro called Gurbhinder Singh to meet her. Gurbhinder reached the spot with his cousin Anmolpreet Singh on his Bullet motorcycle, while Maro and her sister came on a moped. Gurbhinder and Maro were talking to each other, when they saw Lovepreet Singh Labha and others coming towards them in an Innova from a distance.Maro and her sister escaped from the spot. Gurbhinder, too, was leaving on his bike, when Labha hit their bike from behind with his SUV. Both Gurbhinder and Anmolpreet fell on the road and the accused stabbed them multiple times and fled from the spot.Gurbhinder somehow pulled out Anmolpreet from the bike, but he was unconscious. He went to nearby hospital of Bhikhiwind, when Anmolpreet succumbed to his injuries.The SHO said the accused have been booked under Sections 302, 120-B, 148, 149 and 506 of the IPC. He said the accused were still at large and the police were conducting raids to arrest them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/love-triangle-claims-17-yr-olds-life-8-booked-178585
02-12-2020||---||Woman alleges rape, 2 booked||Amritsar, December 1A married woman has accused two persons of allegedly raping her in Gillwali village falling under Ramdass police station area here. Though the incident occurred on November 23, a complaint was lodged with the police yesterday.The police have registered a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused identified as Hardev Singh of Teda Rajputa village and Rana Singh of Gilwali village. No arrest has been made so far.The victim told the police that she was alone at her home and her husband had gone outside. She alleged the accused had a motor repairing shop near her residence. She alleged at around 6 pm, Rana Singh caught her of arms and dragged her in a room and raped her. She said when she tried to raise an alarm, the accused stuffed a cloth in her mouth. She said later Hardev Singh also raped her. They threatened to kill her in case she told anyone about this.The police authorities said the medical examination of the victim was conducted and further investigations were under progress. Raids were on to nab the suspects who were on run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-alleges-rape-2-booked-178586
02-12-2020||
||Several trains short-terminated, cancelled,  as farmers’ stir on||Amritsar, December 1 The Railways continues to cancel two pair of trains from the Amritsar railway station while six trains will short- originate and be short-terminated, besides many trains will be diverted due to the ongoing railway blockade by farmer organisations.  The 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar express special train commencing on December 2 will remain cancelled. Consequently, the 09612 Amritsar-Ajmer special train on December 3 will also remain cancelled. The 05211 Dibrugarh-Amritsar express special train will remain cancelled on December 3. Consequently, the 05212 Amritsar –Dibrugarh special train will also remain cancelled on December 3. Trains short-terminated, short-originated  The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar express will be short terminated at New Delhi on December 2. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded express will short-originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi on December 4. The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar express will be short-terminated at Chandigarh on December 2. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus express will short-originate from Chandigarh on December 4 and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh-Amritsar-Chandigarh. The 08237 Korba-Amritsar express will be short-terminated at Ambala on December 2. Consequently, the 08238 Amritsar-Korba express will short-originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala-Amritsar-Ambala on December 4. The 02407 New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar will be short-terminated at Ambala on December 2. Consequently, the 02408 Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri express special will short- originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar on December 4. The 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar express special will short-originate from Ambala on December 2. The 04651 Jaynagar-Amritsar express special will be short-terminated at Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar on December 4. The 04654 Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri express special will short-originate from Saharanpur on December 2. Consequently, the 04653 Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri express special will short-terminate at Saharanpur and remain partially cancelled between Saharanpur and Amritsar on December 4. Many trains will be diverted like the 04650 /74 Amritsar-Jaynagar express special will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas on December 2. The 08215 Durg-Jammu Tawi Express special train will be diverted to run via Ludhiana Jalandhar Cantt-Pathankot Cantt on December 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/several-trains-short-terminated-cancelled-as-farmers-stir-on-178587
02-12-2020||---||Renowned artist Arpana Caur donates her painting to IAFA||Amritsar, December 1Senior artist Arpana Caur donated a painting from her series of works based on Guru Nanak Dev to the Indian Academy of Fine Arts.Caur’s painting titled ‘The Seeker’ was unveiled at an invocation held at the art gallery to mark the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.The painting will be kept at the permanent display collection of the IAFA at the gallery.FICCI FLO’s chairperson, Meeta Mehra, who was instrumental in bringing the painting from Delhi to Amritsar, along with FLO committee members, unveiled ‘The Seeker’ while Arpana Caur joined the ceremony through virtual mode.“The painting is beautiful oil on canvas depiction of Baba Nanak by none other than Arpana Caur. Baba Nanak’s teachings and philosophy are so relevant today as the concept of Oneness,” said Meeta.Caur said it was her dream to donate a painting of Baba Nanak to the art gallery. She had earlier held an exhibition of 10 of her paintings inspired by Guru Nanak at Delhi as part of the 550 years of Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev. She said spirituality resonates in her creative essence since childhood and her mother, Padamshri novelist Ajeet Caur’s writings and works also contributed to her artistic sensibilities.Undleeb Aujla, wife of MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, was among the guests of honour at the unveiling ceremony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/renowned-artist-arpana-caur-donates-her-painting-to-iafa-178588
02-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Explore new paths to discover your true potential!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 1Manoj Kumar spent 17 years of his life serving as a security guard at a private school of the city. With the outbreak of virus, the schools were shuttered and the managements chucked out much of the staff.Manoj observed the crisis, being aware he could get the axe anytime soon, weighing options was the next best thing; perhaps, the only thing to do. “I didn’t have much savings and being 50 it was not easy to start a new business,” he said.But he was passionate enough to do something with the limited resources. Finally, he decided to start from vend. However, setting up one is not that easy. The markets are already full with the vendors and already established vendors won’t allow a newbie to trespass their territory.“I don’t have much to invest so I started with plastic crockery items. A president of vendor’s body was an acquaintance of mine, he helped in establishing a vend in Putligarh area,” he spoke of his luck.Instead of standing at one place, he prefers roaming the residential localities. After six months, he was able to earn the same money as the salary he received from the school management. “Now, my business is flourishing. I have invested in the steel utensils and earthenware too,” Manoj told.He is happy with the new occupation. “I had started as a security guard 17 years ago and till the end of my job I was just a guard. Now, I am growing day by day. There is a passion in my own business. There are risks but I am not afraid to take some in my stride,” he said. Now, Manoj has also applied for the registration with the MC. “There are several benefits of registration as the MC would provide space in vending zones,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/explore-new-paths-to-discover-your-true-potential-178589
02-12-2020||Amritsar||Gangster destroyed his mobile before arrest: Police||Notorious gangster Shubham had destroyed the mobile phone which he was using inside the Faridkot jail premises before he was arrested by the city police after bringing him on production warrant. He was in touch with his accomplices who executed the murder of his rival Sunny Gorilla’s brother Mani Dhawan on Friday. DCP (Investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Shubham had confessed before the police that he had destroyed the mobile phone which was used to connect with his accomplices and instructed them to shoot Gorilla’s brother down. Shubham who was arrested by the police on Monday had confessed that he had got him murdered by his accomplices. A hunt had been launched against the two assailants who were on the run and the police were hopeful of their arrest in a day or two. Shubham was remanded in three-day police custody by a court. Mani was shot dead by two armed assailants on 88-feet road on Majitha Road on Friday. The victim was basking in the sun near his shop. It is being suspected that Shubham’s accomplices shot him dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-destroyed-his-mobile-before-arrest-police-178590
02-12-2020||
||Majha House holds web session on Guru Nanak Dev’s personality||Amritsar, December 1  Writer Sarbpreet Singh explored a less widely understood aspect of Guru Nanak Dev’s personality as he interpreted his point of view from his book ‘When the Lion Roared’ at a web session held by Majha House. The session marked the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev and talked about the lesser known aspects of his personality. Throwing light on different traits of the first Sikh Guru’s personality, while interpreting verses and instances from Guru Granth Sahib, Sarbpreet said Guru Nanak had always been depicted as immersed in meditation in most commercial and popular spiritual art. “However, it sometimes seems that he has been reduced to a caricature of himself, characterised by the bazaar art that depicts him as a greybeard in a white or saffron turban, deep in meditation with heavy lidded eyes that are intended to convey a sense of spiritual immersion. It is absolutely true that Guru Nanak was defined by his spirituality and his devotion to the divine. He was a beacon of compassion who spent his entire life emphasising equality and tolerance, attributes that are rightly celebrated today. And yet, there were aspects to his personality that are no less significant, which have been eclipsed by this reductionist view,” he said. He has resonated this point of view in his book as well, comparing the Guru’s Bani (holy words) to a lion’s roar. He asserted that even now, we only have a passing sense of who Guru Nanak was as we try to understand the relevance of his teachings and philosophy.  He said that Bhai Gurdas, a 17th-century Sikh poet, one of the earliest biographers of Guru Nanak, too refers to him as a roaring lion in one of his ballads.  “Similarly, Guru Gobind Singh has always been portrayed as a fierce warrior whereas another aspect of his personality was that he was also a sensitive poet. Sikh Gurus have always stood against the atrocities and social injustice and raised their voice against evil that is no less than a lion’s roar,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majha-house-holds-web-session-on-guru-nanak-devs-personality-178591
02-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||No excuse going to help mask-less violators||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 1From tomorrow onwards, no excuse is going to help those who take Covid-related precautions lightly and do not wear a mask while stepping out of their houses. Now, people have to shell out Rs 1,000 as fine for not following Covid safety norms, as per the new guidelines.Amritsar reports 1 death, 47 +ve cases Amritsar: The health authorities reported 47 new positive cases taking the district tally to 13,164. A casualty was also reported taking the Covid-19 death toll to 502 in the district. The deceased was identified as Inderjit Kumar, 58, a resident of Ekta Nagar locality in Chotta Haripura area. Of the 47 patients, 26 were influenza-like illness cases and 21 were the contacts of positive patients. At present, the district has a total of 690 active cases. TNSNo violator finedA few days ago, the Punjab Government announced night curfew and doubled the fine from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 for violating government guidelines which were issued to contain the spread of the virus that has claimed many lives in the country and in the state. These guidelines were effective from today.Policemen were on Tuesday seen asking people to wear a mask. They even distributed masks to commuters who were seen roaming without putting on a mask.Even as there has been a fresh surge in the number of Covid-19 cases with the onset of winter, most people are not following the government instructions. They were seen commuting on roads and in the market without maintaining social distancing and wearing a mask.Dr Rakesh Sharma, who retired as an orthopaedic surgeon from Government Medical College here, said people did not understand the gravity of the situation prevailing globally. “The second wave of the pandemic during winter could be disastrous if people did not shun their careless attitude,” he said.In the current times of serious health crisis, wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and proper sanitization are the only ways to fight the virus. As responsible citizens, we should follow the instructions. On the other hand, the government should take strong measures for the implementation of these norms in letter and in spirit.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said as per the new guidelines, night curfew would be imposed from Tuesday evening. Movement of essential services would only be allowed after 10pm. He said marriage palaces and resorts were also asked to strictly adhere by the new norms. He urged the people to follow the guidelines like maintaining social distance and wearing a mask in public places to avoid contracting the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-excuse-going-to-help-mask-less-violators-178592
02-12-2020||Amritsar||KMSC boycotts talks with Centre||Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) rejected to be part of the talks held with the Centre on Tuesday.They argued that the agrarian crisis had affected the entire farming community and that the representatives of all farm unions from across the country should have been called up to hold a dialogue.Meanwhile, their ‘rail roko’ protest near Jandiala Guru track entered the 61st day.Committee’s state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the Centre had been adopting a divide and rule policy by extending invitation to 32 Punjab-based farm unions and ignoring those of UP, Haryana and other parts of the country.“This is the reason why we boycotted the invite. Moreover, the Centre was not inclined to create conducive environment to hold dialogue. The PM and the Home Minister never cared to attend the meeting with the farmers’ representatives. Farmers are being thrashed by the police and cases are being registered against them. How could the talks yield positive results under such circumstances?” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kmsc-boycotts-talks-with-centre-178640
02-12-2020||Amritsar||FIR sought against Kangana Ranaut||The youth wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), headed by Ved Parkash Bablu, today submitted a complaint to Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut for allegedly making objectionable remarks against women participating in the farmers’ agitation in Delhi.In the complaint, Bablu alleged that the actor had said that the women in the farmers’ protests had taken money for their participation. It was an insult to the farming community and women farmers. Kangana should apologise for her objectionable remarks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fir-sought-against-kangana-ranaut-178647
02-12-2020||Amritsar||Drone sighted in Ajnala sector||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-sighted-in-ajnala-sector-178649
02-12-2020||Amritsar||4 policemen held for graft||A day after the Vigilance arrested four policemen posted at the Chatiwind police station here on the charges of corruption, it is learnt that the accused had taken Rs 65,000 as bribe on different occasions. The Vigilance has booked seven persons in the case.While one of their accomplices ASI Kuldeep Singh has expired, remaining two — Mahinder Singh and Rajbir Singh are absconding.Those arrested were identified as Head Constable Ram Singh, Constable Palwinder Singh, Constable Harpinder Singh and Home Guard Lata Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-policemen-held-for-graft-178658
