03-01-2021||
||Postal Dept to rely on road network to deliver mails||Amritsar, January 2 In view of the suspension of rail services in different parts, the Postal Department has today launched a road transport network from the city. The initiative by the Punjab Postal Circle would ensure timely delivery of mail services in major cities of Punjab.  The initial road transport network launched today would connect Amritsar with Chandigarh via Jalandhar and Ludhiana. The department also has announced to launch another road transport network from Amritsar to Pathankot connecting Batala, Dhariwal and Gurdaspur.  Manisha Bansal Badal, Postmaster General, Punjab West Region, while flagging off the transport network stated that mail would be booked next day after the booking. “We would ensure next day delivery in all four cities; Amritsar, Jallandhar, Ludhiana and Chandigarh,” she said.  The Indian Postal Services Officer, Badal said that presently mail transmission through Railway Network has been suspended due to unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic which has adversely disrupted transmission of mails.  She said the initiative would help customers who want to book time sensitive articles to be delivered in four major cities of Punjab next day. She added that the road transport network between Amritsar and Pathankot would be launched on January 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/postal-dept-to-rely-on-road-network-to-deliver-mails-192760
03-01-2021||---||19-yr-old youth shot dead in Jandiala Guru; five booked||Amritsar, January 2A youth, identified as Abhishek Singh (19), a resident of Sheikhupura Mohalla in Jandiala Guru area, was gunned down allegedly by four of his accomplices here on Friday evening.His alleged illicit affair with the girlfriend of another drug trafficker was said to be the reason behind the incident.Case in a nutshellKishan, one of the suspects, was suspicious that Abhishek Singh was having an affair with his girlfriend. He said the victim had a quarrel with Kishan, Baljit and Happy Jatt a few days ago over this matter. He said the accused killed his brother at the behest of Happy Jatt. No arrest has been made till now while a case under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them on the statement of the victim's brother Akashdeep Singh.Those booked were identified as Baljit Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Kishan, residents of Sheikhupura Mohalla in Jandiala Guru, and Gurbhej Singh of Tarn Taran and Happy Jatt.No arrest has been made till now while a case under Sections 302 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against them on the statement of the victim’s brother Akashdeep Singh.Akashdeep told the police that he, along with his brother, was having a chat near a vacant plot in the locality when the accused came on two bikes and indiscriminately fired at him. He suffered around five bullet injuries in the chest and died on way to hospital.He said Kishan was suspicious that Abhishek was having an affair with his girlfriend. He said the victim had a quarrel with Kishan, Baljit and Happy Jatt a few days ago over this matter. He said the accused killed his brother at the behest of Happy Jatt.Inspector Paramjit Singh, investigating officer of the case, said Kishan, Baljit and Gurbhej Singh had several cases of murderous assault and NDPS cases registered against them. He said Happy Jatt had escaped from police custody from Hoshiarpur when he was being taken to court.The police have got CCTV footage of the suspects who fled from the spot after committing the crime.Paramjit Singh said raids were on to nab the suspects. The body of the victim was handed over to his family members after a postmortem here on Saturday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/19-yr-old-youth-shot-dead-in-jandiala-guru-five-booked-192761
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent  
||One held with heroin, pistol||Tarn Taran, January 2 The Patti Sadar police have arrested Prabhdeep Singh of Dasuwal village and seized 100 gm of heroin, one country-made pistol and five cartridges from his possession. SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia said the accused was seen moving in the area in a car and was stopped by a police party, led by ASI Nirmal Singh, on his suspicious activities. During search 100 gm of heroin, one country-made pistol and five live cartridges were seized from him.   A case under Sections 21-B, 61 and 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has beeen registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-held-with-heroin-pistol-192762
03-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Crackdown on manufacturers of illicit liquor||In a crackdown on the manufacturers of illicit liquor on the first day of the New Year (on Friday), the district police conducted raids at five places and recovered 76,500 ml of illicit liquor.  The police said in a raid on the residence of Dheera Singh of Pandori Gola village, 18,750 ml of illicit liquor was recovered. Dheera Singh was arrested. Five months ago, the spurious liquor tragedy had happened at Pandori Gola which claimed the lives of 12 persons and six persons responsible for supplying spurious liquor had been booked.  The Chabal police arrested Pargat Singh of Jagatpura village with 37,500 ml of illicit liquor. The police said Satnam Singh of Algon Khurd and Jaskaran Singh of Dhunn village were arrested with 6,750 ml of illicit liquor each by the Valtoha and the Khalra police. A police party of the Kacha Pakka police station recovered 6,750 ml of illicit liquor from the residence of Bhola Singh of Ghurkwind village. Bhola managed to escape from the spot.  — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crackdown-on-manufacturers-of-illicit-liquor-192763
03-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||She doesn’t mind having odds stacked against her||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2Braving all odds, a city resident Veena Arora (44) won a gold medal for India in para-taekwondo event at Canada Open-2019 Games and put Amritsar on the global map.She lost her right hand due to negligence on the part of doctors at the age of 25. In 2000, her right hand had to be amputated as she had developed gangrene due to wrong prescription. Ironically, soon after the horrifying incident, her husband left her and their three-old-year son. But she didn’t lose hope.She moved to her parents’ home and started doing all household chores with left hand. In 2010, Veena met a person at New Delhi who inspired her to try para sports.“It was not easy for me to participate in sports. It took me two years to make a decision. Finally, I have started training for para-sports. Initially, I started with shot put and later got training in taekwondo. I have participated in several international events and won several medals. The journey is still on”, she added.In 2013, Veena bagged the gold medal in shot put in the Delhi State Paralympic Tournament, followed by gold and silver medals in shot put and discus throw at the 14th National Senior Athletics Championship.In 2014, she represented India in the eighth Grand Prix in Tunisia and qualified for the Asian Games. In 2016, she got silver medals in javelin and discus throw in the 16th National Para Athletic Championship. Thereafter, she got training in taekwondo and won a bronze in Para Taekwondo Asian Championship in Philippines. She represented India in the World Para taekwondo Championship in London in 2017.She clinched bronze in the Short Put in Portugal. In 2018, she won a bronze medal in Kathmandu International Championship in Nepal and another bronze in South Korea.In 2019, she won the gold medal for India in the para-taekwondo event at Canada Open 2019 Games. She represented the country in Turkey and won bronze medal in the Para Gold cost championship in Australia. She also won the President’s Cup Asian region in Iran in 2019. Same year, she received the Maharaja Ranjit Singh State Award of Punjab government for her achievements.“I don’t face any issue while doing my business, household chores as I take it as a challenge. However, the government is insensitive for the physically challenged people. We staged a demonstration on International Handicap Day for financial assistance for the physically challenged persons,” said Arora.She is now preparing for the international events scheduled to organise in 2021. She would participate in Para Olympics this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-doesnt-mind-having-odds-stacked-against-her-192764
03-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||Slain Pak intruders’ accomplices identified||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2A fortnight after two Pakistani intruders were gunned down by the Border Security Force close to Rajatal border outpost, the Amritsar rural police have arrested an alleged drug peddler and nominated four others in the case.According to the police they were to retrieve the drugs and weapons consignment being smuggled by the Pakistani intruders.A senior police official while preferring anonymity has confirmed the development. The arrested accused was identified as Jobanpreet Singh, alias Luckey of Ladeh village, falling under the Rajasansi police station here.“He was held following technical input and human intelligence that they were in the area for allegedly retrieving the drugs and weapons consignment,” he said. Among others who were booked in the case included Jaskaran Singh, alias Billa, and Gopi of Dauke, Sukhbir Singh, alias Sukha alias Jagroop, and Chamkaur Singh, both residents of Bhuse village located near Indo-Pak border. Raids were on to nab the accused.Two armed intruders from Pakistan were shot dead by the troops of 71 Battalion of BSF close to Rajatal border outpost (BoP) near Amritsar during the wee hours on December 17.The BSF had foiled two attempts of heroin and weapon smuggling from across the border. It confiscated one AK 56 rifle, two magazines and 61 live rounds, one magnum rifle, one magazine with 29 rounds, one pistol with two magazines, two PVC pipes, and Rs 30 in Pakistani currency were recovered from slain intruders.At the same time it thwarted drug smuggling attempt around a km ahead from the spot where these intruders were shot dead. The jawans observed something being thrown on this side of barbed fence. Later, it had recovered three packets weighing around 3-kg heroin.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/slain-pak-intruders-accomplices-identified-192765
03-01-2021|| 
||Two nabbed for firing at medical store owner||Amritsar, January 2 The Chatiwind police have nabbed two persons for allegedly firing at a medical store owner located opposite to Manawala community health centre on December 24 evening. Malkit Singh, owner of the chemist shop, had suffered injuries while the unknown accused had fled in a car.  The police had registered a case of murder bid against unidentified persons at that time. During investigations the police with the help of CCTV cameras in the area traced the car number as PB-37-D-5772 and zeroed in on the two suspects identified as Sajandeep Singh of Manawala and Lovepreet Singh of Tarn Taran.  Both the accused were nabbed and the police recovered the car and a .12 rifle used in the crime. The accused were produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation to ascertain the motive behind the assault.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-for-firing-at-medical-store-owner-192766
03-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Mai Bhago Public School gets Atal Tinkering Lab||Mai Bhago International Public School Usma (Tarn Taran) has been given the project of ATL (Atal Tinkering Lab- “Learning by doing”) by the Union Government. The school affiliated with the ICSE/ISC would be a major source of motivation for the students for raising their scientific temperament. Mai Bhago School has also been allotted NCC wing for junior and senior students. This will lead to holistic development of the students on account of attaining NCC-C certificates and students’ preference in various exams and interviews. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mai-bhago-public-school-gets-atal-tinkering-lab-192767
03-01-2021||PK Jaiswar
||Mobiles of two farmers seized||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, January 2  Two farmers and eyewitnesses of the police encounter in which a carjacking suspect and Hoshiarpur resident Inderjit Singh was shot dead by the CIA staff of city police near Jandiala Guru toll plaza have got their statements recorded with the Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Vikas Hira, who was entrusted with the magisterial probe into the case.  Their mobile phones were confiscated by the SDM for evidence. Dilbagh Singh and Pargat Singh were among the farmers holding agitations near the toll plaza in wake of the nationwide protest against three controversial farm laws.  They had recorded the encounter. However, these videos were later deleted by a police official it is believed.  SDM Hira, while talking to The Tribune, confirmed that the two mobile phones were seized. He said further investigations were still underway. Asked about the family members, he said that they were yet to record their statements.  “The family had demanded some documents, including autopsy report before recording their statements,” he added.  Maninderpal Singh, brother of the deceased, said the cops, including CIA staff of city police and Jandiala Guru police station, where a case was registered against Inderjit Singh, had not appeared before the SDM even as they were summoned a number of times. “We have urged the SDM to record the statements of the cops also before taking our statements,” he said. He added that an autopsy report of Inderjit Singh, copies of DDR registered by CIA staff of city police and Jandiala Guru police station besides mobile locations of the suspects was demanded. ‘They were yet to get the same,” he revealed.  He said that the family members are thinking of approaching Punjab and Haryana High Court if justice isn’t served.  Inderjit Singh, a Hoshiarpur resident, was gunned down by the police under mysterious circumstances on December 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mobiles-of-two-farmers-seized-192768
03-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga
||Residents hail extension of last date of filing ITRs||Tribune News Service Amritsar, January 2 Income Tax payers heaved a sigh of relief after the Union Government extended the deadline to file Income Tax Return (ITR) for the financial year 2019-2020 to January 10.  This is the third time that the government extended the deadline to file the ITR. Earlier, the deadline was till December 31. Iqbal Singh, an employee with a private limited firm, thanked the government for extending the deadline for filing the ITR. He said the previous year was full of challenges for the employees. They had to face salary cuts. Moreover, the Covid-19 induced lockdown made it impossible for them to collect relevant documents and file a timely ITR.  Navin Haq, a licensed ITR filing resource person at the local Income Tax department said the government also extended the date of furnishing the tax audit report to January 15. He added that the Union Government also changed the format of intimating the Income Tax department after filing of return. Earlier, a copy of the filed ITR used to be dispatched to IT’s Bengaluru office. Now, it has been replaced with online format in which an OTP is received on the assessee’s mobile number.  PL Seth, a shawl manufacturer, said the extension of the deadline was for those individuals whose accounts were not required to be audited and who usually file their income tax returns using ITR-1 or ITR-4 forms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-hail-extension-of-last-date-of-filing-itrs-192769
03-01-2021||Our Correspondent 
||8 motorbikes recovered, gangs of robbers busted||Tarn Taran, January 2  The Sarhali police busted a three-member gang of robbers while the Patti city police unearthed a three-member gang of vehicle lifters on Saturday. SSP Dhruman H Nimble informed newsmen here that the robbers Amritpal Singh and Harjinder Singh of Khara village have been arrested by the Sarhali police from nearby Billianwala village. Their third accomplice Pali of Khara village absconded from the spot. The SSP revealed that besides committing other criminal activities the gang stole the offerings from a gurdwara of Dhotian village by breaking the ‘golak’. A case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered by the Sarhali police. The SSP added that two members of the vehicle lifters gang Manpreet Singh Mani of Lahuka and Shiva of Patti town have been arrested. The police seized eight stolen motor cycles on the information given by the arrested gang members. Their associate Abdal of Patti town was absconding, said the SSP.  A case under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered by Patti city police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-motorbikes-recovered-gangs-of-robbers-busted-192770
03-01-2021||Gurdaspur Assistant Excise and Taxation Commissioner (AETC) Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa is an officer known for her daring and audacity in squaring off with villagers actively engaged in manufacturing illegal hooch. The experience and expertise she carries in tackling the menace are well-known to villagers involved in the nefarious trade. However||Not on my watch!||five of hospital stafffeted by outgoing SMODr Bhupinder Singh, Senior Medical Officer of the Pathankot Civil Hospital, superannuated after putting in 32 years of spotless service. A soft spoken and affable man, the doc, on the day he left the hospital one final time, not only bid adieu to his staff but also handed over certificates of appreciation to five of his colleagues for being in the forefront of fighting Covid. They were Dr Punit Gill and Dr Sakshi Salgotra and staff nurses Navjot Kaur, Poonam and Nisha. Dr Gill, while waxing eloquent on the work of Dr Bhupinder Singh, had also some words of wisdom for the common man in these dreaded times of the pandemic. “The world is going through some unprecedented times as the normal has been upended by the arrival of the deadly virus. But hope can always help pull people out of the most difficult times. It is a powerful force and can also prove to be a source of reassurance. We need both reassurance and hope to make certain that this too shall pass. The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where he stands in times of challenge and confrontation. Lets join hands and fight the virus together,” said Dr Gill.Old is gold!‘All depends how determined we are to be successful’. A prime example of this age-old adage is Baba Sukha Singh of Khajala Udhowal village in Batala sub-division. He converted his ‘rehri’ into a rickshaw and rode it to Delhi to be with the protesting farmers. He claimed he took thirty one days to reach the national capital. “I am part of the farming community and hence it was my duty to stand by my brethren in their hour of need,” he said. Indeed, every accomplishment starts with the decision to try. (Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-on-my-watch-192773
03-01-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||Orchestrating the stars of fate through his singing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 2For almost eight years from 1984 to 1992, Partap Deepak, a jagran and orchestra singer was a sought after artiste not only in local circles but entire state. “In a month sometimes I did not even have a single day off. All days were booked,” he told.Partap said that he would easily get to perform 17-18 events every month apart from orchestra singing programs in marriages and parties. He has performed in all cities and towns of Punjab apart from numerous shows in Delhi. “In those days, nobody had seen female dancers in marriage parties. The orchestra singers were the craze during that period,” the singer said.Life had been going all well for Partap until 1992 when he fell from second floor of the building outside the railway station. “There used to a ‘National hotel’ in those days. I had my office at its second floor. I was getting a large billboard, with my picture fixed on the roof, when I accidently fell off the roof,” he shared.In the accident, he broke both of his legs. “For next year and a half I would walk with crutches. I did start performing again and reopened by office, but things were not the same anymore,” he remembered. Partap even dropped the second half of the name ‘Deepak’ and changed his name to ‘Partap Paras’ to change his luck.“My son’s name is Paras. An astrologer suggested me to change my name and so I did,” he revealed.A junior engineer with engineering wing of the Municipal Corporation presently, Partap said that he sometimes gets orders for jagrata events now. “But mostly I am busy with my office work.”He along with Kishore Paras, his son, has recorded a cassette of bhajans which would be released in next Navratri season by Saral Audio Company. In his good old days, Partap had released a cassette of Punjabi songs, ‘sohnia da russna’ apart from other religious songs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/orchestrating-the-stars-of-fate-through-his-singing-192774
03-01-2021||Neha Saini||Pandemic brings Amritsar’s hotel-hospitality industry to its knees||More than two lakh visitors converged on Amritsar on December 31, 2019, New Year’s eve. Most of them were devotees who wanted to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple the following morning. For the rest, the tourist circuit included Wagah border, Durgiana Mandir, Jallianwala Bagh, and sampling the culinary bonanza. The itinerary was simple: overnight stay at one of the several low-budget hotels, bed-and-breakfast inns, guest houses and homestays in the walled city, followed by a visit to local attractions. Then 2020 happened.The hotel and hospitality industry has experienced perhaps its worst year in decades. The Holy City is an international tourist destination, but the lockdown and the pandemic-induced economic repercussions have been severe. While most of the losses can be blamed on the ban on international travel, the domestic tourist inflow, too, has been far from encouraging. Very few devotees opt to stay; they offer prayers and leave the same day. Covid-19 dealt a crippling blow, made worse by the suspended train services because of the farmers’ agitation.“Almost 80 per cent of the hotels and homestays in the walled city area have shut down. Earlier, tourists from Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir would stay for an average of two to three days. Tourists from West Bengal and Gujarat, too, visited the city during this time of the year. Since the pandemic, however, domestic tourists only come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, and do not stay. With most of the tourist attractions like Jallianwala Bagh, Partition Museum and Wagah border closed, the situation is not good for us,” says Satnam Singh Kanda, chairman of the Hotel Association Walled City.Kanda, who runs four hotels around the Golden Temple, says he has suspended operations in all four. “The cost of running the hotel, even a low-budget one, has been bleeding our reserves. Finding labour, too, has been a problem since most left during the lockdown. The government has not provided any relief in taxes, electricity bills and interest on loans,” he adds.Tourist attractions like Heritage Street, Partition Museum, Sadda Pind, War Memorial, Ram Tirath Complex and Fort Gobindgarh recently opened their doors to a scanty tourist inflow. The Wagah Border and Jallianwala Bagh are yet to open.Surinder Singh, chief of the Federation of Hotels and Guest Houses Association, shares that since the lockdown ended, the hotels have gained 20 per cent occupancy but the farmers’ agitation has resulted in a further drop of 12 per cent.Whatever percentage of tourists visits the city has been choosing homestays owing to health safety concerns. “Homestays are hanging by as a safe option as these only cater to a small group of people, with limited staff, mostly family members running the establishments,” says Manek Singh, who runs a homestay in Ranjit Avenue. He has been getting an average of two to three bookings a month post the lockdown. Will 2021 be any different? Unlikely, for now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-brings-amritsars-hotel-hospitality-industry-to-its-knees-192917
