03-08-2020||---||4 more lose life, 55 fresh Covid cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 2The district reported the death of four more patients due to Covid-19 during the last 24 hours, as reported by the district health authorities. With this, the death toll in the district has increased to 84.The deceased include 48-year-old Tarsem Singh, a resident of Pheruman village near Baba Bakala; 67-year-old Mohinder Singh, a resident of Sandhu Colony (Batala Road); 69-year-old Charanjit Kaur, a resident of Chamiari village (Ajnala) and 72-year-old Manjeet Kaur, a resident of Bal Kalan village near Majitha.Manjeet Kaur, who was a patient of diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease, died on way to Government Medical College while the remaining three were undergoing treatment at the hospital.The district witnessed 55 new positive cases, taking the total count to 1,958. The new cases include 28 persons with influenza-like illness cases (ILI) and 27 contacts of positive patients.One ILI case each was reported from Ramana village, Angarh, Dhab Khatikan, Guru Harkrishan Nagar, Gharinda police station, Verka, Putlighar, Kot Karnail Singh, Vallah, Jujhar Avenue, Bal Kalan police station, Ishwar Nagar, Gate Hakeema, Beas, Aggarwal Nursing Home, Islamabad, Preet Avenue, Taragarh, Ajnala, Phulke village, Bholiyan village (Ajnala), Narain Nagar (Gol Bagh), D-Block Kashmir Avenue, Shaliwal village, Mustafabad and two cases from Jujhar Singh Avenue.The contact cases include four from Indira Colony, three each from Ivy Hospital, Akaash Avenue and Ranjitpura (Chheharta), two cases each from Military Hospital, Friends Colony (Plah Sahib), Chhota Haripura, Sehaj Avenue (Majitha Road) and Bakhna Kalan village and one case each from the office of Commissioner of Police, Shareefpura, Verka and Sandhu Colony (Batala Road).Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said 51 patients recovered in the last 24 hours. The total number of recoveries from the district has reached 1,395. At present, the district has 479 active cases.Meanwhile, Tarn Taran reported one positive case and five patients were discharged after recovery. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh said the reports of 251 samples were received today, out of which the report of one sample came out positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-more-lose-life-55-fresh-covid-cases-in-amritsar-district-121275
03-08-2020||---||‘Plant 10 saplings instead of 10K, but ensure their survival’||Amritsar, August 2Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated a plantation drive in collaboration with two private firms to keep the city green and pollution free. The MC would plant 500 saplings with tree guards. The move has been inaugurated at Majitha Road by planting trees on the central verge and installing tree guards for their care of plants.Earlier on this occasion, Sukh Amrit Singh from Youth for Global Peace and Transformation and Gurinder Bhatti from ESS Global welcomed the Mayor for inaugurating the plantation driveMayor Karamjit Singh said they started the plantation drive in which about 500 saplings would be planted. All the plants would be protected by the tree guards. He said every year various organisations carried out plantation programmes and thousands of saplings were planted but only a few plants survived and most of them got damaged. He appealed to all the organisations to plant only 10 saplings instead of 10,000, but to take care of them.“Tree guards must be installed so that the saplings can grow and the purpose for which they have been planted can be achieved. It has been observed that the rate of success of the saplings planted in tree guards is 98 per cent and if such plantation drives are carried out for one or two years, there will be no need to plant trees for the next 20 years and the city’s environment will improve,” said Rintu.He appealed to the residents of the city to plant at least one tree and ensure its survival. “As the population of the city is around 13-14 lakhs, the same number of plants can be planted in a year. Though it is the duty of the government to make efforts to protect the environment, it is also the responsibility of the citizens to plant at least one tree. It will be a great contribution to our city and country,” he added.Horticulture Engineer Sandeep Singh, Sanitary Inspector Vijay Sharma and a large number of locals were present on the occasion.Mayor inaugurates dev projects in cityMayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated the work of cemented lanes and interlocking tiles at ward number 20 in Amritsar East Assembly constituency here today. The MC will spent Rs 1.50 crore on cemented lanes at Din Dayal Colony in Verka and install interlocking tiles at a cost of Rs 90 lakh at Sant Nagar Dhup Sari. The Mayor said the funds for the projects had been provided by the government of Punjab for the development of East constituency under the Punjab Environment Improvement Programme. He stated other projects that will transform the city were also in the pipeline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/plant-10-saplings-instead-of-10k-but-ensure-their-survival-121276
03-08-2020||---||Sikh bodies to hold protest against UAPA on August 15||Amritsar, August 2Activists of Sikh bodies on Sunday announced that on August 15 they would protest across the state against the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) 1967.The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of senior representatives of three Sikh bodies—Dal Khalsa, Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal. They were of the opinion that to cage the dissent and trampled the rights of dissenting people, the Union and state governments were misusing draconian laws across the board, from Kashmir to Punjab and Delhi to central India.Members of the three Sikh bodies will be carrying black flags and placards while holding demonstrations at all district headquarters on the day when India will celebrate its Independence Day, said Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh and Prof Mohinder Pal Singh of SAD (A).They listed the issues of their protest that include the indiscriminate use of bullying laws including the UAPA and sedition, labelling of nine Khalistani Sikhs as “terrorists”, and Centre’s anti-farmer ordinances and its refusal to release political prisoners, who have completed their jail term. Moreover, our protest is in continuation of our resolve to fight against injustices and enslavement.They, however, clarified that due to pandemic outbreak, the number of demonstrators would be limited at all districts and physical distancing will be maintained.Taking Capt Amarinder Singh to task for defending the police highhandedness against Sikh youth under the pretext of combating the 2020 referendum campaign, he said, “Contrary to Punjab CM’s hue and cry, there’s no threat to peace, brotherhood and harmony in Punjab”.On Sukhbir Badal’s tirade against misuse of UAPA, prof Mohinder Pal asked him to first explain his own dubious track record of misusing these fascists’ laws and rewarding police officers, who were infamous for their brutalities against the Sikh youth.The leaders accompanied by SYP head Paramjit Singh Mand and Dal Khalsa general secretary Paramjit Singh Tanda said around 47 cases under UAPA against youth were registered during Sukhbir’s 10-year regime and equal number of cases have been registered so far in Amarinder’s three-year rule.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-bodies-to-hold-protest-against-uapa-on-august-15-121277
03-08-2020||---||Chawla won’t go to tie rakhis to BSF personnel this year||Amritsar, August 2Keeping in view the Covid-19 restrictions this year, former minister Lakshmi Kanta Chawla will not tie Rakhis to BSF personnel posted at Attari border.This is happening for the first time in the past 51 years. She had initiated the practice in1969, moved by the sacrifices of Indian Army and paramilitary personnel in the 1962 and 1965 wars. She vividly remembered those years of patriotism as civilians from all backgrounds used to be eager to render service. She has been carrying out the task of tying rakhi as a tradition for the past over five decades.“I did not want to miss the occasion this time. However, Covid-19 restrictions do not permit”, she said. She prepared boxes containing rakhis and sweets to be despatched to the Attari border. Material in the boxes will be distributed among paramilitary personnel tomorrow morning.On Sunday, she despatched rakhis and sweet boxes for the BSF personnel. Otherwise, she along with a number of girl students of various schools used to celebrate the festival of brothers and sisters at the frontier. The students used to present a cultural programme at the Attari-Wagah joint check post to mark the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chawla-wont-go-to-tie-rakhis-to-bsf-personnel-this-year-121278
03-08-2020||Amritsar||Hooch tragedy: AAP protests, demands CM’s resignation||Workers of the AAP held protests at different assembly segments to highlight the inefficiency of the Capt Amarinder Singh government in the hooch tragedy. They raised slogans against the government and sought resignation from the CM. Ashok Talwar, president of the district urban unit of AAP, said the politician-police nexus was controlling the Rs 50,000 crore spurious liquor trade in the state.He said the neighbours of the deceased stated that the police visited the residences of people, who ran an illegal liquor racket, to strike good relations. He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh did not have time for those families who lost their bread-winners. Suspending officials was mere eyewash. The AAP sought adequate compensation for the families and a government job to the next of kin of the deceased.Party members, led by Dr Ajay Gupta, held a protest rally against the government at the Central assembly constituency. — TNSCPI wants relief for hooch tragedy victims’ kinTarn Taran: The Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) on Sunday staged a protest here, seeking immediate compensation of Rs 10 lakh each for the family of those killed after consuming spurious liquor. The workers of the parties took out a march in the town.RMPI state acting secretary Pargat Singh Jamarai and CPI state deputy secretary Prithipal Singh Marimegha alleged that factories were indulging in this illegal liquor trade in the state at the behest of administration and politicians of the ruling party.They demanded action against the guilty and negligent administrative officials and politicians after a high-level investigation. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooch-tragedy-aap-protests-demands-cms-resignation-121279
03-08-2020||Amritsar||25-yr-old youth shot dead for ‘standing in middle of road’||A 25-year-old youth, identified as Gurbir Singh, was shot dead over a minor issue of “standing in the middle of a road” at Boparai Khurd village here on late Saturday evening. The suspect was identified as Saroop Singh of the same village.Jagga Singh, father of the victim, told the police that his elder son, Gurbir Singh, alias Gopi, and his friend Amandeep Singh were standing near the residence of Amandeep Singh. Jagga said Saroop came to the spot, and holding a revolver in his hand, started shouting at Gurbir for standing in the middle of the road. Jagga said Saroop fired at Gurbir and the bullet right in his chest. Gurbir was rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital but succumbed to injuries. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-yr-old-youth-shot-dead-for-standing-in-middle-of-road-121281
03-08-2020||---||Independence Day festivities in Amritsar won’t be same this year||Amritsar, August 2Festivities associated with the Independence Day function, which is organised every year at the Guru Nanak stadium, will be cut short and the gathering will be limited, as per the guidelines issued under Unlock 3.Besides, many more guidelines will be implemented with focus on lifting several restrictions to lift the sagging morale of economic activities in the border district from August 5.There are three micro-containment zones where strict enforcement of the lockdown will remain in force till August 31. Within the containment zones, people need to continue to follow strict social distancing and other norms of containing the spread of the virus and only essential activities are permitted. Pallavi, Chief Administrator of the Amritsar Development Authority (ADA), has been appointed Covid Patient Tracking Officer (CPTO).Besides, she will ensure coordination and expeditious response at the district level by tracking patients from the time they test positive till the completion of their treatment.She will follow up with the labs to ensure that there is no undue delay in sharing the results and they must receive details of each Covid patient as soon as the results are declared.As CPTO, she is entrusted with the task of ensuring that each positive patient is checked up at the nearest health facility so that their medical condition can be assessed and the future course of treatment finalised.The CPTO, as per the fresh guidelines, will incur every expenditure required to save lives in consultation with deputy commissioners, besides he will be authorised to exercise their judgment.Restrictions on many activities have been lifted like inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods. No separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for such movements. Schools, colleges and coaching institutions will remain closed till August 31. Besides, metro rail, cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls will remain closed.Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious functions and other large congregations are still not permitted.Entertainment parks, swimming pools, theatres, cinema halls, bars, auditoriums, assembly halls, cultural and religious functions, social, political, academic, sports, entertainment and other large congregations will remain suspended.Vulnerable people like those above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, expectant women and children below the age of 10 years are advised to stay home.Pallavi is Covid Patient Tracking Officer||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/independence-day-festivities-in-amritsar-wont-be-same-this-year-121285
03-08-2020||Amritsar||Civic body takes possession of tubewell shelter||The estate wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) on Saturday took possession of a tubewell shelter from an encroacher in Galiara around the Golden Temple here. The MC had an old tube well room near Gurdwara Kaulsar, which was occupied by Ashok Kumar, a resident of Bazaar Kathian Wala. He put his goods there and using the property. Officials of the estate wing got information and took possession of the tubewell room.Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said, “We will not tolerate any illegal possession. The action would be taken if someone occupies the government property”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-takes-possession-of-tubewell-shelter-121286
03-08-2020||Amritsar||Rain lashes parts of Amritsar||Scattered rain on Sunday morning brought down the temperature significantly in the city. Many joggers and commuters were caught unawares as shower began at 8 am.It being a holiday, many residents were out enjoying a leisurely walk when it started raining heavily. “The sudden rain did not give people any time to run for cover. The weather became pleasant and people seemed in no hurry to leave for home soon,” said Sushant Sharma, a jogger.In rural areas, farmers got the much-needed relief from the scorching heat as they had been facing difficulty in uprooting weeds from paddy fields these days. “The days are hot and humid. It makes working in the fields difficult. The shower has led to a dip in temperature and we are able to finish our work fast,” said Rawel Singh, a farmer.He said though after rain it would take less water for irrigating the fields, they would still have to irrigate them to check the growth of weeds and for better growth of plants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-lashes-parts-of-amritsar-121287
03-08-2020||Open House||Dedicated tracks needed to promote cycling in Amritsar||People won’t adopt cycling as routineOnce upon a time the cycle was the only mode of transportation in the city. It has always been useful for economically weaker sections of society like postmen, dabbewalas (tiffin carriers) and newspaper hawkers, etc. These days, some upper-class folks have taken to cycling as a routine exercise instead of going for morning or evening walks. But to create cycle tracks along the already congested roads is not a fruitful idea. People of the city are not going to adopt cycling as part of their daily routine after the pandemic is gone. For example, see the fate of BRTS, running on specially designated roads. Instead, the MC should concentrate on its basic responsibilities.Naresh Mohan JoharThese should be properly litCycling regularly is one of the best ways to reduce health problems caused by a sedentary lifestyle. Cycling is mainly an aerobic activity which helps your heart, blood vessels and lungs work perfectly. Through cycling, you breathe deeper, perspire and experience an increased body temperature, which will increase your fitness level. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, more people are turning to cycling for health reasons. As the deadly virus spreads easily with surface touching, people understand that there will be the risk of virus transmission if and when they revisit gyms. To stay fit and maintain social distancing, they are opting for cycling. On the other hand, it is an eco-friendly transportation option for short-distance commuting. Currently, there are very few cycle tracks in Amritsar and they are not continuous. Moreover, the condition of some tracks is so bad that cyclists have to shift to road. A good cycle track should have proper markings, highlighting that the lane is only for the cyclists. Secondly, the track should only be used by cyclists, not by two-wheelers or four-wheelers. Last but not the least, the cycle tracks should be properly lit.Amarjit KalsiMC must create tracks at placesCycling is the best way to keep oneself fit and healthy. But we don't have enough space for cycle tracks. The MC should come forward and create cycle tracks in different parts of the city. It should give cycles on rent so that more people can take the benefit of cycling and remain fit. There must be cycle stands at different places along the tracks where people can hire cycles by submitting an identity proof. In this way, we can maintain good health and control air pollution.Rohit Kumar SehdevDemand of cycle tracks seems weirdIn a country like India, if residents are asking for cycle tracks, I must say it is a weird demand. They need to understand that they live in India, not in the US, Canada or in some European country. Since the gyms are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, everyone wants to remain fit. Now as many people of the city have turned to cycling, they are demanding tracks. The municipal corporation is not capable of maintaining roads. How can it build cycle tracks? The demand for personalised forms of transport has gone up worldwide after the outbreak of the Covid-19 disease. Paris is in the process of creating 650 km of pop-up cycle ways. Britain has decided to invest £ 2 billion on cycling and walking in response to the virus. This is the difference between these developed nations and India.Saahil HansSet up speed limit on roads in cityI have been cycling since the lockdown was imposed. I come across a lot of motorised vehicles which break my rhythm. The government must devise ways to construct making cycle paths along roads in the city. If this isn't possible, the government must set a speed limit for every road and strict action must be taken for those who violate the rule as speedy vehicles could be dangerous for pedestrians and cyclists.IzleenCycle parking facilities must be providedIt is heartening to know that people at large are taking to cycling which is light on their pockets and is a pollution free means of conveyance, a salubrious exercise and an Olympic sport, too. It has numerous health benefits. It increases cardiovascular fitness, muscle strength and flexibility, improves joint mobility, decreases stress levels, improves posture and coordination, strengthens bones, decreases body fat levels and prevents or manages a myriad of diseases. Hence to encourage cycling among the residents, the MC should construct separate cycle paths along all main roads and streets of the city. Motorists who use these paths should be fined. Cycle parking facilities must be provided for free at every market place. Every Sunday, motorised vehicles should not be allowed to ply, except for emergency purposes. The fear of traffic snarls should be allayed so that cyclists can comfortably pedal to their work places and other destinations. The MC should provide incentives to the people to encourage cycling as a primary mode of transportation. It should borrow a leaf from the book of Netherlands where cycling system is of top-notch quality and a good percentage of people use cycles as their primary mode of transport. It should conduct contests where and invite eminent personalities to promote cycling. It will be an icing on the cake if a Velodrome is constructed to encourage cycling as a sport. People who do not have cycles but are interested in cycling must be offered cycles on a rent basis. Residents should be impressed upon how cycling can boost their fitness, health, bank balance and give a neat and clean environment. Slogans like "Life is like riding a bicycle, to keep your balance, you must keep moving" can help promote cycling.Tarsem S BumrahCreate cycling hotspots in cityCycling lanes are already in place along some BRTS routes but a few people might be aware of it. The need of the hour is that MC removes encroachments on these lanes and instal signboards to encourage cycling among residents. Moreover, a dedicated lane for bikers must be present at every main road of the city so that cyclists can travel anywhere without restrictions. People must be encouraged to use cycle while running errands. There is a good system of cycling at GNDU which allows anyone to rent a cycle. Such "Cycling hotspots" should be created across the city to promote cycling.Jatinderpal SinghCycling is best outdoor activityThough the process of 'Unlocking' has already begun, people still fear going for an outing. More people are taking up cycling since gyms remain closed. Cycling is the best outdoor activity one can do while maintaining social distancing. There is a great demand of special cycling zones from bikers. It's appreciable that the authorities have taken up the work of construction without more ado. Besides this, it is necessary that roads are kept clean, issues relating to garbage disposal and water accumulation are addressed. Every monsoon, blockage of drains cause inconvenience to residents. The authorities must also work on maintaining cleanliness in localities and timely sanitisation. Besides, more trees can be planted to improve the quality of air and reduce unwanted sounds near cycling zones.Shivangi AroraQUESTIONThe Centre has finally come out with the New Education Policy after 34 years. Do you think it will help in transforming the education system of the country?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 6).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dedicated-tracks-needed-to-promote-cycling-in-amritsar-121288
03-08-2020||---||Suspects in Suraj murder case arrested with pistol||Amritsar, August 2The police have nabbed prime suspects in the Suraj murder case, who was shot dead in the Haripura area on June 6, around nine days before his marriage.They were identified as Shambhu of Wadda Haripura and Angrej Singh of Dhapai village. The police have recovered a .32 bore pistol along with five live bullets, a Verna car and a bike used in the crime.The police had already arrested six persons in this connection. Shambhu and Angrej, both have criminal cases, including that of murder bid registered against them.Sartaj Singh Chahal, ADCP, said the police had earlier nabbed Renu, a cousin of deceased Manjit Singh, Shambhu’s brother Chandan, Ravi, Harvinder Singh and Deepak Kumar. He said the suspects were also involved in drug peddling in the area and often indulged in quarrels and goondaism in order to create their fear among the public so that no one complaint or speak against them. He said they had been brought on a police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suspects-in-suraj-murder-case-arrested-with-pistol-121289
03-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Two Gurdaspur boys facing death penalty in UAE return||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 2Three more Punjab boys, who were facing death penalty in the UAE before they were rescued by Dubai-based philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi after paying blood money, arrived at the Amritsar airport on Sunday morning.Navneet Kumar and Hardeep Singh belong to Gurdaspur while Ajay Kumar hails from Nawanshahr.The boys were a part of a group of 14 expatriates, including 12 from India and two from Pakistan, who were facing murder charges before being rescued by the construction magnate after paying Rs 75 lakh blood money to the kin of the victims.According to Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust run by Oberoi, a clash between two groups broke out in Sharjah on December 31 in 2015, in which 23-year-old Ashif Ali of Samrai town in Jalandhar district and 25-year-old Varinderpal Singh of Pandoori village of Kapurthala district were killed. All 14 youths were charged with the double murder and sent to jail in Dubai on January 1 in 2016.“I approached Nirmal Singh, a relative of victim Varinderpal and apprised him of the pitiable situation of the family members of the accused,” he said. On May 21 in 2018, Oberoi took Nirmal Singh to the Dubai court and told the judge that the family members of the victims were ready for a “compromise”.Oberoi said after getting a nod from the court, he handed over the blood money to the victims’families.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-gurdaspur-boys-facing-death-penalty-in-uae-return-121290
03-08-2020||---||Covid-19: Four cured using plasma therapy at GMC, discharged||Amritsar, August 2Government Medical College (GMC) doctors here have successfully treated four Covid-19 patients using plasma therapy. “The four patients we have treated with plasma therapy were over 60 years of age and were also suffering from diseases as diabetes and high blood pressure,” said GMC Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan.Devgan stated that all four patients had been discharged after complete recovery. He added that college was setting up a plasma bank and recovered patients should come forward to donate plasma.“The bank being set up at a cost of Rs 30 lakh would be able to store blood plasma which could be used to treat positive cases,” he said adding that a cured patient can donate plasma after 14-days of recovery.He said the plasma receiver’s body starts showing positive signs within 48 to 72 hours of the transfusion. He added that 800 ml plasma taken from the blood of a recovered patient can be used to treat four positive patients.Before extracting plasma from the blood of a cured patient, two consecutive tests are conducted to ensure that the patient has fully recovered. Using a diagnostic test, the doctors are able to get the types of antibodies present in a donor’s blood.The plasma is then transfused into an infected person’s blood. The antibodies present in the donor’s blood help the patient in fast recovery. “The recovered patients should come forward to donate plasma as it can boost the fight against Covid,” said Devgan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-four-cured-using-plasma-therapy-at-gmc-discharged-121291
03-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Women’s role in illegal liquor trade rampant||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 2The spurious liquor tragedy that has claimed over 100 lives in the region in the past three days has brought to the fore the fact that the involvement of women in facilitating the trade cannot be ignored.The Punjab Police have arrested four women liquor smugglers from Amritsar, Batala and Tarn Taran among 25 persons during raids conducted in the state in the past three days.Yesterday, the rural police arrested a man for selling illicit liquor and also booked his wife in the case. On Friday, it booked two women among four members of a family for selling illicit liquor.There is no specific data about how many women were involved in the trade, a senior police official said, adding the number was quite high and had increased considerably in the past two decades.“The police remain gender-neutral on this count. We catch everyone involved in a crime,” said IG, Border Range, SPS Parmar, while talking to The Tribune. He said a crackdown had been launched and whosoever was indulging in the illicit trade would be taken to task.“The involvement of women in the illicit drug or liquor trade is not new. In fact, it is usually a family business. If the men are outside for some work, the women supply the liquor to the customers,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/womens-role-in-illegal-liquor-trade-rampant-121323
