03-09-2020||Amritsar||Customs Dept seizes 1-kg gold at Amritsar airport||Customs’ Commissioner AS Ranga said the gold bar was covered with a black adhesive tape sticking to the bottom of an unoccupied seat of the plane. The recovered gold has been seized under the Customs Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/customs-dept-seizes-1-kg-gold-at-amritsar-airport-135721
03-09-2020||---||Five deaths, 93 fresh cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 2With five more deaths, the district toll due to Covid increased to 177 on Wednesday. The health authorities also reported 93 fresh cases, taking the total count to 4,242. With a total of 3,289 recoveries, the number of active cases stood at 776.The deceased have been identified as Parshotam Lal (67) of Bhalla Colony (Chehharta), Swarno (60) from Karampura, Amarjit Kaur (80) of Partap Avenue, Pritpal Singh (65) of the Cheel Mandi area and Mohamad Iqbal (40) of the Shani Mandir area in Rayya. Iqbal was being treated to PGI, Chandigarh.The new cases include 51 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 42 contacts of positive patients. One ILI case was reported at PNB branch on the Lawrence road. Of contact cases, four were reported from Corporate Hospital, three each from Military Hospital and the Police Control Room and two from Amritsar Club.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Gurpreet Singh Khaira has warned miscreants against spreading rumours regarding organ harvesting of Covid patients. In a press released by the district administration, the DC said if anybody had evidence to substantiate the allegations regarding organ harvesting, he or she should bring it to the notice of the authorities. He added that no complaint regarding organ harvesting had been filed till date. “The administration would take a strict action against anyone spreading such rumours,” said the DC.Run OPDs on alternate days, demand hospital staff||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-deaths-93-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-district-135416
03-09-2020||---||Rs 26 cr development projects get MC nod||Amritsar, September 2The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Municipal Corporation (MC) gave its approval to several proposals for development works here on Wednesday.The F&CC meeting was presided over by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu. Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younis, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal and councillor Gurjeet Kaur were present in the meeting.The F&CC sanctioned Rs 26 crore for various development works to be carried out in the city. Only two proposals were postponed for further discussion. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said today’s meeting approved development works worth around Rs 26 crore, which included purchase of herbal sanitiser, installation of new tubewells, water supply lines, recarpeting of streets, replacement of old sewer lines, installation of LED street lights and interlocking tiles in the various areas of the city.The committee also gave its nod to open a new fire station and recruit staff for it. Earlier, the MC had sanctioned crores of rupees for the development of the city, the Mayor said. He said there was no shortage of funds for development works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-26-cr-development-projects-get-mc-nod-135417
03-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Gallantry award recommended for Tarn Taran ASI Malkit Singh||Tarn Taran, September 2The district police have recommended gallantry award for ASI Malkiat Singh who was shot at and injured by smugglers 10 days ago at Puhla village here.Though the brave ASI was seriously injured, he managed to nab one of the notorious smugglers Rachhpal Singh Daula of Bhuchar Khurd village of the border area.Later, it was found that Daula was not only smuggler but had links with international-level terrorists who had been supplying arms and ammunition to terrorists.ASI Malkiat Singh, posted at the Bhikhiwind police station, and his associate Punjab Home Guard (PHG) Jawan Ranjit Singh were on way back to the police station when smuggler Daula fired at him.According to information, SSP Dharuman H Nimbale has written a letter to the Punjab DGP recommending the ASI’s name for gallantry award, besides promoting him to the next rank. The SSP had also recommended promotion for PHG Ranjit Singh. ASI Malkiat Singh, who was admitted to a private hospital, had been discharged after his recovery. The gallantry award is to be given by the Union Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gallantry-award-recommended-for-tarn-taran-asi-malkit-singh-135418
03-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||17 years on, Ahluwalia Gate at Amritsar's Gheo Mandi awaits reconstruction||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2Even 17 years after laying the foundation stone of the reconstruction of the Ahluwalia Gate at Gheo Mandi entrance of the walled city, the government has failed to execute the plan till date. Then Congress MLAs Jugal Kishore and Harjinder Singh Thekedar had laid the foundation stone on November 19, 2003.The Municipal Corporation passed a unanimous resolution for the construction of the gate on January 17, 2003.The gate was demolished by Britishers after the annexation of Punjab in 1849. The Sikh heritage of the city was vandalised by the Britishers and re-constructed some of the gates with colonial architecture in 1860s. Most of these sites were named after English administrators.Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, King of the NationA number of historical documents including maps of the Municipal Committee, Amritsar, depict 12 historical gates, including Darwaza Ramgarhia and Darwaza Ahluwalia. On the basis of these old maps of Amritsar Corporation (1849 and 1947) mentioned Dr Anand Gabha, in her book “Amritsar: A study in Urban History, two associations including Sardar Jassa Singh Ramgarhia Federation and Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society initiated the activism to reconstruct the gates around 20 years back.Onkar Singh Sandhu, patron of the Sardar Jassa Singh Ramgarhia Federation made efforts and constructed the Ramgharia Gate with the help of Ramgarhia community in 2014.Pardeep Singh Walia, president of Sultan-ul-Quam Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society said, “The Municipal Corporation has passed the proposal and two MLAs laid the foundation stone. But the construction work never started. The centre and the state government spending crores on the heritage and beautification projects of the walled city but did not construct one of the most important gate, demolished by Britishers. I have all the record about the existence of gate but no one wanted to hear us”.Micheal Raul, an activist working for the heritage building, said, “Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia had a great contribution to the city and its dwellers. He protected the city from invaders by constructing military posts around. The historical record established that Darwaja was demolished after annexation of Punjab. It should be reconstructed to pay tribute to Sardar Jassa Singh. It will also helpful for the tourism in the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/17-years-on-ahluwalia-gate-at-amritsars-gheo-mandi-awaits-reconstruction-135420
03-09-2020||---||Government to increase green cover in Punjab||Amritsar, September 2“The Punjab Government is working on raising green cover on 15 per cent of the total geographical area in the state during the upcoming plantation drive,” said Surjit Singh Sahota, District Forest Officer, Amritsar and Tarn Taran, while launching a campaign to plant 2,500 varieties of saplings at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) here on Wednesday.Saplings of tahli, teak, srinivasa, mango, jasmine, neem, sukhchain, dharek, pipal, bohar, tun, chakramiya, gulmohar, satpati, amaltas, jakaranda and chandni, keshia and zetrofa were planted on Wednesday.Sahota said a campaign to plant 400 saplings in every village on the 400th Prakash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur has been started by the state government.He said the country’s forest policy mandates that 33 per cent of the total geographical area must be under green cover, but the situation in Punjab at present was worrisome. “Including both forest and non-forest areas, 6.5 per cent of the geographical area is under saplings, thus 26.5 per cent of additional area has to be brought under plants. In this direction, the state government has set a target to plant saplings on 15 per cent of the area under the first phase of the plantation drive,” he said.He said farmers were being encouraged to plant trees by skipping the paddy crop cycle. “It will increase their income as well as save groundwater, along with ensuring cleanliness of environment. It is the responsibility of all of us to keep the environment clean and create maximum awareness about it,” he said. He said anyone who wanted to plant saplings could contact the Forest Department through Haryali App.The university had earlier assisted the department in setting up sacred forest comprising around 2,000 plants that were planted on the campus by volunteers of the Baba Sewa Singh Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-to-increase-green-cover-in-punjab-135421
03-09-2020||---||IELTS centres seek nod to resume biz||Amritsar, September 2 The Association of Visa and IELTS Centres has asked the government to allow them to open their institutions saying that many people have already started providing coaching at their homes. The association members criticised the government stating that their livelihoods have been destroyed. Association members Hardesh Deveshar, Bikram Jhabal, Sumit Sharma and Bhagwant Bhinder said the union government had given relaxation to some businesses in the recent guidelines but nothing had been done for IELTS centres and coaching institutes. They said online IELTS coaching was being provided by the licensed IELTS centres on the instructions of the government but this system was not very effective. Association president Bikram Jhabal said, “The students of the cities can be benefited from online coaching as they get good internet speed. But the same is a big problem in rural areas.” He said owners of IELTS centres were expecting a concession to open IELTS centres but due to non-issuance of any such guidelines by the government the owners of IELTS centres had been severely hit. The association alleged that some people were illegally running IELTS centres in their homes. They demanded that the licensed centres should be allowed to operate like other offices and businesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ielts-centres-seek-nod-to-resume-biz-135422
03-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Residents donate liberally for renovation of school building||Tarn Taran, September 2A large number of local residents have come forward for the donating liberally for the renovation of the school building of Government Elementary School, Kasur Nala (Plasaur Khurd), here.Deputy District Education Officer (Elementary) Paramjit Singh said here on Wednesday that the school had been sanctioned a grant of Rs 7. 51 lakh for the construction of a room. The Deputy DEO said the first instalment of Rs 3 lakh had been released.The construction work of the room was inaugurated on Wednesday for which a function was organised in which Paramjit Singh was present as the chief guest. While addressing on the occasion, Gurbhej Singh, former sarpanch of the village, said Sukhdeep Kaur, wife of Sandeep Singh Jammu, an NRI of the village settled in Australia, had donated Rs 2 lakh when another Australia-settled NRI Hardeep Singh Mann had donated Rs 1 lakh for the school development.The other residents Satwinder Singh, Sawinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh, Jasbir Singh Hakim, etc, too had donated liberally for the school development. The institution being a government school was meant for the kids of the downtrodden sections. It was ignored by the Education Department and village elders for decades together but with the initiative of some right thinking persons the enrolment rate in the school had improved from 10 students to more than 90 this year and the building was being renovated.Deputy DEO Paramjit Singh said the department had sanctioned three posts of teacher for the school when with the performance of the function more posts of teacher would be sanctioned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-donate-liberally-for-renovation-of-school-building-135423
03-09-2020||---||Timings of Sewa Kendras changed||Amritsar, September 2Out of 516 Sewa Kendras across Punjab, those present in urban areas would now operate from 8 am to 6 pm as part of the initiative taken by the state government to provide all kinds of civic services to the people under one roof. The rural centers will be open from 9 am to 5 pm from Thursday.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said that 41 such Sewa Kendras were functioning in Amritsar district and providing 276 types of services. “Type-I, II and III kendras in the district will now be functioning till 6 pm. They will function in two shifts - from 8 am to 1.30 pm and 1.30 pm to 6 pm,” he said.Assistant district e-governance coordinators Raghu Kalia and Navpreet Singh are in charge of these Sewa Kendras, disposing off 99 per cent applications, despite Covid-19 limitations. “Less than one percent of applications are under consideration. Till date, after resuming operations post-lockdown, 3,73,844 applications have been disposed off in Amritsar district,” said district technical coordinator Prince Singh. He said the pending applications in each center were directly monitored by the Deputy Commissioner’s Office, which has created transparency in the work and reduces the possibility of delays.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/timings-of-sewa-kendras-changed-135424
03-09-2020||Neha Saini||JEE/NEET aspirants braving coronavirus to take their exams||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2Atotal of 1,683 students have registered for the JEE (Main) in the city, which is being conducted this week under strict Covid-19 restrictions and guidelines. In the past two days, out of the 503 registered for the exam, 341 candidates sat for the exam. While the safety arrangements at the only examination centre in the city were proper and the exam was conducted smoothly, a number of students chose to remain absent.Not all were in favour of postponing exams, but amid apprehensions regarding health risks in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, many students and their parents said that they initially hoped that the government would postpone the exam. Candidates sat for exams with the mandatory masks and gloves, carrying their bottles of sanitisers. The two-hour exam was a challenge with students wearing the mask and the gloves. “It was really tough to sit through the exam wearing the mask and the gloves. After a while, most students pulled down their masks, some even took it off as they faced difficulty in breathing. Also, the gloves made it difficult for students to write or do calculations and made hands sweaty. Each person was made to keep a distance of two desks between them, so social distancing norms were followed strictly inside the rooms,” said Parth Khanna, who took the JEE (Main) for Btech and BArch.It was really tough to sit through the exam wearing the mask and the gloves. After a while, most students pulled down their masks, some even took it off as they faced difficulty in breathing. Also, the gloves made it difficult for students to write or do calculations and made the hands sweaty. Each person was made to keep a distance of two desks between them, so social distancing norms were followed strictly inside the rooms. —Parth Khanna, who took JEE (Main)The psychological stress was another challenge that hampered the performance of many candidates. “Ever since the issue of holding the JEE/NEET exams amid the pandemic began, I had only one thought on my mind - how would I keep myself safe while taking the exam? All through the exam, I kept on noticing fellow candidates, who had their masks down and my focus was divided. In a normal setting, of course, I would have performed better,” said Gurpreet, another candidate.The city will host over 3,000 students who have registered for NEET scheduled to be held on September 13. With six centres across the city, it will be for the first time that the NEET will be held in this format under the Covid-19 guidelines. “It will definitely be a difficult task to ensure that a large number of students stay safe and take their exam. The JEE (Mains) exam was held smoothly so far and we hope that we can achieve that with NEET as well,” said Anjana Gupta, city coordinator for JEE/NEET. She said just like JEE, NEET will also be held in two shifts - morning and afternoon. “This makes it easier to manage the candidates and maintain social distancing protocol,” she said. The examination centre for JEE is sanitised after every shift.‘Waited for hours, told to sit for exam in next shift’City student Aashna Ahuja, who sat for the NATA exam held for architectural courses on August 29, complained that she could not give her exam in virtual mode due to technical snag. “We were given the option of choosing to sit for the exam from home or from the certified centre. I chose to take the exam at the centre assigned as I did not want any technical complications or internet connectivity issues to affect my exam. But when I began my exam in the morning shift, I faced technical snags repeatedly as my computer screen shut down twice and later, the online test skipped several questions. I reported these to the invigilators present there and they told me to wait. After a long wait and repeated attempts to take my exam online, I was told that these technical issues could not be solved and I should take the exam in the second schedule on September 12,” said Aashna.Frustrated and on the verge of crying, Aashna said this experience was stressful and could hamper her admission preference. “By the time the second schedule of the exam will be held, the results of the first schedule will be announced and most colleges would already have filled up the seats. It will increase the cut-off by 20 per cent and that's an added performance pressure.” She said she had lodged a complaint with the authorities concerned regarding the matter. “But I have received no reply from them so far. Another girl from Batala had faced the similar issue that day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jee-neet-aspirants-braving-coronavirus-to-take-their-exams-135425
03-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Jawan drowns in water tank while trying to save friends||Man nabbed with tablets, pistolAmritsar: The rural police arrested a person and seized 1,070 habit-forming tablets and a pistol from his possession at his Arjan Manga village in the Mehta area on Wednesday. The person has been identified as Jobanpreet Singh. ASI Subash Chandar said the suspect was heading towards the village on the canal road. On seeing the police check-point, he tried to flee from the spot. The cops nabbed him and seized tablets and a pistol from him. A case has been registered in this connection. TNSGNDU extends admission dateAmritsar: The last date for admission to part-time courses in Chinese, French, German and Russian languages run by Guru Nanak Dev University has been extended till September 20 for the current academic session 2020-21. Dr Mohan Kumar, head, Department of Foreign Languages, said that as per orders, the admission will be based on first-come, first-served basis. TNSSonia Batra honouredAmritsar: City-based poet Sonia Batra was honoured with Prashamshith Pahr (Certificate of honour) by Motivational Strips and Gujarat Sahitya Academy for her work. Sonia Batra said the Motivationa Strips had collaborated with the Gujarat Sahitya Academy to honour 350 writers from 80 countries on the Independence Day. She said her poems had been published in Cherry Blossom, Rising to Higher Essence, Awareness, Florets of Fancy, Genius, Crossroads, etc. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jawan-drowns-in-water-tank-while-trying-to-save-friends-135426
03-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Extant landmarks, memories fading as modernity grows at Chownk Passiyan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2Chownk Passiyan, considered among the earliest localities established after the Sikh master Guru Ramdas founded the city, has undergone tremendous changes owing to commercialisaton and a desire to live in modern houses.The surroundings have 21 labyrinthine streets. Many of them drawing names from different professions. First things first, the famous abode of the fourth Guru and his family is now Guru Ke Mahal, a gurdwara reflecting contemporary modern architecture. What could have been a connect with the past; Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Hargobind had tied the knot at this respective place, Guru Teg Bahadur and Baba Atal Rai took birth here, dons a new look on the narrow winding lane. Similarly, a present-day temple also exists here next to a decaying gurdwara and another has been raised over an old well in Gali Acharjan Wali.Standing next to the gold and silver ornament market, Guru Bazaar and textile hub Shastri market, its houses could not resist the charm of high real estate value being offered. Tangible history is gradually petering out as shopkeepers continue to replace the bygone architectures with latest glass facades.The street is less than 5ft wide and the market price is nearly Rs50,000 per square yard, he says, before adding, "most of the houses have been turned in godowns with shops underneath. Besides, those who could not afford to move out replaced the old structures with new ones. —Rakesh Kapoor, A traderGali Acharjan wali, where once stood houses of Brahmins, who earned their living from the cremation of dead, has been replaced by shops dealing in shawls.Rakesh Kapoor, a trader, said only one family was still involved in the profession and all others are either on their way out or have already done away with. Most of the houses in the street were now occupied by traders.No youth wants to live here as everybody owns a vehicle these days. Parking in such streets is a big headache and the government cannot provide trouble-free routes as some of the lanes are extremely narrow. —Puran Chand, A city residentPuran Chand, an aged resident, recounted that a large number of people earlier would sit by these streets and share their day’s experiences with each other. “After the arrival of satellite TV channels that age old practice has also gone. Now, oldies and out of work persons sit to pass their time,” he adds.“These were places where there was space to provide comfort, safety from traffic and security form snatchers yet youth do not prefer it,” Chand rues.Turbulent past times behind cramped lanesExperts state that the reason of extremely narrowness of the street lies in the turbulent medieval history of the country as the invaders from the North-West borders of the country had frequently marauded to this part. As a result, the residents had preferred to live in the safety of extremely narrow lanes which allowed people to enter in the queue only. Each narrow lane has a relatively open space, which are called surprising open space as they suddenly appear. These open spaces used to serve a significant social purpose like placing deads and other family or such social functions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/extant-landmarks-memories-fading-as-modernity-grows-at-chownk-passiyan-135434
03-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Overseas study plans hit, aspirant dishes out food start-up||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 2Shivani Saharia, an aspirant for study abroad, was not able to join a college in Canada as the classes were postponed. But that hasn’t held her back, as she started her own home restaurant and delivery of food through online platforms.While staying with her parents at Kashmir Avenue, she tried her hand at a local business and started a home restaurant named ‘Khana-e-Khas- Zayka meri Kitchen ka’. The food start-up offers a variety of homemade savoury of dishes.‘Want to perfect the art of cooking’The idea behind opening a home restaurant for tiffin services and customised meals for corporates and regular customers was to lighten the heavy charges being faced by many amid this pandemic. There are students, office-goers and many others, who are unable to order from restaurants on a regular basis. Our freshly prepared food gives a taste of homemade recipes. Cooking is my passion, but I want to hit perfection in all kinds of food. So, I had joined cooking classes in Pune during my stay there. —Shivani Saharia, An aspirant who wanted to study in Canada“The idea behind opening a home restaurant for tiffin services and customised meals for corporates and regular customers was to lighten the heavy charges being faced by many amid this pandemic. There are students, office-goers and many others. They are unable to order from restaurants on a regular basis. Our freshly prepared food gives a taste of homemade recipes,” she says.Shivani also provides delivery services. “Cooking is my passion, but I want to hit perfection in all kinds of food. So, I had joined cooking classes in Pune during my stay there,” she said.It was then the seed was planted and and has now flowered as her own start-up. “I used to order fusion boxes, a box with nominal amount of items to fill your stomach till your next meal hours. So, I wanted to start it here in Amritsar. Nowadays, I was free and executed the plan,” she shares.Apart from delivering food, she is also a content writer and tags inspirational quotes on the the packages. “The vision behind the tags is to spread positive vibes wherever the food is received. Everyone is going through a sort of hopelessness. This is to support them,”she said. Shivani is using several social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp to promote her talent.A graduate of business management, side by side she’s also exploring her study options in international export and import businesses in Canada.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/overseas-study-plans-hit-aspirant-dishes-out-food-start-up-135436
