03-05-2020||---||He keeps himself busy with holding virtual poetry, literary sessions||Amritsar, May 2While a majority of people under lockdown may be running out of ideas on how to spend time these days, poet and artiste Arvinder Chamak has been busier than ever. A painter, performer and poet, Chamak has been organising virtual poetry and literary sessions every day with global audience in attendance.I have organised almost 33 literary sessions in the past few days and interacted with people from the US, UK and Australia. I have been devoting my time to painting. Besides, I am penning nazms, learning and discussing Naushad and Laxmikant-Pyarelal’s classic works with friends. So, life is busy even during the lockdown.Arvinder Chamak, Poet and Artiste“I have organised almost 33 literary sessions and interacted with people from the US, UK and Australia. I have been devoting my time to painting. Besides, I have been penning nazms, learning and discussing Naushad and Laxmikant Pyarelal's classic works with friends. So, life is busy even in the lockdown," he said.When he is not pursuing his passion, Chamak enjoys quality time with his family and playing cards. "For the first time in my life, I have learnt playing cards. My father, wife and daughter spend the entire evening enjoying rounds of card games with me. I feel the lockdown phase must be considered as a blessing in disguise because it has given us an opportunity to spend time with our loved ones. It also has given us opportunity to explore and expand the potential of virtual world. Online poetry sessions have made me realise how well people connect with their creative side," he added.Chamak will soon host an online poetry session with prominent poets of Pakistan and host a session with noted actors Shabana Azmi and Deepti Naval.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-keeps-himself-busy-with-holding-virtual-poetry-literary-sessions-79583
03-05-2020||---||This physiotherapist is looking after stray animals in trying times||Amritsar, May 2Dr Rohan Mehra, a physiotherapist, has been working for animal protection and distributing Vitamin C tablets among sanitation workers and policemen. His NGO, Anti-Crime and Animal Protection Association, has been making such efforts during the lockdown.Cows are not getting fodder and they are picking up plastic from garbage dumps. Residents used to arrange water for them. Now, stray animals are roaming thirsty and hungry. Agitated dogs and animals often injure each other on territorial issues. So, we have ensured fodder for cows and food for dogs and pigeons. Our volunteers have been making efforts round the clock.Dr Rohan Mehra, A PhysiotherapistAfter the imposition of the curfew, Dr Mehra and his team believe that stray cows, dogs and pigeons need extra attention as residents are staying indoors and no one is there for their care."Cows are not getting fodder and they are picking up plastic from garbage dumps. Residents used to arrange water for them. Now, stray animals are roaming thirsty and hungry. Agitated dogs and animals often injure each other on territorial issues. So, we have ensured fodder for cows and food for dogs and pigeons. Our volunteers have been making efforts round the clock," said Dr Mehra.He said stray animals are getting injured frequently these days. "We have been facing a challenge while transporting animal to veterinary hospitals during the lockdown. We have to arrange mini-trucks and curfew passes for the purpose. Officials have been cooperating on it", he said.The NGO has also distributed more than 14,000 tablets of Vitamin C among sanitation workers and policemen. "Sanitation workers and policemen have been performing their duties on the frontline. They need good immunity. So, we have provided them Vitamin C tablets to boost their immunity."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-physiotherapist-is-looking-after-stray-animals-in-trying-times-79582
03-05-2020||Tarn Taran||ASI attacked in Khalra, 2 booked||Cong workers clash, bookedTarn Taran: As many as 16 Congress party workers have been booked by Goindwal Sahib police for creating uproar in Tur village late on Friday night. Three of the accused — Kulbir Singh, Major Singh and Sawinder Singh — were arrested, while six others including Lakhwinder Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Pappi, Mubarak Singh, Joban Singh and Manpreet Singh have been identified. Other accused were yet to be identified. A family dispute is said to be the reason behind the incident. The police said a case was registered on the complaint of Gurpreet Singh, brother of accused Kulbir Singh, who had some family dispute. Kulbir Singh, along with his other associates, went near the residence of his brother and threw stones at his home. The accused entered his home and damaged the belongings. They also threatened to kill him. The police party reached the spot and arrested three of the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-attacked-in-khalra-2-booked-79581
03-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Govt must waive interest on loans availed by businessmen’||Activated carbon industry in Hoshiarpur is basically small scale and cottage industry and is based on several smaller units and has 75 per cent share in the Indian carbon market.Brahm Shankar Jimpa, owner of Litesh Group of Carbon and Absorbent Industries started in 1996, wants the government to take care of the small scale industries by waiving off the interest over loans/credit limits and decrease the interest over loans to not more than 6 per cent per annum. Jimpa, who's also the vice-president of Carbon Industries' Association, is of the view that even if the lockdown ends, it will take not less than six months for the things to normalise. So, the payment of GST, EPF, ESI and other dues should be deferred for six months. In an interview with Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, Jimpa shared his views on the scenario that has emerged out of the lockdown and the post lockdown requirements for the industry. Here are the excerpts:It's a big challenge, but we are doing our best to deal with it. Not only salaries, but food and other essential things are also being provided to labourers. There's an expenditure of around Rs1 lakh for a unit on food, essentials and wages of labourers. Also, despite the units not running, the minimum payable charges for electricity have to be paid.Brahm Shankar Jimpa, Owner of Litesh Group of Carbon and Absorbent IndustriesHow has the lockdown affected the carbon industry?The activated carbon industry is basically a small scale industry and the produce is based on raw materials from other states, mainly from Gujarat. Due to the lockdown, there is no availability of raw material. Hence, the production has been stalled. Some units have raw material, but labour crisis are there. Our produce takes weeks to process and its major use is by other industries as input in diverse range of industries. We have pre-lockdown orders, but they could not be fulfilled. We received no orders during the lockdown as most of the industries are not functional.Do you expect resumption of industry after lockdown?It is not going to resume in a day or week. It will take time, as most of the carbon industry units are short of raw material such as wood charcoal. It is mainly available from Gujarat and there, too, it can't be produced in a day. Also, when it comes to industry, its processing is a complex process and in some cases, it takes up to two weeks to complete. So, the orders that are pending will take several weeks to be completed, as it will take weeks for the final production to start, that, too, if raw material, labour and other things are readily available.How are you dealing with other expenditures and paying salaries?It's a big challenge, but we are doing our best to deal with it. Not only salaries, but food and other essential things are also being provided to the labour. There's an expenditure of around Rs1 lakh for a unit on food, essentials and wages of labourers. Also, despite the units not running, the minimum payable charges for electricity have to be paid.Is the lockdown crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is definitely a challenge. A challenge before the industry to survive and a bigger challenge to resurge after the lockdown ends. Earnings are zero, expenditures are piling up and after the lockdown more capital is needed to restart. It's nothing than a fresh start.What do you expect from the government?The government will have to share the burden of bank interests. It should be waived off for six months, and cheaper loans at interest rate not more than six per cent should be provided. The interest over the existing loans should be waived off for six months and rates be halved. GST dues should be sought not on monthly but quarterly basis. ESI, EPF and other dues should be waived off for six months and industrial norms be eased for six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-must-waive-interest-on-loans-availed-by-businessmen-79580
03-05-2020||nakodar||1 arrested with 4-gm heroin||The Shahkot police on Saturday seized 4 gm of heroin from a person and arrested him. The suspect has been identified as Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, a resident of Mohalla Baghwala, Shahkot, said SHO Surindar Kumar Singh. A case under Sections 21/61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and Section 188 and 51(b) has been registered against the suspect. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-arrested-with-4-gm-heroin-79579
03-05-2020||Fateh Jung Bajwa||'My emphasis is on feeding under-privileged'||THESE days I often tell my son, Arjun Partap Bajwa, that the virus is indeed the worst thing to happen to society. An eternal optimist that he is, he reminds me that hope is important because it makes the present moment less difficult to bear. If we believe that tomorrow will be better, we are in a better position to bear a hardship today.Recently, armed with a curfew pass, I had taken a round of all the three grain markets that fall in my area — Qadian, Kahnuwan and Dhariwal. I held discussions with farmers and Mandi Board officials and told them to follow the social distancing norm.A few years ago, my family had established a social organisation called ‘Satbachan’. Through it, I have distributed as many as 10,000 ration kits, each kit costing Rs1,000. My particular emphasis is on feeding the under-privileged. Before the lockdown, these people could barely afford two square meals a day. You can very well imagine their plight post the lockdown.‘Satbachan’ has established pickets outside the three grain markets. I have also instructed officials to spray disinfectants every day.(AS TOLD TO RAVI DHALIWAL)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/my-emphasis-is-on-feeding-under-privileged-79578
03-05-2020||---||Actor Parvin Dabas shares lockdown experience||Amritsar, May 2 Actor and director Parvin Dabas interacted with members of Majha House, Jasmina Sachdeva and Gurpartap Khairah, in a specially curated online session on Saturday.  Dabas shared his life under lockdown and his views on the current situation. Talking about his background the actor said coming from a small village Kanjhawala in Haryana, he never really forgot his roots. “You have to remain humble despite the success, fame as it keeps you moored,” he said.  Sharing his routine during lockdown, Dabas said he spends his time doing things a majority of the population does. “It is of course a difficult time or everyone, and actors are no exception. But there is no solution apart from remaining in your homes. As far as what I do during the lockdown, my routine mostly consists of watching classic films which I had always wanted to but never found the time. I also have a strict regime of working out. And then of course I spend lots of time with my family, playing games, doing household jobs,” he said.  He shared with the audience that he had always wanted to act, for which he took professional training and enrolled himself for international courses in acting. “When I got my first break in ads I felt like I had achieved a lot; that I was set on the right path. When I got to act in theatre I was elated. It gave me the feeling of being an actor. And then when I was offered a role in ‘Monsoon Wedding’ I knew I had arrived,” he laughed. He said that working in theatre and working in films is always a very different experience. “Theatre needs more dedication, discipline. You have to be very diligent. Having worked in mainstream cinema too in films like My Name is Khan and Ragini MMS -2,” he said it was a different experience. In a lighter vein, he also shared tidbits from his love story, from his first meeting with actor Preeti Jhingiani and their marriage later. His other passions, he shared were scuba diving and underwater photography. His latest work, web series Hostages was well received. I was glad, but then it was stalled due to the lockdown. But I am sure we will pick up from where we left off soon, he said.  Presently, he is very excited about the Pro-Panja League that he has launched since he always has been very much into sports. ‘Every month we will introduce the life and times of a famous personality from the film industry, and bring to our audience the lesser known aspects of cinema,” said Gurpartap.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/actor-parvin-dabas-shares-lockdown-experience-79577
03-05-2020|| ---||Self-help groups come up with low-cost face masks||Amritsar, May 2 Self-help groups working under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) prepared low-cost face masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19.  The Municipal Corporation officials claimed that these face masks were available for Rs20 per piece.  Komal Mittal, Commissioner Municipal Corporation, said: “The workers associated with the self-help groups made these cloth masks. The masks are made up of extremely soft, pure cotton material, which can be easily worn during the summer season. The cloth has been provided by the Department of Local Bodies to ensure best quality. Also, there are masks with long strings which can be easily worn over the turban.”  These are reusable masks, which can be washed. The officials said anyone interested may order the masks at Rs20 per piece.  Manveer Sharma, coordinator NULM, said: “The Department of Local Bodies took this initiative to provide employment to the women belongong to low-income groups. It will provide employment and source of income during lockdown. If anyone requires these mask, one can contact on +91 70877 50807.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-help-groups-come-up-with-low-cost-face-masks-79576
03-05-2020||---||5 booked for attacking 2 youths, firing in air||Amritsar, May 2In yet another firing incident, a group of youths attacked two other youths and fired in the air on Sher Shah Suri Road under the Chheharta police station area here on Friday.The victims ran away from the spot to save themselves, but the accused damaged their bike and fled. This despite the fact that there were curfew restrictions imposed in the holy city.One of the victims, Lovepreet Singh, told the police that he, along with his friend, was travelling on bike and stopped near gali No.1 on Sher Shah Suri Road for answering the phone call. In the meantime, the accused came on a bike and a scooter and started hurling abuses at them.One of the accused, Karan Kumar, a resident of Dr Hait Ram Colony, Naraingarh, took out a pistol and fired in the air while threatening him with dire consequences. He said he and his friend fled the scene to save their lives leaving behind their motorcycle. He said Karan and his four unknown accomplices damaged his bike and escaped. The police have registered a case against Karan and his accomplices. The police recovered a bullet and an empty shell from the spot. The police said raids were on to nab the suspects and further investigation was under progress. An old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the incident. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-booked-for-attacking-2-youths-firing-in-air-79575
03-05-2020|| ---||STF nabs 3 with 8.69-kg heroin||Amritsar, May 2  A team of the Special Task  Force (STF) has confiscated over 8 kg of heroin in two separate incidents here.  While 6.69-kg heroin smuggled from Pakistan was seized near the Indo-Pak border and 2 kg of contraband was seized from two smugglers after a hot chase in the Ajnala area. The STF had nabbed three persons in these two instances. Assistant Inspector General (AIG) STF Rashpal Singh in a statement issued here on Saturday said the STF received a tip-off regarding the consignment of heroin from across the international border which was smuggled in the Ajnala area recently. Following this, investigations were carried out by DSP Vavinder Mahajan and it arrested Karam Singh, alias Galu, of Kamirpur Chak Bala village falling under the Ramdass police station here. His information led to the sequestering of 6.69 kg of heroin which was hidden in the fields.   Meanwhile, the STF received another specific information regarding smuggling of 2 kg of heroin in an SUV. Immediately a checkpoint was laid near Gujjarpura village. He said the police signalled a Scorpio vehicle (PB-07-U-9327) to stop. However, the occupants instead of stopping the vehicle, step on the accelerator and tried to run over the cops at the naka. The police team jumped on a side to save themselves. A chase was started to intercept them.  He said ASI Dilbagh Singh who was chasing the vehicle in his car, overtook the Scorpio and stopped before it. However, the smugglers again hit his car and sped away from the spot.   Later, the cops fired at the Scorpio and after around 25 minutes chase succeeded to intercept them near Chak Mishri Khan village.  The occupants were later identified as Gurwinder Singh and Sandeep Singh. Sandeep was driving the car and he had sustained bullet injury on left leg during firing. He was admitted to hospital while Gurwinder was nabbed by the police. During search the STF seized 2 kg of heroin from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stf-nabs-3-with-8-69-kg-heroin-79574
03-05-2020||---||Mobiles, iron grills seized from prisoners||Amritsar, May 2The seizure of mobile phones from the high security Amritsar Central Jail has become ‘an order of the day’.On Friday, too, the central jail authorities recovered three mobile phones from the complex. The more baffling is repeated incidents of seizure of pieces of iron grills from the high security premises. Jail officials said these inmates broke pieces of iron grills in order to damage the wall or attacking their ‘rivals’ inside the jail.In the latest seizure, jail staff seized four pieces of iron grills from two prisoners identified as Gurpreet Singh Bhikhiwind and Baldev Singh of Indira Colony in Kot Khalsa area.Sukhdev Singh, assistant superintendent of central jail, said during checking of room number 2 of barrack number 2 the staff seized four iron grills. Investigations revealed that the duo broke the iron grill of jail and hid them in the complex which was recovered by staff. A fresh case under Section 427 of the IPC and Section 52 of the Prisons Act was registered against them.Meanwhile, Gurjant Singh, assistant superintendent told that during checking of room number 6 of barrack number 7, the jail staff seized a mobile phone from Satnam Singh of Bhaini Massa Singh Village in Tarn Taran while two mobile phones were found unclaimed in the premises.A separate case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mobiles-iron-grills-seized-from-prisoners-79573
03-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||District tops tally of +ve cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 2With 53 new Covid-19 positive cases and a total count of 143 cases, the district has reached the top of the tally in the state.The number of positive cases in the district started increasing exponentially with the arrival of people who were stranded at Hazur Sahib, Nanded.Previously with only 14 positive cases, the district reported 28 fresh cases on April 30. It again reported 40 cases on May 1. With the biggest ever spike of 53 cases in a single day so far, the district had surpassed other districts in positive patient count.Cabinet Minister OP Soni said of around 600 returnees from Nanded, over 500 have already been tested.He said the government had taken timely action and quarantined all returnees, which has diminished the chances of these positive patients infecting others in their respective villages.With 133 active cases at present, the district has so far seen eight recoveries of coronavirus patients and two deaths due to the disease.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said medical teams deployed at all quarantine centres are regularly monitoring the health of quarantined persons.He appealed to the quarantined persons to cooperate with the administration and assured them that those who test negative would be allowed to go home.The district administration also allowed at least 10 persons from Dhab Khatikan quarantine centre to go home after they tested negative. The authorities said they have been asked to self-quarantine themselves for the next two weeks as a precautionary measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-tops-tally-of-ve-cases-79572
03-05-2020||Amritsar||Youth killed over land dispute, 14 booked||A youth was murdered and two others were injured when around 14 persons surrounded and attacked them at Jathol village here on Thursday.The injured, identified as Jaskaran Singh, Ravel Singh and Sukhdev Singh, were rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, from where Jaskaran (26) was shifted to a private hospital due to critical injuries. Later, he succumbed to his injuries. Those booked for murder are Tarsem Singh, Bachitar Singh, Ranjit Singh, Ravinderjit Singh, Karanjit Singh, Baljit Singh, Bikramjit Singh, Baj Singh, Chanpreet Singh, Tejpal Singh, Daljit Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Kanwaljit Singh and Jagroop Singh, all residents of Jathol village. No arrest has been made so far.Balkaran Singh, complainant and brother of the victim, told the police that on Thursday evening, he, along with his brother Jaskaran, father Ravel and paternal uncle Sukhdev Singh, was standing outside the house, when the accused attacked them. Amritsar (rural) DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota said a land dispute was the reason behind the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-killed-over-land-dispute-14-booked-79571
03-05-2020||---||Wadali residents against quarantine centre||Amritsar, May 2 Some residents of Guru ki Wadali village opposed the plan of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to set up a quarantine centre at Dhadhi college, located on the outskirts of the village.  The SGPC is making arrangements at various inns and institutes to keep pilgrims who have returned from Hazoor Sahib. In this regard, arrangements have been made to establish quarantine centres at Dhadhi college building being run under the SGPC at Guru ki Wadali village. When residents heard about the development, some of them started opposing the move. Residents led by Surjit Singh staged a protest on Friday evening and asked the government not to allow the establishment of a quarantine centre at Dhadhi college.  When contacted, SDM-2 Shivraj Singh Bal said: “It was the proposal of the SGPC to make the college a quarantine centre. We had asked them to make necessary arrangements. The resistance of residents is condemnable.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wadali-residents-against-quarantine-centre-79570
