03-06-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Amritsar rural police top in recoveries of illicit liquor||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, June 2  With around 360 cases of bootlegging and huge recovery of illicit liquor in the past 15 days, the Amritsar rural police have on the top of the list in Punjab when it comes to making seizure in the concerted campaign against liquor smuggling, it is learnt. The highly placed sources in the department claimed that Amritsar rural is followed by Tarn Taran and Batala with 267 and 202 cases respectively. As per the information, the rural police have arrested over 135 persons in these cases.  The data available with us revealed that the Amritsar rural police have confiscated over 27,000 kg of lahan (raw material used for manufacturing illicit liquor) besides over 4,000 litres of illicit liquor. The police also destroyed around 11 illegal stills indulging in manufacturing liquor. A senior official of the Amritsar rural police said that majority of seizures were made in Jhander, Rajasansi, Gharinda, Chatiwind, Mehta, Majitha and Kamboh police stations.   Amritsar rural police chief Vikram Jeet Duggal when contacted said though he knew the rural police had made huge recoveries, but he was not aware about being first in the Punjab. “We are simply doing our job,” he said.  He said around 17 dedicated teams of police department and excise officials were working very hard to nail the bootleggers who have been operating with impunity in the recent past when the curfew restrictions were imposed in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. He said liquor vends were closed in the city areas which gave an opportunity to the bootleggers to sell their produce at higher prices thereby dipping the government revenue.  He said though these notorious persons were working earlier also, but during the curfew restrictions, they have become ‘over active’.  The Punjab Police have launched a concerted drive following directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh soon after easing the curfew restrictions and opening of liquor vends.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-rural-police-top-in-recoveries-of-illicit-liquor-93768
03-06-2020||---||Sanitation workers protest at Institute of Mental Health||Amritsar, June 2Contractual sanitation workers staged a protest against the contractor and the administration of the Institute of Mental Health here on Tuesday. They staged the protest against the decision to allot the duty of a contractual worker with Covid-19 suspected patients. The woman employee, who has been allotted the duty with patients, was reportedly not relived from the work for 12 hours.Jagir Kaur, a unionist, said, “Contractual workers are not treated well by the contractor and the institute administration. The director of the institute misbehaved with them.”She said, “We have been demanding minimum wages fixed by the government for contractual employees for the past two years. But contractual workers are being paid Rs6,250 per month only. They are not allowed to take food during the duty. If they protest, the contractor threatens them to sack. On Tuesday, they were also threatened.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-workers-protest-at-institute-of-mental-health-93769
03-06-2020|| 
||Armed robbers target couple near Beas||Amritsar, June 2  A couple, who runs a dairy business, was looted by armed robbers in the Beas area in broad daylight here on Monday.  The police took the closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage of the dairy in which armed robbers were seen attacking the couple. The police are yet to make any breakthrough in the case.    Bhupinderpal Singh, owner of the dairy, told the police that his wife was present at the counter while he had gone inside for taking tea. He said two of the four armed robbers, who came on two bikes, entered the dairy and pointed a gun at his wife Veena Rani and demanded cash. She said as she was unlocking the cash box, he came back.  On seeing him, they attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. His wife tried to save him while one of the accused took Rs 35,000 from the cash box.  He said his sister-in-law Monica also arrived there and tried to save them. One of the robbers shot a fire which pierced through the thigh of Veena. The accused then fled  the scene. Veena was rushed to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital.  A police team headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Harkrishan Singh reached the spot and initiated investigation. The police said a case had been registered and further investigation was under way.  Kirandeep Singh, Station House Officer, Beas police station, said the police were trying to identify the suspects with the help of the CCTV footage of the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-robbers-target-couple-near-beas-93770
03-06-2020||
||Desilting of sewer lines in cantonment area begins||Amritsar, June 2 Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated the work of de-silting of sewerage through super sucker machines at a cost of Rs 80 lakh on Cantonment Road from Kachihari Chowk to Ram Tirath Road here on Tuesday. The desilting of main sewer line on Ram Tirath Road and Cantonment Road would also benefit residents of the entire Mall Road, MM Malviya Road and most of the areas of the Civil Lines. Speaking on the occasion, the city mayor said de-silting work was being carried out in the West and East Assembly constituencies and this work had also been started in the North Assembly constituency. He said desilting of sewerage would cost Rs 13-14 crore for the entire city and every line would be cleaned before monsoon. The Mayor said de-silting work would be conducted in the inner city with small super sucker machines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/desilting-of-sewer-lines-in-cantonment-area-begins-93771
03-06-2020||---||Loading-unloading charges up due to labour shortage||Loading-unloading charges up due to labour shortage   Amritsar, June 2 Anil Mehra, president of the Federation of Dry Fruit and Karyana Merchants, said the labour shortage had hiked the loading and unloading charges in Majitha Mandi and other commercial areas around it.   He said now labourers had started charging between Rs 8 and 10 for loading and unloading a sack, but before the lockdown they were charging Rs5.  Similarly, loading-unloading charges of sacks in a small truck have up to Rs 1,000 from Rs 800 and for a large truck to Rs 1,200 from Rs 1,000.   “Apparently, it is the result of migration of labourers to their native places. There are about 3,000 shops dealing in eatables like dry fruits, FMCG, spices, cereals, pulses and others in this part of the area and 80 per cent of the labourers have left for other states,”  he said.  Sumit Bhatia, another trader, said most of the traders preferred to store eatables in cold stores due to searing heat wave and approaching sultry weather. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/loading-unloading-charges-up-due-to-labour-shortage-93772
03-06-2020||Neha Saini
||GNDU to conduct exams in three sessions per day||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 2  Around 100 principals from colleges affiliated to Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) attended a web meeting chaired by Prof KS Kahlon, registrar; and Prof SS Behl, dean, academic affairs, GNDU; on Tuesday to discuss safety measures adopted for conducting examinations of exit courses in July. The principals discussed the implementation of safety protocols for students and staff on the examination duty. Prof Manoj Kumar, controller of examinations, GNDU, said the university will conduct the examinations for exit classes in three sessions. “Each sessions will be divided into two hours to ensure that one-third of the students appear for the exam every session. This will prevent overcrowding and maintain social distancing.”  “Thermal screening and masks are mandatory for students during the exam. Each student will report 45 minutes before the exam and the staff will report one hour earlier. After every session, the centres will be sanitised to minimise the risk of infection or any health hazard,” he added.  Students from containment zones will not be allowed to sit for the examinations. Prof Manoj said they have reserved dates for such students for taking the exams. The university authorities will also keep the track of the nearest medical centres in case of any health emergency.  The GNDU has already released the schedule for the exams to be conducted for exit courses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-conduct-exams-in-three-sessions-per-day-93773
03-06-2020||---||Now, you can travel to more destinations||Amritsar, June 2More destinations were added to the routes of state-run buses on Tuesday. Earlier, buses were plying on certain routes such as Amritsar to Pathankot. Buses will leave for Chandigarh from the city bus stand at 7.30 am and 8.30 am. They will depart from Chandigarh at 1 pm and 2 pm. For Hoshiarpur, the bus will leave at 9 am and will return at 12:30 pm.The bus for Ludhiana will depart from the city at 8 am and will return at 12:40 pm. Besides, buses for Pathankot will be available at 8 am, 9 am, 10 am and 11 am. Similarly, their return time will be at 11:10 am, 12:10 pm, 1:10 pm and 2:20 pm.Buses for Attari will leave from the city at 7:30 am, 11 am, 1:30 pm and 4 pm. These will depart from Attari at 9 am, 12:15 pm, 2:50 pm and 5 pm.Similarly for Dera Baba Nanak, buses will leave at 9:15 am, 1 pm and 5:10 pm. These will depart for the city at 7:40 am, 11 am and 3 pm.For Fatehgarh, buses will leave the city at 10 am, 1:30 pm, 4 pm and 6:20 pm. These leave from Fatehgarh at 8:30 am, 11:30 am, 3 pm and 5:20 pm.Subhash Chander, general manager, Punjab Roadways, Amritsar 2, said all buses will be operated non-stop and no passenger will be allowed to board en-route. He said these buses would accommodate passengers not more than 50 per cent of the total capacity.He added that all passengers will have to wear masks and follow social distancing. He said the frequency of buses will be increased as per the demand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-you-can-travel-to-more-destinations-93774
03-06-2020||---||Home decor shops find difficult to sustain||Amritsar, May 2Except for shops selling essential items, all other traders will have to wait for some time more for normalcy to return in their business.Parvesh Chopra, owner of 'Hop Top Home Furnishings and Decorations' at Nehru Shopping Complex, feels that people are avoiding buying anything except essentials. “Everybody has a feeling that things due to coronavirus may get worse and the government may again impose lockdown. So saving is a priority at this time,” said Parvesh.Parvesh said the sales had gone down by more than 50 per cent. “In our business, women do the most shopping. Seldom does a man comes to buy home furnishings and decorations. As women are staying home, we have less customers,” he said. He said they were receiving only one or two clients a day at present.He said they had not ordered new stocks in the last two months. “While our sales have gone down, we are not replenishing our stocks. And this sets in a chain reaction. The present condition will have a long-lasting impact on the overall economy. We do not see normalcy anytime soon,” he said.Parvesh Chopra also feels that the government has done nothing to bail out traders and businessmen of the crisis. “The government has announced the moratorium, but it will only increase burden as the interest will pile up. The government could have at least waived electricity bills or bank interest,” he said.Chopra said, “This Covid-19 situation has brought so much pessimism in the overall mood of the general public as well as businessmen. The government must try to build trust.”He said the manufacturing sector should be taken care of, else the impact on the economy would stay for much longer than was being anticipated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-decor-shops-find-difficult-to-sustain-93775
03-06-2020||---||District reports two fresh cases||Amritsar, June 2The district reported only two positive cases here on Tuesday. Both the patients had got themselves tested as they were suffering from influenza-like illness (ILA).While one patient is a resident of Holi City residential locality, the other is from the Jaura Pipal area. Both the patients did not have any travel or contact history. Both the localities — Holy City locality and Jaura Pipal area — had earlier reported no coronavirus patients.The spread of the infection to newer areas indicates that the administration’s efforts to contain its spread outside the containment zones have failed. With 403 Covid-19 cases recorded so far, the district at present has 86 active cases admitted to hospitals.With at least 12, eight and seven active cases, the Vijay Nagar, Rani Ka Bagh and Hathi Gate areas, respectively, have emerged as major hotspots in the city.The district had on Monday reported nine positive cases — one each from Grace Avenue, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar and Katra Parja areas, two cases from Katra Moti Ram and three cases from Hathi gate area. The Katras’ and Hathi gate area, which are parts of the old walled city, are densely populated areas with narrow streets. Health officials said the spread of the infection in densely populated and congested areas could cause more trouble for the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-reports-two-fresh-cases-93778
03-06-2020||---||GMC gets a boost for Covid testing||Amritsar, June 2The Covid-19 testing capacity at Government Medical College here has increased to 3,000 samples daily with Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni formally inaugurating a new machine.Talking to mediapersons during a press conference here on Tuesday, Soni said earlier the GMC lab had a capacity to process 400 samples only. With a sample being processed in six to eight hours and medical staff working in three shifts, the lab would now be able to test 3,000 samples daily.The GMC lab, which caters to testing needs of seven neighbouring districts, received a maximum of 1,200 samples in a day so far. Soni said, “We are way ahead of the demand for testing now. We have also installed the same machine at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, which has a capacity to test 3,000 samples daily.”He said the working of the machine at GMC, Patiala, would also begin in the next two days. With all the three labs equipped with new machinery, the state would have a capacity to test 9,000 samples daily. Earlier, GMC, Patiala, had a capacity to test 400 samples while Faridkot lab had a capacity of merely 250 samples daily.Apart from the GMC lab here, three private labs have also been given permission to test Covid-19 samples. “We would conduct extensive testing in the next few days and the present infrastructure upgrade is a step in this regard,” said the minister. The college authorities stated that initially when Covid 19 testing was started here, the GMC had a capacity to test 40 samples daily.”Soni said the state government had effectively managed the situation so far. “We have also made arrangements for admitting patients in case of a spike and our team of health professionals is doing a wonderful job,” he said about Punjab’s preparedness in view of the rising number of cases.Tests of 80 MC employees done, all -ve||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gmc-gets-a-boost-for-covid-testing-93780
03-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Man robbed of Rs1 Lakh at gunpoint||Man succumbs to injuriesTarn Taran: Gurcharan Singh (57) of Dhunda village, who was injured in a road accident on NH-54 near Sarhali village on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Victim’s sister Balwinder Kaur, who was also injured in the accident, is out of danger now. The Sarhali police have booked car driver Angrej Singh of Kairowal village under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC. Gurcharan Singh and his sister were going to gurdwara when a car hit their motorcycle and both were injured. The accused fled the spot. OCCell phone seized from Pak nationalAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities confiscated a mobile phone from a Pakistani national lodged in the prison on Monday. The inmate was identified as Mohammad Alam of Okara district in Pakistan’s Punjab. According to information, he was living in the country with a fake name, Thakur Amardass, in Randhawa village, Jalandhar, when he was nabbed. He is serving a 14-year jail term. A case under Section 120-B of the IPC and Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act has been registered against him. The police said besides the mobile phone, a SIM card was recovered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-rs1-lakh-at-gunpoint-93781
03-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||His plans to study abroad hit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 2Till March 15, everything was going as per the plan of Amarjit Singh and his parents. His goal to study abroad was a few months away and expecting Canadian visa in September.In February, he appeared for the Class XII examinations, but some exams were delayed due to coronavirus. As per the plan, he was to join a coaching centre for preparing the IELTS exam in May.“The Covid-19 outbreak has affected a lot. For the past two years, I have been preparing for studying abroad. My elder brother Harbax Singh is already in Canada on study visa. So, I was expecting to go there for the September intake,” said Amarjit.Now, the exam of business studies will be held on July 9. Though IELTS coaching centers are closed, some of them in the city are offering online coaching.“I have been preparing online for the IELTS exam for several months. I need group discussions to improve my speaking and listening modules. The online coaching will not help me. I have to wait for the opening of coaching centers,” he added.Now, Amarjit is also planning to take admission to a local degree college for graduation.“I did not change my goal of studying abroad, but to prevent a gap in my study, I have to take admission to a college for my graduation. It is unwanted financial burden on my parents. The situation may normalise after one year so I have to make some alternative plan,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-plans-to-study-abroad-hit-93782
03-06-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Moratorium imposed by govt on loan repayments hitting us hard’||Alok Sondhi says situation may take at least four months to get back on trackJalandhar-based PKF Finance Ltd has been getting less than 25 per cent recoveries of its loans. The owner of Rs500-crore group, Alok Sondhi, talks about the strategies adopted by the finance sector to deal with the crisis due to the Covid-19 breakout. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, he throws light on measures being taken to provide relaxation to the loanees. Excerpts…How has been the business since the Covid-19 outbreak?The business has suffered a jolt. Being in the finance sector, we are facing a double-edged sword. While the government imposed moratorium on us in terms of accepting back the loan amount, but there is no relaxation for us for paying back the money to banks. On our payment side, there is moratorium on us and we are not supposed to accept money, but we have to pay back to the banks. Single-track action cannot happen, but luckily we have strength to bear it all.Have things improved in the past one month?Profitability has been badly hit. In fact, we are calculating how much loss we have already incurred this year. April has been completely washout. But things have started picking up and we have recovered by 25 to 30 per cent as of now. On the investment side, there are not many takers. Our recoveries are not even 25 per cent and it is not a healthy situation.How do you see the coming days for the business?Well, it is difficult to predict anything, but I think the entire situation may take at least four months or so to get back on track. In this grim scenario, the most interesting part is that though we have reduced the rate of interest on deposits, people are still coming to us for deposits as they have faith in us and don’t like to depend on banks. But we are planning to reduce the rate of interest further and discourage any further deposits as there is no lending. Our lenders, including transporters, are in a bad position.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We have about 200 people on roll, mostly professional accountants. Though our pay date is 7th of the month, we have paid full salary on the 1st itself so that they can buy ration and other essential items. But now some senior employees have voluntarily agreed to 15-20 per cent pay cut. Those with lesser salaries have had to face smaller cuts. For the staff, we have introduced interest-free loans for buying tablets for their children attending online classes. Interest-free loan has also been offered for the purchase of two-wheelers, including second-hand vehicles.How many employees are coming to the office?In Punjab, almost entire staff are coming to the office. In Delhi and Gurgaon, we have told our staff that they can come conveniently, but who were coming by metro or their houses in containment zones have been asked to work from home. In Bilaspur (Himachal Pradesh), our office is in the containment zone. So, it has been lying shut at the moment.Q: What changes have you made to keep the faith of the clientele?We have cut our rates on default by 50 per cent. We want to pay only as much as is our cost, so that they can all survive. In the business, we believe that our customer is God. So if they will survive, then we will survive. We are lending to industrialists for generators, medical equipment and agriculture tools.Do you believe the Centre’s financial package will help people come out of the crisis?It was a nice talk by the government, but the RBI and banks have not cooperated with the Finance Minister on the issue. Not a single penny has been announced for MSMEs or microfinance. The government should start lending directly rather than going through banks. We held a video-conferencing with the Finance Minister three days ago. I made three points — giving money at cheaper rates, seeking relaxation from the RBI for reverting on NPA norms for finance companies, providing 180 days of default time instead of 90 days and doing away with rating requirements for finance companies. As the general secretary, Punjab and Haryana Finance Companies Association, I need to raise concerns for the whole sector. We are also going to put up all points through the national body of the Finance Industry Development Council.How do you see the future of companies in the finance sector?I guess 80 per cent of the companies will vanish. Only those who were in the trade for 10 years or more and were doing the business ethically while keeping a good amount of financial reserve will survive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/moratorium-imposed-by-govt-on-loan-repayments-hitting-us-hard-93783
