03-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Man booked for abducting girl||Fraud Case filed against coupleTarn Taran: The police have booked a couple for allegedly duping a man of Rs4 lakh on the pretext of sending him abroad. The accused have been identified as Gurbir Singh and his wife Baljinder Kaur. Rajesh Kumar said the accused took Rs4 lakh to settle him in New Zealand. The accused neither sent him abroad nor refunded the money. After an inquiry, the Patti police booked accused under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC. OCCouple ends life in Sathiala villageAmritsar: With children stuck in Australia and Delhi amid corona lockdown in the country, an elderly couple committed suicide after consuming some poisonous substance in Sathiala village falling under the Beas police station on Thursday. The villagers noticed no movement in the house and found the couple, identified as Balwinder Singh and his wife Gurjinder Kaur, dead. Balwinder used to run a photo studio while his wife was as retired government school teacher. The reason behind taking the extreme step of ending their lives was being investigated. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-abducting-girl-64891
03-04-2020||---||NGOs, philanthropists mobilise large-scale relief efforts in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 2 To overcome the urgent requirements of essential food items for the most vulnerable and poor families of the city, affected by the sudden outbreak of pandemic and lockdown, distribution of food and other relief material to the needy is being carried out now on a large scale in city as several NGOs and corporates have come forward with funds and resources. The Punjab Rice Exports Association and FICCI Flo have already handed over 4,000 food ration packets to the district administration for distribution in several parts of the city and in the suburbs. Packets containing atta (5 kg), rice (2 kg),  dal (2 kg) and a salt packet were distributed.   “Members of both organisations are daily getting frantic calls from the outskirts of the city for immediate relief. We have reached out to stranded students from Manipur, north-east, migrant labour and slum dwellers who are in desperate need for food,” said Aarushi Verma, chairperson, FICCI FLO. She added that philanthropists from Delhi too are contributing to relief efforts.  Brij Kakar, another good Samaritan from Delhi, has donated urgent medical supplies including 10,000 surgical masks, over 100 N95 masks, 500 bottles of hand sanitisers and vital personal protective equipment for doctors worth over Rs 3.5 lakh. The entire consignment was handed over to the president, Indian Medical Association, Dr RS Sethi, who gave it to the Principal of Government Medical College and to doctors of civil hospitals. Advance India Project, another NGO, has adopted 16 families of the daily wagers working different odd jobs at Celebration Mall. As malls have been shut since lockdown was announced, the families have lost their income and are getting relief material through voluntary efforts.  Voice of Amritsar, a non-profit and one of the first organisations to begin with relief work in the city, has been distributing ration to 100 families since March 27, covering the most vulnerable population. The district administration too is distributing 1,000 food kits including dry ration (10 kg flour, rice, sugar, tea, butter, etc) to needy families.  The administration has roped in voluntary services of Radha Swami Satsang Beas, Chief Khalsa Diwan, Lions Club, Rotary Club, Youth Clubs of various villages to reach out the needy families. The district control room is serving as a call centre with distress calls being received for food supplies. Each sub-SS Division related SDM, Tehsildar, Naib Tehsildar, BD/ IPO has been directed to stay alert and make sure relief material reaches every needy household.  Contributing to the District Red Cross Society, the Madad Charitable Foundation has been providing 1,500 packets of meals daily to the Police Lines staff who have been working on ground and food kits to the villages where daily wagers need help. They have also providing them hand sanitisers and gloves. “We have set up teams of volunteers for each campaign to deliver food kits and packed meals. Also, we are identifying and helping to take care of senior citizens in need with food, medicines and healthcare. We aim to provide over 50,000 cooked meals to the police personnel on ground,” informed Suneet Kocchar, Director, Khanna Papers and Managing Trustee, Madad Charitable Foundation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngos-philanthropists-mobilise-large-scale-relief-efforts-in-amritsar-64889
03-04-2020||amritsar||Portal providing info on chemists, grocery sellers launched||The district administration has launched a web portal — www.asrcovid19helpline.in — to help residents find chemists, grocery and vegetable sellers in their respective areas. The initiative has been taken in view of the problems being faced by them to find contact numbers of shops that have been allowed home delivery of essential items. By selecting their locality, the residents will be able to get the number of shops providing medicines, grocery items and vegetables, said DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon.  He said the website would be updated daily and phone numbers of more shop owners would also be added. The DC said the services of Swiggy and Zomato were also being availed to provide essential items on the doorstep of residents. At www.asrcovid19helpline. in, the residents can also file applications for curfew passes. Besides, instructions from the government, awareness material on the coronavirus and information regarding the timing of certain services will be provided.    The residents can also make donations through the portal to Red Cross to help fight the pandemic. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/portal-providing-info-on-chemists-grocery-sellers-launched-64888
03-04-2020|| ---||500 arrested for defying curfew orders in 2 days||Amritsar, April 2  Tightening the noose around curfew violators, the city police nabbed around 500 persons in the past two days, besides challaning and impounding their vehicles.  Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said there were clear cut instructions not to come out of their houses without valid reasons in view of the curfew instructions amid Covid-19 threat, people were still taking it lightly. They are roaming on roads and moving in groups, which is a real threat of spreading the deadly disease.  After the death of Bhai Nirmal Singh, former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple and rise in novel coronavirus patients, the police have tightened the security taking strict action against the violators. Yesterday, the cops arrested as many as 440 persons and challaned over 75 vehicles out of which 31 were impounded.  Talking to The Tribune Dr Gill said the people were seen sitting and standing in groups in streets and areas indulging in chit-chatting. “They were giving proofs of being irresponsible citizens therefore, the government taken cognisance of this and we are not going to tolerate it from now onwards,” said the police commissioner.  Meanwhile, the Amritsar rural police have also taken offenders to task and arrested a number of persons for violating curfew restrictions.  “From the imposition of curfew restrictions on March 22, the rural police had nabbed 204 persons. Only yesterday, the police arrested 42 persons in 20 cases and impounded 44 vehicles,” said Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/500-arrested-for-defying-curfew-orders-in-2-days-64887
03-04-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Docs to keep check on cops’ health condition||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, April 2  In view of the ongoing curfew restrictions, heavy police force has been deployed on roads. Roads are barricaded and five to six cops are deployed at every checkpoint or chowks.  Due to high stress level among the force, the city police on Thursday arranged a team of doctors that visited cops to know their health conditions. The team was equipped with basic medicines, which were given to the policemen, who were found ailing.  Dr Manpreet Kaur Gill, Medical Officer, 9 Battalion Punjab Armed Police (PAP), said she was visiting all checkpoints and approaching cops at nakas for a check-up. “We have all basic and emergency medicines with us, but if need be, we will provide medicines on the next visit or refer them,” she said.  She said as per the orders, a close eye would be kept on the health conditions of cops performing their duties on roads. “In the time of crisis, cops are doing their best to keep people at their homes to stop the spread of deadly novel coronavirus,” she said, adding that these cops were also given necessary instructions on how to remain safe from contraction of the virus.  Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said due to difficult duty hours during the crisis, they were hardly finding any time to visit doctors for check-ups. Therefore, a need was felt to keep a check on the health condition of policemen and keep them motivated in the challenging time, where everybody was under threat of contracting the disease.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/docs-to-keep-check-on-cops-health-condition-64886
03-04-2020||---||After Ragi’s demise, residents take curfew seriously||Amritsar, April 2Panic gripped the city after the demise of Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa. Residents now prefer to stay indoors. As no case of coronavirus was reported till Wednesday, they thought there was no threat of community spread in the city. They were not convinced with the advisories of the government to stay indoors.The death of Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa shocked the public, as he was a prominent personality and people used to listen to his Shabad Kirtan on television. Now, residents have started feeling the threat of community transmission and obeying the advisories.The city witnessed less movement of general public on Thursday compared to the past few days. Gurpreet Singh, a cop on patrolling duty, said: “Now, there is panic among residents after the death of Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa. Earlier, they were not taking the curfew seriously. We can’t visit every street to implement the curfew. The residents should feel the threat of community spread.”Meanwhile, the police also increased patrolling to implement curfew in the city. The cops deployed on nakas are not allowing anyone without curfew passes. The police have also issued challans, registered cases and impounded vehicles.There was no official relaxation in the curfew, but shopkeepers in streets and mohallas were still seen selling goods. The police warned all such grocery stores, dairy owners and vegetable fruit vendors to stop such activities or face action. Sandip Singh, a resident of Majitha Road, said: “I used to go for morning walk even during curfew. On Thursday, cops warned me to stay at home. It seems the police are now strict in implementing the curfew.” Meanwhile, the administration officials claimed that door to door delivery of essential items was functional and everything was now streamlined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-ragis-demise-residents-take-curfew-seriously-64885
03-04-2020||---||2 localities sealed in Sultanwind area, sanitisation drive under way||Amritsar, April 2The district administration has sealed Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar and Tej Nagar areas in Sultanwind area after Padma Shri recipient and former Hazoori Ragi Nirmal Singh Khalsa died due to coronavirus during treatment at Government Medical College here early Thursday morning. Khalsa had tested positive for the disease on Wednesday.Also read: 86 took part in ex-Ragi’s Sec 27 event, quarantined in Chandigarh The death of Khalsa had a visible impact on public’s psychology, as lesser movement on roads was witnessed on roads on Thursday as compared to Wednesday.The administration has also sent five of his family members and two members of his Ragi Jatha to the isolation centre. The administration officials said the entire area is being sanitised. The administration has appealed to the general public to stay at home. The administration is also tracing contacts of the family members and two ragis, who have been kept in isolation.The administration had also decided to cremate Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa at a cremation ground in Verka village on the outskirts of the city instead of organising the cremation at his ground in Sultanwind area, so as to bring the infected body to the congested area.Verka village residents lock cremation groundResidents of Verka led by Congress councillor Harpal Singh objected to the move and locked the cremation ground.Residents said they can suggest a better option for the cremation and the administration should avoid cremating the body near residential areas. Several rounds of meetings by different officials of the administration with residents were held but a solution to the problem could not be found.The district officials said the cremation would be done under the guidance of medical experts and proper precautions would be taken. The administration would allow only one or two members of the family at the cremation but they would not be allowed to touch or go near the body. The body of the deceased has been kept at the mortuary.Bhai Nirmal Singh’s kin quarantined till Apr 15 Tarn Taran: Relatives of former Hazoori Raagi of Golden Temple Padma Shri Bhai Nirmal Singh, who died of cardiac arrest in an Amritsar hospital on Thursday morning, have been quarantined till April 15. A notice in this regards has been pasted outside the residence of the relatives here by the Health Department. Bhai Nirmal Singh’s relatives have been putting up at Muradpur where he came to see them on March 11 soon after returning from abroad. SMO Dr Inder Mohan Gupta said the family members had been instructed to remain at home where they would not be allowed to come out nor none would be permitted to enter the premises. Police personnel had been deployed outside the house. The administration expressed satisfaction that the crucial period of two weeks had passed when the relatives met him. Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has advised residents to follow the instructions of the administration regarding social distancing and self-isolation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-localities-sealed-in-sultanwind-area-sanitisation-drive-under-way-64883
03-04-2020||---||Ragi's cremation: Panicky villagers lock Verka village crematorium||Amritsar, April 2Netizens flay actMany on social media platforms condemned the protesters of Verka village, saying their villages would not have objected to the cremation of such an eminent personality.Much to the dismay of large sections of society, hundreds of residents of Verka village on the outskirts of the city flouted curfew norms to protest against the administration for its plan to cremate Padma Shri recipient and former Hazoori Ragi of Darbar Sahib Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa at the village cremation ground. The administration later had to cremate the deceased near the Fatehgarh Shukarchak road late in the evening.The administration had decided to cremate him at Verka considering the fact that the other two cremation grounds — Durgiana Mandir cremation ground and Shaheed Baba Deep Singh cremation ground — had four to five bodies already awaiting cremation.The ground at Verka village is at a comparatively secluded place. However, Verka residents led by Congress councillor Harpal Singh locked the entrance gate of the cremation site in the afternoon. Later, towards the evening as the police administration deployed extra force to deal with the situation.Many on social media platforms condemned the protesters and said their villages would not have objected to the cremation.The Verka residents, however, said they respected Khalsa and would even build a memorial for him but he should be cremated at an alternative site which was away from residential areas.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the alternative cremation site was also provided by Verka villagers. He said cremation was not done in the city due to safety concerns.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ragis-cremation-panicky-villagers-lock-verka-village-crematorium-64696
