03-12-2020||Neha Saini||Access ‘denied’: City far from being disabled-friendly||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2Infrastructural challenge for city’s people with disabilities remain unchanged despite the guidelines under the Right of Persons with Disability Act, 2016, that mandates all private and government institutions and establishments to ensure barrier-free spaces and services for differently-abled persons.Several key governance and commercial buildings that disregard the accessibility for persons with disability, make it a major deterrent in providing social inclusivity. Be it public parks, buildings, transport, schools, public/ commercial spaces, all are far from being disabled-friendly.Basic infrastructural and service facilities such as wheelchairs, elevated ramps and separate washrooms are all lacking when it comes to public offices.The MC office though has a ramp facility for wheelchair access, the overall accessibility remains difficult for disabled. Apart from government offices, district court complex, police stations across the city are only wheelchair-friendly and lack in structural accessibility for the disabled.A majority of schools and colleges in the city, too, have limited accessibility issues. While major government hospitals in the city are equipped with ramps for physically challenged, the absence of wheelchairs at entrance are a big problem for them. While the authorities often complain of patients who do not leave the chairs at the place from where they pick it and claim of no shortage of wheelchairs, patients often have a trouble finding one for them. Even in washrooms, sanitary fitting keeping in view the needs of the persons with disabilities are missing.Public transport facilities, however, fare well in terms of providing accessibility for the disabled. SGRDI airport is well-equipped with basic facilities for the disabled and has separate washrooms. The metro bus stations across the city, too, are disabled friendly with ramps constructed for the disabled. At the elevated stations outside the bus stand and in the Mall Mandi area, the construction of lifts has been done to make it accessible. Railway station was recently renovated and lifts were made available on every platform. Escalators were installed on both sides of the exit and entry points with ramps for physically challenged passengers available on both entrances of the station.Among institutions of higher education, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has been working to ensure proper facilities for the disabled on the complex. The premier educational institution has ramps, lifts, toilets and walking aides for the disabled in multiple departments. The proposal for constructing ramps, lifts, toilets in old buildings and one alike is under way.Even cultural spaces in city fail to provide separate toilet facility with disabled-specifications, though they are all wheelchair-friendly and provide escorts to help disabled and elderly to access its space. City’s popular shopping hubs spare no thought for the accessibility for the disabled as narrowed lanes are further encroached upon, without any clear passage for wheelchairs.Mayor Karamjit SinghRintu, while acknowledging that much needs to be done to facilitate accessibility for disabled, says plans for carrying out structural changes in new office buildings have got the go ahead. “The new MC and administrative buildings, too, have been re-structured to suit the disabled-friendly design with lifts and ramps in place. The old one has ramps and we do offer assistance in case it is required. We are carrying out renovation plans to incorporate accessibility for disabled in several public places including Company Bagh. Recently, we constructed 42 disabled-friendly community toilets in the city and more are in pipeline.”Key public spaces that lack accessibility||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/access-denied-city-far-from-being-disabled-friendly-179229
03-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Active caseload on the rise, health dept on toes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2Increase in the Covid-19 active caseload in the district would test competency and endurance of the administration and medical fraternity once again in the next few weeks.The active caseload reached 701 on Wednesday, which had dropped to around 250 in the first fortnight of November.Though positive patients with mild symptoms were being quarantined at home, the rise in active caseload results in increasing the workload on staff monitoring health of these patients.The monitoring staff keeps a tab on patients quarantined at home and provides them medical support if required. Earlier, the administration had asked hospitals, including private institutions to furnish details of infrastructure and manpower to handle positive cases.Talking to The Tribune, Civil Surgeon Dr Rabinder Singh Sethi said, “Motivation of health staff, including doctors and paramedics is foremost. Due to hardwork and dedication of medical staff, we managed to tackle the first wave of the Covid-19. In case the infections increase, we will need similar dedication once again.”Dr Sethi said as most of the patients were with mild symptoms, they were being quarantined at home and to an extent, it has decreased the burden on existing health infrastructure.“We are providing self health monitoring kits, which include medicines, supplements, thermometer and oximeter to positive patients. We will ensure that patients get medical help in case of need,” he added.Dist reports 4 deaths, 53 new cases Amritsar: The district health authorities reported four deaths on Wednesday with which the Covid toll reached 506. The deceased have been identified as Narinder Singh (71) from the city, who was admitted to a hospital in Ludhiana; Kuldeep Kaur, (89) of Golden city; Parvesh Kumar (74) of Baba Batala and Ram Kumar (53) of Subhash colony. The district has also reported 53 new positive cases with which the total count increased to 13,217. The new cases include 30 influenza-like illness cases and 23 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 38 patients, the recovery count has increased to 12,010. The district at present has a total of 701 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/active-caseload-on-the-rise-health-dept-on-toes-179230
03-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Sharp rise in veggie, pulse prices hit residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2After facing uncertainty due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, skyrocketing prices of vegetables, cereals and pulses, among others, has hit the masses hard.These essential items forming the food basket recorded 10 per cent to 30 per cent increase.Maximum rise of 50 per cent has been witnessed on tea leaves, followed by mustard oil. The latter used to be sold at Rs 95 per litre before the lockdown, which now costs Rs 130 per litre.Prices of all types of cooking oils, including soya, rice bran, palm, cotton seed, vegetable increased between 20 per cent and 30 per cent.Similarly, cost of cereals and pulses rose considerably. For instance, price of rajma increased from Rs 90 to Rs 115 per kg, masar daal from Rs 70 to Rs 90, channa daal from Rs 50 to Rs 65, arhar from Rs 85 to Rs 110, moong daal from 75 to Rs 90 per kg.Kuldeep Rai Gupta, chairman, Retail Karyana Merchants’ Association, said the overall Consumer Food Price Index (CFPI) and inflation rate of vegetables and pulses has been increasing constantly.Omkar Goyal, chief, All India Retailers Federation, said, “There is no plausible reason for the price rise except that the political establishment wished the entire trade to be handed over to some corporate houses.”The government’s effort to check black marketing and push sufficient food stock in the market to price rise failed.Goyal recalled that former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh had constituted a committee ‘Comprehensive Financial Services for Small Businesses and Low Income Households’, commonly known as the Nachiket Mor Committee, which had estimated that there were about 5.77 crore retailers who employ around 12 crore people in the country. These were small entrepreneurs who were deemed to be fit for the government aid, he said.“It is no longer the case. We are now on the target of big corporate houses who want to snatch away our business,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sharp-rise-in-veggie-pulse-prices-hit-residents-179231
03-12-2020||
||MC sanitary inspector caught taking bribe||Amritsar, December 2  The Vigilance Bureau nabbed Sanitary Inspector Harjinder Singh posted in the health wing of  the Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, while accepting a bribe of Rs5,000 from a local resident here on Wednesday. Vishal Gill, Class IV Employee of the MC was also booked and is yet to be arrested.  Complainant Rinku Kumar said he was working as a safai sewak (sweeper) in Ward No. 49 of the MC and previously was posted in Ward No.70. He alleged that Harjinder Singh transferred him from Ward No.70 to Ward No. 49, due to the non-payment of monthly bribe of Rs1,000.  Kumar further alleged that Class IV Employee Vishal Gill of the MC collects monthly bribe worth Rs1,000 to Rs3,000 from fellow safai sewaks on behalf of Sanitary Inspector Harjinder Singh. Kumar alleged that he had requested the Sanitary Inspector to transfer him from Ward No.49 to Ward No.70, upon which Harjinder Singh told him that he would be transferred, after which he demanded a bribe amount of Rs10,000 from him and further asked him to pay a bribe of Rs1,000 per month. Thereupon, the complainant insisted that he was a poor man and cannot pay a bribe of Rs10,000, in lieu of his transfer.  On his persistent requests, Harjinder Singh agreed to accept Rs5,000. Rinku made a false promise with the Sanitary Inspector and reported the matter to the Vigilance Bureau Range Amritsar. Harpreet Singh, DSP VB Range, Amritsar, arrested Sanitary Inspector Harjinder Singh posted in the Health Department of the Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, red-handed while accepting bribe of Rs5,000 from complainant Rinku Kumar, in presence of shadow witnesses Bikramjeet Singh, BDPO, Verka, District Amritsar Amandeep Sharma, BDPO Lopoke, District Amritsar. The VB also recovered Rs5,000 bribe money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-sanitary-inspector-caught-taking-bribe-179233
03-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||No amusement in parks, they are still toughing it out||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 2Going for shopping in markets or parks for amusement are a challenge for people with disability, says Manmohan Singh Baserke, 62, who completely damaged his left leg during a road accident in 1987.Baserke, who earned a name in writing later, was 28-year-old then and a father of three minor kids. The same leg was inflicted with minor polio.Unstoppable traffic, haphazard parking on roads leave little room for physically challenged persons to move around in shopping markets to shop. First of all crossing a road is an uphill task. For instance, the roads inside the Hall Gate and another on the Katra Jai Mal Singh inside the walled city are one-way. In other words, traffic does not stop on these roads.There is no way a physically challenged person can conveniently cross the road for shopping or some other work in newly developed areas such as Ranjit Avenue. Footpaths are nine inches to 1-ft high from the road level.“A person like me walking on crutches can neither ascend nor descend from such a high footpath. Any error can lead to an accident,” he saidSimilarly, footpaths are at a level high from the road at public parks as well. Concrete obstacles are raised to slow down the influx of people at parks, but physically challenged people on wheelchairs and even those walking with crutches cannot move ahead. Gaining access in the park on their own is impossible. As the Bagh has cattle grid at its entrance to prevent cattle to gain entry, so a person walking with crutches cannot go inside. So, taking a stroll in the park to beat boredom is a challenge for the physically disabled.He points out that the city does not have any toilet for physically disabled persons. A set of modern toilets, including one for the disabled, was installed at the railway station a few years ago. However, these were never made operational due to some technical reason.Meanwhile, shopping became easy with the advent of shopping malls and multiplexes. “These modern installations are accessible for physically challenged persons. One can approach every nook and corner by choosing options from escalators and lifts. Besides ramps are also available,” he said. Even as commercialisation has swept all corners of life, physically challenged evoke some sympathy from people but for how long?“I was employed with the Rural Development and Panchayat Department. It saved me. Otherwise, how long can one go on sympathy?” he asked. Beserke, has so far written three story books, a children’s book, a play on Guru Amardas, besides five research books.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-amusement-in-parks-they-are-still-toughing-it-out-179234
03-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill
||Volunteers spearhead farmers’ protest against Centre in Delhi||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 2 As kisan union’s talks with the Centre failed to materialise on December 1, farmers started preparing themselves for a long haul. The enthusiasm among the farming community has been such that those who had never protested at the local level were set to leave for New Delhi to assist their counterparts. Inderpreet Singh Dhillon, a farmer from Baserke village, said, “I came back on December 1 to mobilise more farmers and collect some items, which were required for prolonged stay.” A big farmer, Dhillon, who had never been a part of any kisan union, said, “This is different. I am not associated with any particular farm union, but I am with the farming community.” He said he would leave for New Delhi today. Gursahib Singh, who has been pursuing LLB from Guru Nanak Dev University, has moved to Delhi alongwith his friends from the university. He said, “My father would have never allowed me to go with my friends for so long. But when I shared the idea with him, he encouraged me.” Gursahib said he plans to return in a few days and his father would head to New Delhi. Numerous farmers, especially the young ones, had gone to the national capital voluntarily. Harpreet Singh Butari of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, who had been protesting from the beginning said, “The response from the farming community is phenomenal. The organisations had been holding protests for decades, but voluntary participation was missing. The unions had to mobilise farmers, but now they have moved to New Delhi on their own and without any hesitation.” Though farmers’ unions had announced a seven-day dharna initially, farmers had made up their mind to take the protest to its logical end.  Meanwhile, those in villages were holding “Akhand Path” for the success of the agitation.  Jagtar Singh, a farmer, said, “A section of national and social media is supporting the new agri laws, but there is not even a single person in any village, who believes in it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/volunteers-spearhead-farmers-protest-against-centre-in-delhi-179235
03-12-2020||
||Portrait of Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib released at GNDU||Amritsar, December 2 A portrait and booklet depicting  Shabads of Guru Nanak Dev pictorially and visuals of Gurdwara Sri Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, was released by Prof Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, here on Wednesday.  A documentary by Hardeep Sandhu, former Additional Advocate General, Punjab, and a practising lawyer, was also released.  The documentary depicting the preview of historic Gurdwara Ber Sahib has been also uploaded on the website of the Guru Nanak Dev University.  Sandhu has dedicated the documentary to the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev. The documentary features historical importance of Gurdwara Ber Sahib, along with brief mentions about sacred beri (Indian gooseberry).  The portrait is replete with colourful visuals of Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, depicting Palanquin (Palki Sahib), Chandoa Sahib, Chaur Sahib, Nishan Sahib, Sukhasan Asthan, Domes, Sacred Sarovar, Sacred Beri, Architectural Marvels and logos of Devine Manifestation, Holy Bein and will be placed in ‘The Gallery: History and Dreams’ of the university. Harpreet Sandhu said this work has been initiated by him to further spread the message of universal brotherhood within society. “I wish to thank the Almighty for giving me the strength to begin and accomplish this noble task and further pray to further enlighten me for similar ventures,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/portrait-of-gurdwara-sri-ber-sahib-released-at-gndu-179236
03-12-2020||Charanjit Sngh Teja
||Civic body’s water testing laboratory lying defunct||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 2 In the absence of technical staff, water testing laboratory of the Amristar Municipal Corporation (MC) has been lying defunct for the last several years.  The technical assistant who used to work at the lab, established at the MC’s Zonal Office, left the job around six years ago. The MC failed to recruit any other person to operate the laboratory. The MC receives regular complaints of residents about contaminated water supply, but there has been no infrastructure to verify them.  Officials of the operation and maintenance (O&M) wing claimed they test water samples at the laboratory of the Health Department at Golden Avenue. As per the rule, the MC should test water of tubewell supply from the source and output point once a month. In the absence of infrastructure, the MC doesn’t test water quality regularly. Last year, the operation and maintenance wing had initiated process to outsource the firm to operationalise the water testing lab. The officials claimed they had all the required machines and the staff was required. During a visit to the MC’s Zonal Office, it came out that rooms constructed for the laboratory were allotted to the O&M officials.  Naresh Kumar, Executive Engineer, Operation and Maintenance Wing, said, “We don’t have staff. As a result, the water testing lab is lying defunct. We are planning to outsource the staff to revive the lab. Our routine work is not getting affected. We get samples tested in Chandigarh and at a local health lab.” It is pertinent to mention that in order to supply drinking water in the Majha area, the state government had planned to set up hi-tech multi-district water testing laboratory in Amritsar under the technical expertise of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai.  This laboratory would test arsenic, uranium and other heavy metals in potable water. The project has yet not been executed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-bodys-water-testing-laboratory-lying-defunct-179237
03-12-2020||
||Smart City launches slogan writing contest||Amritsar, December 2 Amritsar Smart City Limited has launched a logo designing and slogan writing competition for its “RAAHI” (Rejuvenation of Auto-Rickshaw in Amritsar through Holistic Intervention) project.  Through the competition, city dwellers can showcase their creativity by designing project logos and writing slogans. For a long time now, Amritsar Smart City Limited has been working on a project to improve public transport of the city and reduce pollution.  Under it, charging stations will be set up at different places of the city for charging e-vehicles. In the first phase of the project, about 7,000 diesel autos will be replaced with e-autos. To replace these old diesel autos, drivers will be given subsidies as well as loans on easy interest rates.  The rest of the autos will be replaced in the second phase. Funded by the French Development Agency (AFD) and supervised by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban affairs, the project is now officially named as “RAAHI”. Under it, Amritsar will be the first city in the country where e-auto will be made a part of the public transport system on such a large scale. All the information about the competition is available on the official website (www.smartcityamritsar.com) of Amritsar Smart City and by visiting the link given on the website, the city dwellers can send their entry by December 31. The winner of the competition will be honoured by Komal Mittal, CEO of Amritsar Smart City and Commissioner of Municipal Corporation, and the selected logo and slogan will be used for the branding of the RAAHI project. “The young artists and graphic designers of the city should showcase their creativity by participating in this competition. This is the first kind of project in the country which will give them a chance to establish their identity on a large scale,” says Mittal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-city-launches-slogan-writing-contest-179238
03-12-2020||Amritsar||NCC Day observed at DAV College||Under the direction of Col Ratnakar Trivedi, Commanding Officer,  11 Punjab Battallion along with  40 NCC cadets, NCC Day was marked at DAV College, Amritsar.  NCC cadets took oath to keep cleanliness around their surroundings and discussed various methods that could be implemented to forward the cause of the Swachh Bharat Mission.   Principal Rajesh Sharma and Prof Raghu Raj were also present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ncc-day-observed-at-dav-college-179239
03-12-2020||Amritsar||One more arrested in Mani Dhawan murder case||The police arrested another accused in connection with the broad daylight murder of gangster Gorilla’s brother Mani Dhawan here on Wednesday. The arrested accused had been identified as Risham Arora, alias Rishu alias Gift, who did a recce of Mani Dhawan before his murder.  A police official claimed that Risham had sent a video of the recce to gangster Shubham Singh, who had been brought on production warrant from Faridkot Jail. The official claimed that Shubham had confessed that his accomplices murdered Mani to avenge his father Baljinder Singh’s murder. The police have recovered the mobile phone used by Risham to record the recce, which was later sent to Subham lodged in jail. The police are also in look out for Jaswinder Singh, alias Jassi, and Ranjit Singh, alias prince, who were allegedly assigned the duty to murder Mani Dhawan by Shubham Singh. Rishab and his accomplice Gurbej Singh, alias Bheja, used to operate Shubham’s Facbook ID, revealed the police.         Mani was gunned down by two armed assailants on 88-feet road on Majitha Road on November 11. The victim was basking in the sun near his shop. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-arrested-in-mani-dhawan-murder-case-179240
03-12-2020||---||Maharaja Hari Singh award for choreographer||Amritsar, December 2Latika Arora, a city-based choreographer, who has been a known name in region’s performing art circuit, has received the Maharaja Hari Singh Dogra award from ‘Meri Pehchaan’, a women’s organisation from Jammu.Arora has been conferred with the award for her professional achievements and contribution towards promotion of art. Latika Arora, who claimed to fame by being a runners-up in famous dance show ‘Boogie Woogie’ in 2006, has continued to pursue dance and turned teacher later. She has performed in live dance shows on television and has received several awards in the field of dance. She credited her guru Dr Rashmi Nanda for her achievements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maharaja-hari-singh-award-for-choreographer-179242
03-12-2020||National Highway 54 (starts near Pathankot and ends at Kenchiya Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan) has become a hotbed of crime in the recent past. Taking serious note of the incidents||NH 54— a hotbed of crime||Solemnising mass marriages since 1992The Citizen Council, Tarn Taran, has been working for the welfare of the needy sections of the society since its inception in 1992. The organisation had been involved in solemnising mass marriages since 1992. As many as 1,000 marriages have been solemnised till date by the organisation. Avtar Singh Taneja, president of the organization, said besides mass marriages the organization had been involved in organising free eye camps, planting saplings and warm clothes for needy students. “We have distributed masks to needy persons and thise living in slum areas,” said Dr SS Lauhuka, former president of the Citizen Council.Working for WildlifeNavdeep Sood, who works as officer in the Telecom Department and is optimist for revival of wildlife, is a postgraduate in technology and ecology, pursuing PhD in wildlife sciences. He had participated in different wildlife research projects in India and abroad. Dismayed with less forest land here, he is working actively in the district which has now become a home for gharials and dolphins. He studies behavior of wild animals which are trying to settle in human inhabited areas as their habitats are being destroyed. He also tracks leopards and other wildlife that enters the area and runs various awareness sites on Harike Wetland. He has several animal welfare activities on his part.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nh-54%E2%80%94-a-hotbed-of-crime-179246
03-12-2020||Kuldip Bhatia||Several trains in Amritsar cancelled, short-terminated||Ludhiana, December 2Several trains would continue to be cancelled, short-terminated and diverted as protesters continue to block railway tracks at Jandiala Guru and a few other places near Amritsar.Northern Railway has said Amritsar-Ajmer Express (on December 2 and 3), Dibrugarh-Amritsar Express Special (on December 3) and Bathinda-Varanasi Express Special (till further notice) will remain cancelled.Trains to short-terminate and short-originate from Ambala Cantt from December 2 to 4 are Amritsar-Korba Chhattisgarh Express, Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Karambhoomi Express; and Amritsar-Jaynagar Humsafar Express.From New Delhi, Chandigarh and Saharanpur, Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express, Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Pashchim Express, Amritsar-Newjalpaiguri Humsafar Express, would short-terminate and short-originate from December 2 to 4.Mumbai Central-Amritsar Golden Temple Mail; Amritsar-Jaynagar Saryu Yamuna Express and Amritsar-Jaynagar Shaheed Express were diverted to run via Beas-Tarntaran-Amritsar on December 2. Jammu Tawi-Durg Express would be diverted to run via Ludhiana-Jallandhar Cantt- Pathankot Cantt from December 2 to 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/several-trains-in-amritsar-cancelled-short-terminated-179162
