03-11-2020||A DAY IN THE LIFE OF AMBULANCE DRIVER||Always at your service, no matter what time of the day||Charanjit Singh TejaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 2If one really wants to know the true meaning of the proverb ‘work is worship’, Harpal Singh is a living example of it. He is an ambulance driver with the Community Health Centre — the only one at the hospital, who caters to the patients of around 74 villages. Working 24x7 amid the pandemic, this is unanimous observation of his fellow staff and seniors about him that he never said no to any job assigned.A resident of Dharar village near Jandiala, he has been working at the Health Department for the last 25 years. He starts his day with reciting Gurbani and visits gurdwara before getting down to business. However, almost always he reaches the office before duty hours but at times he gets late: he has to tend to some emergency calls in the wee hours.Afterwards, he accommodates the sampling teams and visits the villages with them. And when samples are taken, he visits head office to deposit them. As the CHC, Mainwind, has only one vehicle, he is sole driver and has to attend every emergency call in the area and official work. In his daily routine, he never missed to clean and prepare ambulance with all basic life supports.“If there are no impromptu morning calls, I reach the centre on time. I wash it from outside and sanitise the vehicle from inside. Sometimes, I sanitise it several times in a day,” said Harpal.Amid the crisis stricken times, he transported many infected persons to isolation centre as well as many deceased to the MC’s cremation grounds. “During the peak period of Covid, I used to spend 24 hours along with the ambulance. We used to take the patients from villages to Amritsar for testing. Earlier, there were no separate vehicles for the dead bodies of Covid patients. We attended all kind of duty with courage and dedication, which was the need of hour,” he added.He’s truly committed to his job and never tried to sneak his way past any opportunity to serve the public. Saurabh Sharma, an extension officer at the CHC, confirms it. “During the pandemic, he was not able purchase books for his daughter, who wanted to prepare for a competitive examination (NEET), all due to scarcity of time,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/always-at-your-service-no-matter-what-time-of-the-day-165083
03-11-2020||---||Hotel security guard dies in freak mishap in Amritsar's Ranjit Avenue||Amritsar, November 2Satbir Singh (32), a security guard at a reputed hotel in the posh Ranjit Avenue area here, was allegedly stuck in a lift in a freak accident and died here this afternoon.The family members of the victim alleged that he died due to the negligence of the hotel management. They said the hotel authorities informed neither the police nor the family members when the incident took place. They informed the family and the police three hours after his death.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik said investigation was underway to ascertain the cause of death. The role of hotel authorities would also be looked into. He said CCTV footage of the hotel was being taken into custody for investigation.The hotel authorities informed the police very late. All aspects would be looked into the case as further investigation was under progress. —Sarabjit Singh Bajwa, Assistant Commissioner of PoliceAmrik Singh, a relative of the victim, said Satbir, a resident of Dhapai village and a father of six-year-old daughter, had been working as a security guard at the hotel for the past seven months. He said at around 12.30 pm, the family got a phone call from the hotel that Satbir had got injured in an accident. He was admitted to a private hospital.Amrik said they immediately rushed to the hotel and found that his body was badly crushed. He said when they reached the hotel, they came to know that Satbir died on the spot as he was struck in the lift.The family member later raised slogans and protested against the hotel management. They alleged Satbir died due to the negligence of the hotel authorities. They demanded the registration of an FIR against the hotel owner. He said there was no blood stains in the lift where the accident took place. They alleged the police were being pressurised not to take action. They alleged the lift was in a very bad condition.ACP Sarabjit Singh Bajwa said the hotel authorities informed the police very late. He said all the aspects would be looked into the case as further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hotel-security-guard-dies-in-freak-mishap-in-amritsars-ranjit-avenue-165084
03-11-2020||Neha Saini||1984 anti-Sikh riots: Experts speak on agony of survivors||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 2The tornado of arson, looting, killing and rape that engulfed Delhi as well as many other towns and cities in the country in November 1984 has been indelibly marked on the psyche of Sikhs.Eminent writers, journalists and academics came together to talk about new research, books and testimonies of people whose lives were shattered in the three days following the assassination of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984.Prof Ravinder Kaur of Copenhagen University, Pav Singh, a UK-based journalist and activist, and Dr Ishmeet Kaur Chaudhry, who teaches in Gujarat University, were guest speakers in a webinar held by Majha House.Punish those behind massacre: LongowalThey spoke about the agony of survivors, horrific crimes committed against them and the long road to justice. Prof Ravinder, who was 13 and a witness to the arson, said she had to hide away to save herself from the mobs, which had surrounded their house in East Delhi.Dr Ishmeet and Pav Singh had detailed these scenes and other violations in their books “Black November” and “1984: India’s Guilty Secret”.Pav, who was brought up in the UK, under the shadow of Jewish Holocaust felt that 1984 and the pogrom against the Sikh community should be put down as a crime against humanity.“Acts of such magnitude in different parts of the globe have received attention from the world community, but in the case of 1984, there has been a deafening silence and the crimes have gone unrecognised,” he said and added that he had campaigned about this and put up an exhibition at Weiner Holocaust Library in Central London.Arguing that 1984 incidents were mentioned as anti-Sikh riots, Pav said, “There was no riot. It was an act of premeditated murders and targeted attacks on innocent men, women and children of a certain community for no fault of theirs.”According to him, there was an urgent need to do something for the third generation of the victims, many of them growing up in widow colony of Tilak Vihar — a place that relives 1984 every day. Apart from the discussion, launch of the book of short stories set in 1984 “Night of the Restless Spirits” by author and podcaster Sarbpreet Singh was also hosted.Sarbpreet said he was motivated to learn about 1984 and thus decided to read the real narratives, something he had not known before. He first wrote a short story poem “Kultar’s Mime” that his daughter had turned into a play, which was staged in the USA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1984-anti-sikh-riots-experts-speak-on-agony-of-survivors-165085
03-11-2020||---||Guru Ram Das’ gurpurb celebrated with fervour||Amritsar, November 2The birth anniversary of Guru Ram Das was celebrated with fervour here on Monday. While the SGPC conducted Gurmat programmes in the Golden Temple, the city Mayor, the Police Commissioner and Baba Kashmir Singh Kar Sewa Bhuriwale swept the passage leading to the Golden Temple.The SGPC conducted the traditional raag darbar at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple’s precincts that was attended by head priest Giani Jagtar Singh, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Dal Baba Bidhi Chand Samprada head Baba Avtar Singh Sursingh, Giani Maan Singh and others. Students of Sikh Missionary College also enthralled the devotees with kirtan. On the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh along with Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and Sant Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwala, swept the road outside the main entrance of the shrine opposite the Ghanta Ghar.Speaking on the occasion, the Mayor said he was privileged to have served the city that was founded by the fourth Sikh master. “I appeal to the residents that we all must abide by the Guru’s message of making the city neat and clean. On our part, we have also launched a Swachh Amritsar campaign and expect to get the residents’ cooperation.”On the other hand, the day was celebrated at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport too by staff members of various airlines. Diwans were staged in which Bhai Karnail Singh and his group performed kirtan in the presence of the Guru Granth Sahib. Giani Balwinder Singh, a priest of the Golden Temple, apprised the devotees of the life and teachings of Guru Ram Das.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-ram-das-gurpurb-celebrated-with-fervour-165086
03-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Comrade Pasla warns Centre on farm laws||Tarn Taran, November 2Comrade Mangat Ram Pasla, national general secretary of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI), has warned the Union Government against its anti-farmer policies and said the farmers’ agitation would go till the revocation of the controversial farm legislations.The national-level communists leader was addressing a rural gathering in Cheema Khurd village, 35 km from here, to pay tributes to farmer leader Joginder Singh (75) of the village who sacrificed his life whileparticipating in the dharna organised at the Buttari (Amritsar) railway station on October 24.Lashing out at the Union Government for cancelling the goods trains and imposing of fine for Rs 1 crore against stubble burning and jail sentence for five years, he said that all these were the revengeful acts when the main aim of the government should be to think for the betterment of the citizens.Mangat Ram Pasla cautioned the people to be aware of the fascist policies of the Modi government. A cheque for Rs 5 lakh was given to the family of deceased farmer Joginder Singh by Harkaram Singh, local Tehsildar, on behalf of the state government on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/comrade-pasla-warns-centre-on-farm-laws-165087
03-11-2020||---||5 fall prey to virus in Amritsar district, toll 460 now||Amritsar, November 2With four more deaths reported in the district due to the Covid-19, the toll reached 460 on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Gurcharan Kaur (52), of New Azad Nagar on Sultanwind road, Satpal (80), of Basant Avenue, Amarjit Kaur (60) a resident of Partap Nagar, and Kewal Krishan (50), of Azad Nagar in Puttalighar area.The health authorities reported 23 positive cases, with which the total count of infections has reached 11,917 in the district.The new cases include 17 influenza-like illness cases and six contacts of positive patients. At present, there are a total of 286 active cases.With recovery of 31 patients, the recovery count has increased to 11,171.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-fall-prey-to-virus-in-amritsar-district-toll-460-now-165088
03-11-2020||---||Cong workers protest rising prices of onions, tomatoes||Pathankot, November 2District Congress president Sanjeev Bains led a delegation of party workers who presented Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma with baskets of onions and tomatoes to protest the skyrocketing prices of these commodities here on Monday.PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar was to lead the delegation but he could not arrive because he was unwell. Pathankot forms a part of his former Parliamentary constituency of Gurdaspur. In his absence, the protestors were led by Sanjeev Bains, president of the district Congress committee.Bains said when there would be a slight rise in the inflation index during the UPA regime, BJP leaders would be quick to lodge protests. “Why are these people quiet now? The Modi-led NDA government is a democratically elected one and hence it is answerable to the people who elected it to power. BJP leaders should know that in the past, elections have been won and lost on the rising prices of onions. These commodities have gone out of the reach of the poor and middle-class families. The illegal hoarding of onions is one of the key factors behind the spiralling prices of the commodity,” said Bains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-workers-protest-rising-prices-of-onions-tomatoes-165089
03-11-2020||---||Farmer commits suicide; union demands job for kin||Amritsar, November 2A farmer allegedly committed suicide at Jabbowal village in Beas here on Monday. The victim, identified as Parminder Singh, was upset over his mounting debt and poor economic condition.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to give a government job to a kin of the victim, besides granting Rs 5 lakh compensation to his family. They also demanded debt waiver for him.They said the anti-farmer Bills passed by the Central Government would hit the farming community very hard and the country would witness more suicides by farmers. He said the Central Government was helping corporate houses by passing these laws.Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary of the union, said they would continue their agitation on rail tracks till November 6. A decision on the continuation of the protest would be taken during a state-level meeting of the association on November 5. He said the organisation had given a nationwide bandh call on November 5 and during the protest a large number of women would also take part.The organisation also passed a resolution for justice to the victims of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots.Meanwhile, the farmers sitting on the protest outside Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik for the past 33 days said the entire state would unite to defeat the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre.Farmer leaders Jatinder Singh Chhina, Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu and Harjit Singh Jheete said farmers were fighting to save their lands from the clutches of corporate houses. They said it was a question of livelihood and the future of their children.According to information, Parminder Singh committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. He had borrowed money for his daughter’s marriage around six months ago but due to the lockdown, he could not repay it.The police have started inquest proceedings in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-commits-suicide-union-demands-job-for-kin-165090
03-11-2020||---||Tepid response to resumption of cinemas in city||Amritsar, November 2Multiplexes and cinemas reopened in the city on Sunday to a lukewarm response as only five to six tickets were sold in the first two days.As the state government had cleared way for multiplexes and cinemas to reopen across the state, a few single-screen owners were still awaiting any further directions from the district administration and audience response.New NormalMost multiplexes, including PVR, Inox and Cinepolis cinemas reopened with limited screens functional, though the visitor footfall remained dismal. In the wake of pandemic, absence of new releases also kept audience at home.Gurvinder Singh, manager, PVR cinemas, said: “The new norms have been implemented after reopening as per guidelines. The audience capacity for screens have been cut down to 50 per cent, with proper distance between seats. Sanitisation is being carried out extensively throughout the multiplex and sanitisers will be provided to visitors at multiple points. A majority of the ticket booking is being done through online mode though walk-ins are being catered to at ticket counters.”The food service inside cinema halls has been stopped and food will be available only through self-service. The break time between movies, too, has been increased to 15 minutes. The multiplexes choose to run Punjabi films and old releases as no new films are lined up for release. “Bollywood has chosen digital platforms to release new movies and even people will wait for the new movies to be announced to come to theatres. It will take some time for business to pick up pace,” said Pramod Mehra, owner of Sangam cinemas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tepid-response-to-resumption-of-cinemas-in-city-165091
03-11-2020||It took four years to make purposeful the‘Central Police Canteen’ meant for the benefit of policemen of this border district. After the completion of all required formalities the canteen building constructed at a cost of Rs18 lakh was inaugurated on October 21 this year||Central Police Canteen becomes operational||A topper & all-rounderJaismeen Kaur of Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, is really a perfect ideal student. She topped the district in Class X CBSE examination held in 2019. Jaismeen belongs to a simple farming family. She scored high percentage without any additional coaching except the school teaching. She represented the district in the 27th National Children Science Congress 2019. She was further selected to represent Punjab at the national-level science congress 2019 held at Thiruvandrum (Kerala). She also represented the district in the National Children Science Congress 2018 where she emerged as a second position holder. She is the first position holder in many district level competitions held from time to time. She secured the first position in the district- level debate and essay writing competition for three consecutive years and represented district in the maths quiz held at NIIT, Jalandhar, and brought laurels to the school by bagging the 2nd position. She also secured first position in science model and poster making competitions at the district level. Jaismeen has also topped religious examination held by various religious missionaries in the last three years. Jatinderpal Singh Randhawa, director, school management committee, has applauded Jaismeen saying that she possesses a keen sense of duty and responsibility and has always been attentive by nature.Cleanliness no whereIt seems the Municipal Council, Tarn Taran, is not serious about providing basic facilities, particularly clean environment to the residents. The installation of garbage containers quite on the road sides in the town in an unplanned manner was not only the blunder at the part of the council but it had been making the environment polluted. The residents have been regularly demanding to install the containers at appropriate place but the authorities are not ready to act even a little. The council has installed one container near the residence of the SSP. There are offices of Powercom on the main road of the town and sweepers from the nearby localities put garbage in this container. The container filled with garbage in the early morning hours and thereafter it dotted around the container which reaches in the middle of the road by the end of the day. The residents have appealed the authorities to appoint permanent employee to manage the garbage and install more garbage bins to get rid of the problem. The municipal authorities are not ready to compromise at a single option even. The same is the position at the Railway Road, Deep Avenue and others places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/central-police-canteen-becomes-operational-165093
03-11-2020||Pathankot||Chadha is GNDU senate member||20 booked in firing caseTarn Taran: The police have booked around 20 persons in a firing incident that took place at Bainka village here on Saturday. One person was injured in the firing. The police on Monday said that nine of the accused had been identified as Manjit Singh, Jodhbir Singh, Varinder Singh Ambu, Gurjant Singh, Nishan Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Gurvinder Singh Kaka, Harjinder Singh and Gurlal Singh. About 10-12 others, involved in the crime, had not been identified yet. The police said there was a dispute over a three-kanal plot among two groups of the village and Manjit Singh wanted to encroach upon the land. He, along with other armed accused, fired at Gurbhinder Singh of the same village as he was persuading him not to encroach upon the land. No accused had been arrested so far. OCKartikay is NSUI vice-presidentAmritsar: Kartikay Sharma, a third year computer science engineering student of Guru Nanak Dev University here, has been appointed National Students Union of India (NSUI) vice president of all colleges and universities in the state. He got appointment letter from Cabinet Minister OP Soni on Sunday. Akshay Sharma, president, NSUI, thanked to his supporters and Congress leadership. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chadha-is-gndu-senate-member-165095
03-11-2020||Amritsar||Two arrested for sheltering Jahaj||The police have arrested two persons for allegedly sheltering notorious gangster Kamaldeep Singh, alias Prince alias Jahaj, who was recently nabbed by the Amritsar police following a hot chase and firing. A police constable was injured in the firing. The accused were arrested on Monday.Those who sheltered Jahaj were identified as Noorjit Singh, alias Noori of Pandori Waraich village, and Jagdeep Singh of Majitha here. They were booked under Sections 212, 216, 216-A and 34 of the IPC for harbouring him.According to the police, the accused, who was lodged in Ferozepur Central Jail, was released on parole in June and was to return to jail on August 15. However, he jumped the parole and did not return to jail. As per police officials, the accused knew that he had jumped the bail, still they gave him shelter in their houses.During investigation, it was found that during the period, Jahaj he stayed in the houses of Noorjit and Jagdeep Singh. He also committed several crimes, including threatening and seeking ransom from a local trader and firing at a goldsmith leaving him seriously injured.Jahaj has as many as 22 criminal cases registered against him at various police stations in Amritsar, Ferozepur and other parts of the state. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-sheltering-jahaj-165100
