03-10-2020||Amritsar||Car snatched at gunpoint||Rickshaw-puller crushed to deathTarn Taran: A speedy truck crushed a rickshaw-puller to death on the NH near T-point at Sarhali road on Friday. The victim has been identified as Sawinder Singh (50), a resident of Rure Assal village. ASI Mukhtar Singh of the Sadar police station said a case would be registered after getting detailed information about the vehicle. He said Sawinder was returning to his village when a speedy truck hit him and he died on the spot. OCPhilanthropist donates PPE kitsTarn Taran: Renowned philanthropist SP Singh Oberoi donated PPE kits and some other equipment required to fight Covid during his visit to the Nishan-E-Sikhi Institute, Khadoor Sahib. Oberoi also donated 1,000 gloves, 300 N-95 masks, 2,000 three layered masks, pulse oximeters, digital thermometers and sanitisers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/car-snatched-at-gunpoint-150374
03-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Anganwadi workers protest in Tarn taran||Anganwadi workers and helpers in the district, under the banner of the All Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union, staged a protest against the Union and the state over their demands here on Friday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anganwadi-workers-protest-in-tarn-taran-150379
03-10-2020||MP Sunny Deol’s tweet hailing ordinances||Son rise phenomenon 
is here to stay||Kahlon’s son trying to win back lost vote bankRavi Karan Kahlon, SAD Youth wing in-charge of Majha has already spent a lot of time under the wings of his father and ex-Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon. The party has now decided to shift senior Kahlon, by all means a seasoned leader, who carries immense experience and expertise, to Dera Baba Nanak, leaving Fatehgarh Churian open for his son. During lockdown, Ravi kept himself busy distributing PPE kits, masks and sanitisers to his constituents and the police force. During the 2017 elections, decks were cleared for him to contest till the party decided that the ailing father will cross swords with Tripat Bajwa. The father stayed at home and all the electioneering spadework was done by the son. He managed to take all warring factions, and also the BJP, with him. The result was that in the pitched electoral battle that ensued, Tripat managed to win by a wafer thin margin of just 1,000 votes. The Kahlons had lost the battle, not the war. Ever since the defeat, Ravi has gone on an overdrive to bring back the lost vote bank.What lies ahead for SAD after bidding adieu to BJP?In Gurdaspur district, Akali politicians resemble the Pakistan cricket team. They are good fighters but the problem is that most of the time they fight among themselves, leaving the field open for their opponents to score. Two days after the September 25 farmers’ agitation, political exigencies forced party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to visit the area. He asked, rather directed, warring factions to shed their inhibitions, and with it their inflated egos. This is apparently to ensure the party puts up a joint fight in the forthcoming MC polls and the succeeding assembly elections. But there is a problem following which all of Sukhbir’s well laid out plans may well go for a toss. The reason is that the SAD has bid adieu to the BJP. This, in effect, means that at least in two seats, Batala and Gurdaspur, the SAD has been reduced to non-entities. The Saffron party has a strong presence, a vibrant set up and a RSS backed passionate cadre. In Gurdaspur, Babbehali remained an MLA for two terms from 2007 till 2017. The bottom line is that during both his terms, he was backed by the BJP cadre. Likewise, in Batala, sitting MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal romped home by virtue of the BJP’s unstinted support. Take out the BJP from the scheme of things and SAD’s position will be akin to a limping horse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/son-rise-phenomenon-is-here-to-stay-150375
03-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||It’s a wait & see situation for hoteliers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2The government allowed hotels, restaurants and resorts to resume services on June 8 but the footfall has been very low during the last three months. Astonishingly, some of the city hotels are offering 50 per cent flat discount for tourists but still the occupancy is not a reason to cheer till date. Despite so many offerings, there are not much takers.The hoteliers claimed that footfall of tourists continued to nosedive due to restrictions on inter-state travel. Now, as government has announced waiver over levy of excise licence fee for the first two quarters of the financial year along with further curbing of restrictions it is all a wait and see thing for the hospitality industry.Will this help?BP Singh Khurana, owner of Khurana hotel at Mahan Singh Gate said, “The occupancy is very low even as the government allowed opening of hotels. We have never seen such a downfall in the business. The outbreak and ensuing lockdown were major challenges for the hotel industry, especially for medium and small-sized units. The lockdown has been a backbreaker. Workers associated with the industry are facing tough time.”The industry suffered a deadly blow as pandemic restricted tourist movement completely. There are about 800 hotels in the city. The hotel associations claimed that a medium-sized hotel provides employment to an average of 15 persons, including the manager, security guards, sweeper, cook, waiters, service boys and laundry service. Thus, over 12,000 persons were directly employed by the hotels and if the indirect beneficiaries and family member of the workers are counted, the pandemic has affected lives of over one lakh people associated with the industry. “Most hotels in the city are medium-sized units and the owners for months didn’t have enough savings to pay power bills, loan instalments, salaries of staff and other maintenance expenses. A number of hotels could be shuttered permanently due to the pandemic,” added Khurana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-a-wait-see-situation-for-hoteliers-150361
03-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Journey from cook to mason||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2While informally working as an apprentice for his cousin, Taufeek from Kashmir had never even thought that the skill of masonry would help him earn his bread in times of hardship. He was working as a domestic cook for a local family when the pandemic struck.“Everything was in a state of confusion. During initial days of the lockdown it seemed that I would never be able to go home. I felt so homesick that I left job and managed to return hometown,” he says. However, with time as clarity started to descent Taufeek had to return to Amritsar and find a new job.But a new situation confronted him upon return. “The problem now is that nobody is ready to employ a domestic cook. People are afraid and skeptical of domestic helpers. Nowadays, people are not even eating at hotels and hiring an outsider to cook in your kitchen is simply out of question,” he tells.At this point, the old skill of masonry taught by his cousin came to his rescue. “My cousin arranged me a job to fix marble in a local house. The mason did like my work and has employed me. Now, I have been working for him for the last two months,” he said, adding that the work is hard but is helping him polish his skills.Although, presently working as a manual labour he has his heart set on returning to cooking. “The work of a cook is physically easy and mentally rewarding especially if you love it,” he says, hoping to do the same after the pandemic ends. He never really liked the other work. I thought it to be boring. However, you never know when a skill learned, even though half-heartedly, helps you,” adds Taufeek.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/journey-from-cook-to-mason-150362
03-10-2020||---||Gangster Satyajit nabbed in Batala||Batala, October 2The Batala police on Friday arrested gangster Satyajit Singh after he tried to snatch a two-wheeler belonging to Kulwant Singh and shot him in the knee when he resisted his attempt.Police sources said the CIA staff had been on the hunt as it had come to know Satyajit was in the city. He has several cases registered against him and is facing arrest in one case.On knowing that he was being given chase by the police, Satyajit entered an industrial complex near the old truck union to evade them. Once there, he saw a man identified as Kulwant who was trying to start his Activa scooter. The gangster pounced upon him in a futile attempt to snatch the vehicle and in the resultant melee, he shot Kulwant. The bullet grazed his left knee.The injured was rushed to the Civil Hospital from where he was referred to a hospital in Amritsar. DSP (City) Parvinder Kaur said Satyajit was aligned to a gang that operated in the area. She refused to disclose its name, saying “it could hamper investigations at this point of time.” The police have registered a case under Section 307 of the IPC at the City police station.“We are ascertaining whether any of Satyajit’s accomplices was with him at the time of the incident. The injured was rushed to the hospital in Amritsar. Doctors said he was recuperating and out of danger,” said the DSP.Later, the police cordoned off the area and started search operations. “We have started search as we suspected Satyajit’s accomplices were with him,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-satyajit-nabbed-in-batala-150363
03-10-2020||---||Activists protest ‘ill-conceived’ policies of Centre||Amritsar, October 2 Activists of the Tarksheel Society and members of other civil societies held a two-hour protest against “ill-conceived” policies and dictatorial working style of the Narendra Modi government on Friday.  Gathered at Dharam Singh market near Jallianwala Bagh, they raised slogans against the Central Government for getting three farmer legislations passed without holding any meaningful discussion in Parliament. Activists flayed the Yogi government of Uttar Pradesh for its attempt to cover up brutal rape and murder of a young woman. They said undemocratic way of handling the crime would give a wrong message to the society. They demanded a fair trial and exemplary punishment for them.   Dr Parminder Singh, general secretary of Desh Bhagat Yadgari Committee, said the Modi government was blatantly favouring corporate houses and in its objective they were not shying away from invoking stringent laws like AFSPA and UAPA. To secure this objective they enacted three legislations on farming.  Dr Sham Sunder Deepti said the Central Government under the veil of Covid-19 pandemic favoured corporate houses like Ambani and Adani, besides fast tracking the privatisation of the public sector undertakings.  A farmer leader Balwinder Dudhala said anti-farmer and labourer legislation would end the old-age system and many professions would cease to exist.  Sumit Singh, a leader of the Tarksheel Society, said the government was pursuing its one-sided agenda of privatisation and to saffronise education in the country.  The civil society members also raised slogans against the government. They alleged the NDA government was hell-bent on destroying autonomous institutions in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activists-protest-ill-conceived-policies-of-centre-150364
03-10-2020||---||HC issues notice to MC Commissioner, Mayor||Amritsar, October 2The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner and Mayor for January 12 in a contempt of court petition filed by People Welfare Society. The society had earlier in 2012 approached the district consumer disputes redressal forum demanding that the garbage problem in the Bambay Wala Khoo area be resolved.The case The society had also cited nuisance caused to the students, staff of the Arya Samaj Girls Senior Secondary School due to the garbage dump site as well as residents of the locality. The forum had ordered the MC to resolve the issue by placing a bin and cover the drains on both sides of the road.Legal counsel for People Welfare Society, advocate Kanwar Pahul Singh said, as the MC failed to abide by the orders, an application for its execution was moved during the proceedings of which the forum had directed to abide by the orders till March 2017. “As the MC failed to act even after execution orders we filed a contempt of court orders of the district consumer forum in the Punjab and Haryana High court,” said Kanwar Pahul, adding that MC’s indifference can be gauged from the fact that even after seven years of consumer forum directing it to provide better amenities to the area residents, it has failed to act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hc-issues-notice-to-mc-commissioner-mayor-150365
03-10-2020||---||Construction of 9 playgrounds starts||Amritsar, October 2Construction of nine playgrounds commenced on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Friday. Cabinet Minister OP Soni said these playgrounds were part of the 150 announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to mark the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.He said a total of 750 playgrounds will be established in the state. Out of these, 103 grounds will be in the holy city. “The objective behind the creation of massive sports infrastructure is to reclaim the glorious physical standard for which Punjabi youths were known for in the country.”He said it was not possible without the availability of adequate numbers of playgrounds and we have adopted a policy to catch them young.During this financial year, five playgrounds in each block will be established. As the district has nine blocks, 45 grounds will be operational this fiscal. He lauded the district administration in fast tracking the work and identification of the land.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said those panchayats which commenced work for setting up the playgrounds were Nangal Vanjhwala, Bachchinwind, Uggar Aulakh, Rakh Devidas Pura, Choggawan Roopowal, Nangali Kalan, Raipur Khurd, Bal Kalan and Dhannoke Khurd. He said the playgrounds would be developed at a cost of Rs 70 lakh.Meanwhile, Manjinder Singh, District Programme Officer, held an event ‘Beti Padhao, Beti Bachao’ on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti and tributes were paid to the Father of Nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/construction-of-9-playgrounds-starts-150366
03-10-2020||---||Police inspector shoots self with service weapon||Amritsar, October 2 An inspector, Shivcharan Singh, committed suicide by shooting himself at his residence in the Putlighar area here on Thursday evening. His cremation was held on Friday. According to information, Shivcharan was posted with the Armed Reserve Police in Jalandhar. Davinder Singh, investigation officer (IO), said as per preliminary probe, the official was suffering from depression. After returning from work on Thursday, he shot himself with his service weapon in a room on the top floor of the house, IO said. The Cantonment police reached the spot and sent the body for a post-mortem examination, after which the body was handed over to the family.  The IO said preliminary probe revealed that the cop shot himself in the head. “Both Inspector Shivcharan Singh and his wife were undergoing treatment for depression,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-inspector-shoots-self-with-service-weapon-150367
03-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Artist portrays life of Bhagat Puran Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2Renowned artist Sukhpreet Singh, who has portrayed life of Bhagat Puran Singh in his painting, was in the city to present the painting to Dr Inderjit Kaur, patron-president of the Pingalwara Charitable Society, here on Friday. It is first such painting in which an artist has covered all the events and achievements of the esteemed personality.Explaining the piece, Sukhpreet stated that he has tried to cover struggles and services of Bhagat on this three ft canvas with acrylic colours. “Several pictures were available to narrate his life. I took the real life expressions. The Banyan tree is in main focus, where Bhagat would sit inside the Pingalwara. His affection with Payra Singh, who found him abandoned before partition of Punjab. I have depicted him while serving the patients, running wooden cycle ambulance and serving langar,” he added.Sharing his personal experience, he said, “I have been greatly influenced by him. When I was a teenager, Bhagat Puran Singh came to preach at a gurdwara in Ludhiana. After his speech, followers filled his battta (an iron bowl) with banknotes. Meanwhile, as everyone sat down for langar I was lucky to get seated near him. Suddenly, a dust storm came and hit his donation bowl. The money was scattered all over the place. I picked a few notes for him.” What happened next really surprised him. “He simply responded: don’t worry, they have gone back to the donors.’ After 35 years, I have painted the same bowl and gave considerable space to it.”Inderjit Kaur appreciated the art work and shared many stories of Bhagat Puran Singh. “We will display the painting at an appropriate place in the Pingalwara’s museum”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artist-portrays-life-of-bhagat-puran-singh-150368
03-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Woman accuses husband of attempt to kill her, son||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2A city-based woman alleged that her husband tried to kill her and her son. The victim urged the police to provide security to her and search for her son who has been missing since August 30.In a complaint to the Police Commissioner, the victim, Gauri Sharma, alleged that the accused took them to Kasauli and while coming back, he pushed her in the gorge from Old Kasauli road after forcing her to smell a cloth laced with intoxicant. She said the incident took place on August 30.The victim said when she gained consciousness, she found herself with critical head injuries. She said she somehow managed to reach on the road and a passerby took her to a hospital. The victim said the Himachal Pradesh Police shifted her to PGI, Chandigarh.She said as she was not fit for giving statement, she got an FIR registered against her husband with the Kasauli police on September 15.The victim alleged that the police had registered a weak case despite suffering life threatening injuries. “Neither the Himachal Pradesh police have arrested the accused nor collected any evidence against him,” she said.She alleged that her husband had illicit relations and she had objected to this. The victim said her husband was hoodwinking the police by using his influence.The victim said after her husband came to know that she was alive, he started spreading lies in order to save his skin. She expressed fear that the accused may harm her family and demanded registration of an FIR against her husband.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-accuses-husband-of-attempt-to-kill-her-son-150370
03-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Cleanliness drive commences in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 2Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Komal Mittal began a cleanliness drive from the Golden Temple and Heritage Street on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi today.A medical camp was organised by the MC for sanitation workers. Schoolchildren also participated in the cleanliness of the Heritage Street. The Mayor issued a toll free number 1800-121-4662 to register complaints related to sanitation.Rintu said it was essential to keep the city neat and clean. He made five announcements and said every citizen should take part in the cleanliness drive.He said, “Sanitation workers have been deployed near Heritage Street, but people do not use dustbins and throw garbage in the open. If people use bins, there will be no litter on roads. Bins are lying empty and garbage is scattered outside.”The Mayor said ranking of the city in cleanliness survey is in the hands of residents. “If there is no lifting of garbage or cleaning, then complain about it, but do keep your surroundings clean,” he said.Mayor told officials that no negligence would be tolerated. “Now, the cleanliness drive has started. I can check any part of the city. If any negligence is found then it will not be tolerated,” he added.Mittal said various competitions would be organised by the MC to create awareness among the masses regarding cleanliness. It is the responsibility of everyone to keep the city clean, he said.As many as 20 ‘Swachhta Champions’ will be selected.Ward level competition from Oct 2 to Nov 30The Mayor said the competition at the Ward level will be held between October 2 and November 30. All the parameters of this competition have been sent to councillors. Rs 50 lakh will be given to the Ward which stand first, Rs 30 lakh to the second and Rs 20 lakh to the third. The Ward which comes first at the zone level will be given Rs 15 lakh additional for development works.Clean RankingsThe MC will conduct survey and competitions to select clean hospitals, hotels, schools, mohalla committees, government agencies and market associations for ranking. The parameters are available on the MC’s portal. Online competitionOnline competition will be organised for residents. The link is available on the MC’s website, where participants can take part in poster-making, short movie and murals, among others.Swachhta ChampionAny person can participate in this competition to become ‘Swachhta Champion’. One has to submit details of the work done by him/her related to cleanliness. The required information is available on the website. In this event, 10 men and 10 women will be selected.Contest open to organisationsReligious, social, business or any other organisation, which have done cleanliness work, can participate in this competition. The overview of the competitions is available on the MC’s website.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanliness-drive-commences-in-amritsar-150372
03-10-2020||---||7 deaths take Amritsar toll to 384||Amritsar, October 2With 134 new cases, the district Covid tally mounted to 10,271 on Friday. Seven deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 384.The deceased have been identified as Anita (45) and Ram Murti (60) of Lahori Gate, Gurmeet Kaur (80) of Butala village, Manpreet Singh (25) of Jandiala Guru, Narinder Kaur (59) of Islamabad, Rajinder Sharma (60) of Bazar Haveli Jamadar and Patras Masih (23) of Nangali village.Of 134 new cases, 78 were persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 56 were contacts of Covid patients. With the recovery of 256 patients, the total recovery count in the district has reached 8,729. The district has 1,158 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-deaths-take-amritsar-toll-to-384-150373
03-10-2020||---||Won’t let parties hijack protest: Farmers||Amritsar, October 2Launching a crusade against political parties for “hijacking” their agitation for electoral gains, farmers today burnt the effigies of SAD, Congress and BJP leaders at Devi Daspura. At another protest, they gheraoed BJP’s national general secretary Tarun Chugh and showed him black flags to lodge their protest against the farm Acts.‘All parties favoured corporates’ “We burnt the effigies of Sonia Gandhi, Sukhbir Badal and Narendra Modi to give a message to the people that these parties were in the race for political mileage. They always made policies that suited big corporate houses. After Akali Dal’s kisan march, now Congress plans a tractor rally to revive its diminishing political graph,” said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher.Tarun Chugh, accompanied by senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, had to face the farmers’ wrath in Harsha Chhina village. The duo was shown black flags. Chugh tried to pacify them by promising them a meeting with the Prime Minister but the farmers kept raising anti-BJP slogans.Jatinder Singh Chhina, state press secretary of the Kirti Kisan Union, said as per the unanimous decision of 31 farm unions, no BJP leader would be allowed to enter rural areas.“When we came to know that Chugh went to Harsha Chhina village, we reached there. He was compelled to stop and talk to us about the farm Acts. He had no convincing reply to our queries,” he said.Meanwhile, Chugh said, “From October 2, on the directions of BJP president JP Nadda, the BJP launched a nationwide drive to apprise the farmers of the features of the farm Acts. In that direction, we started our campaign from Ajnala today. We will go to each and every village to meet the farmers and apprise them of the benefits of the Acts. The MSP and mandi pattern will stay.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wont-let-parties-hijack-protest-farmers-150141
