04-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Robbery case: Four nabbed with weapons, snatched cars in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3With the arrest of four persons, the Amritsar rural police have solved a three-year-old Attari robbery case. Gangster Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, of the Harry Chatha gang was among those arrested by the police. Shera was declared a proclaimed offender in a kidnapping case in which a doctor was kidnapped from Ajnala for ransom three years ago.Besides Shera, Rubaljit Singh of Meerakot Khurd, Manmohit Singh, alias Manraj Singh (alias Man) of Muradpura village in Batala and Sukhjinder Singh of Nizampura in Ludhiana were arrested. With their arrest, the police also claimed to have solved the Sohian Kalan bank robbery case in which armed robbers had tied two bank employees and looted cash from the bank over a month ago.The police also confiscated two Verna cars, snatched from the Tarn Taran bypass and the Batala bypass, a double-barrel gun stolen with 10 live bullets from the house of cold drink agency owner Kulwant Singh in Attari, a country-made weapon with four live cartridges, a gold earring, a gold ring and four mobile phones and dongles from their possession.Amritsar (rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said it was a major success for the police which nabbed a wanted criminal Shera. He was also one of the main suspects involved in abducting a doctor for ransom in Ajnala three years ago. He had been evading arrest since then and was declared a proclaimed offender by the court.The same gang had looted over Rs 10 lakh from the IndusInd Bank branch at Sohian Kalan village after holding two employees, including the manager, captive. Two more cases of car snatchings were solved by the police.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said the accused were brought on three-day police remand for further interrogation. More recoveries were likely to be made from their investigation and the police were hoping to crack more cases occurred in the past.Meanwhile, armed persons posing as cops entered the house of Kulwant Singh on Monday alleging that his vehicle was involved in an accident. They later looted around Rs 7.5 lakh, besides gold ornaments of the similar value from the house after training the gun at his grandson.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbery-case-four-nabbed-with-weapons-snatched-cars-in-amritsar-108248
04-07-2020||---||Seizure of 4L tramadol pills: Chemist among 2 arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 3In a major breakthrough, CIA staff on Friday nabbed two persons, including a medical store owner, in connection with seizure of 4 lakh intoxicants on April 28 here.They were identified as Lakhanpal Bhatia, alias Mukesh Yadav, and Simratpal Singh Gill, alias Simmu, a medical store owner.The sedative pills (tramadol) were smuggled from Delhi in an essential service train run by the Central Government during the countrywide lockdown in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.At that time no arrest was made while the police zeroed in on two suspects Naval Sood and Mukesh Yadav. Sood had a chemist shop in Gurdaspur. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against the duo at that time.Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge, CIA staff, said during investigation, the police got a tip-off that around seven boxes of tablets were moved from the private godown before the police had raided and confiscated the contraband on April 28.On Thursday, an informer who gave secret information that the accused, Lakhanpal Bhatia alias Love alias Mukesh Yadav, had moved those boxes containing 50,000 tablets each. The police nabbed Yadav from near Bhagtanwala Chowk here. His interrogation led to the seizure of 2,000 tablets of tramadol from a building in the telephone exchange area in the walled city.“His interrogation led to the name of Simratpal Singh who runs a medical store in the Katra Sher Singh area here. He was immediately arrested by the police and launched further investigation,” said Sukhwinder Singh.According to the police, it was Simratpal Singh Gill who contacted him and said Naval’s stock was stuck at a private godown during the lockdown and he was unable to move the stock. He told Lakhanpal that he would arrange tramadol for him and demanded Rs 5.30 lakh for seven boxes. Lakhanpal gave the amount to him and on April 27, he took the boxes from the godown. Of them, he delivered four boxes to another medical store owner, Amarjit Singh alias Kaka.The CIA in-charge said the police sealed the shop of Simratpal Singh Gill and a search would be conducted in the shop along with health officials. He said raiding parties were sent to Delhi, Agra and Himachal Pradesh to check the veracity of the bills found from their possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seizure-of-4l-tramadol-pills-chemist-among-2-arrested-in-amritsar-108249
04-07-2020||---||Trade unions hold protest in Amritsar against Union Govt’s economic policies||Amritsar, July 3Members of different trade unions held a protest against the Centre’s economic policies here on Friday.Holding banners in their hands, the protesters gathered at the Company Garden and raised slogans against the Union Government. They blamed the government for ignoring working class and labourers during the lockdown period.Vijay Mishra, president, CITU, Punjab, demanded rollback of the amendments made in the labour laws. He sought full salaries for labourers during the lockdown period. Amarjit Singh Asal, secretary, AITUC, Punjab, said the government must fix monthly salary of all categories of labourers at Rs 21,000. For MGNREGA workers, he demanded a wage of Rs 600 per day for 200 working days. Similarly, he demanded the extension of scheme to urban areas.The speakers were almost unanimous on the issue that the government must end privatisation. They said the registered domestic helps must be extended the benefits provided to construction workers. They demanded deposit of five per cent property tax in the welfare board of domestic helps. The protesters demanded regularisation of the services of contractual workers.Members of the AITUC, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, INTUC, CTU, brick kiln workers, palledars, soap and detergent, transport workers, besides employees of the state and the Union Government participated in the protest.Protest in Tarn Taran against ‘anti-worker’ policiesTarn Taran: On the call of the national-level trade unions to lodge protests against the alleged anti-labour policies of the Union Government policies, several trade organisations organised rallies and submitted memorandum to the officials concerned regarding their demands .The workers of the Centre of Trade Unions (CTU), AITUC and the other employee organisations held a rally here and marched to the District Administrative Complex (DAC) and submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh.Pritihapal Singh Magimegha, Pargat Singh Jamarai, Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind were among others leaders who addressed the farmers, labourers, activists of the trade unions. They condemned the increasing of working hours of the worker from eight to 12 hours and withdrawing the scrapping of the welfare schemes made for the welfare of the weaker sections, including farmers, and labourers etc. The leaders demanded for increasing the monthly contribution of the ASHA, anganwari and Mid-day-meal workers and their other demands.The workers of the Punjab Roadways and Contract Workers Union organised a gate rally in front of the roadways workshop. Satnam Singh, depot president, while addressing the works, stressed for the regularisation of their services.The workers of the Punjab Subordinate Services Federation, safai sewaks and others, too, organised the gathering.The activists of the CITU, under the leadership of Dalwinder Singh Pannun, at a rally burnt the effigy of the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trade-unions-hold-protest-in-amritsar-against-union-govts-economic-policies-108250
04-07-2020||---||DSAP, Amritsar, writes to CM for postponing exams||Amritsar, July 3 The Dental Students Association of Punjab (DSAP) has taken a strong note of the statement given by Dr Raj Bahadur, VC, BFUHS, Faridkot, alleging that only students not capable of clearing exams are asking for postponement and seeking upgrade to next semester. Representatives of the DSAP, Amritsar, said this was not true and they were asking for only postponing of exams till Covid-19 infections slowed down.  A final year student of local Government Dental College said, “There was no such demand by any dental students or from our association for up gradation to next semester. We have only demanded postponing of exams as the Covid cases are on rise and we have not been given assurance of any specific safety measures by our institutions. We had earlier sent an application on June 15 raising the matter and we have again written to the CM office on July 1. There are approximately 3,500 dental students in the state and some of them are in their home states and cannot travel for exams.”  Government Dental College, Amritsar, has 160 students from final semester, who would be sitting for exams. The dental examinations are scheduled to begin from July 7.  In its letter to the CM, the DSAP has raised the demand of postponing the exams and mentioned that in case exams are held on scheduled date, in case of any reported infection of student, faculty member or non-teaching staff, both BFUHS and the state government will be held responsible and pay for treatment expenses of all the infected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dsap-amritsar-writes-to-cm-for-postponing-exams-108251
04-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja ---||Amritsar MC told to relocate Shivpuri crematorium||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 3  On the recommendation of the National Green Tribunal Monitoring Committee, the Municipal Corporation initiated the process to relocate century-old Shivpuri cremation ground near Durgiana Temple. The Shivpuri cremation ground is the oldest and one of the major cremation grounds in the city. As many as 35 bodies can be cremated in a single day here.  The Shree Durgiana Temple Committee had raised concern over the cremation pollution, which has damaged the temple’s gold-plated walls. The NGT has asked it to find some alternative space to shift the cremation ground.  Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, has constituted a committee  comprising  Additional Commissioner Sandip Rishi, Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia, Dr Yogesh, Municipal Health Officer and local registrar and superintending engineer (civil) to conduct a survey and submit the report.  The committee is conducting the survey to check the capacity of other cremation grounds in the city. Instead of developing some new cremation ground, the committee plans to shift the load of Shivpuri to other crematoriums by upgrading the existing infrastructure.  “There are several other small cremation grounds in the city. We are finding alternative of Shivpuri crematorium. There are a few crematoriums where we can enhance the capacity by constructing more platforms and we are working on it”, said Sandip Rishi.  The MC has been planning to strengthen the infrastructure at small crematoriums and motivate the public to perform the death rituals there. Earlier in 2016, the Amritsar Improvement Trust had initiated to develop new modern crematorium in four acre land near Gumtala Bypass. Some religious organisations moved the court and took stay orders on the construction of crematorium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-told-to-relocate-shivpuri-crematorium-108252
04-07-2020||---||Lockdown slows down property registration in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 3The number of property registrations in the Revenue Department of Amritsar-I and Amritsar-II has come down to 40 and 45, respectively, from the earlier 50 and 65 before the lockdown.As far as the revenue jurisdiction is concerned, the government has divided the border district into two parts— Amritsar-I and Amritsar-II. Amritsar-I has its jurisdiction largely across the urban area and Amritsar-II comprises rural and semi-rural areas.Parampreet Singh Goraya, Sub Registrar, Amritsar-II, said the pace of registries had not reached its peak yet. He said both revenue offices are registering not more than 90 properties as compared to 120 before the lockdown. He said property transfers within blood relations were yet to be resumed. The process has been stopped as it requires the presence of over five persons to complete the process, which violates social distancing norms, he said.The government had introduced transfer of property within blood relations in 2015. The department charges Rs 900 for transfer of property within blood relation.The slow pace of property registrations indicates that people are not willing to invest in real estate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-slows-down-property-registration-in-amritsar-108253
04-07-2020||---||Youth drowns in Jagdev Kalan canal||Amritsar, July 3A youth identified as Jobanpreet Singh of Adarsh Nagar, Ajnala, drowned in the Jagdev Kalan canal here on Friday. He, along with his three friends, had come to the canal for a bath amid the sweltering heat conditions.The police said divers were arranged to fish out the body from the canal but it could not be located till the filing of this report. Kin of the deceased, along with other residents of Adarsh Nagar, staged a dharna near the accident spot after attempts to fish out the body failed. The residents accused the police and administrative officials of delay in responding to the tragedy. Vipin Kumar, DSP, Ajnala, said the youth drowned after he entered in deep waters of the canal. He said the canal water had been stopped and the body would be recovered soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-drowns-in-jagdev-kalan-canal-108259
04-07-2020||Property tax date extended to July 31||Briefly||Amritsar: The Department of Local Government has decided to extend the deadline to pay the outstanding property tax, without any penalty, till July 31, considering the hardships faced by citizens amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Those who have not deposited property tax can deposit the principal amount in lump-sum to avail of a rebate of 10 per cent on the amount. Those who fail to deposit the property tax by July 31 may have to deposit the principal amount along with a penalty at the rate of 10 per cent thereafter within the next three months. Earlier, the government had extended the last date for the one-time settlement scheme of property tax till June 30. The MC had got a lukewarm response as residents and traders claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic hit their businesses badly. The property tax wing had recovered only 1 crore tax from April 1 to June 30. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/briefly-108260
04-07-2020||---||50-yr-old woman latest Covid casualty, 11 new cases in dist||Amritsar, July 3One more person succumbed to the Covid-19 disease while 11 fresh positive cases were reported in the district on Friday. It death toll has climbed to 46.The deceased has been identified as 50-year-old Gurpinder Kaur, a resident of Shahid Udham Singh Nagar. She was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The health authorities said four new cases showed symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI). The ILI cases were reported from Sant Ram Sarai, Kot Khalsa and Shahid Udham Singh Nagar localities, besides one from Maharashtra.The seven contacts of positive cases were from different localities of the city, including one from Azad Nagar in Chheharta area, three from Chand Avenue and three from Ganda Singh Colony.The total count of positive cases in the district now stands at 982. The health authorities stated that a total of 780 patients had been discharged after recovery till date. At present, the district has 93 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals and 63 are in home isolation.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said 1,570 ASHA workers went from home to home informing people about the symptoms of the Covid-19 disease. He said these workers were involved in carrying out a survey under the Mission Fateh.“These ASHA workers were advising people to repeatedly wash their hands, wear masks before stepping out and maintaining social distance,” said the Civil Surgeon.He said screening teams collected 715 samples today. He informed that the Health Department was carrying out 3,000 tests for Covid-19 daily and over 8 lakh tests had been conducted so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/50-yr-old-woman-latest-covid-casualty-11-new-cases-in-dist-108261
04-07-2020||Neha Saini||Home gyms, online training give hope to fitness freaks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3With several businesses beginning to find their feet after the Covid pandemic, the fitness industry, however, is still awaiting resumption. With no immediate scope of reopening in sight, the professionals of the industry say that it will be a very slow transition towards the new normal whenever the gyms are allowed to open.“Though the awareness related to health and fitness has increased during the lockdown, given that people have been consciously working to build their immunity, the business will take quite some time to adjust to the new normal,” said Aman Aggarwal, who is a manufacturer and supplier for fitness equipment.In the absence of gyms and fitness studios, other alternatives have mushroomed as being fit has always been a prime priority for the masses. As a result, home gyms have captured the limelight and is the new fitness trend among the fitness freaks. Apart from that, personal training through social media platforms and online portals too has come up. A majority of city-based fitness coaches are going for online fitness videos and personalised home training.“There has been a huge emphasis on fitness and immunity during last few months due to pandemic. People are becoming aware and with social media and online platforms, its easier to train and exercise safely at home. So, a lot of people are opting for online training and classes, whether its Zumba, power yoga, dance-based workouts,” said Preeti Singh, a fitness coach and a dance coach. Quotes: Aman Aggarwal, manufacture and supplier of fitness equipmentsThe shift towards home gyms has contributed to 300% to 400% increase in demand and sales of fitness equipment used in home gyms, both offline and online. Dumbles, light rods, plates, treadmills and basic gym equipment demands are so high that its difficult to meet with requirement. Preeti Singh, power yoga instructorI have been conducting power yoga classes five days a week and we have received tremendous response on our online platform. The fact that fitness industry has shifted to digital platforms to survive this challenging period is what would become the future of this industry as well. Neeraj Nayyar, gym and fitness equipment manufacturerThe trend of home gyms have provided the boost to business with people inclined to buy basic workout equipment. The sales are promising and would continue to be so if the gyms and health studios do not open for long. The fitness industry was already booming before the lockdown. Sunil Sharma, fitness coachPeople have become more aware about fitness regimen during the lockdown. Until the gym and fitness arenas open, we are giving online personal training and home classes depending upon the safety and assurance by the clients. All the safety mandations including masks, gloves are used while home training. The workouts are done keeping in mind social distancing so only one or two clients are scheduled for home appointments in a day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-gyms-online-training-give-hope-to-fitness-freaks-108264
04-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Metro buses to hit road again on July 6||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3 The metro bus service being run in the city under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) would resume its operation from July 6, said officials of the Punjab Bus Metro Society.The bus service was suspended on March 21 on the directions of the state government to curb the spread of Covid-19. Preparations are under way to resume the service. The officials said all precautionary measures against Covid would be adopted, including sanitisation of buses with sodium hypochlorite solution on a daily basis. The BRTS authorities said seats would be covered with leather sheets to sanitise these properly.Inderjit Singh Chawla, chief executive officer (CEO), BRTS, said: “We will follow all precautions recommended by the government, including the social distancing norms. We have to make some fresh air outlets in buses. The air conditioners would function but more fresh air outlets would also be opened. Wearing of a face mask would be compulsory for travellers.”Meanwhile, drivers of metro buses have not received salaries since March. They have held several demonstrations over the issue. “The drivers have been hired by private firms outsourced for operations. The government pays the firm on a kilometre basis. As the buses were off road, the drivers were not paid by the firm. We have discussed the issue with the government and decided to pay them the basic salary. The case has been sent for approval to the authorities and they would get the salaries soon,” said the CEO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-buses-to-hit-road-again-on-july-6-108265
04-07-2020||Lack of public toilets in big commercial market of Putlighar area||Infra bottleneck||Quote: People themselves are responsible for the problem as they do not allow the construction of public toilets. Even when we try to construct urinals on government space, people in the market start opposing saying that a foul smell will start emanating from it and it will hurt their businesses. Municipal Health Officer Dr Ajay KanwarPK JaiswarTribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3 The Putlighar market is one of the major cloth, garment and cosmetic markets in the holy city with hundreds of people from far-flung villages and localities visiting here daily.However, people and shopkeeper face a peculiar problem. The market does not have proper public urinals. Shopkeepers and people are forced to urinate in the open in nearby areas like streets, which are less frequented.“We have been here in the market for the past over two decades, but the government has failed to provide public urinals,” said Sonu, who runs a cosmetics shop in the busy market. Though many big shops in the market have constructed washrooms on the premises, but there are just two or three per cent of such shopkeepers.“So is the case with the Putlighar-Islamabad road. Even the main GT road also does not have any public toilet,” said another shopkeeper Arun Kumar who has been running a photo-studio in the market for the past 25 years.There is one public urinal, but that is also located half a kilometre away from the market. “The major problem is for women customers. Sometimes, they ask for the washroom and have to leave the shop in a hurry and look for public toilets. Sometimes, they prefer to return home making no purchases,” said Govind, another cosmetics shop owner.A saleswoman of a garment shop, said, “Women workers also suffer a lot as there are no public urinals in the market. They sometimes have to urge shopkeepers in the neighbourhood who have washrooms in their complexes. “Men manage to urinate shamelessly in the open while there are no urinals for women and no authority take notice of it,” she said. “This is not the problem of the Putlighar area alone, but many old busy markets have the same story,” another woman shopkeeper pointed out.The government has constructed many public toilets and washrooms under the Swachh Bharat Mission and under the AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) in the holy city, but many commercial markets still do not have the basic facility of public conveniences.Municipal Health Officer Dr Ajay Kanwar said it people themselves were responsible for the problem as they were not allowing the construction of public toilets. “Even when we try to construct urinals on government space, people in the market start opposing saying that a foul smell would start emanating from it and it would hurt their business,” he said. “After objections, politicians also intervene and stop the construction of public toilets. People want facility but are not ready to give space. If they allow us, we can construct them within no time,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/infra-bottleneck-108266
04-07-2020||GS Paul||For 40 yrs, Sikh vendor performing sewa at mosque in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3A mosque in Amritsar has a rare ally. Baljinder Singh (60) has been doing ‘sewa’ at Khairuddin Mosque located in the narrow lanes of the walled city in Amritsar known as Jama Masjid.Secular by natureI am a Sikh by birth and secular by nature. Every Friday, I finish my assignments early in the morning so that I can get free by afternoon to reach the mosque. I do sewa till the culmination of prayers. — Baljinder SinghBaljinder has been doing selfless service of taking care of ‘jodas’ (footwear) of Muslim devotees during every Friday prayers held in the mosque.“I am a Sikh by birth and secular by nature. For me humanity is above any religion. Choosing to serve in a mosque was my way of propagating Guru Nanak’s universal message of brotherhood and harmony,” he said.Popularly addressed as “Bha ji” and “Sardar ji”, Baljinder Singh said the service at the mosque has been a routine for him since 1980s. He said, “I take care of their shoes, while they offer prayers inside with a carefree mind.”He said his ancestors had performed ‘joda’ sewa at Chaurian Paudian Jodha Ghar at the Golden Temple from Atta Mandi for 90 years. “Doing sewa is actually in my blood. I also do joda sewa occasionally at Baba Shayam Singh Dera at Atta Mandi Chowk during sangrand and at a temple at Majith Mandi during Krishan Leela programme,” he said.When asked what he gained from sewa, he said, “Just an inner satisfaction. In return, I get blessings from devotees which are pure in nature.”A vegetable seller by profession, he said: “Every Friday, I finish my assignments early in the morning so that I can get free by afternoon to reach the mosque. I do sewa till the culmination of prayers.”“I hardly missed a single occasion here since the past four decades. If I am away to attend any social or domestic exigency, my son Baldev does sewa on my behalf at the mosque on Friday,” he said.He has two sons — Baldev Singh, who helps him in his grocery trade, and Varinder Singh, who is settled in Malaysia. “I have never seen any person with so much selfless devotion in my life,” Imam of Jama Masjid Maulana Hamid Hussain said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-40-yrs-sikh-vendor-performing-sewa-at-mosque-in-amritsar-108270
04-07-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar Partition Museum shortlisted for heritage awards||The Partition Museum has been shortlisted for the 2020 Museums + Heritage Awards for showcasing “Jallianwala Bagh 1919: Punjab Under Siege” in association with the Manchester Museum, UK, under the category of “International project of the year.”The Museums + Heritage Awards event will be held virtually on September 22.This is the first time that the association between two museums has been recognised. “Jallianwala Bagh 1919: Punjab under Siege” included archival and audio-visual material, which shared the narrative of massacre through eyewitness accounts, photographs and official documents.This was a tie up between the Manchester Museum, part of University of Manchester and the Partition Museum set up by the Arts and Cultural Heritage Trust, Amritsar.The exhibition coincided with the centenary of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre in April 2019 and bicentenary commemoration of the Peterloo massacre.“We have been shortlisted by Museums + Heritage Awards committee for our collaborative exhibition with the Manchester Museum. As our vision for the Partition Museum revolves around the community, this recognition is deeply appreciated,” said Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO and curator of the Partition Museum. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-partition-museum-shortlisted-for-heritage-awards-108277
04-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Judicial probe finds four guilty in Amritsar train tragedy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 3A judicial probe ordered by the Punjab Government into the 2018 Dasehra train tragedy that claimed 58 lives in Amritsar has found four civic body employees “guilty of negligence”.Among those found guilty are Secretary Sushant Bhatia, Superintendent Pushpinder Singh, retired Inspector Kewal Krishan and retired Superintendent Girish Kumar. The charges against Kashmir Singh, Additional Divisional Fire Officer, however, could not be proved.The five officials were chargesheeted in October 2019 following a magisterial inquiry by B Pursuratha, Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar. The probe had indicted 23 persons, including organisers, policemen, railway staff and MC officials. The government announced the judicial probe in January this year after the replies of the MC officials were found “unsatisfactory”.Amarjit Singh Katari, former Additional District and Sessions Judge who conducted the judicial probe, has also indicted Anil Arora, personal assistant to then municipal commissioner.The guilty officials have been told to file a written reply within 15 days and appear in person before the Additional Chief Secretary, Local Bodies, on August 26.A speeding train ran over the crowd that had gathered to witness Ravan Dahan near Joda Phatak on October 19. The crowd had spilled on to the railway track by the time the firecrackers went off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/judicial-probe-finds-four-guilty-in-amritsar-train-tragedy-108310
