04-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||Committed to serving those with limited resources||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Harish Sharma, an Ayurvedic doctor, hardly finds any time for his clinic as working for society and the needy people gives him more satisfaction. Founding president of the Manav Adhikar Sangharsh Committee India, his organisation works in diverse fields to serve people.His organisation is also instrumental in solemnising marriage of hundreds of girls belonging to the lower strata of society for past over a decade while it also distributes stationary to the poor and orphans in the schools. Besides, his organisation also cremated many unclaimed bodies ever since it was founded.I start my day from my office located in the Sandhu Colony area in Chheharta. This month, my organisation managed to solemnise marriages of three poor girls, he said.“Serving people demands dedication and there is no time limit to this. Whenever, anybody approaches me for help, we are always there for them,” he said. During the past decade, we have arranged for marriages of hundreds of girls under our watch. We check the credentials of the both girl’s and boy’s families before committing them for marriage, he added. All arrangements are made by his organisation.Sharma said the organisation has its units in different parts of Punjab and several foreign countries, including Canada, Australia and USA and being the founder member he would have to coordinate with all of them also.“I have seen difficult times in my life and therefore I always wanted to help others in whatever way I can,” he said. His organisation even bore the school fees of many children who could not pay their fee, besides distributing books and copies to them.“This is could not be happened without the help of members of my organisation. Therefore, a lot of time passes in coordinating with them,” he said. Harish Sharma also donated his blood at least 80 times. He also held free medical camps in different parts of the city, especially slum areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/committed-to-serving-those-with-limited-resources-193476
04-01-2021||Manmeet Singh Gill||No check on illegal sand mining at Modhe village||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Residents of Modhe village near the international border have been worried due to illegal sand mining from a village pond. Irate residents alleged that JCB machines had been extracting sand from the pond for the last one month. They said illegal mining is done in the evening and then loaded in tractor-trailers.The residents said initially when the digging started, sarpanch had told them that the pond would be dug up to seven feet. “Now, sand has been extracted up to 25 ft from the pond. Who will be held accountable if a child or cattle falls into the pond?” asked Sarabjit Singh, a resident.Local said they had filed two complaints with the Panchayat Department so far. The last complaint was filed five days ago. “No action has been taken by the department concerned to date. Residents of nearby houses fear that the deep pit will cause damage to foundations of their houses,” said locals. “The total area of the pond is approximately six kanals. Out of it, around three-and-a-half kanals had been dug up with JCB machines. The entire work is illegal and sand is being sold in the market,” said another resident, Kashmira Singh.The residents demanded that the work should be stopped immediately and the administration must probe whether the sarpanch had taken any permission from the Panchayat Department.Another resident, Baljit Singh, said, “We have tried everything we could do to stop illegal mining. We cannot fight with sand mafia as these people are very strong. Senior officials should take stern action against those involved in this illegal act.”DDPO Gurpreet Singh Gill said, “The department has already stopped the work.” He said the BDPO concerned has been asked to file a detailed report. However, the residents said the work was still going on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-check-on-illegal-sand-mining-at-modhe-village-193477
04-01-2021||
||Showers offer respite from dense fog||Amritsar, January 3 City residents woke up to a clear sky on Sunday morning. The late evening showers on Saturday helped in clearing dense fog prevailing in the area for the past few days. The residents stated that low visibility had crippled their life for the past many days.  “It was really tough for people who had to travel long distance early morning to reach their workplace,” said a private employee Sukhdeep Singh.  The area also witnessed moderate showers on Sunday afternoon. With sunlight visible for only two hours, most of the day was cold. “In the absence of sunlight, the effect of cold intensifies,” said a resident, adding that he hoped to sit outside and enjoy his Sunday but the cloudy weather played spoilsport with his plans.  With the weather forecasts predicting that the area would witness more showers in the coming two days, the chill in the air is expected to increase. The Agriculture Department has also asked the farmers to protect plant and vegetable nurseries against the harmful effects of frost in the coming days.  “The intense cold has stunted the growth of small vegetable and plant saplings. The production of vegetables has also gone down,” said a farmer Hartej Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showers-offer-respite-from-dense-fog-193478
04-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Farmers observe hunger strike||Tarn Taran, January 3To show solidarity with their protesting counterparts in Delhi, farmers of the Naushehra Pannuan area observed a hunger strike in the village on Sunday. The farmers said that they would extend all kind of support to the protesting farmers in Delhi till the three farm laws were repealed by the Central government.Palwinder Singh of Chaudhriwala village and other farmers criticised the inhuman and indifferent attitude of the Central government which forcing the farmers to stay under open sky during the peak winter season for weeks together. Dalbir Singh Jahangir Singh, organising secretary of the SAD, said the activists of their party were supplying all kind of essential commodities to the farmers in Delhi.The dharna being organised by the Kisan Mazdor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) at the Usman toll plaza entered its 89th day on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-observe-hunger-strike-193479
04-01-2021||---||Rail roko crosses 100 days||Amritsar, January 3The Railways continues to keep many trains off track, seven diverted and several others short originated and short terminated as activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) are unwilling to relent and end their rail roko protest (on the Amritsar-Delhi rail track) which has crossed 100 days.As a result, a large section of train passengers continue to face problems forcing many to commute by road. The 05531 Saharsa-Amritsar Express special and the 05532 Amritsar-Saharsa special will remain cancelled till January 4.The 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express, 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express, 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express special, the 04649/73 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express and 04650/74 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express and 04652 Amritsar-Jaynagar, 04651 Jaynagar- Amritsar Express were diverted to run via the Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas route.The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar was short terminated in New Delhi. The 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Express will short originate from New Delhi on January 5.The 09613 Ajmer-Amritsar Express special train journey commencing on January 4 and the return journey in the 09612 Amritsar-Ajmer Express will remain cancelled. The 05211 Darbhanga-Amritsar Express Special train journey commencing on January 4 and the 05212 Amritsar-Darbhanga will also remain cancelled on January 6.Farmers said the Essential Commodities Act, 2020, has empowered the capitalists to arbitrarily stockpile agricultural commodities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rail-roko-crosses-100-days-193480
04-01-2021||---||Amritsar-based teacher crowned Mrs India Intelligent Queen||Amritsar, January 3Amritsar-based teacher and poetess Baljit Kaur Talwandi was crowned Mrs India Intelligent at a pageant show ‘Mrs India International Queen’ held in New Delhi recently. A total of 28 participants from all across India as well as from the UK and Australia took part in the event.The Education Department arranged a cake-cutting ceremony. Chander Parkash Sharma, Block Elementary Education Officer, Amritsar 2, said “It is an honour and a proud moment for Amritsar and the entire state. It is for the first time that a government teacher participated and won the coveted title.”Talwandi said, “The credit goes to my family, friends and my colleagues at GES Ganda Singh Wala, Majitha road, and BPEO Chander Parkash, who always motivated me to achieve my dreams in life.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-teacher-crowned-mrs-india-intelligent-queen-193481
04-01-2021||Amritsar||1,313 from district appear for state talent search examination||A large number of students from government schools appeared for the Punjab State Talent Search Examination initiated by Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla and Education Secretary Krishan Kumar to encourage students studying in government schools in the state for competitive examinations.  The officials claimed that 82.5 per cent students appeared in the competition today. District Education Officer (Sec), Amritsar, Satinderbir Singh expressed satisfaction over the peaceful examination after visiting various examination centres set up in Amritsar for the examination conducted by State Education Research and Training Council, Punjab. A total of 759 candidates were selected for Class VIII in Amritsar out of which 624 students appeared for the examination which is 82.21 per cent of the total number.  Around 135 students were absent. Similarly, 830 students were selected for the examination conducted for Class X students out of which 689 (83.01 percent) students appeared in the examination centres while 141 students did not reach the designated centres for the examination.  The DEO inspected the Central Government Senior Secondary School, Majitha, Mahan Singh Gate and Mall Road School set up for the Punjab State Talent Search Examination. He said no case of plagiarism was found during the examination. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-313-from-district-appear-for-state-talent-search-examination-193482
04-01-2021||
||Industrialists seek parity in income tax||Amritsar, January 3 Seeking an end to disparity between the corporate and the MSME sector, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has sought parity in 22 per cent income tax slab. The communique reads, instead of giving respite to MSMEs to withstand global competition and the Covid-19 outbreak, they were being ignored. The financial stimulus extended to corporate houses reduced the income tax slab from 30 per cent to 22 per cent during the last fiscal. It benefitted the corporate houses to the tune of Rs 1.45 lakh crore, claimed Piara Lal Seth, chief, PPBM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industrialists-seek-parity-in-income-tax-193483
04-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Drive to check cyber crime||20 fresh cases reported in districtAmritsar: The district health authorities reported 20 new positive cases on Sunday. With this, the total count has increased to 14,565. The new cases include 9 influenza like illness cases and 11 contacts of positive patients. The authorities reported no death due to the virus today. As a result, the death toll stands at 558. Meanwhile, with recovery of 49 patients, the total recovery count in the district has reached 13,681. At present, the district has a total of 326 active cases. TNSOne booked for molesting girlTarn Taran: Amritpal Singh of Hothian village has been booked for molesting a girl of his village. The father of the victim in his complaint to the police alleged that the accused was harassing his daughter by blocking her way. The Goindwal Sahib police on Saturday booked the accused under Sections 354 and 506 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drive-to-check-cyber-crime-193485
04-01-2021||---||BJP leader Laxmi Kanta Chawla urges PM Modi to resolve all issues of farmers||Amritsar, January 3Senior BJP leader and former health minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla on Sunday appealed to the protesting farmers in Delhi not to remove their clothes in view of the intense cold. Chawla also urged the Prime Minister to resolve all problems being faced by the farmers so that they could return to their homes.Chawla had earlier also objected to the labelling of farmers as terrorists. She said farmers were fighting for their land and children of many of them were guarding the country’s borders. “Over 50 farmers have died during the protest in Delhi but it seems that the government is indifferent,” she rued.She said the farmers should not resort to protests such as removing clothes because of the shivering cold. “The farmers should not risk their lives. It is very shameful that farmers in such large numbers have died in the protest and the government has failed to find a solution,” she added.Meanwhile, students of various senior secondary schools took out a rally from Sandhu colony to India Gate on Sunday. Braving the inclement weather, they marched in union raising slogans against the Union Government to repeal the three farm laws.Navkiran Kaur Sohal, a Class XII student, said they did not belong to any group or society but were inspired to save farming.They demanded that the Union Government should repeal the three controversial agriculture laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-leader-laxmi-kanta-chawla-urges-pm-modi-to-resolve-all-issues-of-farmers-193486
04-01-2021||---||CIA team nabs four suspected ATM looters||Amritsar, January 3 A CIA team nabbed four persons who were allegedly going to rob an ATM at Dhand Kasel village from near Miri Piri academy in the Gumanpura area here on Saturday evening. However, one of their accomplices managed to flee from the spot.Those arrested have been identified as Harjinder Singh, alias Jinder of Paris Avenue, Guru Ki Wadali, Varinder Singh of Bhullar village falling under the Lopoke police station, Gursewak Singh of Paddri village now Naraingarh and Gurjit Singh alias Sonu of Khasa colony.Their fifth accomplice Surinder Singh of Chheharta managed to escape taking the advantage of darkness and dense fog in the evening.Addressing mediapersons on Sunday, Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge CIA staff, said the accused were held at a checkpoint near Gumanpura village following a tip-off. As the car stopped near the naka, Surinder fled from the backdoor of the car. The remaining accused persons were held by the police team headed by ASI Ashwani Kumar.The police recovered a gas cutter, a gas cylinder for cutting the ATM, a gas pipe, iron cutter, black colour spray and sharp-edged weapon and a car in which they were travelling.Randhawa said Harjinder and Varinder worked at a Modikhana shop in the Chheharta area. He said Harjinder learnt the cutting of ATMs from YouTube channel and they later conducted a reconnaissance at different parts of the border belt, including Kukkrawala village, Rajasansi, Chheharta, Tarn Taran, Sarai Amanat Khan, Varpal and Dhand Kasel areas.They identified the ATMs where no guards were posted and were located in secluded areas. Their interrogation revealed that they were going to break open an ATM at Dhand Kasel village when they were intercepted and arrested by the police team.Randhawa said the accused would be produced in the court tomorrow and their police remand would be sought for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cia-team-nabs-four-suspected-atm-looters-193487
04-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||Inordinate delay in passenger baggage arrivals at Amritsar airport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 3Passengers at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport (SGRDJI) have complained about inordinate delay in passenger baggage arrivals, especially on Air India flights.Yogesh Kamra, Convener, Fly Amritsar Initiative, wrote to to the Director Airport about regular delays in passenger baggage arrivals. “A lot of passengers have been sharing this issue with us on social media and on calls. I have also experienced similar experience while travelling on Air India to Amritsar from Delhi and Mumbai,” he said.Kamra said, “Recently, one of my family member arrived on Air India flight from Delhi to Amritsar on December 30. While the flight duration was around 50 minutes, it took more than 50 minutes for baggage to arrive on the belt. There was no duty manager from airline available at belt area where passengers could complain. Many passengers could be seen fuming due to dismal level of baggage delivery service.”Earlier, Yogesh Kamra had filed a complaint on Air Sewa portal (complaint number WW158108) on December 14, 2019. It may sound surprising that even on maiden London Stansted (STN) flight to Amritsar (ATQ) last year, most of the passengers had to wait for around two hours for their baggage.Videos posted on social media of this particular incident went viral and aggrieved passengers had submitted their complaint to the Director Airport office as well. Councillor Charan Kanwal Singh Sekhon (chairman, SEVA Trust, UK), who was travelling on the maiden first flight from the UK categorically raised the issue with the officer concerned.Kamra urged the Director Airport to discuss the matter with respective airlines. He suggested to highlight contact numbers of helpdesk, customer service at all check-in counters, security hold waiting areas, gates and baggage arrival belts. Kamra discussed the issue with RP Singh, Manager, Air India, who assured to address the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inordinate-delay-in-passenger-baggage-arrivals-at-amritsar-airport-193490
04-01-2021||---||6 armed men snatch car at gunpoint, flee||Amritsar, January 3In yet another incident, six armed robbers snatch a car at gunpoint from near Mallian village on the GT Road here late Saturday evening. The victim, Sukhmandeep, was returning home after car servicing. The police have registered a case in this regard. Sukhmandeep Singh stated to the police that he was returning home after servicing of his car from a car agency located on Tarn Taran bypass. He said when he reached near a dhaba near Mallian village, six persons travelling on three bikes intercepted him.He said as he stopped the car as the accused pointed pistols at him and threatened to shoot him. They allegedly thrashed him before decamping with his Maruti Suzuki Swift car bearing number PB-02-DV-4805.3 held with stolen mobilesThe CIA staff has arrested three snatchers in two separate incidents here. In a statement issued here on Sunday, Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge CIA staff, said that the police arrested Akashdeep Singh of Chheharta, Narain Singh of Kot Khalsa and Harpreet Singh of the Guru Nanak Pura area. Akashdeep and Narain were nabbed from near Canal office. The police recovered two snatched mobile phones and a bike from their possession. The police authorities said that all three accused had several cases of NDPS Act and snatchings against them. Harpreet and Narain had recently came out on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-armed-men-snatch-car-at-gunpoint-flee-193491
04-01-2021||What steps should be taken by the Health Dept to administer Covid vaccine smoothly? ||Train health staff effectively to ensure a smooth drive||Specific days, venues should be fixedThe Health Department is getting itself ready for a future Covid-19 vaccination programme with all-out efforts. However, it should take certain necessary and salutary steps for administering the vaccine smoothly. First of all, it should train the trainers rigorously and successfully on virtual platforms. After that, training should be imparted at the district and sub-district levels employing a blend of virtual as well as face-to-face pieces to its workforce. The vaccine should be introduced after the meticulous completion of all training sessions. Importantly accurate and transparent information about it should be disseminated in public interest. Besides vaccine-related rumours and myths should be dispelled and queries regarding the vaccine should be answered satisfactorily to win the confidence of people. Social organisations and NGOs’ help should be solicited to create awareness among the people about the vaccine. Hospitals should be kept fully ready for the safety and storage of the vaccine. To begin with, healthcare workers and people above 60 years of age should be vaccinated but not those who had not been afflicted with the virus. It should be ensured that no one walks into a clinic or vaccination facility centre to get vaccinated arbitrarily. Specific days should be fixed as was done in regard of polio drops programme. People should be contacted beforehand about jabs. Distribution system should be drastically improved, along with this, the areas which need vaccine the most should be identified and served on priority basis. A team of expert doctors should be deputed at each and every mohalla to respond quickly to any reaction that arises from a vaccinated person. Medicines should be kept ready for any such eventuality. It should be clarified unequivocally if the vaccine is to be given gratis or if one has to pay for it. The questions ‘should one wear a mask after getting the Covid vaccine, do some people feel bad after getting the jab?’ should be answered to satiate the curiosity and anxiety of the people.Tarsem S BumrahRope in trained vaccinatorsFor the smooth conduct of Covid vaccination, the Health Department should rope in trained and dedicated vaccinators. The department should first make list of senior citizens to start with and set up sanitised camps equipped with cozy infrastructure similar on the lines of election booths for administration of vaccine on ‘first come first serve’ basis where residents have not to travel more than a kilometer of radius. The administraton should also recruit volunteers for post-monitoring exercise with visit to those who got a shot of vaccine. Last but not the least, the Covid protocols must be followed strictly to avoid spread of virus.Anil VinayakAllay fears regarding the priceIt is needless to say that all the countries are grappling with the issue of Covid and vaccine is indeed the need of the hour. In such a situation, a few countries have come out with the vaccine and India is one of them. It is an indispensable responsibility of the Health Department to deal with the Covid vaccine. Senior doctors should always present at the time when the patient is all set to take the injection. What is more, the prime affliction encountered by the masses is the price of vaccine. Apparently, it is out of the reach of common man as it not less in price. Therefore, the government must pay heed to this hurdle and think how to overcome this.Saahil HansGrind all false rumoursVaccine for the dreaded Covid-19 is round the corner. It requires an extremely meticulous and a detailed plan to comprehensively administer the vaccine in a timely manner. There are many myths/rumours about the irreversible side effects of the vaccine floating around on social media which needs to be dealt with. The safe preservation of the vaccine would needs a well-established storage infrastructure. The laid out network of ‘health and wellness centres under the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ should be utilised for the smooth administration of the vaccine. However, the staff for the administration and accounting of the administration of the vaccine may be outsourced.Col VK Sharma (retd)Vaccinate people on the doorstepPeople must be motivated to vaccinate themselves through digital awareness campaigns and hoardings. Residents should spread the word regarding vaccination among their family members and friends. A door-to-door visit by health officials should be started to cover the maximum number of people. Appointments can be started for people who want to get themselves vaccinated at hospitals so that long queues can be avoided. In the first place, prominent personalities should get themselves vaccinated so that they can become a role model for people.Jatinderpal SinghFollow the Covid treatment patternFor vaccination, the state government should take the first step in the pattern of treatment of Covid-19, those admitted in the government hospitals got free treatment whereas rates for the treatment in private hospitals was also fixed by the government. A similar pattern was in place for testing of Covid disease. Similarly, the vaccine should be given free of cost to general public in government hospitals, dispensaries and medical camps arranged specially for this purpose. But rates for the same in the private hospitals should be fixed so that those who can afford go to private sector for vaccination, get it there and reduce the burden on government hospitals and dispensaries, etc. Healthcare workers like doctors, nurses and para-medical staff and staff directly or indirectly engaged in this campaign of vaccination and sanitation workers should be administered this vaccination on priority basis. Then vulnerable class like slum dwellers should be provided this facility. To provide vaccination to the general public, the camps should be arranged in each and every ward in government buildings and educational institutions as done at the time of elections. A separate queue should be arranged for senior citizens and sick people. Help of some NGOs could also be taken to enquire from each and every house falling in a particular ward about the vaccination done or not as political workers enquire about the vote cast or not. But care should be taken that all public representatives like Panchayat members, municipal councillors, MLAs and MPs, etc should find their place at the end of this priority list, so as to prove that public is master and public representatives are just their servants.Naresh JoharQUESTIONDespite several measures taken in the past to check the rising population of stray dogs, the number has increased manifold. What should be done to tackle the menace?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (January 7).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/train-health-staff-effectively-to-ensure-a-smooth-drive-193492
