04-04-2020||Amritsar||Supply of veggies, fruits hit||The two-day shutdown of sabzi mandi and fruit market resulted in the shortage of supplies. The vegetable and fruit markets were closed as a precautionary measure to maintain social distancing as large number of buyers makes it vulnerable to community transmission.The two-day shutdown resulted in limited supply of vegetables and in some areas the vendors did not even show up throughout the day. Even basic vegetables such as tomatoes and onions were not available in most areas of the city. Home deliveries too remained limited as vendors found it difficult to procure supplies.“We had started with zero contact deliveries of organic vegetables since the lockdown began. But as the vegetable markets were shut, farmers couldn’t send supplies. We had managed to procure limited stocks from just one farm, as farm to farm procurement seems the only choice,” said Gunbir Singh, president, Dilbir Foundation, as it was conducting home deliveries of organic vegetables and supplies.Ritika Suri, a resident of Cherherta, said: “I had not stocked tomatoes and onions as I thought daily vendors will come for delivery. But we were told by our vendor that stock will not be available for two days. It’s quite disappointing.” Mamata, another resident, said the fruit and vegetable market shutdown should not continue for long time. “It is imperative that provisions reach people otherwise it will create hysteria and panic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/supply-of-veggies-fruits-hit-65342
04-04-2020||---||Cross FIR in five-day-old firing incident||Amritsar, April 3Five days after a firing incident at Sudhar Rajputa village, the police have registered a murder case against the opposite group and under the Arms Act. According to the police, two groups clashed and indulged in firing leaving several persons injured.Injured Harkanwal Singh, a resident of the village, told the police that he had gone at the flour mill to grind wheat. He said Nirmal Singh, Dharminder Singh, Jagroop Singh, Bachitar Singh and Harman Singh, who had firearms and sharp weapons, intercepted him near government colony on the way. They shouted saying teach him a lesson for doing social work in the area. As he tried to escape, they fired and left him injured. He said his cousin Sukhchain Singh and former Sarpanch Balkar Singh arranged a vehicle and admitted him to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital.Earlier, the police had booked Harkanwal Singh, Baljinder Singh, Manpreet Singh and Surinder Singh, all residents of the same village for murder bid and under the Arms Act.The case was registered on the statement of Sikander Singh. He along with Bachitar Singh and Nirmal Singh was also injured in the attack. He told the police that they were returning home from their fields, when the accused were standing in their way. He said on seeing them, Baljinder Singh shouted to teach the victims a lesson for spilling water on the school ground. He alleged that Harkanwal shot at them, which hit Bachitar Singh. He said Harkanwal fired again injuring his hand.Sukhdev Singh, SHO, Khilchian police station, said a fresh case was registered following the medical reports of Harkanwal Singh. Further investigations were under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cross-fir-in-five-day-old-firing-incident-65341
04-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Five booked on murder charge||Man held with sedative pillsAmritsar: The rural police have arrested one person with around 6,500 sedative pills, including Tramadol. Lalit Sharma, a resident of Chowk Lakshamsar area here, was held from Jandiala Guru-Tarn Taran T-point on the main GT Road. Gurinderbir Singh, DSP Jandiala, said the accused was intercepted during a naka in the area. The police confiscated 4,500 tablets of Tramadol and 200 intoxicants of other brands. He could not produce the requisite documents regarding the purchase of intoxicants. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against him and further investigations were under way to find the source of contraband. He said as per preliminary probe, he used to supply drugs to his clients after receiving calls from them over phone. He said investigations were on to know who his clients were and from where he procured the banned drugs. . TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-on-murder-charge-65340
04-04-2020||---||Not getting fair price for produce, rue veggie growers||Amritsar, April 3After fruit and vegetable commission agents went on a week-long strike, vegetable growers under the leadership of Bhupinder Singh Tirathpura held a meeting here on Friday.They said they were not getting fair price for their vegetables. Tirathpur demanded that the district administration should specify them certain locations in the city where they could sell their produce directly to residents.He said they appreciated all measures taken by the Centre and the state government to contain the spread of Covid. But, officials must think of perishable items.Meanwhile, Lt Gen (Retd) TS Shergill, senior vice-chairman, Guardians of Governance (GoGs), held a meeting with officials of the district administration. At the meeting, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-getting-fair-price-for-produce-rue-veggie-growers-65339
04-04-2020||Amritsar||Panic booking of LPG leads to delay in delivery||There is no major disruption of LPG gas supply despite nationwide lockdown, but the LPG cylinders are being delivered with a short delay after booking. Earlier, the gas agencies used to deliver on the next day of booking, but now, residents have to wait for four to five days to get their cylinders. The gas agency owners claimed that the delay was temporary, as residents were booking unnecessarily under panic, which had burdened delivery boys.The sales officials of petroleum companies claimed that there was no shortage of gas and supply was regular as usual. The gas agency owners said residents unnecessarily booked cylinders following the panic of curfew. “We used to get 300 bookings daily. But after the lockdown, people have started panic booking. The number of bookings has risen to 1,500 daily. Moreover, administration allows bookings from 11 am to 4 pm. So, we made efforts and now, the delivery has been streamlined,” said a manager of an agency. The government has changed the refill policy to meet the demand. Now, a consumer can book second refill only after 15 days.“The supply of LPG cylinders is now normal. Initially, curfew restrictions hit the supply of gas, but now everything has been streamlined. The administration and police are cooperating with us,” said Kuldeep, a worker at a local gas agency.“We supply 20,000 gas cylinders in Amritsar daily. There is no crisis. Residents should not panic and book unnecessarily. The supply will continue for the success of lockdown,” said Sumit, nodal officer for LPG sales.74 vehicles impounded in Attari, FIRs lodgedThe police have impounded 74 vehicles, including bikes and scooters, in Attari sub-division on Friday. DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota in a statement said FIRs were registered against the offenders.He said 25 vehicles were impounded in Chatiwind police station area, 15 in Kamboh, 13, 12 and 9 in Lopoke, Gharinda and Bhindi Saida police station areas respectively. The police have tightened the noose around curfew offenders. Roads were barricaded and only miniscule persons having curfew passes were allowed to come out of their houses.Amritsar (rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said strict action was being taken against the violators. He said the state government had announced to form open jails in the state to punish people who are violating curfew norms. He said, “For the time being we are keeping the offenders on the police station premises, after maintaining adequate social distance,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panic-booking-of-lpg-leads-to-delay-in-delivery-65338
04-04-2020||Our Correspondent||In times of Covid, cops active in social activities too||Tarn Taran, April 3The district police officials besides its professional duty of maintaining law and order are equally busy in performing social activities of providing food and other essential commodities to the needy at the critical time of Covid-19 outbreak.The district police with the active assistance of local-level social activists and social organisations have distributed cooked food and ration to as many as 35,000 persons so far. “The ration items include milk, sugar, tea, onions and atta-dal among other things,” said SSP Dhruv Dahiya here on Friday.“All SHOs were doing this social job with devotion and they have informed the needy to approach them anytime in case of any need of essential commodities,” said the SSP. He said all employees deputed on nakas in the district were being checked by a team of medicos against Covid-19.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-times-of-covid-cops-active-in-social-activities-too-65337
04-04-2020||Amritsar||Police, NGOs give safety kits to sanitation workers||Some NGOs showered flowers and honoured sanitation workers with garlands here on Friday. Police officers and NGOs distributed safety kits and food items to the workers.Sukchain Singh Gill, Commissioner of Police, said sanitation workers of the municipal corporation were making great efforts in keeping the city clean. On the directions of Sukhchain Singh Gill, the sanitation workers were honored by DCP Jagmohan Singh.“Sanitation workers are at the front line in fight against coronavirus, it is our duty to honour and encourage them for their service to society. They are working on high risk. Punjab police personnel with the help of NGOs today provided kits and refreshment”, said DCP Jagmohan Singh. Police personnel showered flowers on the sanitary workers. “We urge the residents to recognise their contribution to the society. They have been working several hours to keep our surroundings clean. We should not litter around and keep the city clean to help the workers”, added DCP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-ngos-give-safety-kits-to-sanitation-workers-65336
04-04-2020||Amritsar||Residents say no to maids||After the death of local Sikh preacher Nirmal Singh Khalsa and minute health observation of his near ones, maximum people have stopped the entry of maids and others to their homes.Fearing community spread of virus, people are avoiding even relatives to their places.The driver of deceased Nirmal Singh, who was put through various medical tests to ascertain any infection, was a resident of Jawahar Nagar. So, a majority of residents of all localities around Jawahar nagar, including the streets of Partap Nagar, Golden Avenue, New Golden Avenue, Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Colony, Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar and adjoining localities, have stopped the entry of all outsiders, including maids.However, some houses in these localities were still allowing maids living in neighbouring localities. As soon as the news of the driver being checked for symptoms became public, residents took decision on their own to prevent community spread.Sarbjit Singh, a resident of Partap Nagar, said the maid did not visit their house after the imposition of curfew and her emoluments was somehow paid to her. He said he would pay her wages without work for the next month as well.The entry of maids, relatives and all outsiders was already stopped in Civil Lines area and other residential areas of the city. Teams sanitised those areas where close associates and relatives of Ragi Nirmal Singh were residing.Amarjit Singh Asal, a communist leader, said: “People must realise their social responsibility in the current tiring and testing phase. Social distancing is good to avoid the spread of virus, but they must give wages to maids and other workers who have been working with them before the imposition of curfew.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-say-no-to-maids-65335
04-04-2020||Amritsar||Students salute cops for their exemplary courage||Touched by the humanitarian efforts of the Amritsar Police in this hour of Covid-19 crisis, students of Mount Litera Zee School, Amritsar, have come forward to salute their spirit by baking goodies in their honour under the ‘Bake for the Brave’ campaign. Young students are taking turns to bake cakes and cookies and sharing the same with local cops to acknowledge their exemplary courage during the Covid-19 outbreak. This act of acknowledgement has been received with warmth by the police personnel.“We wanted to say thank you to the police officers, who are compromising their own safety to cater to the needs of the people and the suffering humanity. We had baked whole-wheat cookies and shared it with police personnel deployed in our area,” said Syna and Nysa Khanna, siblings, who are students of Mount Litera Zee School.Another student Mannat Samra baked a cake and some of these baked items were sent to IG, Border Range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, Commisioner of Police, Amritsar, Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Surendra Lamba (IPS), and SDM Vikas Heera.“The campaign was started with the aim of thanking the Punjab Police for their work. The police and the medical fraternity are working tirelessly to meet the needs of the suffering humanity. We salute them, stand with them and assure them of our full support in this hour of crisis,” said Manjot Dhillon, director of the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-salute-cops-for-their-exemplary-courage-65334
04-04-2020||Amritsar||One booked for spreading  rumours on social media||The city police have registered a case against an unidentified person for spreading rumours on social platform. A case was registered following the complaint lodged by Dr Adarsh Kumar, owner of a private hospital located at Rattan Singh Chowk area.Dr Adarsh Kumar lodged a complaint after a message was circulated in social media that around 10 positive cases of Covid -19 were admitted to the hospital, which was completely baseless. “There was no coronavirus patient in the hospital neither we were ordered to admit or treat patients,” said Dr Adarsh Kumar.Following his complaint, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill ordered registration of case. A case was registered under Section 54 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 188, 505 (1) (b) of the Indian Penal Code in this connection. He said investigations were being held to pinpoint the source of the message and the person responsible for it would be arrested. He said no one would be spared from spreading rumours and creating panic among residents.Police Commissioner said Punjab Government has formed a special team headed by ADGP rank officer to monitor all social medial platforms to identify and take action against anyone found circulating false news.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-booked-for-spreading-rumours-on-social-media-65332
04-04-2020||Amritsar||Nursing, paramedical staff protest lack of safety gear||Demanding proper safety equipment while treating Covid patients, members of the Co-ordination Committee Para-medical and Health Employees, Punjab, staged a protest outside the office of the Medical Superintendent, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, here on Friday.They said the authorities ignore the safety and health of the medical staff who are at the forefront of this fight against the coronavirus.“We have been working under extreme mental stress as we do not even have N95 masks. We have purchased some masks on our own. Besides, there is a shortage of personal protective equipment that are required for the nursing staff and Class IV staff as they treat Covid patients. Sanitisers being provided to us are also in a diluted form. There is also a scarcity of drinking water,” said Narender Singh, chairman, Co-ordination Committee Para Medical and Health Employees.Raising slogans against the state government, Health Department and hospital authorities, the protesters said they were not refusing from performing their duties or raising unnecessary demands.“We are at high risk at this time. If we have to break the chain, the health staff need to be provided with better equipment. We too have families and when we go back home after coming in contact with Covid patients without protective gear, we are our family members at risk as well,” said Lakhwinder Kaur, staff nurse, Government Medical Hospital.“We can perform our duty better and also save our expenses and energy in travelling. A separate accommodation will keep us isolated from our families,” she added. Members of the Dental Students’ Association of Punjab also supported the demands for better working facilities for doctors, nurses and other medical staff treating Covid patients.In their statement, the association members said substandard and insufficient personal protection equipment are being given to healthcare professionals for treating and testing patients.The association said there should be a separate entry or exit for suspected patients and doctors, nursing staff and healthcare staff must get full protection gear.The members advocated more ventilators, strengthening life-supporting systems in hospitals and testing facilities. They also demanded incorporation of private medical colleges and hospitals to provide treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nursing-paramedical-staff-protest-lack-of-safety-gear-65331
04-04-2020||Nawanshahr||Disrespect shown to Hazoori Ragi: NGO lodges plaint against Verka villagers||Peeved over the disrespect shown to Padam Shri ragi and Covid victim Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa during his last rites at Verka village on Thursday, an NGO has written to the Amritsar Police Commissioner, demanding registration of case against those who were responsible for the act.Activists Parvinder Singh Kitna of Nawanshahr, Kuldeep Singh Khehra of Ludhiana and Dr Amarjit Singh Mann said if no action was taken by the police, they may move the High Court.Minister appeals to publicMohali: Concerned over the opposition of cremation of Padma Shri recipient Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday appealed to people not to panic as cremation of Covid-positive patient’s body did not pose any threat. Sensitising the public, he said the cremation had no adverse effects if protocols were adhered to. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/disrespect-shown-to-hazoori-ragi-ngo-lodges-plaint-against-verka-villagers-65131
04-04-2020||---||Livid, Shiromani Ragi Sabha announces boycott of Amritsar village||Amritsar, April 3Verka residents have invited criticism for opposing the cremation of former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who passed away after testing positive for Covid.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has appealed to people to be sympathetic towards a person who gets infected with the virus.Also read: NGO lodges plaint against Verka villagersHarivallabh to dedicate event to Bhai Nirmal Singh KhalsaThe Shiromani Ragi Sabha, Golden Temple, Amritsar, has announced to boycott Verka area for any religious occasion.Questioning the role of administration and police, agitating ragis said during the lockdown, if there was a ban of assembly of more than three persons at one place, how could a group of 200 people gather and lock the crematorium in Verka?Sabha president Bhai Onkar Singh said, “If the Verka residents could not spare six-ft land to cremate a humble soul who must have performed “kirtan” and “ardas” at many houses in the locality, we too have no sympathy for them.”SGPC to start akhand pathThe SGPC has announced to hold “akhand path” at Gurdwara Bibeksar Sahib to pray for the departed soul. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the “akhand path” would be held on April 9 followed by a “bhog” on April 11. “We have spoken to his son Amiteshwar Singh in this regard. Only those who were closely associated wtih Bhai Nirmal Singh will attend the ‘bhog’,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/livid-shiromani-ragi-sabha-announces-boycott-of-amritsar-village-65128
