05-01-2021||Amritsar||Class VIII student comes up with a ‘blowing’ away innovation||Arshdeep Singh, 16, a student of Government Middle School Bhoewali, has been selected for the Inspire Award, which is given by the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, to encourage and develop innovations in the field of science.That’s my favourite club!Arshdeep credits the Village Science Club, established by his mentor, for building his scientific temperament. Pankaj has been running the club under the school’s patronship for the past 10 years. “The award aims to motivate students to think out-of-box and pursue careers in science. The club that was set up in 2010 also drives home a similar purpose and continues to mentor and nurture new ideas from the students of the school who are its members.” Apart from this, 80 educators are also members of the club. It had set up two science workshops in the village, one in Arshdeep’s home and another in a fellow student’s home during the lockdown to continue with practical training of students who had developed several prototypes in previous projects.Arshdeep, who is a Class VIII student, along with his younger brother Amandeep, had developed a prototype of a low-cost air purifying system with help of his mentor Pankaj Sharma, who is also a science teacher at his school. His father Harpreet Singh is a combine driver, who earns his daily wages and supports his son’s dreams of becoming an engineer.Young, creative & sensitiveArshdeep will now be developing his prototype further for improvement and participating in the top-60 slot from the country, who will finally be assisted by the government for their projects.“I had conceived the idea of building an air purifier as air pollution has become an immediate concern for urban as well rural India. We had built the prototype using a cardboard box, PVC pipes and a fan attached with a motor. It took us one day to build the entire system, but the preparations took a few days,” said Arshdeep. He has received a cash prize of Rs10,000 for this under the Manak Scheme to develop his idea further.Arshdeep has many more brilliant ideas that he wants to work on. “I think that science is the most fun and important field of study. I want to build things that are low-cost and help our community grow without harming the environment.”As for his prototype, the air purifying system works on the same principle that most air purifiers work on, only it is built with minimal cost. “He had used a cardboard box as an outer body, with fan motor used as for suction. He used PVC pipes for inlet and outlet used for air and a filter fitted in between the body. His project was among the 21 projects selected from Amritsar district for the Inspire Award. This year a total of 1 lakh ideas sent across the country were selected for the award,” said Pankaj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/class-viii-student-comes-up-with-a-blowing-away-innovation-193936
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Minor girl raped, 5 booked||A minor girl was allegedly kept in detention and raped in Chheharta. The incident came to light after the victim lodged a complaint with the Chheharta police in this regard.The police have nabbed a couple, Gurmeet Kaur and her husband Narinder Singh, both residents of Jalandhar. The police have also booked Sandeep Bal, a resident of Ramuwal village, falling under the jurisdiction of Gharinda police station, Amrita, a resident of Jalandhar, and an unknown person.The victim’s mother stated to the police that Gurmeet and Narinder reside in front of her house in Jalandhar. She said around two months ago, the accused took her 13-year-old daughter with them to Chheharta area due to marriage of their daughter.She alleged that on December 9, her daughter called her and informed that Amrita forced her to watch obscene clips and locked her in a room with Sandeep, who raped her.The victim’s mother alleged that Gurmeet threatened her daughter of dire consequences if she told anybody about the incident. She informed that Narinder and an unknown person also sexually exploited her minor daughter.Investigating Officer Gurwinder Kaur said Gurmeet and her husband were arrested and they were conducting raids to the remaining suspects. She said medical examination of the victim had been conducted and her statement has been recorded before a Magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC.A case under Sections 376, 120-B, 342 and 506 of the IPC and Section 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered.Four inmates booked for attacking fellow prisonerA jail inmate, identified as Harjinder Singh alias Jindu, was brutally assaulted by four fellow prisoners inside the Central Jail here on Sunday evening.The police have booked the accused for violating jail manual. They were identified as Amandeep Singh, alias Aman, Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, Shashipal Singh, alias Manu and Shekhar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-raped-5-booked-193937
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Drug peddler sent to judicial  custody, accomplices on run||Even after three-day police remand of an alleged drug peddler Jobanpreet Singh, a resident of Ladeh village, ended on Monday, the police have failed to nab his accomplices to date. Jobanpreet was presented before the court today, which sent him to the judicial custody.He was held in connection with smuggling bids in which two Pakistani smugglers were shot down by the BSF on December 17. The BSF had foiled two smuggling bids near Rajatal border outpost.The BSF seized AK-56 rifle, two magazines, 61 live rounds, a magnum rifle, magazine with 29 rounds, a pistol with two magazines, two PVC pipes, and Rs 30 in Pakistani currency were recovered from slain intruders. The BSF had recovered 3-kg heroin from around 1 km ahead of the spot.Jobanpreet was nabbed following technical input and human intelligence, which pointed that the accused were in the area for allegedly retrieving drugs and weapons.His accomplices included Jaskaran Singh alias, Billa, and Gopi of Dauke, Sukhbir Singh alias, Sukha, and Chamkaur Singh, both residents of Bhuse village, located near Indo-Pak border.Maninder Singh, SHO, Attari police station, said, “They have gone underground following the arrest of Jobanpreet. No recovery could be made from him as he along with his accomplices fled from the spot after hearing gunshots on December 17.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-sent-to-judicial-custody-accomplices-on-run-193938
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Tung Dhab drain raises stink, poses health hazard||Residents of Holy City Colony, close to the Tung Dhab drain, have been running from pillar to post to find a solution to the foul smell and poisonous gases emanating out of it, affecting several residents in the vicinity.In a communique to the Punjab Drainage and Irrigation Department, residents of Holy City Colony, Gumtala Bypass, stated that: the Tung Dhab storm water drain is being used to dump unchecked and untreated lethal industrial effluents for the past several years.There are many residential colonies and other establishments around this drain which are being directly affected due by the harmful fumes.With the passage of time, foul smell emanating from the choked water drain has assumed alarming proportions, causing considerable damage to the household appliances, resulting in leakage in copper pipes of refrigerators and air conditioners and causing corrosion and deterioration of metal substances and paint surfaces.The effect of these fumes on hard surfaces indicates that how harmful these may be to the human beings if it can corrode a copper pipe in a matter of few months.There has been a regular deterioration of groundwater via seepage of lethal chemicals and untreated sewage into the underground aquifer which has been directly impacting the health of thousands of people residing within 2-5 km of this drain. People are bound to consume this contaminated lethal water from the same underground aquifer as there is no water supply in many regions.With the assistance and funding from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), this Tung Dhab storm water drain was to be cleared from the release of city sewerage and industrial effluents, under which an underground sewage pipe was also laid.To add insult to the injury, the successive governments have only paid lip service while giving a scant regard to the health of the citizens.Originally a rainwater drain, Tung Dhab is now highly polluted, with the potential to lead to several genetic disorders. Residents also want it to be covered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tung-dhab-drain-raises-stink-poses-health-hazard-193939
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Feathered denizens take refuge in architect’s garden||Birds and squirrels are permanent guests at the house of the architect couple Dalbir Singh and Parminder Golden.They like to savour pomegranate, peach, guava and flowers in their garden.An architect by profession, Parminder Golden (57) has been tending to her garden for the past many decades. Following in her footsteps are her two daughters Pearl and Sparkle. An architect herself, she designed three types of garden in her house spread over 750-square yard of land on the GT Road.All five bedrooms in the house offer a garden view, which is possible even from the two lobbies and kitchen of the two storey building.Spread over a 200 square yard, the front lawn has different varieties of cactus, narangi, bougainvillea, custard apple, blue climbers, madhumalti, kari pata, colourful seasonal plants and others. Before one enters the house, the outside boundary wall greets the visitors with phycus, kaner and other climbers.If the front yard is replete with ornamental plants, the backyard has more fruit trees. The 250 square yard area has 10 plants of banana, five trees of papaya, four kinds of guavas, peach, six-foot high tamarind, shahtoot, which was planted two years ago, chakatra, laungath, pagoda, bamboo, floral bushes, phalsa, jasmine and two big walls are covered under climbers. In addition, chrysanthemums, seasonal flowers, bougainvillea, two kinds of jasmine, one full of aroma and another without it, Rat Ki Rani transports the visitors to a different world altogether.In between the dense green growth is a jogging track luring fitness lovers.The third level of garden is on the terrace, which has an amazing grassy lawn. It is beautified with 20 hibiscus trees, four pomegranates and seasonal flowers. She emphasises on creating natural surroundings in her designed houses, irrespective of the land sizes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/feathered-denizens-take-refuge-in-architects-garden-193940
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Watching the changes as they come||When the pandemic hit in March last year and subsequently the nationwide lockdown was imposed, all sectors of the economy, including service industry were devastated. Those affected due to the lockdown included army veterans who were working as security personnel for private security agencies to supplement their income.With businesses closed, the private security guards and agencies found themselves in a spot. However, the sun shined for them in the following weeks as government declared security as essential services. But, the trouble was not over as private security businesses had to adapt to the new protocols and requirements.Talking to The Tribune about the change, Harmanjot Singh Chahal, director, Saragarhi Security Solutions, a private company providing security personnel on demand across the state said, “After the Covid pandemic hit, we started a sensitisation programme for our staff. They were made aware of the social distancing, correct methodology of sanitisation and need for wearing masks. It was not only about the business in the changed scenario but also about the health of our workers. Now these programmes are a routine.”In the changed circumstances, a private security guard’s job is about ensuring order but also has someone who has been entrusted with the task of checking body temperature and ensuring that the visitor sanitises his or her hands before entering the premises. “Checking body temperature with thermal scanners and asking people to use sanitisers are the new additions to our list of chores which earlier included ensuring that no one carries a weapon and to register the visitors name in the record register,” said Kewal Singh, a private security guard outside a bank.Considering the situation of law and order, the demand for private security is continuously growing in big cities. Apart from providing services at offices, factories, shopping malls, they are not being engaged to ensure order and safety of guests at private functions and marriage parties. Even the demand for ‘stay-at-home’ security guards is on the rise, stated insiders. Even private security guards were seen managing the affairs at Covid care centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/watching-the-changes-as-they-come-193941
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Radiographers threaten to strike work at GMC||The Radiographers’ Association at the Department of Radiology, Government Medical College, has threatened to strike work from January 6 in protest against the chargesheet issued to two radiographers.The radiographers; Amritpal Singh and Jagroop Singh have been chargesheeted for an incident that took place on November 5, in which a costly MRI machine was damaged after its magnets pulled an oxygen cylinder into it.The incident occurred when a patient who was brought to the department for MRI was taken inside the room without removing the metallic cylinder. After the accident, the machine had become defunct and the services were unavailable for a few weeks. The sources at the college stated that an amount of approximately Rs17 lakh was spent on the repair of the machine.Punjab State Health Department Radiographers Association convener Sandeep Singh Sidhu said while the radiographers were made scapegoats, the doctors who were responsible for the negligence have been given a clean chit.In a press conference here today, he said they would strike work at the department from January 6. He added that if the department failed to revoke the chargesheet, the radiographers across the state would join the protest from January 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/radiographers-threaten-to-strike-work-at-gmc-193942
05-01-2021||---||Safai karamcharis serve ultimatum on Sr Deputy Mayor for wrong remarks||Amritsar, January 4Members of the Nagar Nigam Class IV Union served an ultimatum on Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi and District Congress Committee president Jatinder Sonia to take back their words pertaining to safai karamcharis, otherwise, they would throw garbage in front of their houses on January 6.Vinod Bitta of the union said: Raman Bakshi had accused union members of illegally occupying offices. Flaying the allegations, he said elected leaders were there for only five years, while they had been working here for the past two to three decades.Another union leader Surinder Tona accused councillors of collecting 30 per cent commission out of the projects. He said Jatinder Sonia, before asking for the dope test of Safai Karamcharis, must have conducted the same of their male family members.Raman Bakshi said whosoever is found involved in collecting commission would be penalised. He said whatever he had stated was duly recorded during the meeting of the house held on December 31.Jatinder Sonia said no family member of hers was employed in the corporation so they don’t qualify for the test. She said she had just forwarded the idea to utilise the government’s scheme of Nasha Mukt Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-karamcharis-serve-ultimatum-on-sr-deputy-mayor-for-wrong-remarks-193943
05-01-2021||---||Coaching classes for competitive exams begin||Amritsar, January 4The offline coaching classes for competitive examinations have begun at the All India Centre for Competitive Examination, Khalsa College. Earlier, the classes for various competitions, including IAS, IPS, PCS, UGC/NET, judicial, defence forces and banking, were held online due to the Covid-induced lockdown.“As per the new directions from the government to open senior-level classes, the offline classes will start from January 6 at the newly established skill development centre on the college campus,” said chief coordinator of the centre, Prof Paramjit Singh Judge.The centre was established in September 2020, but due to the Covid-19 restrictions, the classes could not be started offline. Now, when the government has started recruitment for the posts of PCS (Executive) and Tehsildar, regular classes have been arranged at the centre for the preparation of these examinations.For the convenience of students, a computer lab and a library have been set up in the said building and training classes have been arranged from 10 am to 5 pm as per the students’ convenience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coaching-classes-for-competitive-exams-begin-193944
05-01-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Staff ‘took bribe’ for issuing medical report: Residents||Residents of Gohalwar village under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, staged a dharna on the premises of the local Civil Hospital against two officials of the hospital for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 10,000 for giving the medico-legal report.Manjinder Singh, president of the village unit of the organisation, said there was a quarrel at Gohalwar village on December 23. The injured members of both the parties were admitted to the Civil Hospital the same day. He said hospital authorities issued the report to a patient by taking bribe.On the other hand, Jaspreet Kaur, who was also injured in the quarrel, alleged that officials also took Rs 10,000 from her but did not issue her the medico-legal report.Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta assured the protesters of getting the matter investigated by a three-member team of doctors. The Civil Surgeon said the team had been instructed to give the report within two days and on the findings of the report action would be taken accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staff-took-bribe-for-issuing-medical-report-residents-193945
05-01-2021||Amritsar||CKD, British Council ink pact||Chief Khalsa Diwan’s (CKD) International English Language Testing System (IELTS) centre at CKD Institue of Management and Technology in Amritsar and Tarn Taran has entered into a partnership with British Council, UK, to be recognised as an authorised IELTS Registration Centre.CKD had been running a British Council Training Centre and IELTS Registration Desk at its Amritsar and Tarn Taran institutes. CKD chief Nirmal Singh said IELTS help students realise their education and career goals abroad, besides improving their English skills.Teachers Training programmes conducted regularly under British Council experts will be done at the centre. He said the centre has opened doors for CKD students as well as for outsiders for free guidance and counselling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-british-council-ink-pact-193946
05-01-2021||Amritsar||Strength up by 13% in govt schools in Amritsar||The number of students in government schools in Amritsar district has increased by 13%. Cabinet minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria said basic and modern facilities being provided to the government schools by the Education Department has been a major reason behind the increase in number of students.Sarkaria was addressing school students, their parents and teachers after inaugurating five new classrooms and eight smart classrooms at Government Elementary School, Bhindi Saidan, on Sunday. Sarkaria said the government was strengthening the education system by equipping government schools with modern facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/strength-up-by-13-in-govt-schools-in-amritsar-193947
05-01-2021||Amritsar||One dies, 14 new cases in Amritsar||Couple killed in road accidentTarn Taran: Paramjit Singh (54) and his wife Kulwinder Kaur (50) of Dinewal village died on the spot in a road accident which took place 15 km away from their village. ASI Sarabjit Singh said deceased Paramjit Singh, along with his wife, was coming back to his village from the nearby Bath village on their motorcycle when a car coming from the opposite side hit their motorcycle. The car was in such a speed that their motorcycle went a few kilometers away from the road. The couple died on the spot. The ASI said the car driver has been identified as Joginder Singh Gabbar of the Dinewal village who had been booked under Sections 304-A, 279, 427 of the IPC. The accused fled from the spot. The police have taken the car into their custody. OC1 arrested with 135 gm of heroinTarn Taran: A team of policemen arrested Gurpartap Singh of Kauonke (Amritsar) village with 135 grams of heroin from Bhuse village under the Sarai Amanat Khan police station here on Sunday. ASI Narinderpal Singh, who led the police party, said a case under Sections 21-B 61, and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered against the accused. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-14-new-cases-in-amritsar-193965
