05-06-2020||---||FLO launches campaign against spitting in public||Amritsar, June 4The Indian Council of Medical Research had said spitting in public places could enhance the spread of Covid-19 significantly. The city chapter of FLO launched its ‘Quit Spit India Movement’ to create awareness that spitting is unhygienic, unhealthy and spreads the infection.The campaign spearheaded by Dr Simarpreet Sandhu was launched in the city on World No Tobacco Day. Equalising spitting to killing people, the campaign is designed to not only spread awareness about the ill-effects of tobacco but also urge people to stop spitting in public.As a part of India’s fight against the coronavirus, spitting in public places has been banned under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and is a punishable offence with a fine as per the guidelines issued by the MHA.According to experts, spitting in public places can cause spread of Covid-19 as the virus remains active in saliva for one to three days.“Spitting in public, which could not be dislodged even by the aggressive Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, poses a serious challenge to cleanliness and health. It needs urgent attention. The need of the hour is to spread awareness that spit spreads death,” said Meeta Mehra, chairperson, FLO Amritsar.The campaign is supported by Sambandh Health Foundation, Gurugram, to spread the message to quit spitting by developing a web application, ‘Spitting Kills’.“The app helps spread awareness through social media that spitting is unhygienic, unhealthy and spreads infection. The app shows a brief video on spitting and asks a few questions, which if answered correctly gives the user a participation certificate. This virtual campaign offers an opportunity of spreading the message to the public that spiting spreads death. We have received over 10,000 responses to our questionnaire through the Spitting Kills application till today, which is motivating,” said Dr Simarpreet, who is also an oral cancer prevention crusader.About the Quit Spit India Movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flo-launches-campaign-against-spitting-in-public-94708
05-06-2020||Amritsar||At GNDU, online admission to skill-based courses begins||Guru Nanak Dev University has started online admissions to skill-based courses offered by the Department of Lifelong Learning.  Students can take admission to six diploma courses — Certificate Course in Dress Designing, Cutting and Tailoring; Diploma in Cosmetology; Diploma in Graphics and Web Designing; Diploma in Computer Applications; Diploma in Fashion Designing; Diploma in Fashion and Textile Designing.  Besides, they can take admission to six certificate courses of six-month duration — Certificate Course in Cutting and Tailoring; Certificate Course in Beauty Culture; Certificate Course in Web Designing; Certificate Course in AutoDesk and Revit Modelling; Training Programme in IELTS; and Certificate Course in English Speaking and Communication Skills. For more information, the students can visit the university website and fill the online admission form at www.gndu.ac.in/lifelong/default.aspx till June 30. Maximum admissions to these courses are aimed at empowering rural youth to become entrepreneurs. Besides, all those students whose results were declared on or after March 7 and could not apply for re-evolution within the stipulated time period due to the lockdown can avail a special chance by applying for re-evaluation within 10 days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-gndu-online-admission-to-skill-based-courses-begins-94709
05-06-2020||
||Post Covid era to rely heavily on technology, says  IT doyen||Amritsar, June 4 An online discussion on the future of the business industry was held by the Majha House’s online platform. The panelists included Ajai Chowdhury, founder HCL, who was in conversation with Ankur Bisen, Head, Consumer and Retail Practices, Technopak and author of Wasted.  Chowdhary, who is a recipient of the Padma Bhushan and an IT industry doyen, said the economic recovery post Covid-19 would rely heavily on technology. “There should be no doubt in our mind that the world has been deeply affected and has undergone changes that will determine the new norm. Technology will become a force multiplier. It will act as an enabler to solve structural problems, become a strong factor for entrepreneurship and also a destination for future jobs.’  Talking about the education sector, he said, “Teachers and students all over the world have gone online to impart education and hold lectures. Authors are engaging audience is online workshops. These are all indicators the change we are talking about.”  He stressed that since India doesn’t have the infrastructure or resources that other developed countries have we have to be prepared to meet the challenges that this technological revolutions will usher in.  “Our system needs to be more sensitive towards the needs to the underprivileged. We need to reach out to the poor and the government needs to address this.” He said, “We should forgo our old attitudes of not wanting to change, and be ready to welcome and embrace these technological advances. He stressed that all sectors, including the education and business, should make their apps more user friendly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-covid-era-to-rely-heavily-on-technology-says-it-doyen-94710
05-06-2020||Our Correspondent
||PCMS Association protests MBBS fee hike||Tarn Taran, June 4 The medical Officers (MOs) of the local district under the banner of the Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association on Thursday organised a protest against the hike in fee for the medical courses at the Civil Hospital here. Addressing a rally at Patti, Dr Jaspreet Singh, district president of the association, condemned the hike in fee by saying that doubling the fees was not a right step and now it would be difficult for the common man to get their wards enrolled in medical courses.  He said the fee for the graduation and the postgraduation courses in the private colleges was already too high. On the other hand, medical officers were given much less salaries and other incentives. He demanded the reservation of seats for the PCMS doctors to get admission in the postgraduation classes in private colleges. The association demanded the roll back of the hike in fee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pcms-association-protests-mbbs-fee-hike-94711
05-06-2020||---||Laid off, 22 contractual employees of DAV School cry foul||Amritsar, June 4Twenty two contractual employees of DAV Public School today gathered outside the school premises today to show resentment against their laying off during the Covid-19 lockdown. Alleging that they were not told about this decision earlier, the employees, who worked as peon and sweepers, and did other odd jobs at the school, said they would protest against the ‘unjustified’ lay off.“We were not paid salaries for the past two months and when we came today to the school to know when will it open and we can join back, the management told us to collect our dues as they no longer needed us now. We do not have any other source of livelihood. How will we survive now,” said Parveen Kumari, who worked as a class IV employee at the school.Like her, others too showed their anger towards the school management and said they would hold protest if their jobs were not given back. “Most of us have worked here for eight to 10 years and suddenly they took away our jobs by saying that we are not regular employees of the school and we can only be re-employed through the agency that hired us. This is unfair,” said Sanjivpal, another employee.Meanwhile, refuting claims of the lay offs, Neera Sharma, principal, DAV Public School, said the employees were not fired but only asked to wait until they are rehired. “The school management, according to the regulations, had asked us not to renew contracts for the outsourced employees as whenever the school reopens, we will hold interviews for rehiring. We had asked these employees to collect their PF and ensure that they survive on the amount till rehiring is done. Also, we had cleared all the salaries before the lockdown and gave dry ration and arranged for the monetary help from donors for these employees. They have been treated with sensitivity during the lockdown.” She said there was scope of re-appointments for these employees, but it will only begin when the school re-opens.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/laid-off-22-contractual-employees-of-dav-school-cry-foul-94713
05-06-2020||Amritsar||MP, MLAs get F&CC meeting invite||Damaged limbs reconstructedAmritsar: A team of plastic surgeons at Sri Guru Ram Das (SGRD) Charitable Hospital has successfully reconstructed the left feet and right hand of 45-year-old person Mukhtiar Singh who had got it completely damaged in an accident with high-voltage electricity on December 13 last year. Plastic Surgeon Vikas Kakkar said: “The patient came to us on December 23. By then, many local hospitals had advised amputation of the limbs.” Dr Kakkar, along with his team comprising Dr Rana Ranjit Singh, Dr Gurlal, Dr Gursimran, Dr Shipra, Dr Karanveer, Dr Anurag Salwan, Dr Anmol Randhawa and Dr Harpreet Kaur, performed a five-hour-long surgery. TNSDrug smugglers’ property freezedTarn Taran: Property worth Rs3.52 crore of four drug smugglers has been freezed by the district police. SSP Dhruv Dahiya on Thursday said property worth Rs2. 3 crore of Sukhwinder Singh of Kotli Wasava Singh, Rs26 lakh of Mandeep Singh of Cheema Khurd, Rs48 lakh each of Satish of Chabal and Amandeep Singh of Thatha has been freezed. The freezed property included movable and unmovable items such as agriculture land, residence and vehicles. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-mlas-get-fcc-meeting-invite-94714
05-06-2020||---||Boutiques lose their sheen amid scare||Amritsar, June 4In most of the parts of the city where shops and businesses have been allowed to open only twice a week, owners have been hit hard economically. Gagandeep Kaur, owner of the Arshi Creations in the Mall Mandi area, a ladies’ cloth showroom and a boutique, said, “Practically, we are working only eight days a month. We are not even allowed to let our tailors work.”She said she had taken a loan to survive the economic crisis and to pay salaries to the staff. “We have to pay to sustain our employees. If we do not pay for the entire month, tailors would start working somewhere else. Finding a good tailor and retaining him is the key to the business in our industry.”Talking about the good old days, she said, “Apart from local clients, we would often get orders of up to 150 stitched suits from Canada and Australia. Now, no such orders are coming.” She said even locally, the customers are more concerned with daily needs.“When no marriage parties, events, celebrations and get-togethers are allowed, why women would buy new clothes,” said Gagandeep, who had started the business 15 years ago. She added that only customers left presently are working women who need summer clothes. She added that sales have gone down drastically and losses are mounting up. “This is the hardest phase of my last 15 years. I was not worried when I had started the business from the scratch. But now I am, as I cannot do anything except wait for normalcy to return,” she said.The area from where she operates has shops marked as A, B and C. With only one category of out of the three allowed to open on a particular day, the shops have to remain closed for two days after operating for one day. Kaur added that even as the government has allowed movement of public during day, residents are still apprehensive and are preferring to stay at home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/boutiques-lose-their-sheen-amid-scare-94715
05-06-2020||Amritsar||No respite: Two docs among 15 new cases; dist tally 420||The district reported 15 new cases on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 420. The district health authorities said of the new cases, 11 persons complained of influenza-like illness (ILI), two were health care professionals, one was a contact of a positive case and the last one, a local resident, who had returned from Haryana recently.Health officials said two doctors, including a BAMS (bachelor of ayurvedic medicine and surgery), also tested positive. A health official said at present the district had eight Covid 19 hotspots with two or more than two positive cases.What is worrisome is the fact that many localities, which had not reported even a single case so far, have started reporting positive cases.The officials said the localities — Meerakot, New Garden Colony, Basant Avenue, Poolanwala Chowk, Dhapai, Khandwala, Loharka Road, Rose Avenue, Katra Moti Ram, Telephone exchange area and Talwandi Dasonda Singh — reported one case each.Meanwhile, the district health authorities have also discharged nine patients after complete recovery. So far, the district has witnessed 325 recoveries and seven deaths due to the coronavirus while the number of active cases admitted to hospitals is 88. — TNS36 return home from isolation centreTarn Taran: As many as 36 persons, who were kept under quarantine at a hostel of Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here, tested negative. They were sent to their homes after providing certificates by the local administration.Providing information regarding returnees, Bhai Nirmal Singh, a follower of Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, which is managing the college administration, said of these 36, 15 were returned from Dubai, nine from Kuwait, while eight and four from the UK and Singapore, respectively. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-two-docs-among-15-new-cases-dist-tally-420-94717
05-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Now, all shops can stay open from 7 am to 6 pm||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 4The district administration abolished the "coding system" to open shops and allowed traders to open shops from 7 am to 6 pm here today.The move to open all shops is on a trial basis amid the Covid-19 threat.All major markets, including Hall Bazaar, Katra Jaimal Singh, Tahliwala Bazaar and cloth market, opened today.Earlier, the administration had adopted the coding system and marked shops with codes A, B and C. There were some markets which were allowed to open their shops with the "left-right" system.Shopkeepers used to open their shops twice a week which leads to heavy rush in shops. Office-bearers of the Punjab Pradesh Vyapar Mandal    were demanding to allow opening of the shops as shopkeepers were facing a financial crisis. The retailers were not getting the supply of goods as wholesale markets were closed."We are paying full salary to workers but opening shops only two days a week. Moreover, there is no restriction on the movement of the public. People gather in the shops and violate the norms. Hence, it is better to open the shops with safety measures,” said Ravi Mahajan, a shopkeeper.Meanwhile, the administration made it clear that in case of violation of rules, the administration would withdraw its decision and impose the lockdown again. Retail and wholesale traders are allowed to open shops from 7 am to 6 pm.Shops are opened on a trial basis. If shopkeepers follow guidelines, then the decision will be continued in coming days," said Sukchan Singh Gill, Commissioner of Police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-all-shops-can-stay-open-from-7-am-to-6-pm-94718
05-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Covid-19 puts his dream to get job in Japanese automotive industry on hold||Tribune News ServiceDinanagar, June 4At 17, she has already charted out her course. She wants to follow in the footsteps of Mukesh Ambani and become a women entrepreneur.A Class XII commerce student of Shanti Devi Arya Mahila College, Dinanagar, Suhani Aggarwal has stars in her eyes. She nurtures a dream where she wants to start her own MNC but not before she joins one where she can learn the tricks of the trade.Hers is a case of a small town girl thinking big. But does not living in a non-descript town like Dinanagar put her in a disadvantageous position?“Even Neil Armstrong had to take his first steps at home before landing on the moon. It is a global village out there and living in a small town no longer matters. I am an eternal optimist. The most successful entrepreneurs I know are optimistic. It is a part of their job description. I do not see any problem even if my decision of earning a name as a businesswoman backfires. We need to accept that we do not always make the right decisions and it is sure we will mess up royally somewhere along the way. We should understand that failure is not the opposite of success, it is an inherent part of success,” she added.Her father Mohit Aggarwal and mother Shelika Aggarwal are teachers in the same college where she studies.She plans to do MBA in finance and marketing after which she wants to move to a big town. Her brother is doing MBBS from Ukraine.Suhani did her schooling from Kids International School in nearby Gurdaspur. Later, exigencies of family life made her shift to Dinanagar.When it came to the crux, she rather honestly told her parents that she had no interest in following run-of-the-mill choices like becoming a doctor, engineer or an IT professional. She made it clear that “the unpredictability of business interests her like nothing else does”.Now, she follows Mukesh Ambani. She is confident that the time will come when she leads and others follow her.“Others follow where the connoisseur leads. I am a bit of an introvert. Just because you do not fit the classical mould does not mean you cannot be a leader. You just need to follow your own style and let others follow you,” she said.Suhani loves the concept of e-business. “There are no geographical boundaries for e-business. Anyone can order anything from anywhere at any time. This is one of its major benefits. Only time will tell whether I opt for an e-business model or try something else,” she maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-puts-his-dream-to-get-job-in-japanese-automotive-industry-on-hold-94722
