05-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga 
||After being dropped from TOPS, triple jumper Arpinder still in shock||Tribune News Service AMRITSAR, DECEMBER 4 Part of the Target Olympic Podium (TOPS) Scheme for two years, triple jumper Arpinder Singh was handed a shocker late November after Sports Ministry decided to drop him from the scheme. He is still finding it hard to come to terms with the decision “I was surprised because how a performance review could have been done amid the pandemic,” he was quoted as saying, after likes of Neeraj Chopra, Tejinder Pal Singh Toor and Hima Das were retained after a “performance review”. Hailing from Amritsar’s Harsha Chhina village he had earned a spot in the scheme after he clinched a gold in the 2018 Asian Games held in Indonesia. He has questioned the selection criteria for the scheme and says the ministry could have at least waited for two more months as the Federation Cup for athletics is likely to be held in February.  “I received a call that I was being left out of the TOPS for non-performance. How performance could have been drawn when hardly any event took place this year due to the pandemic,” he questions. The sole event he participated earlier this year, before the virus gobbled up the athletics calendar, was in South Africa wherein he managed a distance of 15.97m.  He has a personal best of 17.7m — a national record way back in 2014. Employed with the ONGC, he is currently practicing at Sports College, Jalandhar. Before the lockdown, he was practicing in Trivandrum in Kerala. As soon as the curbs were enforced, he returned to his village in Amritsar. For first three months he remained there and focused on maintaining individual fitness. In July, he moved to Sports College where he is still camping. “The decision is utterly demoralising,” Arpinder laments. However, he will not plead for re-inclusion and says he rather prove his point through performing when the next season kicks off. “I don’t want any confrontation; neither will I approach the Sports Ministry nor the AFI (athletics federation). I will prove my case with my performance next season. Hopefully, it starts in three months,” the 27-year-old states. Being the first Indian to have won the gold medal in the World Continental Cup in 2018, his grouse is that without holding any event during the past nearly 10 months the Sports Ministry arrived at the decision.  He added that this decision of dropping from the TOPS was demoralising for sincere athletes who daily perspire in the field. Son of a retired Army man he refuses to pursue the matter in writing with the Sports Ministry. Hailing from Harsha Chinna village, he dabbled into triple jump as his father Jagbir Singh, a Kabaddi player in the Army, motivated him towards sports. He found his predilection in the track and field events and soon he was sure to carve out his career in triple jump.  Soon, he scaled the ladder up with his gritty and consistent performance. His first noticeable performance was his clinching of the bronze medal in the Asian games way back in 2013 at Pune. A year later he had repeated his performance by bagging bronze in the Commonwealth Games held at Glasgow. He had clinched the gold medal in the Asian Indoor Games held in Turkmenistan in 2017.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-being-dropped-from-tops-triple-jumper-arpinder-still-in-shock-180031
05-12-2020||
||GNDU to conduct offline exams from Dec 14||Amritsar, December 4 GNDU has issued directions to conduct examinations for odd semester through offline mode from December 14 onwards.  The decision was taken keeping in mind the request put forward by various teaching departments to hold examinations without further delay since classes have been running since July this year.  Giving a window to various departments to conduct offline examinations between December 14 and January 21, 2021, the exams will be conducted in two shifts.  “Since the online session began late this year in July, there was a need to hold examination as soon as possible. The exams will be conducted offline in a staggered manner, with morning and evening sessions. All required safety protocols will be adopted and students will be informed in a day or two about the datesheet,” said Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, GNDU.  In its set of instructions, GNDU authorities mentioned that the examination of each course/class can be split into weekly or fortnightly stages depending on the number of courses.  The question papers, too, will be prepared internally, given the special circumstances this year, as one-time measure.  Meanwhile, students who have come to attend the offline classes since reopening, say the offline mode of examinations would raise health safety issues. “Many students have still not come back after reopening due to fear of rising cases. Also, the datesheet for exams used to be released three weeks prior to the examination earlier. But we still do not know anything about it and it will be really difficult to prepare for the exams at such a  short notice,” said a student of BTech (ECE), final year. Another student of BTech (CSE), said many hostellers were yet to arrive and with the university not giving any fee waiver in hostel fee, offline examinations will force outstation students to avail hostel facility.  “It is just another way of the university to get students to pay full hostel fee as they will have to come back for offline examinations and avail accommodation,” a student said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-conduct-offline-exams-from-dec-14-180032
05-12-2020||Neha Saini
||‘OTT platforms gave hope to budding actors’||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 4 While over-the-top (OTT) platforms have delivered consistent hits during the lockdown, the trend seems to continue with success of Mirzapur 2 and the likes.  A city-based actor, Sukhmani Sadana, who would be seen in second season of ALT Balaji’s successful thriller “Apaharan”, said the audience has no patience left for slow loving storylines. “With emergence of OTT platforms as a primary source of entertainment, the audience has become smart and aware of international shows. One has to match up to their expectations and the kind of fast action paced story telling in the genre. Obviously, success of some of crime- based shows on the OTT platforms has validated their popularity,” she said. Sadana woud be joining the original star cast, including Mahie Gill, Arunoday Singh and Varun Badola, among others.  Earlier, she was a part of “Sacred Games” that set the precedent for future of the genre on web platforms.  Sadana stated that work in crime-based shows has become stressful. “There is so much competition among makers to make catchy, fast-paced shows that engage the audience right from the beginning. With international shows being explored by Indian audience like never before, expectations are high and it’s sometimes too stressful. As an artist you know that the audience will be judging everything,” she said. With pressure also comes an opportunity, she said. “Numerous web shows have been nominated and acknowledged at “Emmy” and it gives artistes truly a chance to show their potential. With films, the opportunities to find your spot are limited, but the OTT platforms have given work and hope to artists who had once given up and thought of quitting. Now, we know that there is an equal opportunity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ott-platforms-gave-hope-to-budding-actors-180033
05-12-2020||
||Traders evading GST can land themselves in trouble||Amritsar, December 4 Traders can land themselves in a soup if they circumvent the norms while filing for the GST returns. The Goods and Services Tax Department is keeping an eye on fraudulent ways being adopted by black sheep among registered traders to deny the government its due taxes. The department has also noticed that bogus firms are being registered to claim funds. Dilmil Singh Soach, Assistant Commissioner and Head of CCGST Division 1, Amritsar, has warned traders against resorting to unfair means to evade the GST. Addressing a virtual session on the GST organised by the CII on Thursday night, he highlighted the road blocks being faced by the department due to the mistrust created by tax payers. “Retailers often misuse the GST system by negotiating on GST with the customer in the view to pursue them to buy the product.” Another issue of bogus firms registering to claim bogus refunds has become a nuisance for the department, he stated. Talking about the tax regime, Soach said they had started with a simple concept of taxation and the department was heading towards a simplified version of GST wherein the complexities would be removed from the system making it easier for taxpayers. Sharing his personal opinion, he said conducting audits could prove to be a major preventive action to safeguard such malpractices done by taxpayers. Summing up, Soach termed the GST system a good and simple tax which is good for people and taxpayers must consider it as their fundamental duty to stop unfair practices. While welcoming the members, Naavniit Miterr, Chairman, CII, Amritsar Zonal Council, said the CII was endeavouring to cater to all sorts of impediments being faced by them. To a question asked by Rajiv Sajdeh, Vice-Chairman, CII, Amritsar Zone, regarding the issue of risky exports, Soach responded that this was one of the major components that the department had been dealing with. He explained the process initiated by the department when an exporter was red flagged. Taking the conversation forward, advocate Gurmit Chawla made the attendees aware of the steps to be taken in such a situation. Avneet Singh, Zonal Head, CII Amritsar, along with prominent industrialists from the city took part in the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-evading-gst-can-land-themselves-in-trouble-180034
05-12-2020||---||Man hangs self, wife booked||Amritsar, December 4A man committed suicide by hanging himself with the ceiling fan of his house in Wadala Kalan village here on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Shobha Singh. The police booked his wife Ramandeep Kaur and her father Harjit Singh of Ratangarh village on charges of abetting suicide. No arrest has been made till now. A matrimonial dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident. Sukhwinder Kaur, mother of the deceased, said that her son was married to Ramandeep Kaur around 14 years ago. The couple has two children from the marriage. She said the couple did not enjoy the cordial relation and used to quarrel often. She alleged that around four months ago Ramandeep Kaur after a dispute had gone to her parents in Ratangarh village. A case was going on in crime against women wing who had called on December 2 for probe. The complainant said that on December the accused misbehaved and insulted him following a verbal dual. Perturbed over this he ended his life in his room.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-hangs-self-wife-booked-180036
05-12-2020||---||Seminar on Bhai Mardana’s book||Amritsar, December 4A discussion was organised on the newly published book "Rababbi Bhai Mardana te Puratan Keertania" authored by New York based Gurinderpal Singh Josan. Inaugurating the seminar, Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi felicitated Josan for his research, dedication on rare touched subject.Throwing light on the life of Bhai Mardana, Josan stated that after midwife Daultan, sister Bebe Nanaki and Rai Bular, Bhai Mardana recognised spirituality of Guru Nanak Dev. He became the musical companion of Guru Nanak Dev at Nankana Sahib. When Guru Nanak Dev set on long travels, Bhai Mardana accompanied Guru Nanak facing all odds of the unknown and faraway places with spiritual dedication and sincerity. He composed music in “raghas”. Bhai Mardana breathed his last in the presence of Guru Nanak, who performed his last rites.“Bhai Mardana''s eighteenth and nineteenth generations were living in a penury in Lahore for whom Josan has worked a lot by providing them with suitable accommodations and monthly pensions amounting to almost 80,000 with the financial assistance from SGPC Amritsar and DSGMC Delhi”, said Ankhi.Previously, Josan has worked hardly on "Saragarhi Martyrs" by preparing their sketches from eminent artists. Based on his research work Bollywood movie "Kesri "was produced.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala praised Josan for his research work on Bhai Mardana. He narrated that Mughals and Britishers burnt most of the Sikh scripters, which are needed to be reproduced by researching dedicatedly.Josan briefed about his sincere efforts put in for the research work on Saragarhi Martyrs and Bhai Mardana. President AVM, Manmohan Singh Brar; general secretary Nishan Singh; Dr Inderjit Singh Gogoani; Daljit Singh Kohli; Manjit Singh Saini; Principal Kewal Singh also showered praises on Josan for his research work. Kamaljit Kaur Gill, vice- president Bhai Mardana Foundation Inc, Balbir Singh Randhawa, Michael Raul, Surinderjit Bittu, Sewak Singh and others were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seminar-on-bhai-mardanas-book-180038
05-12-2020||---||Bioremediation of garbage in full swing at Bhagtanwala dump||Amritsar, December 4Bioremediation of garbage at the Bhagtanwala dump is going on in full swing nowadays. Officials of the health wing of the Municipal Corporation claimed that they had processed more than 26,000 tonnes of garbage during the past few weeks. There are five machines which are functional at the dump site. The solid waste management company, AVERDA, would add some more machines to speed up the bioremediation process.According to information, a team of the National Green Tribunal is expected to visit the dump at Bhagtanwala. Officials of the MC are on toes to implement the instructions of the NGT before the visit of the team. Last year, the NGT had imposed a penalty on the MC and asked it to initiate the processing of garbage, construct the boundary wall around the dump site and develop a green belt in the area.There are around 30-foot-high garbage heaps in around 20 acres at Bhagtanwala. There is around 15 lakh MT garbage on the site. The solid waste management company, hired by the MC, has been doing bioremediation of garbage since October. They are using three-trimble machines and a ballistic separator.The MC has planned to install a plant to convert garbage to green coal and process all the garbage within two years.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “We are processing the garbage with five machines and the work is going on without any disruption. The company will add more machines soon. The wall around the dump has been constructed. We are focusing on the dump site and hopefully we will remove all garbage in record time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bioremediation-of-garbage-in-full-swing-at-bhagtanwala-dump-180040
05-12-2020||---||Farmers’ rail roko protest continues at Jandiala Guru||Amritsar, December 4The farmers’ protests against the agri laws implemented by the Centre entered the 73rd day in Jandiala Guru. The kisan union leaders said they would not accept any condition of the Central Government and the latter to revoke the controversial laws.The farmers also burnt an effigy of the state government and criticised Chief Minister Capt Amrinder Singh’s statement on the farmers’ stir.Satnam Singh Pannu, chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said the protest led by Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Jasbir Singh Pindi and Lakhwinder Singh Varyamnangal at Kundli border was underway. The Centre wants to amend the agri laws, which would be a betrayal. Just as the Britishers cheated, the Union Government also wants to deceive us. We have single demand to repeal three agri laws, the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and the recent amendment in the Environment Protection Act.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “The Centre should assure minimum support price on all crops. Around 25 vehicles of the union are going daily to Delhi. On December 11, more than 500 tractor-trailers will leave for Delhi.”Addressing the activists during the ‘rail roko’ protest in Jandiala Guru, Pandher said Capt Amarinder’s statement (farmers are a threat to national security) is highly objectionable. Gurbachan Singh Chabba and Jarmanjit Singh Bandala said the central leadership of the Congress had convened a special session by Sonia Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi demanding repeal of the agri laws while Capt Amarinder was speaking on the behalf of the BJP.Meanwhile, a group of residents from Malanwali village and members of the Amritsar Bar Association led by Advocate Kuljit Singh left for Delhi to participate in the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-rail-roko-protest-continues-at-jandiala-guru-180044
05-12-2020||---||Two arms smuggling rackets busted, 9 held||Amritsar, December 4The state special operation cell (the counter intelligence wing of Punjab Police) busted two interstate arms smuggling rackets with the arrest of nine persons in the past fortnight. It also recovered 10 pistols and 42 live bullets from their possession.The arrests were made in the past fortnight. Those arrested were identified as Rajvir Singh, alias Raju of Malian Pakkian village in Gurdaspur, Ravideep Singh and Pawandeep Singh of Bhagowal in Batala, Gurikbalmeet Singh, alias Robin of Hansawala village in Tarn Taran, Jagmeet Singh of Pabbarali in Dera Baba Nanak, Hira Singh of Kalle in Batala, Gagandeep Singh of Goindwal Sahib and Gurpreet Singh of Gopi of Sri Hargobindpur in Batala. The police also confiscated seven weapons from them.During their interrogation, the SSOC arrested Manpreet Singh of Sangrur from whom it recovered three weapons. An official of the cell revealed that it had got a tip-off that Gagandeep Singh and his associates were planning to commit some crime following which a case under Section 25 of the Arms Act was registered against them.Their arrest further revealed that they were allegedly part of an interstate gang of smuggling illegal weapon. The main supplier was identified as Rahul, a resident of Indore in Madhya Pradesh. The police are further investigating to know his whereabouts.During their investigation, the cell stumbled upon another module that used to procure weapons from Burhanpur (Madhya Pradesh). The accused who used to run the racket were identified as Komalpreet Singh of Lohar village in Tarn Taran and Manpreet Singh of Saron in Sangrur. While Manpreet was nabbed with three weapons, raids were on to arrest Komalpreet.Investigation was being carried out from different angles to expose the entire nexus. Officials said the information was also being shared with the MP Police in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arms-smuggling-rackets-busted-9-held-180045
05-12-2020||A lot of hue and cry was raised in the city after Gurdaspur health officials refused the facility of an ambulance to an infected senior citizen Dilbagh Singh Lally Cheema||No ambulance for covid positive senior citizen!||fiery speeches atdera baba nanakAlmost all leaders who took to the mic during the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev held in Dera Baba Nanak on November 30 weaned away from the set trajectory and started delivering fiery speeches. Obviously, these were related to the farmers’ agitation. Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was the stage secretary by virtue of being the local MLA, played peacemaker and tried to smother ruffled feathers. He was successful but only to a certain extent as the political class that day was too angry to be calmed down. Even CM Capt Amarinder Singh stressed more on the protests than on the teachings. Taking a cue, PPCC Chief Sunil Jakhar, too, delivered a passionate extempore. “Agriculture is the greatest and fundamentally most important of our industries. The cities are branches of the tree of national life, the roots of which go deeply into the land. We all flourish or decline with the farmer. We should understand that farming is not a battle against nature but a partnership with it. Agriculture has become essential to life; the forest, the lake, and the ocean cannot sustain the increasing family of man. Population declines with a declining cultivation and nations have ceased to be with the extinction of agriculture,” he thundered.Compensation for dead protesting farmersThe ongoing farmers’ agitation is finding support from different quarters. Batala-based physician Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, who has set up the Uttam Singh Nijjar foundation in the name of his father to help ‘Children of a lesser God’, as he refers to the poor and needy, and has decided to pay Rs50,000 to each of the four agriculturists’ family who have lost their lives in the protests. He has made public a phone number (99151 44226) and has made an appeal to contact him if anybody needs funds. “For long we have neglected the truth that a good farmer is a craftsman of the highest order, a kind of artist. I have grown up with the adage that only three things can kill a farmer — lightning, being rolling over by a tractor and old age. However, the protests have added another reason for farmers’ demise. We should always be ready to extend a helping hand to the hand that feeds us,” he averred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-ambulance-for-covid-positive-senior-citizen-180289
05-12-2020||Amritsar||Experts dwell on challenges faced by persons with disablity at GNDU||Marking the International Day of Disabled Persons, Phulkari CAN and GNDU held a national webinar on the subject ‘Disability: Prospects & Challenges’. The aim of the webinar was to create awareness and focus on understanding of disabilities that are not immediately apparent as per the 2020 theme ‘Not all Disabilities are Visible’.The keynote address at the webinar was delivered by Professor Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University. Noted speakers dwelt on various aspects of the topic and spoke about the urgent need to create sensitisation towards persons with disabilities and assimilate them in the main stream society. Nidhi Sindhwani, president, Phulkari CAN, said, “According to the WHO report on disability, 15 per cent of the world’s population is living with disabilities and two-thirds of these people do not seek professional medical help, largely due to stigma, discrimination, and neglect. This session aimed at highlighting their plight.”Deepa Swani, president Phulkari, said, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, isolation, disconnect, disrupted routines and diminished services have greatly impacted the lives and mental well-being of people with disabilities.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/experts-dwell-on-challenges-faced-by-persons-with-disablity-at-gndu-180290
05-12-2020||---||3 held in Rs 16L robbery case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 4With the arrest of three persons here on Friday, the police cracked the robbery case in which a collection agent was looted three days ago. Two unknown armed persons had snatched Rs16 lakh from a salesman when he was going to deposit the amount in the bank on Tuesday.Those arrested were identified as Raman Kumar of Gurbaxnagar, Raja, alias Tashan, of Chhota Haripura and Avinash, alias Eli, of Damganj area here. The police have recovered Rs13.83 lakh from their possession.Gurmit Singh, a resident of Sultanwind area, works as a salesman at National Glass House Nirma Distributor located at Gin Bhushanpura. He said due to three holidays in banks on account of weekend and Gurpurb, he could not deposit the cash with the bank. He said on Tuesday he was on his way to the bank when two unidentified persons armed with sharp-edged weapons intercepted him and snatched his bag containing Rs16 lakh. A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC was registered with Division B police station here.While addressing mediapersons, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said Avinash, alias Eli, was the mastermind of the robbery. He had been working with the firm for the past three years. “It was him who connived with two other robbers and planned the robbery. He informed his accomplices about the movement of Gurmit Singh when the incident took place,” he said. He said Raja, alias Tashan, and Avinash Eli had two cases of quarrel and under the NDPS Act registered against them.After the robbery, they divided the cash between them. The police recovered Rs 8 lakh from Raman Kumar, Rs 3.5 lakh from Raja and Rs 2.3 lakh from Avinash. The Police Commissioner said the accused were brought on production warrant and the remaining amount would be recovered. The police have confiscated the bike and the weapon used in the crime.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-held-in-rs-16l-robbery-case-180291
