05-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||The lawn where everything is considered of immense value||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 4Nothing goes waste from the garden in the sprawling house of Manjit Singh Anand, an income tax lawyer, residing in Basant Avenue area here. Even the wooden logs cut from huge trees were moulded into creating beautiful boundaries.Anand’s lawn is filled with decorative plants and ferns, aesthetically placed after a lot of thought process. A number of artifacts like a wooden boat was made at home, lucky charms of feng shui (a famous Chinese art used for striking a subtle balance of living spaces with nature) and some other items from Mcleodganj, two statues of deer from Ludhiana, wooden shoes from Amsterdam, an animal skull wall-hanging imported from Bali and more grace his garden.Though he had a love for plants from childhood, it only welled up when he shifted to Basant Avenue in 1990. He also was fond of collecting artifacts — thus, items from Mcleodganj, Bali and several other parts of the country. “The lockdown gave me a lot of time to work on my lawn. It was a difficult time…but my plants helped keeping my mind healthy,” Anand says.He has also created a wooden hut surrounded by bamboo and other trees. “This is my refreshing space. It houses a mini library and a small bar specially created from a big wooden log,” he reveals.The three pine trees and a beautiful wooden work on the edgings right at the residence’s entrance give it a unique look. A hanging rare variety of double-shaded banyan tree with an idol of Ganesha placed in is only garnishing the surroundings of the entryway. While majority of people would prefer floral plants to ferns and shrubs, Anand has gone for the latter. “Floral plants are seasonal. They need a lot of maintenance and care and require to be replaced with new ones. I prefer these decorative plants which fills the gap and also enhances the beauty of my little garden,” the income tax lawyer remarks.Anand has also arranged for colour lightings focusing on different corners of his garden. A ‘’cactus corner’’ has been set up on a wooden trolley, tucked away at a corner and is still in harmony with his varied yard. “Cactuses are usually not welcomed at the homes. My family also has some reservations about it but I have created a little corner of cactus which adds variety to my lawn,” he shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-lawn-where-everything-is-considered-of-immense-value-166172
05-11-2020||---||Farmers to block highways today||Amritsar, November 4The farmers protesting against the three farm laws, passed by the Union Government, are all set to block state and national highways tomorrow (on Thursday) as part of the ongoing protest.A chakka jam would be held for four hours — from 12 noon to 4 pm. However, farmer organisations had no plans to block vehicular traffic in the city, confirmed leaders here on Wednesday.The protest by the 30 farm organisations has entered the 35th day today at various places in the district. The farmers are demanding a repeal of the three farm laws.In the district, farmers are protesting at the Buttari railway station, the Gehri mandi railway station, outside the residence of BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, at toll plazas and petrol pumps operated by Reliance Industries.It has been learnt that the farmer organisations must give relaxations to petrol pumps which are being operated by private dealers and not directly operated by Reliance. “The protest outside the petrol pumps which are run by dealers and not directly operated by Reliance Industries can be lifted by Thursday evening,” said a farmer leader.Earlier, the dealers associated with petrol pumps of Reliance Industries had opened a dialogue with the unions reasoning that their interests were being harmed without any fault of theirs.Admn to keep vigil on law & order situation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-block-highways-today-166173
05-11-2020||
||Chemical factory gheraoed for storing fertiliser illegally||Amritsar, November 4 Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee gheraoed a chemical factory at Cheete village and found neem-coated stock of fertilizer here on Tuesday night. Harjit Singh Cheete, leader of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, claimed that as the owner of the factory illegally stored neem-coated urea, farmers were not getting it for crops. Activists of the farmer unions laid siege to the factory last night and called officials of the Agriculture Department and the police. The police seized a truck loaded with urea and registered a case against the factory owner for illegal hoarding the fertiliser. Gurdev Singh Varpal, zonal president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “Farmers are not getting fertiliser as there is a shortage of it in the market. But the factory owner had stored more than 1,000 bags of the urea and using it illegally.” The farmers alleged that the factory owner stored the urea illegally as it was coated with neem and not for the use of industry. Residents of Cheete village alleged that the factory did not allow anyone to enter its premises.  Manmeet Pal Singh, SHO, Chatiwind police station, said, “On the farmers’ complaint, we visited Harshita Enterprises and found the fertiliser stored on its premises. A case has been registered against the factory owner under the Essential Commodities Act. We are investigating the matter. We will try to find out what is the use of fertiliser in the factory.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemical-factory-gheraoed-for-storing-fertiliser-illegally-166174
05-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Doing up shops’ facade while the route fades||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 4A stretch of around 400 metres is being ignored by the government for last five years. That’s not something unusual; there are surely hundreds of it out there. But the fact that city’s oldest church, Civil Hospital, one of the district’s major hospitals, stand on the same road should be a reason mighty enough for the authorities to care about. This is a prominent course from Rambagh Gate to Namdhari Smarak.Ironically, the government is busy beautifying the facades of shops there but re-carpeting is at the bottom of its list. Naveen Kumar, a resident, said, “On one hand the government is promoting the tourism by renovating the private buildings and installing uniform sign boards outside the shops, but on the other hand, the condition of the road is woeful. No one has ever shown concern in last five years. It is an important road and government should prioritise re-carpeting.”The course connects the historic Rambagh, also known as Company Garden, with the Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s Rambagh Deodhi, so the Tourism Department did up the exteriors of the shops recently. That had to be done as tourists and locals also take the same path to visit the famous garden from Golden Temple. But, the abounding potholes are only eclipsing the government’s efforts being put in to uplift the surroundings — hollowing its tall claims to boost the tourism.The road leads to major wholesales markets of the city. The traders on the both sides are suffering due to this. During the monsoons, fissures are filled with water and people avoid visiting the market, which imperatively affects their sales.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, shares, “We gave nod to re-carpet several roads in the city. A large number of major roads are being re-carpeted. Also, small stretches are being looked after. There is no scarcity of funds. We are committed to overall development of the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doing-up-shops-facade-while-the-route-fades-166175
05-11-2020||
||Develop aviation park at Amritsar airport: Experts||Amritsar, November 4 Tourism experts demanded developing of an aviation park at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International (SGRDJI) Airport. Aviation parks are quite famous overseas and are a hit with tourists. The SGRDJI airport is well poised for this added feature as it had consistently recorded the highest footfall. For instance, it recorded 29.1 per cent rise in passenger footfall in August as compared to July, as per the Airport Authority of India (AAI). The biggest rise of 41.3 per cent was recorded in domestic passengers. Kulwant Singh Ankhi, retired principal, said after the government relaxed flying norms in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, number of domestic passengers had increased to 31,652 in August from 22,389 in July. The number of domestic aircraft movements had also increased from 266 in July to 376 in August.  Similarly, the total number of international aircraft moments increased from 58 in July to 83 in August. Thus all these figures point towards ample flow of passengers. Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a freelance travel writer, said, “Gurdwara, which sits right between a taxiway and runway is also an attraction, but a lot more can be done. Setting up of an aviation park for enthusiasts, guided tours and exhibitions, among others can be held at the airport.” There are many airports, which have an aviation park outside the airport for tourists and locals, including Flight Path Park at Vancouver Airport and Runway Park at Manchester Airport, said Sandhu. “San Francisco Airport has a culture of exhibitions to humanise the airport. Zurich, Frankfurt, Brisbane, Sydney and Christchurch airports offer free/paid airport tours every weekend.  These moves would offer another way of earning for the airport authorities. Vipin Kant Seth, Director, Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, said it was a fabulous idea, which would add value to the airport. He said the persons concerned could meet him and identify the suitable site. He added that he would forward the proposal to his seniors as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/develop-aviation-park-at-amritsar-airport-experts-166176
05-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Bioremediation at Bhagtanwala dump yard begins||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 4The Amritsar MC is planning to remove heaps of garbage from the entire dump yard situated at Bhagtanwala within two years through bioremediation process.Around 20 acres adjoining the grain market at Bhagtanwala is filled to the brim with garbage. The civic body started dumping the waste at Bhagtanwala in 1990s. Earlier, there were some other dumps in the city, but under political pressure, the MC stopped using those dump yards.Residents of Bhagtanwala had been demanding to relocate the dump yard from 2006. A Sangharsh Committee had hit the ground in 2014 and stopped the protest after getting assurance from senior Congress leaders before the 2017 Assembly elections.Capt Amarinder Singh had assured at Bhadarkali Mandir that the dump yard would be shifted and the point was also mentioned in the Congress election manifesto.Though there was no development regarding the shifting of garbage dump, but residents were hopeful that through bioremediation process they would get respite from stench and diseases.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health officer, said: “The solid waste management company, hired by the MC is doing bioremediation of garbage on full swing. They are using three-trimble machines and a ballistic separator. More such machines will be added. We have processed 20,000 MT of garbage. There is around 15 lakh MT garbage on the site.” “Once the company vacates six acres, they will install a plant to transfer garbage into green coal. We hope that the land will be free from garbage within two years,” said Kanwar.Meanwhile, the Sangarsh Committee has opposed the move of the MC. Sanjay Sharma, member, Sangarsh Committee, said: “We are not against the waste to energy plant, but the location is not appropriate. It will pollute the air. The waste management is not a big issue, but the government and local politicians are unwilling to address the matter.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bioremediation-at-bhagtanwala-dump-yard-begins-166177
05-11-2020||---||Suspension of goods trains hits industry||Amritsar, November 4Even as manufacturing units are grappling with shortage of transporting raw and finished material but the railways has categorically announced that it would not resume plying of trains unless the safety and normalcy return to the railway tracks. Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), said after the agitating farmer unions allowed the goods train to run over the railway tracks, Ferozepur and Ambala divisions had run together about 175 trains after October 22. However, after finding the movement of agitating people near the railway tracks as dangerously close they decided to stop plying even goods trains. Any accident could result into law and order trouble. Reiterating the stand of Railways, he said, train movement, including goods trains, would resume only after the railway lines become safe. Textile industrial units have completely switched over to road transport to ferry their finished and raw materials after the government stopped plying of goods trains following the railway lines blockade affected by the agitating farmers. The textile industry is facing a shortage of raw material due to non-operation of trains for the past one month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suspension-of-goods-trains-hits-industry-166178
05-11-2020||Amritsar||One more death, 22 new cases||Public grievance portal launchedAmritsar: The district administration on Wednesday unveiled www.connect.punjab. gov.in a new public grievance redressal portal. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said all kinds of complaints could be lodged at the portal. He said people had been given one digital portal for resolving complaints to all government departments. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-death-22-new-cases-166179
05-11-2020||---||BSNL merges Pathankot unit with Amritsar||Amritsar, November 4Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), a public sector company, has merged Pathankot unit with Amritsar office and head office of new business area is set up at Telephone Bhawan, Ranjit Avenue, here. This came into effect from November 1. The local office now caters to the telecom needs of four revenue districts — Tarn Taran, Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Amritsar.About five lakh landline, broadband, mobile, as well as leased line customers are present in these districts.Principal general manager Hemant Kumar Mahay, BSNL, Amritsar, stated that after merger to strengthen the Amritsar SSA, more posts of staff will be sanctioned.In the present scenario of Covid-19 pandemic, he said the move would offer job opportunities for rural unemployed youths with education up to matriculation to get enrolled as direct sale agents (DSAs) for the BSNL mobile products in rural areas such as BSNL mobile SIMs, SIM top up and recharge at an attractive commission.A new concept of enrolment of franchises for the fiber to the home (FTTH) activities has also been introduced by the BSNL. Under the enrolment, telecom infrastructure provider (TIP) can share the BSNL revenue up to 45 per cent. Through this TIP enrolment process BSNL Amritsar is committed for employment generation for the unemployed educated youths without many investments.A new FTTH exchange was inaugurated at Nawan Pind on November 2. Popular monthly FTTH plans for the Nawan Pind area are (A) Rs 490 50Mbps till 200 GB unlimited afterwards (B) Rs 590 50Mbps till 300GB unlimited afterwards (C) Rs 690 50Mbps till 400 GB unlimited afterwards(D) Rs 849 50Mbps till 600 GB unlimited afterwards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsnl-merges-pathankot-unit-with-amritsar-166180
05-11-2020||Neha Saini||Private schools reopen, students give classes a miss||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 4With the Central Board of Secondary Education releasing the datesheet for 2021 board exams, senior students have gone into the combat mode.In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, most private schools had reopened, but students were still giving classes a miss. The Centre had announced to reopen schools from October 15, but the state government had issued guidelines for reopening institutes from October 19.Treading with caution, private schools in the city had decided to reopen after assessing the situation and getting consent of parents.Anjana Gupta, Principal, DAV International School, “It's a challenging situation for schools as senior students, especially those appearing for board exams, are now entering a crucial academic phase. As per the health guidelines, every school has to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols.” DAV International School will reopen on November 6.Rajiv Sharma, Principal, Springdales Public School, said, “Assessing the current situation, we are holding classes for one subject every day, with limited time period to give students more flexibility. Eventually, schools have to reopen and function properly. Parents need to be confident.” Springdales Public School reopened on Tuesday for a handful of students.Bhavans' SL Public School has been operational for the last 10 days. The school follows social distancing norms and only 10 students sit in a classroom. Principal Anita Bhalla said she was hopeful that the situation would improve. Initially, only 5 per cent students attended classes. Now, the footfall has increased with time.Meanwhile, some institutes are still jostling with an idea of reopening or continuing online classes.Manjot Dhillon, Director, Mount Litera School, said they had conducted a consensus among parents on the issue of reopening of school for senior classes. She said they were all set to reopen the institute after October 15. “We cannot go beyond parental consent. Situation will improve with time and students will return to schools.”Upasna Mehra, Principal, Senior Study II, said, “ Majority of parents and students are comfortable with online classes, which is surprising and reassuring as well.”PrincipalspeakIt’s a challenging situation for schools as senior students, especially those appearing for board exams, are now entering a crucial academic phase. As per the health guidelines, every school has to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols. Yet parents are not ready to send their wards to schools. Parents should trust schools. We need to assess situation with precaution, follow social distancing and move forward. — Anjana Gupta, Principal, DAV International SchoolSix to eight months is a good time to adapt to this situation and schools are ready to give safety a top priority. Despite the fact that online system of education is now well established, still there is a requirement for interaction between students and teachers, especially students from senior classes. — Rajiv Sharma, Principal, Springdales Public SchoolWe have not reopened as of now. As practical exams for board classes are about to commence, we have decided to make teachers available once a week so that students visit school and interact with them. — Upasna Mehra, Principal, Senior Study IISurprisingly, not a single parent has agreed to send his/her ward to the school in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The school management assured about all the safety norms. We even invited them to visit the school campus. In such a scenario, we cannot help, but just wait and watch. — Manjot Dhillon, Director, Mount Litera SchoolStudents should attend classes and interact with teachers. On day one, around 10 students came to the school, but now, nearly 430 students (Class IX to XII) are attending classes with parents’ consent. As the CBSE has announced datesheet of board exams, I believe the footfall will increase after Diwali. — Anita Bhalla, Principal, Bhavans’ SL Public School||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/private-schools-reopen-students-give-classes-a-miss-166181
05-11-2020||---||GNDU signs MoU with Sports Authority of India||Amritsar , November 4Guru Nanak Dev University signed a memorandum of understanding with the Sports Authority of India in the presence of Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu and other officials of the university on Wednesday.Sports Authority of India, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, has set up residential sports academy under Khelo India Scheme in Guru Nanak Dev University, in two sports disciplines i.e. fencing (M&W) and archery (M&W). These academies are accredited for a period of four years under Khelo India Talent Development Programme. These Khelo India academies are being established to strengthen India’s pursuit for excellence in Olympics with the effort to scale up the best sporting facilities available in India into academies of world class standard, where athletes from all over the country will be trained in their specific disciplines.Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said theses sports academies had been identified after in-depth analysis by a government committee. He further said that this was a step in the right direction to tap talent from across the country and train them into elite athletes, who can win medals for the country in all major international tournaments, especially in Olympics.Prof SS Behl, Dean Academic Affairs, said, “There is a lot of talent available in this region that needs to be searched and nurtured. The sports academies will be highly beneficial for these young talents.”Dr Preet Mohinder Singh Bedi, Director, university industry linkage cell, further informed that SAI would perform the primary function of broad basing and bringing excellence in sports in the country by providing all logistical support for the training of national teams and athletes participating in international sporting events and organising, developing and conducting sports education programmes through its regional centres and other field units.Prof Sukhdev Singh, Director Sports, told that the selection trials for these academies would be conducted very soon. Kanwar Mandeep Singh, Assistant Director, was also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-signs-mou-with-sports-authority-of-india-166183
05-11-2020||---||2 get 10-year jail under Arms Act||Amritsar, November 4A local court has sentenced two persons to 10-year imprisonment under the Arms Act and the Explosives Act.It, however, acquitted the duo — Maan Singh Nihang and Sher Singh — under the UAPA and Foreigners Act. The court has also sentenced two others — Gurpreet Singh and Simranjit Singh — to five-year imprisonment.As per the FIR lodged at the Ramdas police station on May 21, 2017, Maan Singh Nihang, a resident of Samrai village, near Shri Hargobindpur (Gurdaspur), and Sher Singh, a resident of Kartarpur (Jalandhar), were nabbed by the BSF with arms and ammunition.The FIR stated that the two had links with terrorists in Canada and Pakistan and were trying to recover an illegal consignment of weapons smuggled from Pakistan when they were arrested. Later, five more names surfaced.The accused were learnt to be in touch with Gurjivan Singh, an alleged hardliner based in Canada, who had arranged the weapons from Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-get-10-year-jail-under-arms-act-166085
