06-09-2020||---||Missing ‘Saroops’: SGPC makes U-turn, won’t file criminal case against guilty||Amritsar, september 5Taking a U-turn on the registration of a criminal case against those responsible for the misappropriation of records of 328 “saroops”, the SGPC executive, which met today, decided to punish them as per the Sìkh Gurdwara Act and Panthic tradition.Gobind Singh Longowal, SGPC Chief‘Won’t allow external interference’No external authority can be allowed to interfere in the Shiromani Committee’s affairs.A partial report of the probe has been uploaded on the SGPC’s website. Earlier, the executive, at its August 27 meeting, favoured criminal proceedings against these employees. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said no external authority could be allowed to interfere in the affairs of the Committee.He categorically stated: “No desecration of holy scriptures had taken place and to take mileage out of the mistake committed by some black sheep, the opposition initiated a ‘smear campaign’ against the entire Shiromani committee.” Longowal claimed that the employees did not deposit the “Bheta” (monetary value) of these “saroops” and pocketed the amount.The “saroops” did not figure in the records of the Shiromani Committee. He said these were in the houses of the Sikh Sangat as per the Rehat Maryada.All members of the executive and office-bearers of the Shiromani Committee will tender an apology at Akal Takht on September 18.He said the executive also called upon the erring employees to appear before the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs to seek an apology.In a separate decision, the committee called its budget session on September 28, which could not be held due to Covid-19 restrictions. The members also mourned the death of SGPC members Sajjan Singh, former member Chetan Singh Samao and former chief secretary Harcharan Singh.Meanwhile, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation stated that it was an attempt to brush the matter under the carpet. Its members requested Giani Harpreet Singh, Jathedar, Akal Takht, to take stern action against the guilty.Meanwhile, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Cabinet Minister, demanded the SGPC president’s resignation for dereliction of duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sgpc-makes-u-turn-wont-file-criminal-case-against-guilty-136984
06-09-2020||---||SGPC ex-chief secretary Harcharan Singh dead||Amritsar, September 5Former chief secretary of the SGPC Harcharan Singh, 75, died of a heart attack this morning. He is survived by his wife Dalwinder Kaur and daughter Nimrata Kaur.Though the attack was mild, Harcharan Singh could not be saved, his nephew Navjot Singh said. The SGPC executive had on August 27 announced to initiate criminal proceedings against him as he, along with other officials, was held accountable for misappropriation of 328 “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib.He was also summoned at Akal Takht, along with the 2016 SGPC’s executive body, on September 18 for not maintaining records and performing mourning prayers for the loss of “saroops” in an accidental fire in May 2016 at Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan in Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.A former Deputy Chairman of Punjab and Sind Bank, Harcharan Singh was handpicked in August 27, 2015, by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on a contractual basis for three years.His hefty salary of Rs 3 lakh per month and perks had also courted controversy, which he volunteered to reduce to Rs 1 lakh in March 2017.Short of completing a two-year term, he resigned in July 29, 2017, citing “personal reasons”. The post was created first in 2003 for veteran Akali leader Manjit Singh Calcutta for a paltry sum of Re 1 for a brief stint.It was specially revived for Harcharan Singh for the second time in the SGPC’s history to look after the financial affairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-ex-chief-secretary-harcharan-singh-dead-136985
06-09-2020||GS Paul||Being made scapegoat, claims former SGPC official Dr Roop Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5Breaking silence for the first time after the issue of misappropriation of “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib surfaced, former chief secretary of the SGPC Dr Roop Singh said he was being made a scapegoat. Dr Roop Singh, SGPC Ex-Chief secretaryPoser to SGPCIf I was among the guilty officials, why wasmy resignation accepted?I should have been chargesheeted.He had quit on moral and ethical grounds and his resignation was accepted by the SGPC executive on August 27. The report that was partially made public by the SGPC today held Dr Roop Singh guilty among 14 other officials and staff members of the publication and allied departments for embezzlement of 328 “saroops”.“I was unnecessarily tortured. It was only after I tendered my resignation, voices were raised against the SGPC president. If I was among the guilty officials, why was my resignation accepted? I should have been chargesheeted. I didn’t even get any official confirmation about the acceptance of my resignation,” he said.“At whose behest the “saroops” were sent is yet to be disclosed,” he said.“An office note that speaks about 80 “saroops” getting damaged in the May 2016 fire was deliberately leaked because it had got my signatures on it. The truth was that the note was written by assistant supervisor Kanwaljit Singh and I had just forwarded it to my subordinate to take necessary action. How could I be held responsible for it,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/being-made-scapegoat-claims-former-sgpc-official-dr-roop-singh-136986
06-09-2020||---||Four more succumb to virus, 79 new Covid cases surface in Amritsar||Amritsar, Sept 5The district health authorities on Saturday recorded 79 new Covid cases and four casualties, taking the caseload and death toll to 4,630 and 194, respectively. With 3,619 recoveries, the number of active cases stands at 813. The new cases included 52 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 27 contacts of Covid patients.Dehati Mazdoor Sabha leaders bookedThe deceased have been identified Surjit Singh (60), a resident of Tungbala on the Majitha road, Rattan Kaur (63), a resident of Tangra village, Sunny (35) and Anil Beri (68), a resident of Gali No. 6 in New Tahsil Pura. All deceased had co-morbid conditions.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said so far, 3,619 have won the battle against the virus. He called upon residents to adhere to covid safety protocols such as the social distancing norm and wearing of mask.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-more-succumb-to-virus-79-new-covid-cases-surface-in-amritsar-136955
06-09-2020||---||Sexual harassment of minor: Police add rape charge to FIR||Amritsar, September 5Around a fortnight after registering a case in connection with the sexual harassment of a minor girl allegedly by her mother’s live-in partner, the woman cell of the city police have now added rape charge to the First Information Report (FIR).Earlier, members of the family had expressed dissatisfaction with the police response for omitting rape charge. The incident had occurred in March, but a case was registered under Sections 354 and 354-A of the Indian Penal Code and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on August 19. The suspect was identified as Harmeet Singh Chawla, a resident of Uttam Nagar on the Tarn Taran road.The mother of the victim had alleged that even after the receipt of a complaint, the police did not register an FIR for over four months. She said her husband was hooked to drugs, so she got a divorce and started living with her parents.She had a daughter from the marriage. In 2018, she came in contact with Chawla and began a live-in relationship. She said in March, she had gone for a morning walk and after return, her sister-in-law told her that Chawla had sexually harassed her 13-year-old daughter. She said her daughter told her that Chawla had sexually harassed her earlier, too.Ritu Bala, investigating officer in the case, said the women cell has added rape charge following medical examination of the victim. The investigating officer said the suspect was on run and would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sexual-harassment-of-minor-police-add-rape-charge-to-fir-136956
06-09-2020||Stories that inspire||Changing times, a shopkeeper refuses to give in to crisis||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5The pandemic has tremored the markets’ graph so dramatically that many traders and shopkeepers, who had been doing all right for many decades, found themselves in a tight spot and were forced to switch their trade in order to survive.Jumping from one occupation to another, Parveen Sehgal is one of them. Instead of giving in Parveen has been stretching his limits as he continues to keep out of deep waters. For now, he has taken to selling sanitisers and masks, the most preferred items these days.It was not pragmatic to sit idle at the shop throughout the day while people pass-by, as their priorities had changed. Before the virus crashed in, I was selling around 300 newspapers in the morning hours, which had reduced between 10 and 15 a day. Similarly, over 100 magazines were sold – now tapered to less than 10. Then, I hired and plied a bus between Amritsar and Jammu, but the income is nil. —Parveen SehgalEarlier, he was giving away newspapers and magazines — for the past five decades — besides running a tour and travel business before the pandemic. His six brothers were also in the same business. Out of them, four continue with the same profession which his father Balak Ram Sehgal had started.“It was not pragmatic to sit idle at the shop throughout the day while people pass-by, as their priorities had changed,” Parveen says, his shop is situated outside the iconic Hall Gate chownk. Before virus crashed in, he was selling around 300 newspapers sold in the morning hours, which has was reduced between 10 and 15 a day. Similarly, over 100 magazines were sold – now tapered to less than 10.With tourism profession at its peak, he had dabbled in the travel business after his son Sorabh had joined him after completing graduation. He hired and plied a bus between Amritsar and Jammu. About 20 private buses between the holy city and the hilly state used to run. However, all of them are now smothered with dust in yards, waiting for approval to run. “Expenses like salaries of drivers and cleaners, besides taxes and others stand but income is nil,” he rues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/changing-times-a-shopkeeper-refuses-to-give-in-to-crisis-136957
06-09-2020||---||‘Spurious liquor’ claims 1 more life in Tarn Taran||Amritsar, September 5Another person died after allegedly consuming spurious liquor at Manochahal village in Tarn Taran on Friday. This was stated by Virsa Singh Valtoha, district president of the Shiromani Akali Dal Badal in a statement here on Saturday.He said the deceased was identified as Sheetal Singh who had returned from Dubai and was to go back.Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale said the medical examination of the victim was conducted after constituting a medical board. He said the viscera would be sent to a forensic lab to ascertain the exact cause of his death. He said senior police officials visited the spot for a preliminary probe while further investigation was underway.A police official privy to investigation said Sheetal used to work as a mason and he, along with his two friends, was celebrating the purchase of a new bike. He said it was Sheetal who brought the liquor. He said while his friends were alright, his health condition deteriorated leading to his death. He said there were no symptoms which suggested that he died of consuming spurious liquor.Following the incident, Valtoha said the Punjab Government had failed to check bootlegging. He alleged that Congress leaders were hand in glove with bootleggers due to which the illegal trade was flourishing. This despite the fact that the hooch tragedy had recently claimed 125 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala. Later, three more persons had lost their lives at Pandori Golan village due to the same reason.He demanded a CBI probe into the deaths due to the consumption of hooch.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spurious-liquor-claims-1-more-life-in-tarn-taran-136958
06-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Begging menace haunts  visitors at Amritsar Heritage Street||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 5The menace of begging has gripped the Heritage Street and Golden Temple complex. The residents claimed that the number of beggars increased after Covid-19 spread.Wandering in the Heritage Street, these beggars give a tough time to devotees, walking their way to and fro the shrine. Though the state government and district administration insist on maintaining the social distancing, the beggars often put the visitors in an embarrassing situation by holding their arms and forcing them to give them money.Davinder Singh, a resident of Rauke village in Moga District said, “I never give money to beggars as it encourages the menace, which is also an offence. But here a child started begging from me at Saragari parking and walked along me till the Jallianwala Bagh. Finally, I gave him Rs 10 to him to get rid of him. They are trained to emotionally blackmail the devotees and would not give up until they get money”. Children posing as salesmen force the visitors to buy pens, handkerchief and “keskis”.Ironically, the Prevention of Begging Act is enforced in the city for the past many years, yet the police have not registered even a single case under the act. A majority of the beggars have reached from the other state.“Earlier, beggars used to come from other states. But now, even the locals have started resorting to the practice. There is a need to comprehend what pushes them to start begging. The number of beggars has witnessed a rise in the past a few months,” said Ravi, a resident of Katra Ahluwalia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/begging-menace-haunts-visitors-at-amritsar-heritage-street-136959
06-09-2020||Gurdaspur/Pathankot||MP Sunny Deol’s two-day Gurdaspur visit triggers protests from Congress men||After a gap of nearly six months, MP Sunny Deol finally made an appearance in his constituency but failed to kick off his old habit of evading mediapersons, triggering rumours, speculations and conjectures of different types.During his Gurdaspur tour, the MP made it a point to ask his staff to ensure that nobody else would be present when he met Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq and ADC (General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu.In a brief meeting, he was apprised of the measures the administration was taking to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. The DC also urged him to speak to officials in New Delhi wherein a special development plan for the border district till 2030 could be executed.During his conversation with officials, he asked them to guide him on what he could do to contain the virus. “I told him to issue an appeal to the constituents to break the transmission chain by getting tested and subsequently going into isolation, if found positive,” said the DC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-sunny-deols-two-day-gurdaspur-visit-triggers-protests-from-congress-men-136960
06-09-2020||---||Webinar to acquaint farmers with credit facilities conducted||Amritsar, September 5A webinar to create awareness on farm credit facilities was recently organised by HDFC Bank, in collaboration with Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).Speaking at the event organised as part of the bank’s ‘Hum haar nahin manenge’ campaign, Rajinder Kumar Babbar, business head (rural banking), said the objective of the webinar was to make farmers aware about finance facilities offered by the bank and to educate them about the latest technological advancements in the field of rice cultivation that can be used to overcome problems being faced due to Covid-19.HighlightsFinancial experts from the bank informed farmers about various loan schemes and other banking services available to them. Dr Makhan Singh Bhullar, head, department of agronomy, PAU, apprised farmers of direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique, nursery preparation, field preparation, correct sowing techniques and rice varieties favorable for direct seeding.He said over 1,650 farmers across the state had registered for the webinar.Financial experts from the bank informed farmers about various loan schemes and other banking services available to them.The bank officials said in view of Covid-19, the bank has developed an app, e-kisan dhan, for farmers to ease their interaction with bank officials.Dr Makhan Singh Bhullar, head, department of agronomy, PAU, apprised farmers of direct seeding of rice (DSR) technique, nursery preparation, field preparation, correct sowing techniques and rice varieties favorable for direct seeding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-to-acquaint-farmers-with-credit-facilities-conducted-136961
06-09-2020||Amritsar||MC Commissioner appeals to vendors to avail Rs10,000 loan||Mayor Karamjit Singh and Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal jointly appealed to the vendors to get themselves registered to get a guaranteed free loan of up to Rs 10,000 under the scheme.  A meeting was held at the MC Head office Ranjit Avenue in this regard. The meeting was attended by Nodal office Jaswinder Singh and Superintendent Vishal Wadhawan. The MC officials stated that those who were vending till March 24 this year could avail of the benefits of the scheme, the duration of which is till March. The vendors can avail of a working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000, which is repayable in monthly instalments in one year.  The vendors who earn their livelihood on rehri and farhi can visit the zonal offices of Amritsar, including Zone No.6 Company Bagh, Zone No.2 Lahori Gate, Zone No.1 Sultanwind Gate, Zone No 8 Chheharta Chowk and Citizen Facilitation Centre at Ranjit Avenue to get the certificates. The zonal offices can also be contacted to get the certificate. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-commissioner-appeals-to-vendors-to-avail-rs10-000-loan-136962
06-09-2020||Amritsar||Showing solidarity: ‘Lack of gratitude most appalling’||Senior Study School observed Teacher’s Day this year as a black day to stand in solidarity with the National Independent School Alliance.The show of solidarity was against the issue of job loss and harassment that the teachers were subjected to during the pandemic. Upasana Mehra, principal, Senior Study said teachers have fought like warriors during this pandemic, continuing with online education of the students despite the challenges but have to suffer because of the apathy and the indifference of the parents and the government towards their needs.“Even though the teachers continued to work tirelessly to ensure that the future of the children is not at stake during this pandemic, the lack of gratitude shown by the parents is appalling. Instead of understanding the challenges and the efforts involved in online teaching, parents of wards studying in different cities have shown absolute lack of concern towards the school authorities, not realising how their indifference would impact the teachers. — TNSState award for 2 Educators on teacher’s dayTarn Taran: Two teachers from the district were honoured with the State Award on the occasion of Teacher's Day here on Saturday. The award winning teachers are- Gurmeet Singh, Hindi master, Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Pandori Gola; and Gurkirpal Singh, centre head teacher, Government Girls Elementary School, Kairon. Varinder Kumar, District Education Officer (Elementary), Harpal Singh, Deputy District Education Officer (S) was present at the award giving ceremony. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/showing-solidarity-lack-of-gratitude-most-appalling-136963
06-09-2020||---||2 illegal stills busted in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 5The rural police on Saturday busted two illegal stills involved in manufacturing of illicit liquor in Khiyala Kalan village during a cordon and search operation carried out in various villages under the Lopoke and Chatiwind police station limits here.According to information, the rural police nabbed four persons and seized 237 litres of illicit liquor and 2,480 kg of lahan in eight cases. The police also busted two illegal stills and nabbed 12 persons in 15 cases on Friday. A police official said 163 litres of illicit liquor, 15 litres of Indian-made foreign liquor and 120 kg of lahan was seized during the drive. The suspects were booked under the Excise Act.Amritsar (Rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya said in the past one month, the police have busted 25 illegal stills and nabbed 263 persons. He said 6,654 litres of illicit liquor, 24,280 liters of lahan and 344 litres of spirit, have been seized during the period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-illegal-stills-busted-in-amritsar-136964
06-09-2020||---||Web storytelling session: Artists weave stories virtually||Amritsar, September 5Bringing together four stories from different times, but with a common heart, Majha House’s web storytelling session Once Upon A Story featured four eminent names, all sharing stories that left an impression on their mind. Author and producer Gayatri Gill, educator and researcher Gurupdesh Singh, academician and writer Jasmeet Nayyar and artist-educator Roube Tuli shared the platform to narrate four stories, each taking the audience with it to experience the characters and events they were centered around.Beginning the session, Gurupdesh Singh narrated the popular short story The Fatelist from Polish writer Mikhail Lermontov’s book. Based in 1916 Poland and about a young Jewish man’s journey from being a realist to a fatalist, someone who believes in destiny and fate, the story was briefly narrated by Gurupdesh as he felt that Indians, just like Jews, have an acute sense of destiny. “We believe too much in fate, the power of destiny. Even in Covid-19 pandemic, we see many people resort to their belief in fate despite the conditions prevailing,” he said before commencing with his story.We believe too much in fate, the power of destiny. Even in Covid-19 pandemic, we see many people resort to their belief in fate despite the conditions prevailing. —Gurupdesh Singh, WriterJasmeet Nayyar narrated a short story Jhapphi, written by her. Story of a young girl, who is mostly occupied with some or the other adversary in her life, yet manages to find a solution, the story was inspirational and instilled some sense of positivity even during the times of a pandemic. Rouble Tuli narrated a story by late writer Khushwant Singh titled Karma, about a man in pre-independence India, who considers himself as an equal to the Britishers. A story that used wit and humour to camouflage the irony, Karma was about an Indian middle aged man, who looks down upon his own country’s culture and lifestyle and adopts everything British to fit into the elite-English class. But one incident of racial abuse on a train journey is enough to make him understand his folly.The session ended with Gayatri Gill reading passage of stories from her recently released book. Gayatari’s stories are interesting, crisp and a few come with spooky twists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/web-storytelling-session-artists-weave-stories-virtually-136965
06-09-2020||---||NSUI launches virtual creative fest for children||Amritsar, September 5The NSUI wing of Amritsar launched an initiative The Creative Fest to mark the Teacher’s Day and to provide a creative platform for school going kids hit hard by the pandemic.NSUI girls’ wing president Ramsha Kalhan, vice president Gazal Chinna, and other members of the youth wing of the Congress were present at the launch.Kalhan said the programme would facilitate positive learning outcomes for students forced to miss out on their schools due to lockdown.“Our initiatives The Creative Fest is an attempt to spark creativity in young minds and provide them an opportunity to showcase their writing and drawing skills, especially during the Covid-induced disruption in their learning and education.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nsui-launches-virtual-creative-fest-for-children-136966
06-09-2020||Amritsar||Memorial for human rights activist sought||A local organisation and human rights activists here on Saturday demanded memorial for human rights activist Jaswant Sihgh Khalra. Kulwant Singh Ankhi of the Amritsar Vikas Manch stated that on September 6, 1995, security forces killed Khalra for his work uncovering thousands of disappearances, unlawful killings and secret cremations of Sikhs perpetrated by the state police.Six police officials were convicted in the case. There are several cities in the world, where memorials of Khalra were constructed. Khalra started his journey from Amritsar and was abducted from Kabir Park in the city so the government should construct the memorial, Ankhi said. Michel Rahul, another activist, said, “This year the city councils of Fresno, Burnaby, Brampton and Surrey are remembering Khalra, as he is source of inspiration for millions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/memorial-for-human-rights-activist-sought-136967
06-09-2020||---||Work on to give parks in Amritsar a facelift||Amritsar, September 5 In the first phase, 14 parks would be redeveloped in the city under the Smart City project. These parks were identified in different parts of the city, as these had been in a pathetic condition for quite some time. Majith Mandi Park, Shakti Nagar Chowk Park, Shakti Nagar Tanki Wali Park, Hukmchand Park in Chheharta, Hargobindpura Park and Kalgidhar Gurudwara Park were the worst among these parks. Now, under the Smart City Mission, these parks are being developed with walkways, gazebos, benches, open gym equipment, children''s swings, dustbins, boundary walls, horticulture work, water systems for plants and low energy consumption and LED lights are also being installed. Surinder Saini, who runs a photography shop near Shakti Nagar Chowk Park, said: “The condition of the 40-year-old park was very poor. There was a long pending demand of residents that the condition of this park, which has been turned into a pile of garbage, should be improved. Earlier, people used to throw garbage here and also bathe in the park. But now, it has improved a lot.” Vijay Kumar, who has been selling tea for the last 22 years near Majith Mandi Park, said: “Earlier, empty drums used to keep lying inside the park, where residents used to dump garbage, which used to raise a lot of stink. Now, the park has been beautified,” he said. Komal Mittal, CEO of Smart City, said: “These parks are being developed at a cost of Rs3.70 crore and the contractor will also maintain these parks for three years at the same cost. The work was affected due to the lockdown, but now the work is going on at a full swing. Almost 90 per cent work has been completed in five parks and the work of the remaining parks will also be completed by November.” She said the support of residents was very important to maintain parks. People living around the parks can help the MC in looking after these parks by forming associations or committees. Open Gym equipment along with all other facilities are being provided in all parks being developed under the Smart City. People living nearby can use it to keep themselves healthy. “In the second phase, 25 such parks have been identified in five Assembly constituencies of the city, whose condition is still very bad. The detail project reports have been prepared and their tenders will also be floated within next 10 days,” said Komal Mittal, CEO, Smart City Mission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-to-give-parks-in-amritsar-a-facelift-136968
06-09-2020||Tarn Taran||65-year-old dies in road accident||Coordination panel formedAmritsar: A coordination committee comprising officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the District Town Planning and the Police Department has been formed to ensure smooth execution of the construction of the stretch of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra Expressway. The committee will look after the laying of the stretch from Khemkaran to Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Ramdas and Dera Baba Nanak. MP Gurjeet Aujla chaired the meeting held regarding the project that included officials from the district administration, the Police Department, the NHAI, the airport and others. TNSManch opens membershipAmritsar: Jawahar Bal Manch (JBM), an organisation providing online platform for kids to showcase their talent, started its work in the city on Saturday. State chairperson of JBM, Harsimran Bajwa, launched the membership drive of the organisation where kids between the age group of 10-17 years will be invited to join. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/65-year-old-dies-in-road-accident-136974
