06-07-2020||Our Correspondent ---||3 booked for fraud||Tarn Taran, July 5 The Patti city police have booked three persons on a charge of fraud. The suspects have been identified as Shamsher Singh, his wife Updesh Kumari of Patti city, and Daljit Singh of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Amritsar.  Karam Sharma, a resident of Putlighar in Amritsar, in his complaint to the police said the suspects struck a deal to sell their Indian Oil Petrol Pump outlet at Lauhuka village in Tarn Taran district and took a large sum of money on April 30, 2019, but did not appear  in the court of registrar, Patti, on the fixed date of registry May 30, 2019. After conducting an inquiry by Gurcharan Singh, Superintendent of Police, the police registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code against three suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-booked-for-fraud-109201
06-07-2020||---||Rs350-cr bank fraud: RTI activist alleges police inaction||Amritsar, July 5 The RTI activist and president of the Shaheed-E-Azam Sardar Bhagat Singh Youth Front, Gurmeet Singh Bablu, expressed his “dissatisfaction” over the functioning of the local police, alleging that the police sheltered and chose not to take any action against the directors of Punjab Basmati Rice Mill.  He was the whistle-blower in the alleged scam wherein the firm took huge loans from different banks by mortgaging moveable and immovable properties. These loans were declared non-performing assets by the banks.  The case was registered following a complaint lodged by the Canara Bank, Chandigarh. In a statement to the media, it was stated that the accused had allegedly cheated the Canara Bank-led consortium comprising Andhra Bank, Union Bank of India, Oriental Bank of Commerce, IDBI and UCO Bank to the tune of Rs 350 crors by disposing off the stocks, prime security without any prior information and approval from the consortium of the lender banks.  Bablu brought the matter to the knowledge of local police after a rice mill owner in Jandiala fled the country after cheating lender banks. However, he alleged that repeated reminders and meeting with senior police officials evinced no response as the cops were apparently in no mood to take action against the influential rice mill owners.  He said disturbed over this he took the matter with the Prime Minister’s Office and the Ministry of Home Affairs urging them to take urgent steps otherwise public funds would go down the drains. “I immediately got response as probe was marked to the CBI in this connection over a year ago,” he said while adding that he remained in touch with the CBI officials during the period in this regard.  He also feared for his life while pursuing the case and had written to the DGP, Punjab Police, in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs350-cr-bank-fraud-rti-activist-alleges-police-inaction-109202
06-07-2020||---||Despite High Court orders, illegal structures coming up on AIT land||Amritsar, July 5 Despite the Punjab and Haryana High Court ordering to demolish illegal buildings constructed by encroachers in the Kabir Park area, new constructions have started coming up on the same land of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) illegally. Kirpal Singh Randhawa, who had filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2008 in this regard, alleged that the officials of AIT have not demolished illegal construction from Kabir Park so far. He had then filed a contempt of court in this regard in 2017. “The delaying attitude of the AIT officials encourages encroachers for illegal construction at Kabir Park. Now, a person is constructing shops on the land of AIT. There must be some political involvement. People use their influence to encroach the land. I have complained to the AIT for action against illegal construction,” Randhawa said. When contacted, Rajiv Sekhri, Superintending Engineer, AIT, said: “The matter in our knowledge. I have asked the officer concerned to take action in this regard.” Randhawa claimed that the AIT had acquired the land from farmers for the township but the vacant area had been encroached upon by influential persons. After the PIL by Randhawa, the AIT vacated a major chunk of land on court orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-high-court-orders-illegal-structures-coming-up-on-ait-land-109203
06-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Endless wait for govt water supply||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5Residents of Guru Ram Dass Avenue A-block located on Airport Road are perturbed over the alleged discriminatory attitude of the civil body authorities towards their locality. For the past two decades, they have been waiting for a drinking water supply from the government side.Nevertheless, the facility is available in the B-block and several other adjoining localities. Residents say that the work of providing a water supply was abruptly stopped before it reached their locality during the previous government regime. Work on it never resumed. Now the residents are dependent on submersible pumps for drinking water.Baldev Singh, an ex-serviceman and president of the Guru Ram Dass Avenue Welfare Society, said, “I have been living in the area for the past nearly three decades. Though sewerage pipelines were laid and connections provided to residents, the facility of potable water supply was never provided to them.”“There are around 200 residences in the locality and all are forced to install submersible pumps to draw water,” he pointed out, adding that though the municipal councillor of their area was well aware of the matter, nothing was done to provide a water supply to their area.Another resident, Inder Kumar, said, “The adjoining localities such as Jujhar Enclave and Guru Ram Dass Avenue B-block have been provided a water supply. We were also hoping to get it as the adjoining localities were provided with a water supply during the previous SAD-BJP government. However, the work of providing it to our area was stopped abruptly.”“Besides, even street lights are also missing from our locality. New street lights were installed in nearby areas, but no street lights were provided to our locality by the authorities. We have failed to understand this discriminatory attitude of the authorities,” said Subhash Sharma, a resident of the area. “This despite the fact that Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla resides on the Airport Road near our locality,” he said.With underground water fast depleting, submersible water pumps are not a good alternative to draw water. “Authorities should understand this and they should provide the water supply to our locality,” he added.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “Under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation AMRUT I and AMRUT II projects, the water supply would be provided to every household. If any locality is missed, they would be accommodated under these projects. The Amritsar Municipal Corporation is working hard to provide basic amenities to the residents of the holy city,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/endless-wait-for-govt-water-supply-109205
06-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||As Covid rage continues, teachers get ready with e-content for students||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 1Teachers have started preparing e-content of their courses for further studies of students after the Union Ministry of Home Affairs announced that schools, colleges, and other educational institutions in the country will remain closed till July 31.College and school teachers have started recording audio-visual lectures by using various online software and tools. Most city colleges have initiated workshops for teachers, so that they can prepare their online teaching aids. Colleges call 33 per cent staff to attend these workshops and prepare online course content.Educational institutes observe that the Covid-19 situation may prevail long, so online material would help the students in future.Initially, teachers were sending links of YouTube content prepared by foreigners or PDF of books to students on their WhatsApp for the preparation of examinations. Teachers found that students need two-way communication to address their questions. Instead of readymade material, teachers are now recording their own content in local language with examples.Some major colleges have their own audio-visual studio and recording equipment. These colleges ask teachers to use the college studio. Many teachers are using online studios where recording and audio-video editing is also available.A large number of teachers are taking classes on software such as Zoom and Google meet. Educational institutes are also preparing their backup on online material, which would be exclusively available on the college website.Government schoolteachers also adopted some creative techniques to teach students. They generally use WhatsApp to provide audio-visual content and reading material to students and record their message.QuotesWe are recording audio-visual lectures for students. Initially, we targeted to prepare online content of at least 33 per cent syllabus. It's a new way of teaching that became popular after the Covid-19 outbreak. It can’t be an alternative of classrooms, but we have to do this in this situation.Dr Arif Nazir, Assistant Professor, DAV CollegeOur objective is to provide course content to students, so that they can prepare for their examination while sitting in their homes. We are assisting teachers for preparing the e-content by using online tools.Prof Vikram Sharma, HoD, Computer Sc & IT at a local collegeWe record a story or a poem from the syllabus book every day and send it to students’ parents on their mobiles. We ask them to respond to the related questions and send back the recording in their own voice by reading from the book. Some children are doing extremely well.Jagmohan Singh, teacher, Government Elementary School, GranthgarhWe have made a WhatsApp group of students’ parents, where we send the audio-visual material on a regular basis. However, most of the children come from poor families and their parents cannot afford a phone or internet. So, we asked them to make cluster around one student, who has a phone and discuss the content and respond.Charanjit Singh Vicchoha, another teacher||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-covid-rage-continues-teachers-get-ready-with-e-content-for-students-109206
06-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga ||Dumped, unattended combustible refuse led to fire in old sabzi mandi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5A fire broke out at an abandoned portion of sabzi mandi, outside the Hall Gate, on Saturday, at around 7.30 in the evening. The fire lasted for about 15 minutes after which the fire tenders arrived and doused the fire. Meanwhile, the shopkeepers said the combustible refuse being dumped in the sabzi mandi was one of the reasons that led to fire. The waste, after unloading of fruits from trucks, is not disposed of carefully. Shopkeepers said as many as seven trucks of papaya come from Gujarat and three to four trucks of bananas come from Maharashta and Karnatka, everyday. The rest of the fruits comes from Vallah Mandi.Each truck contains nearly 8,000 pieces of papaya and each piece is wrapped in newspaper. Besides, they also throw the straws used as cushion in apple baskets and broken wooden boxes which keeps lying unattended. All these together make refuse a combustible material. These fruits are then stored in about 300 shops situated near the old sabji mandi and the waste is dumped in its adjoining open ground. Later, hardly any government agency lifts it, they rued. The shopkeepers were of the view that the timely rain had saved the fire from slipping out of hand as strong winds could have spread the fire to the adjoining markets. They said the authorities did not shift out the fruit market along with vegetable market from the city. The old sabzi mandi was shifted to new market at Vallah area in 2004. Since then the site has been lying unused and residents turned it into a garbage disposal site. Though a few fruit shops continue to operate from a portion of the old mandi, a major portion of the site is being used by people to throw garbage and waste generated at their commercial establishments.Residents of the nearby areas and shopkeepers say the foul smell keeps raising a stink. The problem exacerbates after rains. Stagnant water is a common site where mosquitoes breed and the situation gets aggravated during monsoon. Many a times, several private public transporters also use the open ground to park their buses. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said a proposal was forwarded to the House of the Municipal Corporation to raise a multi-storey parking at the abandoned land. He said efforts would be made to expedite the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dumped-unattended-combustible-refuse-led-to-fire-in-old-sabzi-mandi-109207
06-07-2020||---||Under-construction wall of school collapses, two dead||Amritsar, July 5Two persons, including a woman, died after an under-construction wall of a government school fell on them in tthe Dam Ganj area here late Saturday evening after high-velocity winds and rain lashed the city.While Satpal (38) died on the spot, Kiran Rani (60) died at a hospital.Medical Education and Research Minister on Sunday visited the families of the deceased and assured the family members and residents of holding a probe, besides giving a Rs 4-lakh compensation to the deceased’s kin.According to information, a wall was being constructed on the upper portion of a government school. On Saturday evening, high-velocity winds followed by rain lashed the city and led to the fall of the wall towards two adjoining residences. Satpal was in the bathroom while Kiran Rani was on the doorsteps of her house when a portion of the wall fell. Both sustained serious injuries. They were rushed to a hospital where doctors declared Satpal brought dead. Kiran succumbed to her injuries late in the night.Residents alleged that they had opposed the construction. They demanded a probe into the incident. Minister Soni also announced Rs 50,000 from his pocket to each family. The minister assured a government job to the daughter of Satpal after she turns 18.Soni was accompanied by Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, Deputy Commissioner Shivdullar Singh Dhillon and Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal, among other officials.Meanwhile, many trees were uprooted by the high-velocity winds. Fire incidents were also reported in old vegetable market near Hall Gate and at garbage dump near Bhagtanwala grain market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/under-construction-wall-of-school-collapses-two-dead-109208
06-07-2020||---||Rain brings cheer to farmers||Amritsar, July 5Heavy showers on Saturday evening came as a blessing for the farming community as paddy fields need regular water supply during the season. Some farmers said the showers helped them keep their tube wells off. Jagtar Singh, a farmer, said: “We get eight-hour power supply for tube wells but sometimes electricity faults in the transmission reduce the duration of supply. The showers have not only increased the water level but also decreased temperature, as a result of which evaporation has decreased.”With almost 70 per cent of the paddy transplantation work done, the electricity load these days is at peak. Besides tube wells, the huge number of air conditioners in domestic and commercial buildings increase the load, as a result of which scheduled and unscheduled power cuts in rural and urban areas have become frequent.The farmers said a good amount of rain every week would decrease the consumption of electricity. “Rains, apart from providing water, wash down eggs and larva of insects from plants,” said another farmer Rawel Singh.Chief Agriculture Officer Gurdial Singh Bal said: “The area has witnessed substantial rains which are good for the paddy crop.” He added that fast winds had also been reported that broke tree branches, resulting in problems for horticulturists.Bal said the Metrology Department has forecast more rains in the coming days. He added that farmers had almost completed transplantation of paddy varieties and were presently engaged in sowing basmati varieties. The official added that mechanisation of paddy transplantation had helped farmers complete the work in time, despite labour shortage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-brings-cheer-to-farmers-109210
06-07-2020||Amritsar||Rickshaw-puller dies in mishap||70-yr-old killed in road accidentTarn Taran: Amrik Singh (70), a resident of Sanghna village, died in a road accident near Naushehra Pannuan village on Saturday night. The police said deceased Amrik Singh was going to his relative’s place in Naushehra Pannuan village on his moped. When he took a turn from the national highway to the village, he got hit by a Swift car. He received multiple injuries and died on way to the local Civil Hospital. The car driver managed to escape from the spot. The Sarhali police have registered a case under Section 304-A of the IPC against the car driver. OCYouth nabbed with illegal weaponAmritsar: The Kamboh police have nabbed Triptpal Singh of Jijeani village, falling under Majitha police station, for allegedly possessing an illegal weapon. Sub Inspector Narinder Singh said a police patrol party intercepted him near Jahangir village. During search, the police found a 7.65 mm pistol with him. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against him. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rickshaw-puller-dies-in-mishap-109211
06-07-2020||BHUPINDER Khosla set up Ajanta Woollen Mill||‘Will face losses in coming months as order bookings didn’t take place in May’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The entire shoddy spinning and shoddy weaving industry is scattered. From yarn to finished goods transportation is an inalienable part. Raw material comes mostly from Panipat while weaving is carried out at Mustafabad on the Batala road and Naraingarh in the holy city. Finishing is done at processing units which are also situated in different areas. It is a season-based industry. The schools are closed, so fresh bookings and payments have been blocked by traders. The March-April period is lean as we overhaul our machines and production is negligible. Besides, the impact would be massive as all order bookings, on the basis of which manufacturing is done, could not be done due to the lockdown in May. Now losses will be seen in the coming months.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Uncertainty is everywhere. Liquidity crunch has gripped businesses. The schools are unlikely to open soon. We are running units at 30 to 40 per cent capacity. In the winter season when demand will emerge, we will not have enough material to supply.Are you paying salaries to your workers?We employ workers on a contract and daily wage basis. Though we have no funds to release the salaries, we are paying salaries to the workers by taking loans and selling our stock on low rates. In the current situation, those who take risks can save their businesses.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading in our profession is negligible.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?A lot of change has been seen in attitude of those into the business. The moot question before them is how to proceed in future. The terms and conditions of transactions will change and entrepreneurs are not likely to go for credit.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?We consider the current crisis only as a challenge. Now, people will switch to new businesses. The season-based businesses like ours will be least preferred. Opportunities will emerge only after things get back to normal.What are your expectations from the government?Recently, the government had enhanced the CC limit, which was a temporary relief for entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-face-losses-in-coming-months-as-order-bookings-didnt-take-place-in-may-109212
06-07-2020||Is the decision to allow buses to run at full seating capacity justified? ||Govt must review its decision as cases spiral||Though Covid-19 cases are spreading rapidly, the state government has taken the decision to run buses at full seating capacity. Now we have to learn to live with the virus. The only solution to the pandemic is to develop a vaccine, which is not possible before 12-18 months. Until that comes, we should start our daily routine work following preventive measures like wearing of mask, cleaning of hands and maintaining physical distancing wherever possible. To begin with, it is not possible that buses would run at full seating capacity. Moreover, it has been observed that mostly senior citizens and those infected with other diseases are more vulnerable to the virus so they should take more precautionary measures and should not travel. We need not fear as Franklin Roosevelt said, "There is nothing to fear but fear itself."Naresh JoharDecision taken by govt in a hurryWhile the number of Covid-19 cases is rising by leaps and bounds, the state government's decision to run buses with full seating capacity seems to be a decision taken in haste. The state government is witnessing a sharp fall in its revenue as buses are running almost or half empty. The authorities concerned must understand that seating passengers side by side in buses may lead to a sharp spike in Covid cases which in turn may put more financial burden on the state exchequer. Right now, the situation in the state does not warrant buses being run at full seating capacity. We must not forget that during the Holla Mohalla festival, overloaded buses and trucks led to the spread of the virulent infection in the state. Raising the bus fare is a safer option than allowing buses to run at full seating capacity to check revenue loss.Rajiv SharmaGovernment must review its decisionThe decision of the Punjab Government to allow buses to run at full seating capacity is a brazen violation of social distancing norms issued by the Union Health Ministry under the standard operating protocol to fight the Covid-19 disease. While allowing buses to run at full capacity, the government is putting at risk the lives of people. Instead, the government should have opted for subsidising bus permit and adda fee to bridge their losses. It seems that the government has succumbed to the pressure of private transport operators (mafia) in the state. With humidity levels at its peak during the current rainy season, the risk of contracting the disease is higher and it can play havoc with the lives of passengers since buses are the potential carriers of the virus. Keeping in view the rising Covid-19 graph and the death toll, such a move can trigger community transmission. The government must review its decision after all it is a question of human lives.Anil VinayakDecision will help bus operatorsThe decision of the Punjab Government to allow buses to run at full capacity when Covid cases are on the rise is unfortunate. Who will care for social distancing? It will give a big boost to the covid cases in the coming days in punjab. This decision will bring big relief to the bus operators and their businesses will increase, at the cost of innocent lives. It is pitiable, but who cares for the common man? Government should reverse its decision if they care for people!Rohit Kumar SehdevPassengers will be prone to infectionAmidst the rapid soaring of cases, the Punjab Government order of lifting of restrictions on the number of passengers in busses is unjustified, as by doing the government would be breaking its own rule of social distancing. Plying buses at full capacity will ultimately exacerbate the situation. No amount of precautionary measure can ensure the safety of passengers, since the primary safeguard i.e. social distancing will go for a toss. Commuters sitting in proximity will be prone to getting infected even while wearing masks.Shivangi AroraAllow buses to run at 60% capacityThe decision of the state government to allow buses to run at full capacity is not justified when the threat of community spread of Covid-19 looms large. The authorities should permit the buses to run at about 60 per cent of their capacity by keeping the middle seats vacant out of three seats in one row and one seat vacant in the other. A strict compliance should also be enforced by random checks and deterrent penalty. The decision to run buses by following social distancing norms may cause some inconvenience to the public due to shortfall in the transportation services, but it can be compensated by gearing up the frequency of public transport buses. Let us strike a balance between ' Jaan bhi' and 'Jahan bhi'.Taman Waliathe Decision needs second thoughtThe decision of the Punjab Government to allow plying of buses at full capacity is at cross purposes with one of the most recommended precaution against Covid-19, that is, maintenance of social distance. Travelling in buss full with passengers, even while wearing mask, might lead to further spread of the disease. In the absence of any treatment, prevention is the best cure.Surinder Paul WadhwaSocial distancing norm will take a hitThe state government's decision to allow buses to run at full capacity when Covid cases are skyrocketing in the country is fraught with a serious danger to public health. It is wholly irrational, unreasonable, unwarranted and unjustified. It is like courting a disaster as the social distancing norm, one of the important precautions against Covid-19, cannot be ensured in a fully-packed bus. The decision is meant to give a much-needed relief to bus operators whose business is in the doldrums. Hence it is deplorable but then who cares for the commoners who are going to be treated as guinea pigs for this experiment? Buses, particularly private ones, load passengers like cattle, making it even difficult to breathe. Also everybody is bearing the brunt of Covid-19 as the skyrocketing prices of gas, diesel and petrol have been breaking the backbone of all sections of society. Then why should only a particular sector be given relief? On the one hand, the government is quick to challan shops and commercial establishments which violate the social distancing norms. On the other, it has given a green signal to buses to run at their optimum capacity. If buses running at full capacity cannot spread the virus, then hotels and restaurants, too, should be allowed to function similarly. Gymnasiums should also be permitted to resume business. A level-playing field should be provided to all without any discrimination.Tarsem S Bumrah QUESTIONMethanol in hand sanitiser: Amid the new FDA warnings, are consumers wary of the sanitisers they use? Do they think enough is being done by the authorities to ensure their safety?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 9).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-must-review-its-decision-as-cases-spiral-109213
06-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||COVID-19 pandemic: 1K mark breached in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5With seven more persons tested positive for Covid-19 during the last 24 hours, the total count of positive cases climbed to 1,003 in the district on Sunday. Of the new cases reported by the district Health Department, five are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and two patients have a contact history.The district media bulletin informed that Jhander village near Fatehgarh Churian, Loharka Road, Khairabad Road, Sultanwind and Rose Avenue each reported one ILI case. Besides, one contact of a positive patient from Majitha and one from Aakash Avenue also tested positive.With 47 deaths and 816 recoveries till date, the district now has 140 active cases admitted in hospitals or in home isolation. The number of positive cases in the district has doubled within the last 27 days. The district had reported a total of 502 positive cases till June 8.Meanwhile, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni after a meeting with officials to review the situation stated that vacant posts in Government Medical College would be filled soon. The process of filling vacant posts in all three medical colleges had already begun, he said.He said the college principal had been delegated the powers to recruit staff through outsourcing. Soni claimed that the Covid-19 situation was under control in the district, but people should continue taking precautions and should not become negligent.Soni said over 3 lakh people had been tested so far in the state. The minister added that a large number of patients were recovering. Health teams were working tirelessly for the treatment of patients. DSP, wife test positiveAfter a DSP and his wife tested positive on Saturday, the Health Department has collected samples of his subordinates and contacts. The number of positive cases from among the police force is alarming as 30 cops have tested positive for Covid-19 so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-pandemic-1k-mark-breached-in-amritsar-109214
06-07-2020||GS Paul||No jobs given, judicial probe eyewash: Kin||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 5The family members of victims of the train tragedy that snuffed out 60 lives during Dasehra festivities in 2018 are dissatisfied with the judicial inquiry report.The inquiry officer, a retired Additional District and Sessions Judge, has indicted four MC officials of Amritsar. They were already chargesheeted in the departmental inquiry conducted in October 2019, for being “negligent” in performing their duties.The victims’ kin termed the judicial inquiry report an eyewash and lashed out at the state government for not keeping up with the assurance of providing them government jobs.Deepak, who lost his father Girinder Kumar and uncle Pawan Kumar in the incident, said it was a politically influenced report. “The 108-page report of the magisterial probe conducted earlier should have been complied with. Holding MC employees responsible for the tragedy only appears to be an exercise to save the higher-ups,” he said.The state government had got done a magisterial probe by the Divisional Commissioner, Jalandhar, B Purushartha, which held 23 persons, including organisers, policemen, Railways employees and MC officials guilty.Kamal Kumar, who lost his 18-year-old son Tarun, demanded stern action against the organisers of the Dasehra event. “Our wounds can never be healed just by indicting MC officials, who will have no choice but to bow before the political bosses,” he said.Vijay, who lost his 19-year-old son Munish in the accident, said, “My son was helping me in my small business of footwear. His death broke me completely. My second son has passed Class XII but is jobless. We were promised that he would be given a government job on compassionate grounds, but the files got entangled in official rigmarole,” he said.An official of the MC, whose name surfaced in the judicial report, said, “Permission for holding a religious programme on Dashera had never been sought before the incident. Moreover, if we were held responsible for not enforcing the law, why the then MC Commissioner and Joint Commissioners were shielded?” Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said that the process to give jobs to the deserving was underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-jobs-given-judicial-probe-eyewash-kin-109039
