06-06-2020||---||Tackling rising Covid cases dominates F&CC meeting of Amritsar MC||Amritsar, June 5A meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of Municipal Corporation Amritsar was held under the chairmanship of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu here on Friday.In the meeting, discussions were held to check the rising number of Covid-19 cases, especially in Amritsar. Several resolutions included all the employees of the MC, members of the House, their families and any other needy persons who required the treatment for Covid-19. The Municipal Corporation empanelled some private hospitals (to be able to treat Covid-19 cases and fixed the rates as per the Central Government Health Scheme).The meeting decided to divide the entire city into five zones for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Every zone would get Rs 30 lakh for the treatment of patients as per CGHS rates after the approval of a sub-committee. They approved a total expenditure of Rs 1.50 crore for this.In another resolution, the city was divided into five zones for large-scale random testing to prevent the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in the city of Amritsar. As per the instructions of the government, reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method was adopted by the MC for random testing. The approval was given to conduct the e-tendering process at the rate of Rs 40 lakh per zone and expedite the work in a timely manner. Members of the Finance and Contracts Committee gave their approval to spend Rs 2 crore for this work.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu stated that following the commendable work done by the Police Department against the Covid-19 pandemic, as per the demand made by the Commissioner of Police, the police personnel were provided face masks, thermal scanners, gloves, face sheets, PPE kits and hand sanitisers. An expenditure of Rs 5 lakh for these items was also approved by the members of the committee.Besides, approval was given in anticipation of the House’s prior approval to extend the period of exemption of late fee for submission of licence fee and conservancy charges during the year 2020-21 till 30-9-2020.The meeting was attended by Cabinet Minister Om Prakash Soni, Lok Sabha MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, MLA Dr Raj Kumar Verka, MLA Sunil Dutti, MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia, Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi, OSD to Chief Minister (Punjab) Sandeep Singh Bawa Sandhu as a special invitee. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar and Ward No.19 councillor Gurjeet Kaur were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tackling-rising-covid-cases-dominates-fcc-meeting-of-amritsar-mc-95334
06-06-2020||
||1 death, 20 fresh cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 5 A death of Covid-19 patient was reported on Friday along with 20 fresh positive cases, taking the tally of Amritsar district to 440 cases. A positive case has been reported from Tarn Taran district. Rakesh Kumar (60), a resident of Katra Sher Singh, is the eighth person who lost life due to Covid-19. He was admitted to a private hospital from where he was referred to Government Hospital after his condition deteriorated on Thursday. Dr Jugal Kishore, Civil Surgeon, said all efforts were made to resuscitate Rakesh, but he suffered a heart attack, which proved deadly. Half of the 20 new positive cases do not have a travel history. Two persons (each) tested positive from Katra Baghiya, Lahori Gate and one case each has been reported from Jai Nagar, Chand Avenue, Bombay Wala Khoo, Katra Charat Singh and Gulmohar Avenue. Five contacts of the patient from Bombay Wala Khoo were found symptomatic. Gurmej Singh, a resident of Alia village, Khadoor Sahib (Tarn Taran), was today admitted to the Civil Hospital. He was among 27 suspected patients whose Covid-19 test reports were awaited. Samples of 26 others were found to be negative. Meanwhile, Satnam Singh (45), who succumbed due to Covid-19 at a private hospital in Amritsar on Thursday was cremated at Patti. Dr Inder Mohan Gupta, SMO, Tarn Taran Civil Hospital, said Satnam, a resident of Patti, had got his samples tested at Amritsar-based laboratory and tested positive.  The body of the victim was sent to Patti in an ambulance of the Health Department. The department also sent two health workers with PPE kits for cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-death-20-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-district-95335
06-06-2020|| 
||Dera Kar Sewa serves food to migrants, quarantined persons||Amritsar, June 5 Volunteers of the Dera Kar Sewa Sant Baba Bhuri Wale organisation continue to prepare food for  migrants and people quarantined by the administration at various centres and hospitals.   Baba Kashmir Singh, head of the dera, continues to serve the needy during lockdown.  Amarjit Singh, incharge of langar sewa at the dera, said, “Yesterday 2,500 migrants left for Chhattisgarh in a special train. We served them food and gave packed food and water bottles for journey. We are providing food to migrants at screening centers too”.  For the last three months, the dera had served food to more than eight lakh needy persons. On the demand of administration, special thalis of packed food are being served in quarantine centers. “We are providing two vegetables, rice chapattis and sweet dish in packed thali at quarantine centers”.   More than 150 activists are working round-the-clock to prepare food and supply it to quarantine centers, Amarjit said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dera-kar-sewa-serves-food-to-migrants-quarantined-persons-95336
06-06-2020||
||Amritsar-based Industrialists seek direct financial help from Centre||Amritsar, June 5 City-based industrialists on Friday sought direct financial assistance from the Central Government in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Owners of various units located at Focal Point, New Focal Point, Ibban Kalan, Chabbal road, Majitha road, Batala road and East Mohan Nagar, expressed resentment at the stimulus package announced for the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Industrialists demanded that loans should be provided at four per cent interest, defer monthly instalments on already taken advances for at least one year and waive interest during the lockdown. Ranjan Aggarwal, a Congress leader and vice-president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said the Central and Punjab Government have turned their backs against industrialists in these difficult times.  “In true sense, MSMEs are earning hands of the government and paying taxes,” he said. He said the state should reduce power tariff by 50 per cent for industries for next six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-based-industrialists-seek-direct-financial-help-from-centre-95337
06-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank fraud: Probe reveals senior officials’ involvement||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 5What sources sayHighly placed sources, privy to the investigations, revealed that senior manager, district manager, bank officials, deputy registrars, assistant registrars, inspectors of cooperative societies and officials of audit department colluded and misappropriated huge amount of the bank running into crores.Senior officials of the Amritsar Central Cooperative Bank and the Audit Department colluded to bungle huge amount of the bank. This is the finding of a three-month long investigation in misappropriation of around Rs 3 crore from the Tarsikka branch of the bank.The police had registered an FIR under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC on February 19 this year. It booked four persons, including branch manager of the bank, identified as Rakesh Kumar, who was arrested for fraud. Besides Rakesh, the police had nabbed Ram Kishore of Ludhiana also. Two of their accomplices Sukhdev Singh of Sarai village and Sukhbir Singh of Bhatti village (both secretaries of the cooperative societies) were also booked in the case.Highly placed sources, privy to the investigations, revealed that senior manager, district manager, bank officials, deputy registrars, assistant registrars, inspectors of cooperative societies and officials of audit department colluded and misappropriated huge amount of the bank running into crores.Investigation found that money was bungled from five societies, including Tarsikka, Saidoke Lehal, Bhattike, Chogwan Sadhpur and Kohala, that fall under the jurisdiction of Tarsikka Cooperative Bank. However, the investigation extended to other branches of the cooperative bank thereby unearthing a major scam. Alarmed over the bungling of huge funds, Punjab Cooperative Minister Sukhjinder Randhawa also ordered another probe by senior officials of the audit department a couple of days ago.Sources said the police submitted a challan in the local court on May 16 while admitting that a supplementary challan would be submitted after completion of probe.The sources claimed that ruling party leaders, including a minister, was mounting pressure to hush up the case in order to save certain black sheep. Sources added that the amount bungled in the scam was much higher than anticipated in the initial probe.However, the police have denied the same. “I have been personally supervising the investigations and I assure all that it is being carried out in very fair and transparent manner. No investigating officer has been changed in the case so far,” said Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal. “We don’t have any pressure and all the cooperative societies are cooperating with the police department in the probe,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-central-cooperative-bank-fraud-probe-reveals-senior-officials-involvement-95338
06-06-2020||---||Need for protection of wildlife, natural resources, say NGOs||Amritsar, June 5The theme for this year’s World Environment Day is ‘Celebrating Biodiversity’ and 2020 has already given mankind enough reasons to take nature and biodiversity seriously. Recently, the brutality against a pregnant elephant in Kerela has already shaken even the most non-believers and so organisations working for environment protection in the city took the opportunity to give out a string message of sustainability and move towards conservation and protection of wildlife and natural resources.The WWF Punjab Chapter showed its solidarity towards the cause of wildlife conservation and protection. “The Kerela brutality is being justified by a few as a desperate attempt by marginalised farmers to protect their pineapple crop. They related the incident to such incursions by nilgai, leopards etc into farmlands. Pit bulls are another way in which farmers slay families of wild boards and other transgressors. To these justifiers of cruelty, we share ingenious ways in which human conflict is mitigated and coexistence is maintained even within wildlife sanctuaries,” said Gunbir Singh, chairperson, WWF Punjab.“On this day it is perhaps opportune to reflect that we are the transgressors upon their diminishing lands. As our footprint expands to unsustainable levels, we must coexist or face the consequences,” he added.Phulkari CAN, an NGO, working for environment conservation, also called for a creating a safe haven for species of flora and fauna at Ram Bagh Garden. NGO volunteers have dedicated a small space to organic farming, where green practices such as using pests as fertilisers, composting and sustainable irrigation are implemented.“We are being supported in our cause by Undleeb Aujla, wife of MP Gurjeet Aujla, as we work towards making our dreams into reality — a dream of a clean city,” said Nidhi Sindhwani from Phulkari CAN.The Department of Botanical and Environmental Sciences of Guru Nanak Dev University organised a webinar on ‘Biodiversity: Bio-Indicators, Monitoring and Ecosystem Health’ to celebrate World Environment Day here on Friday. The webinar was held in collaboration with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and Commission on Education for Communication (CEC). As many as 700 scholars, researchers and faculty participated in the webinar.NGO Bharat Vikas Parishad planted saplings on the premises of Shanti Niketan High School and Amritsar Study Circle, Gopal Nagar, on Friday.Mayor, MLAs plant treesOn the occasion of World Environment Day, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and MLAs Dr Raj Kumar Verka, Sunil Dutti and Inderbir Singh Bularia planted saplings at Company Bagh. “It is our responsibility and duty to pass on a healthy environment to future generations so that they can live a healthy and prosperous life,” said the Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-for-protection-of-wildlife-natural-resources-say-ngos-95339
06-06-2020||---||Minister Soni lays stone of memorial gate||Amritsar, June 5Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Prakash Soni today laid a foundation stone of a memorial gate at Kabir Marg in the memory of Bhagat Kabir on his 622nd birth anniversary.Soni said Rs15 lakh has been released for the construction of the gate. He urged people to follow the teachings of the great saint, who spread the message of brotherhood and peace.On the occasion of World Environment Day, Soni said our existence depends on environment and therefore, it is the duty of everyone to protect it. He said “Mission Fateh” has been launched to combat Covid-19 and asked people to take follow health guidelines.Chief of the All India Kabir Federation, Surinder Chhinda, thanked Soni. Councillor Vikas Soni, Sarabjit Singh Latti, Sushant Bhagat, Master Balwinder Singh, Arvinder Kumar, general secretary, Congress Committee and Advocate Deep Inder, among others, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-soni-lays-stone-of-memorial-gate-95341
06-06-2020||---||Dismiss errant cops: Mukha’s family urges DGP||Amritsar, June 5 Family members of the Shiromani Akali Dal leader Mukhjit Singh alias Mukha, who was killed by the anti-narcotic cell of the Punjab Police in June 2015 after mistaking him to be a gangster, today urged the Director General of Police (DGP), Dinkar Gupta, to take stern action against the erring policemen.The police had booked nine cops for culpable homicide not amounting to murder one year after the incident.Family members of the victim had filed a complaint at a local court demanding registration of the murder case against the cops as they alleged that it was a planned murder and not a case of mistaken identity.Yuvraj Singh, a relative of the victim, said the policemen reportedly involved in the murder of Mukha were suspended, but reinstated later. He said charges were framed against the police personnel and a case was pending in the court. He urged the Director General of Police to dismiss erring cops from service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dismiss-errant-cops-mukhas-family-urges-dgp-95342
06-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Outsourced workers not paid salaries for 3 months||Tarn Taran, June 5As many as 20 workers deputed at the outlet stores of Powercom in Tarn Taran and Patti are a disgruntled lot as they have not been paid salaries for the last three months. The outsourced workers were being given a meager salary of Rs 4,700 per month. They said they had urged the contractor of the company concerned many a time to pay them their salaries, but he was deliberately delaying the payment of salaries to them. They are facing great hardships without salaries. They are unable to bear the expenditure of their houses.Devinder Singh Bath, one of the contractors of the company, said the company was to pay them salary for only one month, not three. He said the contact period of the company was going to be ended on June 30. He said they had made all arrangements to pay the salary to the workers but one employee of Powercom was creating obstacles as a result of which they had failed to pay them their salaries.Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, leader of the Powercom Employees’ Union, demanded early payment of the salary to the employees and said deposit the salaries directly into their bank accounts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/outsourced-workers-not-paid-salaries-for-3-months-95343
06-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Proclaimed offender among two held with pistol||Firing case: 3 of family bookedTarn Taran: Three members of a family of Pandori Sidhwan village, 25 km from here, have been booked under Sections 336, 506 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act by Chabal police in a month-old incident that happened in the village. The police said the accused had been identified as Lakhbir Singh, his wife Sukhbir Kaur and son Manraj Singh. The accused fired at Mehar Singh of the same village over a dispute over a common path and waste water drainage. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proclaimed-offender-among-two-held-with-pistol-95344
06-06-2020||---||Security up around Golden Temple on Bluestar anniversary eve||Amritsar, June 5Even as Akal Takht high priest Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal and other Sikh organisations on Friday appealed to people to observe the anniversary of Operation Bluestar by holding paths in their houses in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the police have made elaborate security arrangements to thwart any untoward incident.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh said radical Sikh organisation Dal Khalsa had also withdrawn their call of holding a protest march to mark the occasion.He said following this, devotees were visiting the Golden Temple in fewer numbers. He said, however, the police had been on alert and a heavy police deployment arrangement was in place.He said the outer ring road of the walled city was already sealed in view of the lockdown restrictions. He said around 65 check-points were set up in the city. Earlier, metal detectors were installed to streamline the rush of devotees.About the call given by the SAD (Amritsar) to reach Darbar Sahib, he said there was no such information received by the police but they were fully prepared for this. There was no plan to stop anyone from going to the Golden Temple.Punjab Police commandoes were deputed around the Golden Temple while cops were deputed on the premises in plain clothes. Security on all the routes to the shrine had been strengthened and nobody was allowed to cross these check-points.The SGPC has ordered the ban on the entry of mediapersons inside the Golden Temple premises.Meanwhile, SAD (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann on Friday accused the Punjab Police of raiding the houses of activists of the party in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Jalandhar, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala in order to stop them from travelling to the Golden Temple to pay obeisance and observe Operation Bluestar anniversary tomorrow. Mann said this act of the Punjab Government and the Punjab Police was highly condemnable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/security-up-around-golden-temple-on-bluestar-anniversary-eve-95345
06-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Cloth traders face difficult times as sales dwindle amid lockdown||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 5Small-time traders are facing a tough time amid the Covid outbreak. Already having suffered huge losses due to the two-month lockdown, things are yet to return to normal for them.Parkash Khurana, owner of Khurana cloth house at Putligarh, said the rush of customers had sharply declined, and only 25 per cent business had recovered after the lockdown.“We deal in unstitched suits. Most people have postponed marriages and other functions in view of the Covid threat. This has led to a decline in our business. Moreover, people are doing simple marriages and not exchanging much gifts. The Covid has hit our business hard,” he rued.The Putligarh area is a hub of cloth merchants and used to be one of the favourite destinations among the migrant population for the purchase of dress material.“Local customers do shopping in the wedding season, but migrants would buy dress material even for routine use. They have returned to their native states. There is less hope about their return”, he added.He said amid the dwindling sales, it had become difficult for him to pay the rent of shop, taxes, power bill and salary to workers. He said the government should waive their power bills.About hopes of the revival of business, Khurana said, “It is not that easy. The supply of clothes from Ahmedabad and Surat is disrupted. People are preferring to remain indoors and are venturing out only for buying essential commodities. The business is not expected to revive anytime soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cloth-traders-face-difficult-times-as-sales-dwindle-amid-lockdown-95347
06-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||‘In these testing times, teacher must steer students in right direction’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 5As schools are still closed due to the pandemic and online teaching is becoming a new normal, students, especially in senior classes, are in a fix and worried about their future.In these testing times, teachers have a responsibility to steer the students in the right direction, feels a science teacher at Government Senior Secondary School Gole Bagh, Ravi Sharma.He said it will take a while before students and teachers become habitual to the new online system. “But perhaps this is the future. The present times will leave a mark on our future. Even after Covid-19, things won’t be same which these used to be in the past,” he added.Talking about the classroom teaching experience, Sharma said, “In the classroom, if a student has any doubt, the teacher would explain the concept to the entire class and even those who had the same doubt, but they were shy of raising their hand would also benefit.”Sharma said being a science teacher, he encourages his students to call him over phone these days to clear their doubts. “If a student calls me, I answer his questions but the problem is some students are shy and will never call. Here comes the responsibility of the teacher. He or she has to identify such students and call them up to know how they are doing,” he said.While the government has also started airing lectures on Doordarshan and AIR, online classes by government schoolteachers are focusing on individual needs of the students. Sharma admitted that the online system, especially in government schools, is facing a few bottlenecks. “Some students do not have compatible phones. If the parents have the phone, he or she cannot be around the entire day. Sometimes students complain of low data package. But all these are manageable,” he said.Sharma said teachers led by principal Arbinder Kaur had recently organised a successful seven-day summer camp. “Events as salad decoration, yoga, mehndi, constructive use of waste and handwriting skills were part of the camp. We also organised competitions of these events,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-these-testing-times-teacher-must-steer-students-in-right-direction-95348
06-06-2020||Deepinder Singh Chimni||‘Small and micro industry in need of financial support’||How has lockdown affected your business?The unprecedented health crisis has hit everyone very hard and our business is no exception. Billing papers are in use at every point of sale these days and with no business in the retail market, the demand for the same has vanished in the past two months or so. Shopping malls, hotels and restaurants are also closed.When do you expect resumption of business at full capacity?I think it will take time until the retail markets works with full potential. Moreover, the spending capacity of the people have diminished as whatever the savings they had, they have exhausted in the past two months. The general trend among the public is to save and not to spend on non-essential items for the time being.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We have paid 70 per cent salaries to employees with the promise that the remaining amount would be given to them in a once the situation returns to normal.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?The most positive effect of the lockdown was on Mother Nature as the environment has improved. We should think about it as well. We should work for the betterment of the environment by voluntarily shutting down transport and industrial activities for at least a week in a year by reducing other holidays.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge of course. Most of the thermal paper used in the billing paper rolls comes from China. In the current crisis, China’s reputation has been hit. If the trade ties with China suffer, the prices of paper will go up.What are your expectations from the government?The government should have financially helped the small and micro industry. It has advised us to take loans from banks as per need, but the interest rates are high. Ideally, it should be between 3 and 4 per cent. The government should have reduced the interest rates on loans at least for this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/small-and-micro-industry-in-need-of-financial-support-95349
