06-05-2020||---||No let-up in fresh cases||Amritsar, May 5The total number of Covid-19 patients in Tarn Taran district has increased with 47 fresh cases reported on Tuesday. With this, the total count of positive cases in the district has reached 87.In Amritsar too, with 15 new cases reported, the total count has increased to 226. For Amritsar, the state media bulletin on May 3 had earlier reported 218 positive cases, but the local authorities maintained that the actual count stood at 214.Of the 214, three patients did not hail from the district, so the local authorities had corrected the Covid-19 positive count to 211. “Of the three patients initially identified as local residents, two were actually from Jalandhar and one from Gurdaspur,” said a health official. The 15 Covid-19 patients reported in Amritsar are those who returned from Hazur Sahib gurudwara in Maharashtra recently.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said all fresh cases too were pilgrims from Nanded. Of the total 226 positive cases in the district, 210 were returnees from Nanded.Dr Jugal said all the patients were stable and out of danger. The district awaited the reports of 129 samples which had been sent to a private diagnostic facility.In Tarn Taran, Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have received the reports of 279 persons kept in quarantine centres here. All, except one who is a labourer and returned from Rajasthan, are returnees from Nanded. While 47 of them have tested positive, 232 tested negative.”A total of 931 samples from the district have been tested so far. The positive cases in the district included 13 women and a three-year-old child.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-in-fresh-cases-81023
06-05-2020||Amritsar||Mayor opens first pvt lab for Covid tests in Amritsar||The first private lab for Covid-19 tests is now functional in the city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated a private lab on Majitha Road here on Monday. The lab has been approved by the Government of India.The Mayor said the lab had been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research, so that people could be able to get Covid-19 tests done from here. He said the municipal corporation and the district administration were making best efforts and serving the people.The residents should not worry and follow the orders of the Health Department to stay indoors. This was the first private lab approved by the Government of Punjab, said the Mayor.Dr Robin Tuli of the lab said people may apply online for the test and they would be issued an e-pass accordingly. He said doctor’s prescription was also required for the test. Instead of taking a sample to the lab on Majitha Road, a sample collection centre had been established at Ranjit Avenue. The entire staff is equipped with PPE kit and samples would be collected by taking all safety measures. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-opens-first-pvt-lab-for-covid-tests-in-amritsar-81024
06-05-2020||Amritsar||Long queues of migrants outside screening centres||After the Railways announced “Shramik Special” trains, thousands of labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Tuesday gathered outside Government Saragarhi Memorial Senior Secondary School screening center to get necessary clearance to return to their native states. The district administration has set up two screening centers in the city.  The state government was assisting in repatriating migrants to their native states of J&K, UP and Bihar during a government-imposed nationwide lockdown as a preventive measure against the Covid-19 pandemic.  The police resorted to a mild lathicharge to prevent the migrants from assembling outside Government Saragarhi Memorial Senior Secondary School.  Rambhawan Goswami, president, Sewa Hi Dharam Jan Kalyan Mandal, said this had exposed the lackadaisical arrangements made by the district administration to screen the migrants.   He claimed that over 47,000 migrants registered online on the portal for return to their native places. Three centers were set up in the city and out of these two remained operational on Tuesday. He blamed the district administration for its shoddy arrangements and called using of force on the migrants undue excess.   At least one-km long queue of migrants, who wish to go back to their native places, was witnessed. It is mandatory for passengers to get necessary clearance before boarding the special train.   Around 70 workers from Jammu and Kashmir were sent back in buses and Rs 500 per persons was charged.  The passengers maintained social distancing in the buses.  Teams of the Health Department conducted medical checkup of Kashmiri passengers at the ISBT. Rahila, a Kashmiri migrant, said she did not have a penny left with her, officials of the administration arranged a ticket for her.  Mohammad Anis, a rickshaw puller, said he did not have money to pay house rent and the house owner had locked it. He requested the police to fund travel expenses of his six-family members, which will cost Rs 3,000.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/long-queues-of-migrants-outside-screening-centres-81025
06-05-2020||
||Social distancing a casualty at Vallah market||Amritsar, May 5 The social distancing norm is a casualty at the wholesale vegetable market as there is shortage of space making it difficult for vendors and buyers to follow the norm. Fruit and vegetables are allowed to be sold only in front of shops under six sheds. One is reserved for fruit and the remaining five for vegetables. While fresh farm produce is being sold on the open ground, retail sale is completely prohibited. Mahesh Verma, a vegetable wholesaler, said the sale of vegetable and fruit at the restricted spots was causing overcrowding and congestion. He said the social distancing norm was not being followed due to limited space. The sale of fresh farm produce in front of shops smelt of some racket. Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, president of the Fruit and Vegetable Merchants’ Union, said the sale in the market had been streamlined and circles were painted to ensure social distancing. He said there was no traffic jam of vehicles bringing fresh farm produce outside the mandi. Vacant space inside the market had been utilised even to park vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-distancing-a-casualty-at-vallah-market-81026
06-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga
||‘Interests of middle class being ignored’||Tribune News Service Amritsar, May 5 People from the middle-income groups are irked with the government for ‘ignoring’ their interests during the curfew imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19. They rue that they have neither got monetary support or ration to tide over hardships brought in by the disease. Jaspreet Singh, an employee with a private firm, said both the state and the Central governments had been collecting heavy taxes from the people. “But when it comes to helping us in times of crisis, the governments turn their back,” he said. All relief is being extended only to those from economically-weaker sections, he said.  Rishabh Seth, a shopkeeper, said people from middle-income groups were being denied benefits of programmes such as health insurance schemes and other social welfare plans. Recently, the Union Government hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per liter, despite the fact that fact global crude oil prices have fallen in the recent past. The state government, to shore up its revenue, had introduced professional tax of Rs 2,400 on persons earning above Rs 2.5 lakh. Swaroop Singh, a farmer, said: “The country’s political system is responsible for our fate. The governments focus only on the poor as they are their vote banks.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interests-of-middle-class-being-ignored-81027
06-05-2020||  ||'Just Sewa Society' provides essential items||Amritsar: A local NGO, ‘Just Sewa Society’, on Tuesday provided essential items, including eatables, to pilgrims quarantined in different isolation centres in the city.The society provided 500 water bottles, 500 packets of juice, biodegradable plates, biscuits, soaps, vitamin c tablets, apples, bananas, rusks and jam to the pilgrims. NGO members have promised the district administration to provide all essential items to patients and attendants at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/just-sewa-society-provides-essential-items-81028
06-05-2020||The lockdown is turning out to be a learning curve. The best thing I have discovered is that the age old sentiment of ‘live life everyday to its fullest’ is as true as the gospel. No one is guaranteeing you tomorrow. I have not lost hope. However long the night||‘Donated Rs5K each to 188 villages from pocket’||From day one of the lockdown, I knew it would be a long-drawn-out affair. Hence, I decided to keep myself busy. I have already visited several grain markets of my area.I have donated Rs 5,000 each to the 188 villages that fall in my assembly seat of Fatehgarh Churian from my own pocket. Apart from this, I have contributed Rs 1 lakh each to the civic bodies of Fatehgarh Churian and Batala. I have planned more visits to 'mandis' in the next few days. Whenever I find it convenient, I visit Vikas Bhawan in SAS Nagar to preside over meetings.Earlier, rarely did I give time to my near and dear ones. Covid, it seems, has given me back my family. And that is perhaps the only positive thing that has emerged for me amid the lockdown. I am an eternal optimist. I know this bad phase will be over soon. It is only a matter of time. Faith will get you through. No matter what your religion is.We are in the midst of a catastrophe. If we cannot change the direction of the wind at least we can adjust our sails to reach our destination.(AS TOLD TO Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/donated-rs5k-each-to-188-villages-from-pocket-81032
06-05-2020||  ||5 mobile phones seized from jail||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 5  The Central Jail authorities conducted a surprise check and recovered five mobile phones from the premises on Tuesday. The inmates have been identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi of Gate Hakima area, and Kuldeep Singh of Gurdaspur.  Balwinder Singh, Assist Superintendent of Central Jail, said during a routine checking of room no.4 in CJ-1 barrack no.4, a mobile phone was recovered from Gurpreet. He said two mobile phones also seized from the bathroom of the barrack.                Amarjit Singh, Assistant Superintendent, said during a checking of room no.6 of CJ-2 barrack no.6, a cellphone was recovered from Kuldeep. He said a mobile phone was recovered from garbage inside the jail premises  A case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-81033
06-05-2020||neha saini||His doors open to non-Covid patients, offers free consultation & treatment||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5At a time when all private hospitals have shut down their OPDs to general patients during the lockdown, making it difficult for non-Covid patients to get access to healthcare, Dr Jaspreet Singh Grover has kept his hospital open for free medical consultation and treatment.A surgeon, who is a member of several NGOs working in the field during the Covid-19 pandemic andsecretary of the Indian Medical Association, Amritsar chapter, Dr Grover has also been providing proper safety gear to fellow healthcare professionals."I feel that the more we provide PPE kits and N95 masks to doctors and healthcare professionals who are directly working with Covid-19 patients, the better are the chances of winning the battle. On an average, one doctor and an attendant requires six to eight PPE kits while treating a patient in a single day. The PPE kits are discarded after single use. There is definitely a shortage of safety gear and it will remain. So, we have to consistently make efforts in this direction," he added.He has also been carrying out drives to provide policemen with10,000 masks and protective gear. Besides, he has been distributing ration among needy families."We need a multi-dimensional approach to come out of this situation. I have regularly been attending patients, providing them free consultation and immediate medical relief. I have also been performing emergency surgeries to ensure that not a single person is denied treatment during this difficult time,” he added.He said, “My family members also voice their concerns about my health. But being a doctor, it becomes my duty and responsibility to do my bit and help my fellow brothers and sisters in the profession in whatever way possible.”“The Covid-19 threat won't pass soon and so, we must follow the basic cleanliness routine after the lockdown to keep ourselves safe,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-doors-open-to-non-covid-patients-offers-free-consultation-treatment-81035
06-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Being environmentalist, he can’t help doing his bit to save nature||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 5The entire nation has entered lockdown 3.0, but his will to do a bit for nature is getting him going.Noted environmentalist PS Bhatti says he can't confined himself indoors and want to fulfill his social duties, besides doing his bit towards saving nature.Amid the lockdown, he is rebuilding a nursery run by his NGO Khudai-Khidmatgaran, where thousands of plants and saplings, including that of native trees, are sown.He said the extended cold spell and untimely rain and hailstorms had damaged thousands of saplings this year. "We can't do anything about this except rebuilding our nursery for plantation during the monsoon," said Bhatti while talking to The Tribune."We took prior permission from the administration for maintaining the nursery named after former Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Kahan Singh Pannu. I along with two other staff members have been segregating quality seeds of native trees collected during the season," he said.He said just days after the lockdown, their NGO handed over 2 lakh seeds of various varieties to the Forest Department."There is a positive side to every bad thing. Amid the pandemic outbreak, Mother Nature is healing itself. The pollution levels have witnessed a sharp dip. Birds not seen for many years have reappeared. The sky is blue and clear after a long time. I think people should learn from this situation," he said.Known as one-man army in conserving the environment, PS Bhatti, a retired Brigadier, has a collection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/being-environmentalist-he-cant-help-doing-his-bit-to-save-nature-81036
06-05-2020||Samir Goel||‘Golden opportunity to recapture domestic market’||How has the lockdown impacted your screw manufacturing unit?Temporarily, it has ruined the unit. The effects of the coronavirus will be known only post lockdown. We have stalled procuring 200 tonnes of wire rods used as raw material per month from Rashtriya Ispat Limited and Jindal Steel. Similarly, the sale of the finished products of screw has also come to a standstill. Before the lockdown, there was a recession in the industry so there is no question of pending orders. In the absence of demand, we were forcing the customers to buy the product so that the entire trade is carried out on a credit basis. On the other hand, the cost of raw material to big companies is paid in advance. There is a high possibility that many of our customers will not pay at all. So, many of them are already not picking up my call.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?It all depends upon the government policy and its relations with China. Chinese screws have already gobbled up the domestic market. In case, Europe and the US banned the import of Chinese products then there is a possibility that they may flood the Indian market at throwaway prices, which in turn will ruin the remaining industry as well. The 'Make in India' slogan was misleading as far as my industry is concerned as both the Centre and the state government did nothing to help revive domestic hardware production.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We paid salaries to employees in March. Half of the salary for April is also paid. The remaining salary will be paid in this month. We will not go for any salary cut and all efforts are being made to retain the staff.What is the scope of online trading in your profession?Since the business is based on a credit basis, there is no scope of online trading in our profession.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the lockdown?There was a recession in the country, especially due to the effects of demonetisation last year. Expecting a surge in the demand for screws, we procured a tree guard and weld mesh making machine from Noida at Rs25 lakh a couple of weeks ago. It has been lying unused.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Before the lockdown, nobody took a note of the recession. So, there will be consequences of the lockdown in the coming days. The government must take its congnisance in time and make its policy accordingly. There is no scope of more investments in the profession. Considering the present crisis, I feel that our action required promptness and ideally, I should have closed the unit after demonetisation. Stress of giving employment is being replaced with curtailing the staff strength. Contraction has taken over the expansion mode.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?This phase is apparently a challenge as it will bring out the best in us. Obviously, there will be some opportunities after it is over.What are your expectations from the government?With import from China coming to a halt, there is a golden opportunity to recapture domestic market. The government must aid MSME engineering units with R&D and associate them with engineering colleges. Thereafter, there is only a slim chance of their revival. After the government closed all its laboratories except one in Batala, they do not have any other alternative but to set up one within the unit to test qualities of all kinds of steel. In addition, the government should not focus on improving its own balance sheet by wrong cash disbursal. Instead, it should focus on improving balance sheets of MSME units, which offer a high number of jobs. At least, the government should give interest-free loans to the screw industry and it should not order the banks to do the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-opportunity-to-recapture-domestic-market-81038
