06-11-2020||---||Chakka jam brings highway traffic to a screeching halt||Amritsar, November 5Farmer activists on Thursday participated in a nationwide chakka jam held at different places in the district from 12 noon to 4 pm and expressed their anguish over the three farm laws implemented by the Centre.A massive protest was held on the national highway near Attari during which vehicular traffic, including trucks of the Border Security Force, were stopped by farmers who were agitating under the banner of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha and the Kirti Kisan Union (Punjab).Protesters raised slogans against the Central Government and urged that the controversial laws should be repealed. Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said the Central Government has developed indifferent attitude towards the needy.He added that the Centre was trying to subdue farmers so that they could be forced to end their protests. “Being a leader of the largest democracy in the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi should reach out to farmers,” he said.Datar Singh of the Kirti Kisan Union (Punjab) said, “The Bharatiya Janata Party through its propaganda machinery is trying to portray farmers’ protest as politically motivated. The Centre should have an audacity to listen to voters.”He said the plight of small and marginal farmers in the country was deplorable and new farm laws would further aggravate the situation.Farmers under the banner of the Kisan Majdoor Sangarsh Committee blocked traffic on Amritsar-Jalandhar national highway near the entrance gate of the city.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Majdoor Sangarsh Committee, said farmers were in no mood to relent and the protests would continue until the farm laws were not revoked.Private bus operators did not ply their buses as they had already expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers. The police personnel could be seen diverting traffic towards the link roads.Meanwhile, farmers’ protest at the railway stations, toll plazas and petrol pumps entered the 36th day.Tarn Taran: The chakka jam call given by the farmers’ organisations evoked massive response in Tarn Taran. Not even a single vehicle was seen plying on the roads from 12 noon to 4 pm in the district.Harpreet Singh Sidhwan of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said farmers staged a dharna at 13 different points, which lead to the highways and even women participated in the protest.He said they would continue with their stir as long as the Centre does not revoke the controversial farm laws.Members of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee staged dharna on Tarn Taran-Amritsar road near Reliance petrol station at Tharu village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chakka-jam-brings-highway-traffic-to-a-screeching-halt-166742
06-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||No rest! Precautionary steps at police stations bolstered||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 5The Punjab Police have remained at the forefront during the pandemic. The officials’ duties doubled not only as law and order enforcers, but also as relief providers.Nevertheless, in the post-lockdown times, the policing is now more challenging as majority of the restrictions have been lifted following the initiation of unlocking process and people have become complacent. They are hardly following the government and Health Department’s advisories issued for controlling the spread of virus. In fact, a couple of states have been witnessing a resurge in the Covid cases.But policemen continue to remain on their toes, vigilant of the threat. Over 50 people come to meet Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill in order get their grievances addressed daily. However, before they meet him, all have to pass through a sanitisation tunnel to be de-infected from any potential illness, including the dreaded virus.“It has been made mandatory for the victims and complainants to go through the sanitisation tunnel and only then are allowed entry after wearing masks,” he said, while adding that the number of visitors accompanying complainants has also been reduced as a precautionary measure.Special glass walls have also been erected along the table of officials in order to fizzle out the chances of any physical contact. “Though I make it a point to meet every complainant to listen to their grievances, we also ensure following government’s instructions to curtail the spread,” said the Police Commissioner.In the police stations, the visitors are asked to wear masks and sanitise their hands before meeting the SHOs. “Only limited persons are allowed to meet the officials at a time. We allow only one or two persons to accompany the victim or the complainants. We also provide the masks to those who are not wearing it,” said Neeraj Kumar, SHO Rambagh police stationOut on field duty, the cops are advised to adhere to government instructions besides ensuring distancing and wearing masks. Those arrested in different criminal cases also have to go through the testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-rest-precautionary-steps-at-police-stations-bolstered-166743
06-11-2020||The Tribune correspondent Charanjit Singh Teja and lensman Vishal Kumar immerse in the subtle serenity of city’s holy sarovars ||Take a dip & calm your soul||Amrit sarovar (Amritsar)The holiest of the holy sarovars was excavated by Guru Ram Das between 1573 and 1577. Earlier, a large dhab preceded it. A myth is popular among devotees that the king of Patti married his daughter with a leprosy infected person, as she believed that God feeds the ordinary and not the king. She started begging along with her husband. When she reached at Sultanwind village, her husband took a dip in the dhab and was healed. Though historians claimed that the Guru purchased the land and excavated a 500-ft long, 490-ft wide and 17-ft deep sarovar with plans to establish the city. The Golden Temple was then constructed on the sarovar by Guru Arjan Dev, the fifth Sikh Guru. During the late Mughal period, Afghan invader Ahmad Shah Abdali filled it with sand and banned the entry of Sikhs. The warriors of misl reclaimed it soon. The Sikhs believe that it gave them the power to fight and struggle. Maharaja Ranjit Singh renovated it with white marble during his regime.The city, being more than four-centuries old, has several natural holy pools (sarovars) developed as the centre of devotion, which continue to have an air of significance and reverence among residents for the medieval period. The name of the city is also ‘Amrit-Sar’, which translates into a ‘pool of nectar’. The Amrit sarovar was excavated by Guru Ram Das at the nucleus of the city in the late 16th Century. The city was located on a ‘U-shaped’ basin having a slope of 1-ft per mile. And, at the time of showers, water from all sides would fill up the depression. Almost all natural pools (dhabs), except those having religious importance, were filled till 1914 by the British government following the epidemic. Two talaabs, including Lasmansar in Katra Ramgharia and Nirbaansar, were filled later. Initially, rainwater was the only source to fill these sarovars until Hansli was constructed to facilitate the supply from the Ravi.Durgiana sarovarThe Durgiana sarovar was constructed at the Raghunath Temple on the pattern of the Golden Temple in 1930. It houses a temple in the centre of it. Hindu festivals are celebrated with great zeal and fervour on the complex.RamsarIt is the smallest among the five sarovars of the city. It was completed during 1603. Guru Arjan Dev — the fifth Sikh Guru — compiled the Adi Granth by the side of this pool. Once, it was lined with bountiful trees and the surroundings were as soothing as the calm water.SantokhsarIt is known as the first sarovar dug up by the Sikh Gurus. Situated 700 metre away from the Golden Temple, fourth Sikh master Guru Ram Das, initiated the excavation before the Amrit sarovar. As per the myth, during spading of the land, he found a saint named Baba Santokh, who had been meditating beneath for a long time. Waiting for salvation, he breathed his last in the dainty hands of the Guru. The tank was named after the saint. It was the largest sarovar in the city and was completed in 1589. At the time of the British rule, the government ordered to fill it following the epidemic. The Sikh saints Baba Sham Singh and Baba Gurmukh Singh called kar sewa and cleaned it within a record time.Ram TalaiRam Talai, a small pool near an old temple, is situated on GT Road. It has been mentioned in the Anand Gabha’s book Amritsar: A study in Urban History that the talaab of Kalyan Singh is also known as distillery dhab, as it was close to the distillery during the British period. The distillery was later shifted to Khasa on the Amritsar-Lahore road in 1940. There were several small temples around the talaab.HansliThe supply of river water is being provided to all sarovars since 1886 through it. A special hansli (underground water channel) was constructed from the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) and linked with the sarovars for year-round supply of water. It has an input point near Taran Wala Pul on the UBDC. A water purifier system has also been put in place here.KaulsarThe sarovar is located near the Baba Attal tower inside the Golden Temple premises. It was named after Bibi Kaulan, daughter of a Qazi of Lahore. As per Kesar Singh Chibber, author of prominent book Bansavalinama, the Kaulsar sarovar was dug in her memory. The excavation works began in 1624 and were completed in 1627 under the supervision of Baba Budha — first Head Granthi of the Darbar Sahib.BibeksarGuru Hargobind, the sixth Sikh master, constructed this sarovar during his stay in the city. He used to train Sikhs in martial arts and weapons around it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/take-a-dip-calm-your-soul-166744
06-11-2020||Amritsar||Illegal liquor vend busted||‘Fast-track trial’ in Hooch tragedyAmritsar: For speedy trial in the hooch tragedy that claimed nearly 100 lives in Tarn Taran alone, the Punjab Police have urged the district sessions court to put the case in fast track court. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale in a statement issued on Thursday said that the police had presented the challan in the court after completing the probe. Around 70 persons were nabbed by the police in the hooch tragedy. “We have urged the court for the speedy trial so that justice could be provided to the victims’ families as soon as possible,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-liquor-vend-busted-166754
06-11-2020||---||Mayor ups the ante on illegal constructions||Amritsar, November 5Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal held a meeting with officials of the Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing on Thursday.He told the officials that he had held several meetings with the MTP regarding illegal construction activity in the city, but failed to get satisfactory replies.The Mayor said numerous constructions were going on in the city without obtaining building plans and the MTP has turned a blind eye. He said this was affecting the image of the MC.Rintu asked the officials concerned to submit a report regarding the ongoing constructions along with action taken report.During the meeting, Rintu held discussion with the Assistant Town Planers (ATPs) regarding the matter. The Mayor asked the officials to immediately prepare a zone-wise list of ongoing illegal constructions in their respective areas and submit it as soon as possible.He said action should be taken against illegal constructions in a time-bound manner.Rintu urged the residents to start construction only after getting the building plan approved from the authorities concerned. He said one can apply for the approval online as well.The Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, Law Officer Amritpal Singh, MTP Narinder Singh, ATP Sanjeev Devgan, ATP Parminderjit Singh, ATP Krishna and ATP Varinder Mohan, were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-ups-the-ante-on-illegal-constructions-166755
06-11-2020||Seven||Gangs involved in theft of transformer oil, ATMs busted||Tribune News Service Batala, November 5A seven-member gang of robbers, which specialised in stealing oil from electricity transformers and uprooting ATMs before taking out the cash from them, has been busted by the Batala police.Such is the importance being given to the cache that IG (Border Range), Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, rushed from Amritsar to Batala to hold a press conference. Senior officers, including SSP Rachpal Singh, were also present. The SSP said it was an inter-state gang.A Tata Sumo vehicle, equipped with a sophisticated gas cutter and other implements used to uproot ATM machines, too, was recovered.The SSP said residents were piqued at the regular black outs they had to face despite assurances from PSPCL officials that they were supplying round the clock power.“We formed a special team and got to know that power outages were occurring due to theft of oil from transformers particularly those placed by the PSPCL on the Amritsar road where a majority of industrial units are located. As many as 350 such transformers were affected in the last three months. A special type of oil is used in transformers for cooling purposes. Up to 900 litres of oil can be used depending on the size of the transformer. Once oil is stolen, the transformer heats up and catches fire. Besides being a safety hazard, removing oil causes outages and monetary loss,” said the SSP. The robbers, who included two parole jumpers, were also adept in stealing luxury vehicles which they would later sold at far-off places.The accused have been identified as Gurpreet Singh and Jatinder Singh, both POs and parole jumpers, Deepak Kumar, Baljit Singh, Ajay Kumar, Amit Kumar and Sardar Masih.An officer said questioning was on and they would be identifying other members of the gang soon. “We have got many clues and expect to arrest the other accused in the next few days. A special team has been formed for this purpose,” said the SSP.    The prime accused, Gurpreet Singh, was serving life imprisonment in a murder case registered against him at the Dhariwal police station. Several ATMs of the area had also been looted by the accused.A 32 bore pistol, 32 bore revolver, two 12 bore guns and 23 bullets of 32 bore were recovered. Five luxury cars, too, have been recovered.“As many as six liquor vends located in and around Batala were also looted. The gang was planning another such robbery before it was busted.  Caption: IG Surinder Pal Singh Parmar and SSP Tachpal Singh addressing a press conference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangs-involved-in-theft-of-transformer-oil-atms-busted-166758
06-11-2020|| ||Over 500 cops transferred in Amritsar rural||Amritsar, November 5 To fill the gap of good investigating officers, the Amritsar rural police have transferred over 500 cops besides strengthening the PCR teams. In a statement issued here on Thursday, Amritsar rural SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the step was taken to bring transparency in policing and maintain the high standards of investigation besides bringing efficiency in the work at police stations. He said cops, who were transferred from their present postings, have been at one place for the past many years. Those who have not worked in a police station for over five years, were also among those transferred. The policemen working in their home stations were also transferred, he said. He said regular non-gazetted officers were deputed in police stations for efficient investigation in cases. Around 50 cops were shifted to PCR teams thereby increasing the present strength of the PCR wing to keep a watch at every point of the rural belt and control robbery and snatching instances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-500-cops-transferred-in-amritsar-rural-166760
06-11-2020||---||Amid risk of second Covid-19 wave, administration asks public not to lower guard||Amritsar, November 5In view of the approaching festival season and winters, the district administration has appealed to the general public to take proper precautions while coming out of their homes even as the number of positive cases has significantly decreased in the district.Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal said that experts around world have already warned of a second wave of infections during the winter season. He said that many countries have also been witnessing sharp increase in the caseload daily.He also said the government has already relaxed many restrictions and businesses are opening up gradually. “With festival season in sight, the rush at market places, too, has increased. In such circumstances, it is important that people continue to take ample precautions,” he added.Talking about the health of recovered Covid patients, he said that a post-Covid care centre has been set up at the Government Medical College. He added that patients aged 40 years or above should take proper rest and treatment even after recovery.“In view of the reports of health complications among recovered patients above 40, the centre at GMC is providing them consultation and treatment,” he said, adding that in case of a recovered patient experiencing issues, he or she should must consult a doctor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-risk-of-second-covid-19-wave-administration-asks-public-not-to-lower-guard-166761
06-11-2020||---||Amritsar district reports 37 new positive cases||Amritsar, November 5With 37 new positive cases reported in the district in last 24 hours, the total count mounted to 11,996 on Thursday. The new cases include 27 Influenza-like illness cases and 10 contacts of positive patients.The district has reported a total of 461 deaths due to the disease till date. However, no death in last 24 hours was reported. Meanwhile, with recovery of five more patients, the count has increased to 11,227. The district at present has a total of 308 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-37-new-positive-cases-166763
06-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Health Department warns against selling spurious sweets||Tarn Taran, November 5The Health Department on Thursday held a meet with sweet shop owners and warned them of stern action if found selling adulterated items.Dr Rajinder Pal Singh, Assistant Commissioner (Food), warned against the use of sub-standard material for preparation of sweets and suggested not to use colours while preparing sweets, especially during the festive season.He said in case any body was found violating the norms, the license of the shop would be suspended and penalty would also be imposed on the owner. He also asked shopkeepers to follow the health guidelines related to the Covid-19 in their shops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-department-warns-against-selling-spurious-sweets-166764
06-11-2020||---||Save footage of clash outside SGPC office, cops told||Amritsar, November 5A local court has directed the Kotwali police station to save the CCTV footage of the clash that took place between members of the SGPC and the Satkar Committee outside the SGPC office. It has asked the SHO to appear before the court, along with a report, on November 12.The court issued the order on the complaint of Balbir Singh of Baba Bakala and president of the Satkar Committee.As many as 30 persons were injured following an altercation outside Teja Singh Samundri Hall, where Sikh organisations were holding an agitation over missing “saroops” on October 24. The next day, the police booked around 60 Sikh activists in two separate FIRs on the complaint of the SGPC authorities. A day later, a cross-FIR was registered against SGPC employees for illegal detention and injuring Sikh activists. In his complaint, Balbir Singh alleged that the SGPC task force kept the Sikh activists in an illegal detention, where they were assaulted for hours.Later, a false FIR was registered against them. He said there were CCTV cameras at the SGPC office, adjoining roads and outside shops, but the police did not bother to scan the footage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/save-footage-of-clash-outside-sgpc-office-cops-told-166767
