06-12-2020||---||Lost eyesight, vision to help others intact||Amritsar, December 5Whether it’s visual impairment or actively standing up for basic rights of persons with disabilities, fighting the odds has always been his thing.Rajneesh Sharma (47), has made it a point to not just sensitise people about persons with disabilities, but also helps others to lead a positive life.Sharma said, “There is apathy towards persons with disabilities in our society and it can be evidently seen in every aspect we conduct our day-to-day business. What most do not understand is that people with disabilities can live their lives independently, if required facilities and environment is given to them.”Sharma, who aspired to join civil services, stated that his dream was cut short due to an accident.“I might have lost eyesight, but never lost my vision,” he said.“I am quite independent despite my disability.I launched a YouTube channel to share my views on how we can do more for disabled persons in order to give them a life of dignity and equal access. I also pursued astrology and now, I train students.”Rajneesh said a lot of problems were being faced by disabled persons due to lack of intent by the authorities concerned.“One of the most significant problems being faced by persons with disabilities, especially those with visual impairment is the noise pollution. One often ignores noise pollution as visually impaired navigate and identify surroundings by listening to sound. High decibel or loud horns can really confuse or even get them into panic mode and it can result in accident,” he said.Another problem that persists was of sensitisation, he said. “In some countries, including Australia, new building is not approved until it has structural specifications for disabled persons. But there are no basic facilities for disabled here. It needs to be changed,” said Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lost-eyesight-vision-to-help-others-intact-180522
06-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||41 yrs on Ram Leela stage, Sikander continues to mesmerise||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 5An actor and a star in Ram Leela circles, RK Sikander has been associated with the show for the past 41 years now.Having performed all over the country, including once on an invitation from the Governor of Chhattisgarh, Sikander started acting at the age of 11.Moving up the ladder from minor roles to the much sought after part of Lord Rama within in a few years, he has been playing the part for the past 35 years and has earned the acronym of ‘Ustad Ji’. Sikander said he lost his father at the age of 9. “I had to drop out of school and got interested in Ram Leela. With six children, it was tough for my mother and she wanted me to perform as she feared I might end up in penury,” he reminisced. He was even turned out of home. “Somehow, I started working and persuaded the owner to lend me Rs10. This was the fee, a local director had demanded to offer me the role of Akshay, the son of Ravana,” he revealed. But as another desperate actor offered Rs20 for the same role, he was thrown out.“It was as if something had broken inside me. It felt as the world has come to an end. I was weeping and mourning. I decided to return home,” he said. Life took another turn for him, as his mother gave him Rs360 to start his own show.“My mother had just got the job in the Railways on compassionate grounds and she had received her first salary that day. She loved me so much, but had been acting tough to keep me in line,” he said, adding that his younger sister Saroj would steal ‘roti’ from home when he was turned out of home.Having been a storyteller and performer all his life, Sikander does have a few very mesmerising anecdotes to share. “Militancy and mistrust were growing in those days. We started receiving ‘chittihian’ (letters containing threat, as people would call them in those days). We mustered courage and went to meet ‘Baba Ji’ (the name Sikander used for Jarnail Singh Bhindrawale). He gave us a lot of ‘izzat’ (respect) and Rs2,100 as donation and asked us not to be afraid,” claimed Sikander.Sikander recalls: “It was in 1978 that female parts were played by girls (and not boys, as is still common) in Punjab. The initiative was taken by Shankar Drama Trick Club and I played Rama in the show.” Well-established as a packaging contractor for the knitting industry at present, Sikander has performed in various projects of Doordarshan as ‘Kache Ghar Dia Kandha’, ‘Puthi Chaper’ and ‘Ek-Do-Teen’. He also enacted two roles in Maharaja Ranjit Singh, a project by Raj Babbar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/41-yrs-on-ram-leela-stage-sikander-continues-to-mesmerise-180523
06-12-2020||---||Farm stir: Anger pours on to streets||Amritsar, December 5The protest against the Centre against three controversial agri laws has intensified with students, writers, government employees coming out on the streets and burning the effigies at different places.Students at Guru Nanak Dev University burnt the effigies of the Union Government and expressed solidarity with the agrarian community under the banner of Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkar). A sizable number of the participants included students from non-agrarian backgrounds.The students stated that they were anguished at the manner in which the government had tried to stop farmers from entering Delhi and the efforts being made to discredit them by labelling them as ‘anti-nationals’.The Progressive Writers Association and the Folklore Research Academy too have come out in the support of farmers and announced that they would leave for Delhi to participate in the protest on December 7. The writers have also announced Rs 1 lakh help for the family of tractor mechanic Janak Raj from Dhanula who had died in a fire mishap in Delhi during the ongoing agitation. The farmers too, under the leadership of the All India Kisan Sangarsh Committee, burnt an effigy of Prime Minister outside the residence of BJP Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik. The farmers’organisations have also appealed to all sections of the society to cooperate with them to make Bharat bandh on December 8 successful.Philanthropist comes out in support of farmersRenowned social activist and president of the Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust, Dr SP Singh Oberoi, has announced to extend all possible assistance to the struggling farmers during the current farmers’ agitation. In addition, the trust would send teams of specialist doctors and fodder for the horses of Nihangs. The Sarbat Da Bhala also initiated installation of reflectors on tractor-trolleys heading toward Delhi to prevent the accidents.Sharing information in this regard, trust founder Dr SP Singh Oberoi said that the Sarbat Da Bhala would extend all possible help to the farmers fighting for their rights on the streets of Delhi from their homes in this cold season. Oberoi said that he and his entire team working round the clock provided the required supplies.Dr Oberoi also informed that under the first phase, the trust has sent 20 tons of dry ration to farmer leaders and other religious organisations, who are preparing langar for the farmers. Keeping in view the cold and Covid-19, a large quantity of essential medicines and five ambulances have also been sent. Out of which four ambulances will be parked in different four directions and one ambulance equipped with ventilator facility will be parked at a special point.He said that under the supervision of advocate Joginder Singh Jindu, a member of the trust, teams of 18 specialist doctors have also reached the protest site and started serving the farmers. Apart from this the trust has also sent 3,000 warm blankets, 3,000 jackets, 12,000 sleepers of different sizes for bathing and five tons of fodder for the horses of Nihangs, who are assisting the farmers.Dr Oberoi also said that the trust had sent one lakh reflectors to the tractor-trolleys going to Delhi to prevent any untoward incident during this foggy season.Sarbat Da Bhala offers help||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-stir-anger-pours-on-to-streets-180524
06-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Mass organisations reach out||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mass-organisations-reach-out-180525
06-12-2020||Amritsar||One dies, 86 test positive in Amritsar district||With another death due to Covid-19, the district toll increased to 510 on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Kaur, a 50-year-old woman from New Jaspal Nagar on Sultanwind Road.  The district health authorities have also reported 86 new positive cases, with which the tally has reached 13,423. The new cases include 40 influenza-like illnesses and 46 contacts of positive patients.  The district has also reported recovery of 81 patients with which the recovery count has improved to 12,198. At present, the district has a total of 715 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-86-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-180526
06-12-2020||---||Web journalist held for ‘forcibly entering CIA office’||Amritsar, December 5The city police arrested a web journalist for allegedly forcibly entering the office of Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) here on Friday. The journalist, identified as Sukhjit Verma, claimed to work with a web channel.Rahul Dutta, constable, CIA department, stated that he was on checkpoint duty at the main gate of CIA staff. Sukhjit Verma came and said that he was going on upper floor of CIA office building. Constable didn’t allow him and asked that without permission he could not go. Verma told him that he was a press reporter working for a news channel. Moreover, he was allowed to go inside. He showed his ID card to constable and then pushed him and tried to enter the office. Constable Rahul Dutta claimed that he again stopped him and then he started recoding video on his mobile. Dutta informed senior officials and they seized ID card of Verma, which was expired on March 17. Ravi Kumar, Sub-Inspector at CIA staff stated that Verma interrupted the functioning of cops and forcibly went inside the office premises.A case under Sections 353,186,419,420, 465,471 and 468 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Sukhjit Verma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/web-journalist-held-for-forcibly-entering-cia-office-180527
06-12-2020||
||Biker killed in road accident||Amritsar, December 5 A speeding truck crushed a motorcyclist to death at Chatiwind on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Hardeep Singh (30), a resident of Bhagtanwala.  Varinder Kumar, a resident of Bhagtanwala, in his complaint at Chatiwind police station said his brother Hardeep was heading towards the city from Jandiala Guru around 7:30 am, when an over-speeding truck came and hit his brother’s motorcycle from behind. Hardeep Singh fell on the road and died on the spot.  The accused truck driver fled from the spot after leaving the truck behind. The Chatiwind police have seized the truck. The driver has been identified as Sukhminder Singh of Ferozepur. A case under Sections 279 and 304A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)  has been registered against the driver. No arrest has been made so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/biker-killed-in-road-accident-180528
06-12-2020||---||Assistance of clubs sought for development of Ram Bagh||Amritsar, December 5Ignoring sub-judice case against clubs operating from the historic Ram Bagh, Amritsar Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu discussed the development and cleanliness of the garden with office-bearers of three clubs, Funland and the Lawn Tennis Association recently.The Mayor sought their assistance for development works, management of sanitation system and maintenance of structures in the historic garden.Rintu told the office-bearers of the clubs that Ram Bagh was legacy of Maharaja Ranjit Singh for its maintenance and upkeep they need to work collectively.The Mayor said, “It is possible if we initiate this as a pilot project. I want a committee to be constituted for the development of Ram Bagh in which office-bearers of the MC and Amritsar, Lumsden and Service Club, Funland and the Lawn Tennis Association become members and create a fund.”He said, “Employees will be hired for maintenance of Ram Bagh. A consultant will also be hired who will do proper planning and guide what kind of saplings can be planted in the garden.”The Mayor said the MC would carry out development works worth about Rs 1.50 crore at Ram Bagh and apart from the funds to be collected under this committee, all major projects will be completed by civic body itself.The office-bearers of clubs lauded the Mayor and said they would fully cooperate in this project.Vijay Umat, SS Chhina, Lalit Chandhok, Aman Mehra, Bobby and Supervising Engineer Dapinder Sandhu, Executive Engineer Sandeep Singh, Bhalinder Singh, Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora and Sanitary Inspector Vijay Sharma, were present.Works worth Rs1.50 cr to be carried outThe Mayor said the MC would carry out development works worth about Rs1.50 crore at Ram Bagh and apart from the funds to be collected under this committee, all major projects will be completed by civic body itself. The office-bearers of clubs lauded the Mayor and said they would fully cooperate in this project. He added that employees would be hired for maintenance of Ram Bagh. A consultant will also be hired who will do proper planning and guide what kind of saplings can be planted in the garden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/assistance-of-clubs-sought-for-development-of-ram-bagh-180529
06-12-2020||
||Mayor inspects ongoing infra works at Ratan Singh Chowk||Amritsar, December 5 Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inspected the ongoing development works under the Smart City Mission in the Ratan Chowk area in Amritsar North Assembly constituency. The Mayor said the area of Ratan Singh Chowk was lagging behind in terms of development. The Mayor said, “Now, we are providing basic amenities such as clean drinking water, proper sewerage system, paved streets, roads and flashing modern LEDs streetlights in the area on a priority basis. The Mayor said the main objective of the Congress government was development and the Municipal Corporation was working hard for the development of every ward of Amritsar city.  Officer-bearer Sandeep Shah, on behalf of the Ratan Singh Chowk Market Committee, praised Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu for the development work being carried out in the Ratan Singh Chowk area and said the area was being ignored for the past many years.  Shah claimed that clean water was being provided in all localities of the Ratan Singh Chowk, and the street lights were also functional in all streets. He said the biggest problem of sewerage had also been resolved in the past few years. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu appealed to the market committee and residents of the area to cooperate with the Municipal Corporation in keeping the city clean. The Mayor listened to the problems of the residents of the area and instructed the officers to solve them at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-inspects-ongoing-infra-works-at-ratan-singh-chowk-180530
06-12-2020||---||10-day state art exhibition concludes on a high note in city||Amritsar, December 5The 7th State Art Exhibition, hosted by the IAFA, concluded at the art gallery here on Saturday. The annual event was delayed by almost nine months due to the lockdown. This was the first large-scale exhibition organised by the IAFA after reopening and the organisers were encouraged by the response.“We had opened the exhibition for 10 days and were surprised by a rush of visitors. The response was really good. Knowing that many people took this as an opportunity to encourage artists, who had to struggle through the lockdown, was good news for our planned events,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA.The IAFA will also reopen its gallery displaying a large collection of rare and notable works by celebrated artists. Its collections exceed over 5,000 paintings, a few of which date back to early 1900s, pieces by celebrated and breakthrough artists, including SG Thakar Singh, Sobha Singh, Master Gurdit Singh, BS Rahi, Phulla Rani and Amrita Shergill.It also houses notable paintings by Pakistani artist Mehmudul Hasan Jaffery. The gallery has also been carrying out restoration work of these paintings, including 50 heritage paintings, SG Thakar Singh’s ‘After the Bath’, one in his series of seductive paintings of women, in 1924 that was rewarded by the Queen herself.These paintings were displayed permanently in one of the three exhibition halls at the art gallery. But during the lockdown the paintings were kept in a specific preservation room until further notice. Chamak said these paintings were among critically acclaimed works and invited many artists as well as art patrons to Amritsar for visitation.Recently, celebrated artist Arpana Caur too donated her painting of Guru Nanak Dev to the gallery that will be displayed to public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-day-state-art-exhibition-concludes-on-a-high-note-in-city-180531
06-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Need to strengthen small, marginal farmers, says VC||Tarn Taran , December 5The third Scientific Advisory Committee meeting of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), was organised here on Saturday under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Dr Inderjeet Singh. Dr Parkash Singh Brar, Director, Extension Education, GADVASU, Ludhiana, co-chaired the session. Officials from the GADVASU and PAU, ICAR institutes, and progressive farmers were present on the occasion.The Vice-Chancellor in his address called to expand its area of work in agriculture sector involving livestock, fisheries, apiary, integrated farming system, and value addition and to focus the work for strengthening the small and marginal farmers for the upliftment of farmers’ income substantially. The VC also suggested the scientists to disseminate the successful latest technologies of the university and other institutes to the farmers in this critical scenario. Dr Singh in his address expressed his happiness over associated farmers in fetching many national-level awards. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director of KVK, presented the action taken report of the previous SAC meeting as well as progress report of the previous year and also discussed proposed action plan for the year 2021-22.Dr Nachiket Kotwaliwale, Director, Dr Arvind Kumar, and officials from the Animal Husbandry, Punjab Dairy Development Board, Department of Horticulture, Project Directorate ATMA, DDM NABARD, head department of agronomy, PAU, CDPO, bank official, soil conservation officer and progressive farmers gave valuable suggestion for framing action plan of KVK.‘Disseminate successful technologies’The Vice-Chancellor called to expand its area of work in agriculture sector involving livestock, fisheries, apiary, integrated farming system, and value addition and to focus the work for strengthening the small and marginal farmers for the upliftment of farmers' income substantially. The VC also suggested the scientists to disseminate the successful latest technologies of the university and other institutes to the farmers in this critical scenario. Dr Singh, in his address, expressed his happiness over associated farmers in fetching many national-level awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-strengthen-small-marginal-farmers-says-vc-180532
06-12-2020||Mukerian||Carjacking at gunpoint||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-at-gunpoint-180533
06-12-2020||Satwant Kaur||‘Home remedies were really helpful’||“I am enjoying strong immunity and don’t have any health issues at the age of 52. My husband was working at the check post at Harike. He got infected and tested positive during a routine check of policemen and was home quarantined till November 14. When he recovered, I started showing mild symptoms. I took a rapid test and found that I was infected as well,” she says.The symptoms were clear but the temperature was not much high. Satwant quarantined herself in a room and her daughter looked after her for the period. “Doctor advised me to stay home as I had mild fever and pangs in the throat,” she shares. To counteract it, she used home remedies. It was honey, ginger, tulsi -- helpful home remedies for the throat sore. Doctor prescribed some antibiotics as well. “It was a painful time but I had no fear about the recovery.”The recovery journey began on November 19 and she was fully fit by November 23. “Taking the precautionary measures, I stayed home till November 28. Now, everything is fine. There is no need to worry as recovery will pick up pace, only if you take precautions,” she adds.All three members of Satwant’s family had tested positive back to back in the month of November and recovered with the same courage as hers. (As told to Charanjit Singh Teja)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-remedies-were-really-helpful-180535
