07-07-2020||---||42-year-old succumbs to virus, 12 new cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 6With the health authorities reported another death due to Covid-19 on Monday, the death toll has increased to 48 in the district. The district also reported 12 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the number of positive patients to 1,015 in the district.The deceased has been identified as Jagan Nath, a 42-year-old resident of Gali Jassa Singh near the Golden Temple. The patient, who suffered from liver abscess, was under treatment at Government Medical College.The district health bulletin stated that of the new cases, nine were ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and three were contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each was reported from Bhushanpura, Shivala Colony, Guru Nanak Nagar, Nawan Kot, Kirpa Nagar (Narayangarh), Sandhu Colony, Mustafabad, Daimganj and Vijay Nagar. Besides, one contact case each was reported from Shahid Udham Singh Nagar, Shivala Colony and Garden Enclave. So far, 823 patients have recovered from the disease and at present 144 active cases are admitted in hospitals.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said the mobile sample collecting vehicle was being sent to affected areas to collect samples. A total of 52 samples were collected from the micro-containment zone on the Lawrence Road. He added that the mobile vehicle was helping in containing the spread as suspected patients were not required to move out from their areas to reach hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/42-year-old-succumbs-to-virus-12-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-109665
07-07-2020||---||Clash over possession of dera leaves one dead, 3 injured in Baba Bakala||Amritsar, July 6Four accomplices of Ranjit Singh Rania, who claimed to be a descendant of controversial Nihang Sikh Ajit Singh Poohla, were injured in a retaliatory fire after Rania, accompanied by 25 armed Nihangs, barged into a dera in Baba Bakala, where the family of the Poohla lived, and started indiscriminate firing in the wee hours of Monday. One of the injured died later.Who is Ajit Singh PoohlaAccording to information, Rania claimed ownership of the 15-acre dera land and had come to take its possession. The deceased was reportedly identified as Sukhraj Singh while injured included Tejpal Singh, Satnam Singh and Hardeep Singh.A case of murder bid, criminal trespass and violation of the Arms Act had been registered against Ranjit Singh and his accomplices, said Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal, adding that 15 of them had been arrested.The SSP said around 20 policemen were already deputed at the dera entrance as the police had been tipped off about the attack. He said while the police personnel were guarding the entrance gate, the suspects entered the sprawling dera complex from the backside. They also fired at the cops when they reached the spot after hearing the gun shots. The policemen returned fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clash-over-possession-of-dera-leaves-one-dead-3-injured-in-baba-bakala-109666
07-07-2020||Our Correspondent||3 bank officials booked for Rs 1.7-cr fraud||Tarn Taran, July 6Three senior officials of the Oriental Bank of Commerce branch in Ranjit Avenue, Amritsar, were booked on Sunday by the local city police in a case of fraud worth Rs1.7 crore.Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Satnam Singh, investigating officer of the case, on Monday said those booked were identified as Vipin Aggarwal, cluster head; Anil Ahluwalia, area general manager; and Brij Kumar, divisional general manager of the bank branch. They have been booked under Sections 420, 467, 468 and 120-B of the IPC, said the ASI.The ASI said the case had been registered on the complaint of Mannu Aggarwal of Amritsar who had deposited Rs1.7 crore a year ago to buy out Dashmesh Rice Mills in Tarn Taran. The mill owners had mortgaged it to take a loan of Rs4.3 crore from the bank, but they failed to repay it.In the meantime, the bank authorities released an advertisement in a newspaper, inviting interested persons to purchase the mill. Aggarwal said he was surprised to learn that the mill had already been purchased by the adjoining Durga Rice Mill, Kadgill, Tarn Taran.In his complaint, Aggarwal told the police that on November 5, the bank officials intentionally let the owners of Dashmesh Rice Mill sell their mills to the Durga Rice Mill. He alleged that the bank officials, in the advertisement, wrongly mentioned Khasra No. as 63/18 instead of 63/11 which helped the mill owner to sell their mill without hurdles.Investigation into the complaint was conducted by Jagjit Singh Walia, SP (Investigation), who held the bank officials guilty of the fraud.The suspects were absconding and raids would be conducted to nab them, said the ASI.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-bank-officials-booked-for-rs-1-7-cr-fraud-109667
07-07-2020||---||E-registration must before entering in Punjab||Amritsar, July 6The district administration has announced that all kinds of visitors, coming by road or through public transport, will have to e-register themselves before entering the state and will have to compulsorily carry e-registration receipt.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said as per the advisory received from the state government, all visitors have to e-register themselves before entering the state either by road or other public transport.A visitor coming via road will have to download Cova app on his cell phone and then he will have to give complete information of each person travelling with him. After following the due procedure, he will have to download e-registration receipt and paste it on the vehicle.If a person is coming through public transport like buses and trains, then he will have to keep the e-registration receipt in his pocket.The DC said all visitors will have to self-quarantine themselves for a period of 14 days and have to give their daily health brief on the Cova app.In case a visitor feels that Covid symptoms have started showing up, then he will have to give a call on 104.In case of tourists arriving from abroad, they will have to remain in institutional isolation centre for a week and under domestic isolation for a similar period.Those who are found violating norms will be eligible for punishment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/e-registration-must-before-entering-in-punjab-109668
07-07-2020||Amritsar||Ex-sarpanch’s son shot dead; 13 booked||A 35-year-old man was shot dead over a land dispute at a village here on late Sunday evening. The police have booked around 13 persons, including three women, for allegedly murdering Paramjit Singh, son of a former sarpanch of Taje Chak village.Those booked have been identified as Narinder Kaur, Sokhi, Sandeep Kaur, Major Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Meet and Sajjan Singh, besides six unknown persons.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said all the accused fled the spot after the incident. Raids were on to nab them, he added. He said a land dispute with his relatives was the reason behind the murder.Nirvair Singh, former sarpanch and father of the victim, told the police that Paramjit was watering the fields at around 9 pm when the accused reached the spot and shot him dead. He suffered two bullet injuries. The accused were his close relatives. He said a few days ago, a scuffle had taken place between Paramjit and his relatives. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-sarpanchs-son-shot-dead-13-booked-109669
07-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||No funds for upkeep, Amritsar's ‘Agosh’ School for special children faces closure||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6‘Agosh’, a society running a school for special children is currently on the verge of closure for want of funds. The school has been reeling under acute shortage of funds owing to curfew as well as lockdown.It has been learnt that the owner of the building in which the school is being run, has demanded the rent amounting to Rs 1 lakh, besides other expenditures. The school was found in 2012 by Kawaljit Singh and his wife Maninderjit Kaur with just two students. Now it has a strength of 64 students.Maninderjit Kaur said the school was founded with an aim to provide a holistic development to the specially-abled children.Earlier, philanthropists running various NGOs used to donate funds for running the school. However, following imposition of curfew and lockdown restrictions, they had to struggle to stay afloat. They even spent their funds in providing food and essentials to the people during the curfew.Maninderjit Kaur used to run a boutique when she decided to open a school for providing quality education to the specially- abled children. She was disappointed with the quality of education in the school where her adopted specially-abled daughter Diljot Kaur was studying. She said she had to wind up her boutique to devote her full time towards running the ‘Agosh’ School. She also found a society ‘Agosh - holding hands’ for this purpose.She said they were finding it difficult to run the school during these troubled times. Parents of the children studying in the school also expressed their inability to pay the school fee. Maninderjit Kaur urged the district administration and philanthropists to come forward for help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-funds-for-upkeep-amritsars-agosh-school-for-special-children-faces-closure-109670
07-07-2020||---||GNDU bags two more GIAN courses||Amritsar, July 6Guru Nanak Dev University has managed to bag two more courses in the third phase of the prestigious Global Initiative of Academic Network (GIAN) programme of the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD).GIAN programme was started by the MHRD in 2016 and it was aimed at providing international exposure to the university students by inviting overseas expert faculty for one or two weeks for delivering a series of lectures on a particular topic. Being in the category of A-star universities, GNDU was among the few top-most institutions of the country, which were given the option of starting GIAN programme.Prof Palwinder Singh, local coordinator of GIAN programme, said different faculty members of the university framed proposals on various topics of students’ interest in collaboration with the foreign faculty. Through a stringent screening by the national committee, it earned 14 GIAN courses in the first two phases of this programme during the period 2016-2019,” he said.“These courses were run by the faculties from the department of chemistry, physics, biotechnology, food sciences, architecture and botanical sciences, for which the expert faculty from the US, Canada, the UK, Denmark, Germany and Japan was invited. Our students were benefitted from these courses,” Prof Palwinder Singh said.Programme provides international exposure to studentsGIAN programme was started by the MHRD in 2016 and it was aimed at providing international exposure to the university students by inviting overseas expert faculty for one or two weeks for delivering a series of lectures on a particular topic. Being in the category of A-star universities, GNDU is among the few top-most institutions of the country, which were given the option of starting GIAN programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-bags-two-more-gian-courses-109671
07-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga 
||Gold artisans walk away as industry loses shine||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 6 Thousands of skilled artisans from Bengal and Maharashtra, designing gold jewellery have left for their native places due to a fall in its demand.  A jeweller Ashwani Kumar, alias, Kale Shah stated that apart from traditional Punjabi artisans, skilled workers from Bengal and Maharashtra were involved in jewellery making here. About 10,000 workers from Bengal and nearly 6,000 from Maharashtra were working in local workshops. About 90 per cent of them left for their native places. Local gold market supplies finished gold jewellery products to Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh.  Most of these skilled gold ornament makers were employed in various workshops at traditional gold market at Guru Bazaar in the walled city and the Sultanwind road area. Sheikh Abdullah, a skilled artisan, said he had recently constructed a house in a colony on the Majitha Road Bypass. He said he could not go back as he was completely settled here while his close relatives still reside in Hugli, a town in West Bengal. He had migrated here in 1997. He hoped that the artisans would return before the festival and marriage seasons as the demand would bounce back then.  Satish Chavan, a skilled artisan from Solapur in Maharashtra, said there were about 250 shops and workshops of Marathi people here. Most of them are involved in gold melting business. He added that most of the workers from Maharashtra returned to their native towns and villages due to no work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gold-artisans-walk-away-as-industry-loses-shine-109672
07-07-2020||Our Correspondent
||30 units of blood collected||Tarn Taran, July 6 Thirty persons donated blood at a camp organised at Gurdwara Baba Ram Singh, Sarhali, 22 km from here on Monday.  The blood donors were the followers of the Kar Sewa sect, Sarhali Sahib, under the guidance of Baba Sukha Singh, head of the sect. Members of the Bhagat Puran Singh Blood Donation Society, Patti, and the district Red Cross Society too participated. Baba Sukha Singh presented certificates and shields to the donors in recognition of their selfless service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-units-of-blood-collected-109673
07-07-2020||---||Punjabi diaspora welcomes flight connecting Toronto with Amritsar||Amritsar, July 6The Qatar Airways rolling out a new flight connecting Toronto and Amritsar was on Monday welcomed with open arms by the punjabi diaspora. The airlines had commenced its operation on July 4.Running thrice a week to Toronto from the hub of the Qatar Airways at the Hamad International Airport in Doha, it will have a stopover at the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport. The direct flight will provide seamless one-stop connectivity between Amritsar-Toronto via Doha.The airline has already been operating daily direct flights between Doha and Amritsar providing one-stop short transit connections via Doha to about nine North American destinations including four weekly flights to Montreal, Canada as well.Anantdeep Singh Dhillon, FlyAmritsar North America convenor, informed that amid the lockdown and suspension of international flights by India, there is some good news for the punjabi diaspora in Canada. He said: “A large concentration of punjabis in and around Toronto and Vancouver in Canada were forced to travel through Delhi because of the non-availability of direct flights to these cities from Amritsar. With the introduction of this new route by Qatar Airways, Amritsar will now have seven weekly flights to Canada via Doha.”The timings of this newly introduced flight between Doha-Toronto also enables short transit time of about three hours and 45 minutes through Doha, he pointed out.Sameep Singh Gumtala, a resident of the USA and the global convener of FlyAmritsar initiative, said, “Qatar Airways recently worked closely with the government of Canada to repatriate around 8,000 Canadian citizens from Amritsar Airport alone during the recent crisis. The airline operated about 20 chartered evacuation flights from Amritsar to Toronto, Vancouver and Montreal.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabi-diaspora-welcomes-flight-connecting-toronto-with-amritsar-109674
07-07-2020||---||2,100 saplings planted in Gurdwara Satlani Sahib||Amritsar, July 6The SGPC and the Kar Sewa Khadoor Sahib on Monday planted about 2,100 saplings of different varieties of fruits and herbs on the premises of the historic Gurdwara Satlani Sahib at Hoshiar Nagar village in Amritsar district. Rajinder Singh Mehta, senior vice-president of the SGPC, said the Punjab Government should start a plantation drive at panchayati lands of villages.Rajinder Singh Mehta, senior vice-president of the SGPC said the trees that had disappeared in the past due to human negligence were being replanted on a priority basis.He exhorted people to grow more trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-100-saplings-planted-in-gurdwara-satlani-sahib-109675
07-07-2020||
||Chhina is head of Confederation of UNESCO Clubs||Amritsar, July 6 Dr Sarbjit Singh Chhina, a city-based social scientist, has been elected again as the president of Confederation of UNSECO Clubs in India for the current two-year tenure. Chinna was elected in April this year and will be serving his second consecutive stint after first being elected in 2017.  Expressing his gratitude, Chinna said that this is the first time that a punjabi has been elected for consecutive terms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chhina-is-head-of-confederation-of-unesco-clubs-109676
07-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Cobwebs of electricity wires an eyesore for residents, trouble for electricians||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6The tangled power lines hanging off the electricity poles and nearby transformers can prove as ugly to one’s dear life as they look. These cobwebs of wires not only are a threat to general public but also one of the biggest stumbling block in the beautification of the holy city.Apart from the old city areas, the same scenario can be witnessed in the recently developed modern localities which hints that newer ways of electricity transmission have not been explored.An eye sore for sure, they also add to the trouble of power corporation technicians who have to spend double the amount of usual time when rectifying a power snag. With the load at its peak during the summers, the risk of a major mishap arising out of a possible short circuit also two-folds as the wires get heat up abnormally. Notably, in most of the fire accidents, the short circuiting of wires acts as a catalyst.Balkar Singh, a local resident, said, “In market places many street vendors do their business by setting up temporary stalls under the poles while a bunch of loose wires hover over their heads. If only these are systematically managed, it would look good as the authorities are trying to convert our city into a smart city.”The concerned residents also stated that all the tall trees touching overhead supply lines should be pruned as these might pass on electricity especially during monsoons.A junior employee with power corporation said, “With a huge number of connections from each electricity pole, we often get muddled up. In case of a snag we have to check all the wires,” he said, before adding, “The condition is more worrisome in the walled city areas which have a dense population.”Satnam Singh, a resident of Guru Bazar, quipped, “In walled city area the leads are entangled in such way that if you throw something from the rooftop, it would not reach the ground and get stuck in wires.” He also said that live wires running to the windows of the first floor have caused many accidents. “People have to keep their windows closed or else a child might touch them,” he added.There are suggestions flying around that underground supply in areas should be adopted where it is possible and a smart system to provide power connections could solve the problem. “Atleast in new localities being developed, the new techniques of electricity supply could be adopted,” said Janak Kapoor, another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cobwebs-of-electricity-wires-an-eyesore-for-residents-trouble-for-electricians-109678
07-07-2020||Neha Saini||Online coaching comes to pupils’ rescue||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 6Online coaching has changed the way students prepare for competitive exams. The transition from regular classroom study towards digital medium has been one of the most remarkable changes in the education sector in the post Covid-19 era. The new normal for the competitive exams is web-based applications and video sessions, YouTube channels, specifically for subject specific coaching and social media platforms."Coaching centres have been investing in developing web-based applications and running YouTube channels (where they upload video files of specific sessions by teachers for students). Though it's a challenge for both, teachers and students to strike a balance, this seems to be the future of the industry," says Uttamjit Singh, owner of the Wisdom Classes, a coaching centre. He added that even if they reopen, the nature of classes conducted will definitely change. "Since social distancing will become the new normal, the batches would be cut shot and mandatory safety regulations will be implemented. Also, developing and capitalising on the digital classrooms, the study and coaching would most definitely become technology driven and dependent," he added.Rajwinder Kaur, a student who has been preparing for UPSC exams, said the real challenge would be to get access to this technology dependent education to the rural students. "Since digital classrooms will be the future of education, infrastructural support must be provided to make it accessible to rural students for equal opportunity."SPEAKING OUTSeveral coaching centres have switched to digital mode of study and they agree that re-opening centres will not be a viable option currently. "Since we do not want to risk the health and safety of students, reopening the centres is not an option. So, digital classes will be a permanent feature even after things become a bit normal again," says Dinesh Paneri, centre Head, FIITJEE.Online classes are the future of the industry and this new normal is here to stay, thanks to the pandemic. As students, we need to better equip ourselves to participate in this transition. We need to build skills that are conducive to online study. —Ramnik Singh Sethi, Student preparing for NEETThe focus of the competitive coaching has shifted to digital media as video sessions and classes have become the new way of coaching. Teachers are making video files of subject specific classes and updating on YouTube channels. This is how it is going to be for some time now. —Uttamjit Singh, owner, Wisdom ClassesWe are using web-based applications for conducting our classes, where we connect with less than 40 students at a time. These classes are now a permanent part of our plan. The post coronavirus scenario will make it a preferred mode of function. —Dinesh Paneri, Centre head, FIITJEE, AmritsarOnline classes are a challenge, especially for competitive examinations. But this transition is permanent. Though self-study is a key aspect of preparation, e-classes and access to teachers and mentors through apps help in sustaining the continuity of our study cycle. —Rajwinder Kaur, A student preparing for UPSC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-coaching-comes-to-pupils-rescue-109679
07-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Two booked for molestation||Drug smuggler’s property freezedTarn Taran: District police attached property worth Rs 1.48 crore, belonging to a drug smuggler Kinderbir Singh Sanni of Dial Rajputan village. DSP Kamaljit Singh said the frozen assets included his agriculture land, brick-kiln, car and other belongings. The DSP said the district police had frozen property worth Rs 79.59 crore belonging to 72 smugglers in a move launched eight months ago. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-molestation-109680
