07-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Conservation of heritage is first and last thing for this architect||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 6Dr Balwinder Singh, an acclaimed architect and former head of the Department of Guru Ramdas School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, is actively serving on various projects of conservation, restoration and preservation of heritage nowadays – with the same fervour as in past. He recently penned a book titled ‘Splendid Artworks in Historic Sikh Shrines of India and Pakistan’, which highlights tremendous efforts of his academic itinerary and threw light on the religion’s heritage.Balvinder has had a long journey in the line starting with his joining as Assistant Town Planner in Varanasi in early 80s. He was professionally satisfied and received appreciation for his work on ‘integrated development of small and medium Towns (IDSMT) project of Mirzapur. He joined Guru Ramdas School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, in July 1985 as a lecturer.“While doing Masters in city and regional planning, I had a great desire to study abroad and after completing this I even got admission in Development Planning Unit in London, but could not join due to financial constraints. But with the blessings of Guru Ramdas ji, I was the first Sikh and social planner to get prestigious Charles Wallace Trust scholarship through British Council for admission in the centre for conservation studies, Institute of Advancedcontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/conservation-of-heritage-is-first-and-last-thing-for-this-architect-137610
07-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Curbs only let her desire take flight||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 6The lockdown has done a wonder for Kiran Chamak, a qualified beautician. At a time when the curbs had cornered many into a tight spot, she has made her dream come true. Her own make-up studio was something she always wanted to happen. Engaged in different jobs for past several years, she has finally taken up her dream job.“Job never satisfied me. There were several formalities and restrictions. With spread of the Covid, coaching centres are paying half salaries and many lost their source of livelihood. As no chances of reemployment seemed on the horizon, so I started thinking of my own business,” Kiran says.Having served some years in a local private college and then working in an IELTS coaching centre, she had a break when the lockdown was imposed by the government. Following this, the institutions showed the door to staff or imposed a heavy cut on salaries of trainers. It was then she had to take care of herself and people around her and the studio was the only thing on mind.Although she has never practiced professionally, but has done a diploma course in the same. “I was passionate about the make-up and beauty care for long but joined teaching as profession. Now, as there’s no job, I wanted to help my family financially. So, I started the make-up studio at home,” Kiran states.A resident of Partap Nagar, she has named her studio Kiran Chamak Makeup Studio. After a few days of opening, she has had a satisfactory response. “I have a good social circle and the social media and mobile applications are useful to promote the business. Initially, I spread posters and banners on social media. The advertisement in area is also going on. I am satisfied with the response from customers”, she added.“I personally feel that the outbreak provided an opportunity to me to start my own business. Otherwise, I would be spending more years in the service sector,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curbs-only-let-her-desire-take-flight-137611
07-09-2020||---||SGPC’s U-turn on missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib draws criticism||Amritsar, September 6The SGPC’s U-turn on initiating criminal proceedings against erring officials engaged in misappropriation of ‘saroops’ has not gone down well with several Sikh organisations and the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO).Sarbjit Singh Verka, member of the PHRO, said the SGPC’s silence over the missing ‘saroops’ must be questioned and it must be find out at whose behest, the officials engaged in the illegal acts.“We were happy with the SGPC, in its executive meeting on September 27, announcing registration of an FIR for tampering with, fabrication, fraud and embezzlement of ‘saroops’, but the U-turn made later has annoyed us. The case involved criminal offences, so we will move the court,” he said.Echoing similar views, Akal Purakh Ki Fauj head and former SGPC member Jaswinder Singh Advocate said the SGPC was supreme but those who ran its affairs weren’t so. “The SGPC bigwigs wanted to save their political bosses that prompted them to shun the move of initiating criminal proceedings against those indicted by the Akal Takht-appointed probe panel. The truth in the case can be dug out only by the police. The SGPC had got FIRs registered in earlier embezzlement cases,” he said.The All India Sikh Students Federation (AISSF) has announced to take out protest march against the SGPC’s action on September 13 after performing ‘ardas’ at the Akal Takht.Manjit Singh Bhuma said the probe by the SGPC into the ‘fraud’ appears to be an eye-wash exercise. “We reject the SGPC’s action in the case. Like in the case of exoneration of Dera Sirsa cult, the SGPC has been pressurised by SAD (Badal) leadership to backtrack its move in this case, too. Any Sikh could get a case registered against the culprits under Section 295-A of the IPC. We will take out a protest march, while following Covid guidelines, and continue our struggle till names of those on whose instructions the ‘saroops’ were sent and the recipients are made public,” Bhuma said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpcs-u-turn-on-missing-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib-draws-criticism-137612
07-09-2020||Two unknown persons open fire at dhaba
||Two unknown persons open fire at dhaba||Tribune News Service   Amritsar, September 6 Two unknown persons fired at a dhaba in the Baba Bakala area here on Saturday.  Dalbir Singh, owner of the dhaba, said, on Saturday he was sitting outside his dhaba located on the main Baba Bakala road. He said two persons came on a bike from the parking area side and started firing at his dhaba. He said the glass door of the dhaba  was damaged while the accused fled when he sounded an alert. He said that he did not recognise the perpetrators nor he had any enmity with anyone.  Victor Singh, Investigating Officer, said that the investigation was underway in the case. He said the CCTV cameras of the dhaba were also not working while the exact motive behind the firing was not clear. He said a case had been registered.  Man held with 135-gm heroin  Tarn Taran: The anti-narcotics cell of the district police, led by ASI Jaspal Singh, recovered 135 gm of heroin from the possession of Avtar Singh Tota of Banga Rai village on Saturday. The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under the NDPS Act against the accused. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-unknown-persons-open-fire-at-dhaba-137613
07-09-2020||---||Two POs nabbed in two days||Amritsar, September 6 The Amritsar rural police on Sunday claimed to have arrested two proclaimed offenders in the past two days here. Jass, a proclaimed offender (PO), who had been evading arrest for the past 20 years, was arrested here on Saturday.  He hailed from Talwandi Nahar village. According to the police, he was booked by the Ramdass police in a murder case registered in 2001. He had been on run and the court had declared him a proclaimed offender.Similarly, another proclaimed offender, identified as Arvinder Singh who was wanted in a theft case, was nabbed by the rural police here on Sunday. He was booked in a case in 2006 while the court had declared him a proclaimed offender in 2008.The police said following a tip-off, they raided a brick-klin in the Pheruman area near Rayya. He originally hailed from Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.In a statement issued here, the Amritsar rural police said that they had arrested 12 proclaimed offenders in the past month. They said a special drive had been launched to arrest the POs. Special teams were formed and they were briefed by senior police officials in this direction.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-pos-nabbed-in-two-days-137615
07-09-2020||---||Municipal Corporation removes kiosks outside railway station||Amritsar, September 6Officials of the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation removed recently constructed kiosks outside the railway station. The officials said the kiosks were illegal and installed on government land.Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation (MC), the civic body was going to implement the street vending project in the city soon. “Vendors would be allowed to instal vends only in vending zones. All illegal vends would be removed”, she stated.Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, said: “We have removed some of illegal vends outside the railway station. The MC has sent the street vending zone project for approval of the government. After its implementation no one would be allowed to instal vend outside the vending zones.”Employees of the estate office also visited the Chali Khoo area and demanded documents of ownership from a person. The estate officials claimed that the person had encroached land belonging to the MC. The officials have asked him to submit ownership documents on Monday.********Box:AAP alleges discriminationVed Parkash Bablu, youth president, Aam Aadmi Party, alleged that Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia has taken action only against poor vendors and spared the elites during anti-encroachment drives. “Despite issuing notices, the Estate Officer never took action against influential persons. His appointment as in-charge of the illegal building removal committee is also under challenge. We have urged the Commissioner to deploy a senior official to the post,” said Bablu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/municipal-corporation-removes-kiosks-outside-railway-station-137617
07-09-2020||---||Highest single-day spike of 197 cases in Amritsar district; 4 deaths||Amritsar, September 6The district recorded the highest single-day spike of 197 new on Sunday, according to the state Health Department. The spike has set alarm bells ringing in the district.Besides, four persons lost their lives due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The victims have been identified as 75-year-old Kamaljit Kaur; Inderjit Kaur, 64, a resident of Mehta Chowk, Baba Bakala; 38-year-old Tara Devi, a resident of the Majitha road bypass; and 70-year-old Pritam Kaur of Hansali Wali Gali.Of the new cases, 137 patients were having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 72 were contacts of positive cases.Now the total number of positive cases is 4,825 and out of these, 3,745 have recovered. The total number of casualties has now reached 202.The border district has been setting a new high daily for the past one week.Confirming this trend, Dr Navdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the number of positive cases had been crossing the 100 mark for the past few days, which indicated that people were not following the precautions sincerely.He said a mask provided only 70 per cent protection and social distancing was badly needed to keep the virus at bay.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Ranbir Singh Mudhal, who is appointed Nodal Officer Testing, appealed to the residents to immediately undergo the test after noticing the symptoms of the virus. He said if it was urgently required only then one needed to be admitted in the hospital. Otherwise, one could avail treatment by isolating at one’s home.Stricter lockdown restricts movement||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/highest-single-day-spike-of-197-cases-in-amritsar-district-4-deaths-137618
07-09-2020||Our Correspondent ||Manochahal Kalan man died of homemade liquor||Tarn Taran, September 6The district police in its preliminary investigation had detected that Sheetal Singh of Manochahal Kalan village died by consuming homemade liquor under mysterious circumstances. The higher police officials said it had been found in the preliminary investigation that on Friday evening, deceased Sheetal Singh, along with his others relatives Gora Singh and Gora’s father Bhupinder Singh, jointly consumed homemade liquor and Sheetal Singh died the other day on Saturday. The police said the liquor was taken from Gurpreet Singh, their relative. The police also said Gurpreet Singh disclosed that Sheetal being a habitual drinker, used to distill country-made liquor in his home for his personal consumption, which he also sometimes gives to his cousin Gora Singh on request. He had bought the jaggery from a local karyana store run by Dheera Singh of his village. He had a makeshift apparatus at his home for distillation of liquor which has been recovered by the police. He had last distilled it about 10 days before and had been consuming it each night. He had given the same liquor to Gora on the night of September 4, which deceased Sheetal Singh, Gora and Gora's father Bhupinder Singh drank together. The police said further proceeding would be initiated after the report of the postmortem and the viscera were received by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/manochahal-kalan-man-died-of-homemade-liquor-137619
07-09-2020|| ||Four nabbed in robbery case||Amritsar, September 6 With the arrest of four persons, the local police on Sunday claimed to have cracked a robbery case in which a finance firm employee, identified as Balwinder Singh, was looted on August 27 when he was returning after collecting instalments. Those arrested were identified as Manjit Singh, Rajinder Singh, Prince and Vishal Singh, all residents of Khalsa Nagar locality in the Kot Mit Singh area falling under the Sultainwind police station here. The victim had stated to the police that he worked with Bharat Finance firm as collection officer. On August 27 when he was returning after collecting Rs 2.13 lakh from different places, two persons snatched the bag containing the amount near Dera Baba Gulab Das. He told the police that his bag also contained a tab, his purse and other important documents. Parneet Singh Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said the police analysed the CCTV cameras near the spot and zeroed in on the suspects. Though four of them were arrested, their fifth accomplice was still at large and raids were on to nab him. The police have confiscated two bikes used in the crime, Rs 1.07 lakh from the accused while the remaining amount was with the fifth accomplice, Dhillon said. He said the culprits were produced in the court and brought on police remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-nabbed-in-robbery-case-137622
07-09-2020||---||Youth commits suicide, three booked||Amritsar, September 6 Felt humiliated after a woman accused him of a following and teasing her, a youth committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance in Mandir Wala bazaar of the Sultanwind road area here on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sajan. On the complaint of his mother, the police have booked three persons, including a woman, on the charge of abetment to suicide. They were identified as Simranjit Kaur, Harsimranjit Singh and Balwinder Singh, all residents of New Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area.The complainant, Manjit Kaur, alleged that on Friday they, along with some other respectable persons of society, went to the accused’s house and a compromise was reached. However, the accused threatened him with dire consequences. Manjit Kaur said her son was into the trade of gold ornaments. She said he used to visit the Golden Temple daily and Gurdwara Shaheed Baba Deep Singh. He said the accused circulated Sajan’s picture on social media while alleging that he used to follow women and girls in the gurdwara and could commit some crime.She said her son was getting threatening calls. She said perturbed over this, Sukhwinder Sajan became upset and ended his life.Sham Sunder, investigating officer and in-charge of the Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar police chowki, said a case under Section 306 of the IPC was registered while further investigation was underway. No arrest had been made till now, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-commits-suicide-three-booked-137623
07-09-2020||Amritsar||Two sand-laden vehicles seized||Traders flay biz policies of govtAmritsar: Alarmed and rattled by the Covid-19’s economic ramifications and policies of the governments, all traders gathered under a forum. This fact came to light when the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) opened its membership drive and in a span of two days, over 1,000 traders joined it. Piara Lal Seth, President of the PPBM, said soon a membership drive would be opened in other districts of the state. He added that the falling economy had instilled a fear among traders and industrialists with paranoia and they felt that inept handling by the government could lead to prolonged depression. He said the Union and state governments must come out with concrete schemes to arrest the rate of unemployment and extend a helping hand to them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-sand-laden-vehicles-seized-137624
07-09-2020||Do you think the Centre’s decision to raise the limit of social gatherings is right?||Lifting of restrictions will ease pain of many||Change is the basis of survivalThe cases are rising exponentially day by day. It took just 16 days for India to jump from two million to three million. The Punjab Government has reimposed the weekend lockdown to avoid the social crowding. The Union Government, on the other hand, has eased out the cap on social/political/religious gatherings to 100 people. The Centre has realised that the curbs are not the solution. It has harshly impacted our economy with GDP contracting by 23%. The heart- warming stories of shopkeepers, vendors, businessmen, contractual workers, migrant labourers have shown us the disastrous side. People are not only living with the fear of virus but also with the uncertainty of their economic survival. Easing out the lockdown is the only solution to revive the economy and to get the businesses back on track. Increasing the maximum people permitted to gather will be beneficial for the hospitality industry, which is among the worst affected. The pandemic has taught us that change is the basis of survival, one who will adapt to changes will survive.Gulshakh KaurState should comply with decisionThe Central Government has decided to lift restrictions on social gathering. The Punjab Government should cooperate on this. Due to the pandemic, the Punjab Police has got a chance to issue irrelevant challans to the common people and make a source of income. The state government needs to think that this is not a way to make money; in fact it is harassment. It is least bothered about the common people. They are just trying to make money because they know well that they will not be in power again come 2022 assembly polls. Now, if we talk about the pandemic the only solution seems a vaccine, which is not possible before 12-18 months. Until that comes, we should start our life the way we have lived before.Saahil HansOpen educational institutionsWith the lockdown 4.0 over, the next phase of unlocking process of economy has started, offering more relaxations, despite the fact that number of cases continue to rise. Road, rail and air travel is proposed to start with various restrictions, market, malls, cinema halls, restaurants are also allowed to open but schools, colleges remain shut. Our growing generations have been affected worst by these advisories. And government does nothing as it is at the bottom of their priority list – it doesn’t generate any income. Classroom teaching cannot be substituted by online or other mode of teaching. School closures impact not only students, teachers, and families but have far-reaching economic and societal consequences. The impact was more severe for disadvantaged children and their families, causing interrupted learning, compromised nutrition, childcare problems, and consequent economic cost to families who could not work. Are the advisories being implemented in right spirits?Gursharan Singh KainthWayward decision by the Union governmentThe decision of the Union government to lift curbs on social gatherings is ill-conceived and ill-advised. It is intriguing. On one hand the number of cases is constantly rising and on the other the Centre has lifted restrictions on gatherings. The World Health Organisation has warned that opening up societies too quickly amid the pandemic is a ‘recipe for disaster’. No cognizance of WHO’s warning was taken. The move is obviously aimed at reviving the economy that has plummeted to an all time low with GDP shrinking by a record 23. 9 ? in the April to June quarter. It is further expected to shrink 5-7? in 2020-2021. It has been left to the people to swim or drown with the tide which gives rise to the suspicion that the government believes in ‘live and let die’ policy. Metro services have been allowed to be resumed from September 7. JEE has commenced and NEET is to follow suit. Lifting of restrictions sounds like we are on our way back to normal, but all this is fraught with danger. The process should have been a gradual one. The state government will have to be extra vigilant as the virus threatens to engulf south Malwa districts. Already there are 53,992 cases in Punjab and death casualties have gone beyond 1,453. Although Centre has categorically asserted that states can no longer be permitted to impose lockdown outside containment zones without its prior permission, yet Punjab has done well to continue with the weekend lockdown and night curfew till September end.Tarsem S BumrahDecision was always on the horizonThe pandemic has infected more than three and half million people in India alone, and has reversed the economy. After lockdown, government is going to open all things slowly to revive economy. It seems life is going to be normal, but the surge in cases shreds the belief to pieces. The rise comes as government continues to lift restrictions to try to boost an economy when the virus hit. Despite the increase in cases, the government has pressed ahead with easing restrictions. Unemployment has not only had an immediate impact in terms of lost earnings but also a far-reaching negative effect on future wages, making it more difficult to save for retired persons. It can only be defeated when you remain safe, when you fulfill the resolve of keeping a safe distance of two metres and wearing masks. According to World Health Organization Coronavirus could be defeated in less than two years. As it is a long process, the preventive measures are very important to keep the virus at bay.Amarjit KalsiNow, stricter measures neededThe restrictions on social gatherings were the India’s strategy to slow down the spread of virus. However, lifting of curbs would ease the pain for many, and prevent a further decline in earnings and spending, but if it is not accompanied by controlled measures, it might badly affect public health and worsen the conditions. It would help in reviving the hospitality industry which had been adversely affected. However, gauging current scenario, where number of cases per day is increasing, can be very risky. The government must play its part by ensuring strict safety measures like imposing heavy fines for non-wearing of masks and other violations.Saanya AggarwalSocial gatherings should be avoidedDue to virus rising fast, the condition is getting worse in economic, financial and health sector of our country. The unlocking guidelines of phase four announced by the Centre were assumed to give some positive results but sadly the condition has only worsened. The Union government has opened many restrictions like public gatherings, inter and intra-state movement which should be avoided by basic understanding of the people. By increasing the limit of gatherings from 50 to 100 will only take a wrong turn as it would not be easy for people to adhere to the strict safety measures. As per the current situation, the social gatherings and official meetings should be avoided to the extent possible and virtual methods should be used more widely as possible till the situation is under control ie the availability of a vaccine or medicinal cure. Hence, by putting control on our movement and supporting the government by maintaining distancing norms we can control the outbreak.Divya AgarwalGovt must end night curfew, lockdownIf the Central Government has decided to lift the restrictions on social gathering under Unlock 4, then how can the state government make their own laws. No state has the authority to disobey the orders of the Central Government. Nobody knows how long the pandemic is going to stay on earth. In such a situation, there is no point in imposing night curfew or weekend curfew. Everyone is not government employee. Government employees have not felt the pain of this lockdown because they are getting salary on time. But private sector employees are facing difficult times due to the lockdown. Many of them have not been paid salaries so far; many have been fired; and many have to face a big cut in their salaries. The reason behind these is same: there is no business due to the curfew imposed at 6.30 pm and the complete weekend lockdown. It’s high time the state government lifted restrictions on night curfew and the weekend lockdown.Shailja ThakurProlonged lockdown not a solutionA prolonged lockdown is not a solution to the problem, it is a temporary measure taken by the government to prepare themselves for the pandemic. Strict restrictions imposed by the state government to control the spread of the virus is nothing but escape route in the face of the pandemic. The report card of the state government shows it has miserably failed to protect its MLAs and even ministers from this infectious disease. The reason behind the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state is the poor performance of the state government. Till date, out of the 22 districts, only four are having facilities for critical cases. AIIMS, Bathinda, is without a testing lab and a corona care centre. In Patiala district, 32 veterinary officers are working in the corona care centres. Complaints regarding the poor quality PPE kits and other equipments were never looked into seriously. Similarly, complaints regarding false reports by private testing labs and overcharging by private hospitals were never attended to. The lockdown has adversely affected the economy of the country, hence it is not a solution to the problem. Now we have to learn to live with the virus by taking preventive measures.Harsh N JoharQUESTIONThere have been many instances of people in villages and industrial areas opposing sample collection for Covid testing. Do you think the issue requires intervention by the government?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 10).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lifting-of-restrictions-will-ease-pain-of-many-137626
07-09-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht pays tribute to activist Jaswant Singh Khalra||In a first, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday remembered prominent human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra on his 25th martyrdom day. The family members of Khalra and rights activists initiated a ‘sehaj paath’ at a gurdwara here.Recognising Khalra’s contribution for the Sikh community, Giani Harpreet Singh read out a ‘message’ from Takht Damdama Sahib. Khalra never cared for his life while launching a crusade against the government for Sikhs killed under conspiracy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-pays-tribute-to-activist-jaswant-singh-khalra-137491
