07-08-2020||MOST colleges and educational institutions in the city have begun online admissions for the 2020-2021 academic session and the most challenging task before them is to put in place infrastructure to ensure smooth transition of classroom teaching to digital mode. Colleges are banking on the UGC guidelines to ease syllabus burden on students and streamline digital teaching mode. The historic Khalsa College||‘Switch to digital teaching is not easy, but inevitable now’||What are the challenges that the institution has been facing after reopening?Like many other institutions, the biggest challenge we have been facing is switching over to digital mode of teaching. With 18 educational institutions running under the aegis of the Khalsa College Governing Council, it isn’t an easy task to streamline digital and web-based mode of teaching during the lockdown. The change was equally difficult for our students, especially those who hail from Jammu and Kashmir. Initially, we faced roadblocks such as poor net connectivity and lack of skilled faculty to make use of digital teaching tools.How has the response to online admission process been?The student intake has been fairly well, better than what we had initially expected. On an average, we have got 1,100 new students. We have also given leverage to students seeking entry to test-based courses by offering admissions on the basis of Class X and Class XII marks. We plan to start the new session from August 17 but initially, there would be limited classes. We want at least 30 per cent student occupancy before commencing the new session.How have you prepared to shift to digital classrooms for the new session until colleges reopen?We have signed a lifetime accreditation with Google G Suite, which is the best web-based application being used by universities and colleges across the world. We have also conducted a special training workshop for our faculty by international experts. The college has laid lease lines across the campus connecting our 23 departments with Wi-Fi and the Internet. We will set up an independent IT cell for smooth conduct of digital classes.What is your opinion on the shift to digital education amid complications and apprehensions about e-learning?Digital teaching was already in place at various prominent universities overseas and our students who pursued higher education at foreign universities found it tough to adapt to the system. The Covid-19 pandemic has given us an opportunity to bridge the gap between our students and pupils of developed countries. Change is never easy, but inevitable. Digital teaching is going to become an important part of the education sector in future. For students, it’s a life saver as you get access to education while sitting at home and saving a lot of expenses. For teachers, it increases accountability and efficiency.What will be the implications of the shift to digital teaching on recruitment of teachers?The shift towards technology-driven teaching would definitely have an impact on recruitment of ad-hoc staff as colleges would have to reduce the staff strength.Apart from academics, cultural activities and sports activities of the college form an important part of the education system. How does the college plan to conduct extra-curricular activities?Our cultural societies will continue functioning as before and most of our youth festivals and events are conducted after November. We have a sports ground spread over 20 acres and training and coaching of our sports students will continue in according with the social distancing norms and other safety protocols. We were the first college to instal sanitisation tunnel at our campus.Have you given any special concessions in fee to needy students in the wake of Covid-induced economic crisis?We offer 63 stipends to over 500 students. We have tied up with the US-based Khalsa Global Reach Foundation, a group that comprises some of alumni among its members and supports the education of needy girls. The foundation has donated five lakh for the purpose. We also allow students to submit fee instalments without any extra charge. Our volunteer donations support students from economically-weaker sections in academics as well as extra-curricular activities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/switch-to-digital-teaching-is-not-easy-but-inevitable-now-123186
07-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Discourteous welcome for 179 Dubai returnees who landed at Chandigarh airport||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 6The 179 persons, 26 of them from Gurdaspur, who arrived at the Chandigarh airport on Thursday afternoon from Dubai on a flight chartered by philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi had a harrowing time as the state government failed to make arrangements for their onward transportation to quarantine centers earmarked for them.Shallu, a girl hailing from Bariar village in Gurdaspur district, said a majority of the passengers had no money at all and had reached back to the country totally at the benevolence of Oberoi.The businessman, who was at the airport to receive the passengers, said he faced no such problem when three of his chartered flights arrived earlier. “Earlier, buses were stationed at the airport to ferry passengers to quarantine centers. However, this time things have been botched up. There is no transportation facility available, due to which the returnees are facing a plethora of problems,” he said.Oberoi’s organisation — Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust — shares details about chartered flights the civil aviation authorities, which in then conveyed to the state government to make necessary arrangements.Gurmeet Singh, whose company had given him the pink slip during the lockdown, said he had no money in hand and had no idea how to reach his home in Gurdaspur. Oberoi said: “After paying Rs 40 lakh for the chartered flight, I am now paying for transportation to their respective destinations from my pocket.”Of the returnees, eight are from Himachal Pradesh and six from Haryana. “All of those who disembarked the flight have no money. Whatever we had we have spent on boarding and lodging in Dubai, Sharjah and Ajman after the company fired us. We have no idea how we will reach home now,” said Harmeet Singh, another boy from Gurdaspur, adding that taxi owners were fleecing people by charging exorbitant prices. “I saw a boy shelling out Rs 3,000 to reach his home town of Patiala which is twice the fare in normal situation,” said Harmeet.Sources revealed that communication gap between various government agencies led to the fiasco.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/discourteous-welcome-for-179-dubai-returnees-who-landed-at-chandigarh-airport-123183
07-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Illegal constructions removal panel formed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 6The Municipal Corporation (MC) on Thursday constituted an unauthorised constructions and encroachments removal committee to stop encroachments, illegal constructions within municipal limits.While Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia will head the committee, municipal town planning officials and superintendents will assist him.Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mital issued directions to assistant town planners and building inspectors to check their respective areas and submit daily report of encroachments, illegal constructions and unauthorised colonies along with photographs and recommendations to the committee. Superintendents will also put up details of encroachments, unauthorised constructions and illegal colonies in their respective zones before the committee. The committee will send the cases of unauthorised constructions, encroachments and illegal colonies to the municipal town planner for technical evaluation as well to law officer for legal examination of the cases. The MTP and the law officer would return the cases to the committee with their suggestions without any delay.The concerned MTP along with required staff will take action against the encroachment or illegal building or colony as per law. In case MTP failed to take any action in this regard then Sushant Bhatia along with required staff and concerned ATP, superintendent and building inspector of the zone will take action against the illegal constructions.The committee would do videography of the whole process and submit its report to the MC Commissioner. A weekly meeting to review the working of committee will be conducted with the commissioner.On Thursday, a meeting of the building department was conducted by Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal at Ranjit Avenue office. The meeting was attended by MTPs, ATPs, building inspectors, law officer and superintendents of Eastern Zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-constructions-removal-panel-formed-123184
07-08-2020||---||17 positive women give birth at Amritsar's GMC||Amritsar, August 6Sharing good news amid the pandemic, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal on Thursday said 17 pregnant Covid-19 women had given birth to healthy babies at Guru Nanak Dev Medical College and Hospital.Aggarwal visited the hospital on Thursday to take stock of security and safety arrangements and chaired a meeting of officials of the Department of Medical Education and Research. He said the newborns were kept under intense observation of the staff to ensure that they do not contract the infection.“To ensure the safety of pregnant women, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has also imparted special training to gynaecologists to conduct telemedicine counselling of pregnant women. Besides, separate labor rooms have been set up at all district hospitals for Covid- 19 positive pregnant women,” he said.The Covid guidelines have made Covid-19 testing mandatory during the third trimester of pregnancy. Under this, 12,479 pregnant women were tested for Covid-19 in the state from April to June, of whom 118 tested positive. ADC Aggarwal said the administration was working to provide best health facilities to pregnant women. “Maternal and child health care services at the hospital were running smoothly and our health staff are providing best birth and ante-natal facilities to the pregnant women,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/17-positive-women-give-birth-at-amritsars-gmc-123185
07-08-2020||Neha Saini||Hope the only word for IELTS, immigration biz||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, August 6The impact of the global pandemic on immigration and overseas education sector has been devastating. With several dreams of studying abroad either shattered or delayed because of suspension or hold-up in visa processing and grants by countries, the immigration service providers and students are thrown in a conundrum and without any clarity.With the waiting period for reopening of IELTS coaching centres and immigration service providers extending on, the situation is turning grimmer, feel industry insiders. “60% of immigration industry in the state has been pushed towards the brink of shutting down due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The related industry including the IELTS coaching centres are bearing the maximum brunt. Though, several countries have started visa processing with conditions, the current situation makes it tough to survive,” says Amit Sharma, a recognised immigration consultant from city.It’s a well-known fact that Punjab is a market with a high number of local immigration service providers. With the average intake of students migrating to countries like Canada, US, UK, Australia and New Zealand nosediving due to pandemic, the sector seems cornered.“Except for Australia and UK, no other country popular for immigration in Punjab, is granting visa. The visa processing for students who had already applied or were studying in the particular country, are being offered with conditions. So, it is going to be a challenge to survive,” tells Amit.Vinod Sharma, director, Kiwi Studies and an immigration consultant, shares that the surplus capital and reserves are only a temporary solution. “New Zealand recently announced that they will be suspending visa services for three months.Other countries too do not present a very hopeful picture. In such a case, the immigration providers are surviving through surplus capital and no scope of revenue generation at least for few more months.” He says that almost 25,000 research and PhD scholars are waiting for their visa.Change in trend beckoningDespite the challenges, Amit feels that the situation will improve soon. Though, the number of students applying for foreign universities is on the way down, the ones already in process are being provided support from the country-specific immigration bodies. “Most foreign universities are sending offer letters, urging students to attend the initial semesters online, without affecting the student’s studying rights in that country,” he says. This is a big respite to students who will be saving big on cost of living expenditures they were bearing. Also, it will prepare them easily for the transition to online education popularly followed in foreign universities.He is greatly optimistic of industry’s chances of gathering steam once the visa processing reopens. “Students are eager to migrate. Countries that get maximum applications from students from Punjab are already offering alternatives,” he shares. Australia is another country eager to process visa for students. “With no Chinese students coming in due to Covid-19, the biggest market for them is India. So, it will be a good time to apply for visas once the process starts and it will be easy to get approval,” he adds.Vinod’s thoughts on the topic are also alike. “The universities in New Zealand alone lost $400 billion of revenues due to lack of foreign students during the first quarter. With such high stakes, foreign universities will be eager to offer relaxations and support to students once the process begins again,” he says.No word on coaching centresThe government has announced the reopening of gyms and shopping malls, but the IELTS coaching centres are lying shut as the immigration industry awaits the call. “Since March, we are closed down and no assurance has been given to us about reopening. The government has announced the reopening of gyms and shopping malls, but there has been no word on opening of the centres. Immigration industry is one of the major sectors in Punjab,” bemoans Rajan Sikri, who runs Manitoba IELTS coaching and training institute here. She adds: “If this continues, many coaching centres might have to shut shop.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hope-the-only-word-for-ielts-immigration-biz-123179
07-08-2020||---||DC office staff go on 10-day strike in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 6On the call of the Punjab State DC Office Employees Association, employees of the DC office here began a 10-day pen-down strike on Thursday. The protest hampered the work at the DC office and judicial work at the SDM-I and SDM-II offices.Over 250 employees of the DC office are protesting against the Punjab government for “back tracking on their promises and side-lining them repeatedly”.“In the past four years, we held several strikes and were each time given an assurance by officials that our demands would be looked into. After a few months, everything is forgotten. This time, through a statewide protest, we want to remind the government of its failure,” said Arvinder Sandhu, president, DC Office Employees Union, Amritsar,Their demands included release of DA arrears pending since 2017, pay revision under the new pay commission and pension to retired employees. “We have been working tirelessly throughout the lockdown, going beyond our duty to help people during the pandemic. Despite our hard work and commitment, we have not been appreciated. To top it all, we have recently been informed that our mobile allowance has been cut to half. If the MLAs and MPs are being given pension after five years of service, why are we being left out, despite serving for three or four decades with the government,” said Arvinder.While employees will continue strike till August 14, they will raise black flags and mark August 15 as ‘black day’.No award ceremony this Independence DayThe Deputy Commissioner has announced that no Independence Day award ceremony would be held this year due to Covid-19. The children’s cultural programme has also been cancelled. “Every year, the Independence Day ceremony is marked by presenting awards to various government officials and citizen achievers for their contribution and achievements. But this year, we will follow the government guidelines while granting permission to people to attend the ceremony. We will issue a card for entry to only limited persons,” said DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira.Addressing his first meeting with the officials on preparations for the event, the DC directed them to ensure adherence to Covid-19 safety guidelines. This year, Cabinet Minister OP Soni will be the chief guest at the ceremony which is to be held at Guru Nanak Stadium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-office-staff-go-on-10-day-strike-in-amritsar-123180
07-08-2020||---||2 deaths & 44 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 6With two more deaths in the district due to Covid-19, the toll reached 88 on Thursday. The health authorities also reported 44 new cases, taking the total count to 2,137 in the district. In the past 24 hours, 60 persons recovered from the disease, taking the number of recoveries to 1,576. The number of active cases stood at 473.The deceased included Dasaunda Singh, a 70-year-old resident of Kot Harnamdas locality on Sultanwind Road and Baljit Kaur, a 57-year-old resident of Khaila Kalan village.Dasaunda Singh was being treated at Government Medical College here and had co-morbidities such as diabetes and pneumonia. Baljit Kaur was admitted to IVY Hospital and was a patient of diabetes and hypertension.The new cases included 28 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 16 contacts of Covid patients, eight of them BSF jawans posted at Khasa. One ILI case each was reported from Vikas Nagar, Maqboolpura, Shareefpura, Sattowal village near Baba Bakala, Khalchian, Bhatha Tara Singh (Ajnala), Jiwan Singh Road (Gol Bagh), Katra Khajana, Partap Nagar, Meera Chak, Wadala Johal, Rose Avenue, Majitha Road, Hukam Singh Road, Bal Kalan, Katra Sher Singh, Kaluwali (Verka), Josan Market (Hall Bazaar), Budha Theh village, Bhangwan village, Gobind Nagar, Kot Harnamdas, Green City, New Golden Avenue, Anand Avenue, Bhawani Nagar, Bharat Nagar (Batala Road) and Wadala Kalan.The contact cases included eight jawans of BSF battalion posted at Khasa, three from Guru Harkrishan Nagar, two from Preet Vihar and one each from Green Field on Majitha Road, IVY Hospital and Kathunangal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-deaths-44-new-cases-in-amritsar-123181
07-08-2020||The city has a number of historic buildings related to the Guru period (1469-1708)||Rich legacy of Amritsar going down in ruins...lack of vision to blame?||Chitra CinemaChitra Cinema is one of the oldest cinema halls in the state. The cinema was constructed by Mahna Singh Nagi (Ramgaria) in 1909. Mahna Singh was a native of Lullan village, near Jandiala Guru. Its construction was completed in 1915. Initially, the name of the cinema was Crown Cinema Sardar Mahna Singh Theatrical Hall. Residents used to call it Mahna Singh Da Mandua. Mandua is a Punjabi name for theatre. This over-a-century-old building, lying abandoned, attracts heritage lovers from all over. People want that it should be preserved.Town Hall buildingThe British-era building, which was the Amritsar municipality office for years, is being converted into a food street now. A portion of the late 19th-century building was given to the Partition Museum in 2015. The structure is being changed for the food street now. Victoria Jubilee HospitalThe Punjab Government restored and revamped the abandoned 127-year-old colonial building of Victoria Jubilee Hospital, now Urban Hatt, in consultation with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, to attract tourists to taste Amritsar’s cuisine in 2016. But it was non-operational since restoration. Now, the building is being converted into a hotel by a private firm. Ram Bagh DeorhiThe MC had renovated the 200-year-old Ram Bagh Deorhi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh under the National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY) scheme in 2019. It was adjoining the Ram Bagh Gate, which was demolished during the British rule in 1860. As per the oral history, Maharaja Ranjit Singh used to sit here to hear grievances of people. The government converted it into a folk museum and exhibited local trade, cultural and folk instruments and goods, but the MC failed to make it functional. Despite being renovated, the building has started deteriorating again. Summer Palace Deorhi at Company GardenThe around 200-year-old building of Maharaja Ranjit Singh-era, known as the entrance (deorhi), is situated on the backside of the Summer Palace in Rambagh. A portion of the building collapsed in March this year. The historic deorhi is in a deplorable condition since long and crying for attention. Earlier, the deorhi was under possession of Service Club, but they handed it over to the MC a few years ago. Summer Palace of Maharaja Ranjit SinghThe Summer Palace of legendary Sikh King Maharaja Ranjit Singh was built in 1819. It is under renovation for the past 13 years, but is still incomplete. The Maharaja used to stay here during his visit to the Golden Temple. It has been out of bounds for tourists for years owing to its prolonged conservation work. Started in 2007, the conservation work is still not over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rich-legacy-of-amritsar-going-down-in-ruins-lack-of-vision-to-blame-123182
