07-11-2020||Gurbaxpuri||‘Kutcha path’ here will rattle your trust in authorities!||Tarn Taran, November 6The 600-metre long stretch on Shani Mandir road is nothing more than a ‘kutcha path’ where dust clouds are raised by passing vehicles throughout the day. In rainy season, life of the common man here turns into hell. The rainwater after mixing with animal dung increases groundwater contamination.Residents of nearby villages abandon their unproductive cattle on the road. Potholes have deepened and bitumen layer is not visible. Commuters have been facing problems due to bad condition of the road.From the Muradpur side there is a vet polyclinic, Punjab Children Academy, St Francis Schools, Master Colony, Goindwal Sahib bypass etc, which have made it a busy passage. The other side of the road has old Tarn Taran, railway station and Muradpur locality.Town’s oldest educational institution Government Senior Secondary School, also known as Mandi Wala School, is also quite near to the road.Dilbag Singh, a fodder stall owner, said, earlier the road was in good condition. Its condition has deteriorated in the past more than five years. “The repair work on the road did not stay for more than a week. Stray animals can be seen on the road throughout the day,” he added.The authorities of Government Senior Secondary School have closed windows of the classrooms to get rid of odour emanating from animal manure and the dust from the road for the convenience of students.Reeta Gill, a former principal of Government Senior Secondary School, some years ago had written a letter to the Municipal Council authorities to redress the menace but to no avail.Iqbal Singh Malmohri, a social worker of the area, too, has written number of letters to the authorities for the proper arrangement of stray animals to make it clean but nothing has been done till date. SDM Rajnish Arora said that he would visit the spot at the earliest and the administration would try to solve the issue of road as well as of stray animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kutcha-path-here-will-rattle-your-trust-in-authorities-167374
07-11-2020||GS Paul||Farmers seize two paddy-laden trucks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6The farmers, who have been holding a protest against the new farm laws on the Amritsar-Jalandhar National Highway, on Friday seized two trucks loaded with illegal paddy which was brought from UP.This was the second such seizure by farmers in the past 15 days. Earlier on October 22, as many as 26 trucks were stopped that had brought paddy from Aligarh, Bulandshehr and Sitaganj areas of UP which were ordered by owners of rice shelling units in Amritsar and Tarn Taran.Dilbagh Singh, sarpanch of Rajewala village, said the two trucks were seized in the wee hours. “After scrutiny, we found the trucks laden with illegal paddy which was brought from UP on the order of a rice shelling unit in Tarn Taran. Since the drivers pleaded mercy, we let them go without any police proceedings,” he said.Harjit Singh Jhita, press secretary of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said, “It is a pity the paddy produced by Punjab farmers has been lying unattended in their houses or mandis whereas traders have been buying it from other states like UP or Bihar as it is available at cheaper prices, though it can never match the quality of paddy produced in Punjab. In UP, it is sold for Rs 900 per quintal whereas here it is sold for Rs 1,888 per quintal here, which is the MSP. So to make more profit, rice shellers prefer to get it from outside state. But it is illegal,” he said. On the other hand, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, which has been staging a protest at the Jandiala Guru railway station, have decided to vacate the rail tracks to allow the movement of goods trains.Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary of the committee, said in almost all parts of the state, the rail tracks were freed from any interruption as the agitation was shifted to railway stations since October 21-22 so that goods train could run.“All the 31 farmer unions have got the rail tracks freed for the movement of goods trains keeping in view the interest of traders, security forces and common people. We too have vacated the rail tracks at Jandiala. The Central Government has been making frivolous excuses to defame the farmers with intent to scuttle their agitation. We have no intentions to intercept goods trains, but the Centre wanted to run passenger trains, for which I want to make it clear that our ‘rail roko’ agitation will continue for which we will plan our strategy ahead,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-seize-two-paddy-laden-trucks-167375
07-11-2020||---||Posing as sewer cleaners, 5 armed men rob Amritsar trader’s family after holding them hostage||Amritsar, November 6Around five armed persons robbed a trader’s family in Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area after holding them hostage on Friday. The miscreants gained entry into the house by posing as sewer cleaners.The victim, Devinder Singh Bedi, who is a textile trader, was at his house along with his wife and two grandchildren. The accused reportedly looted jewellery and cash worth Rs 8 lakh from the family. One of their grandchildren, Janu, was injured as he intervened when the accused attacked Bedi.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma along with other police personnel reached the spot. He said a case had been registered.Bedi said, “Around 4 pm, the accused knocked at the entrance gate. They opened a manhole outside my house. When I went out, the miscreants demanded a polythene bag to dump the silt removed from the manhole. When I went inside, they followed me.”Bedi urged them not to harm his family members and take whatever they wanted. He said they searched almirahs and decamped with cash and jewellery from the house. The accused also took away digital video recorder of CCTV cameras.Eyewitnesses said the accused might have conducted a recce of the area. They were in the area from 2 pm and opened every manhole in the street. They then closed the street from both sides and one of them sat outside the house while others robbed the family, said residents.Locals alleged unscrupulous elements roamed freely in the area. Recently, a medical shop located on the GT road was burgled, said residents. Sharma said they were examining CCTV footage of cameras installed in the locality to identify the miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/posing-as-sewer-cleaners-5-armed-men-rob-amritsar-traders-family-after-holding-them-hostage-167376
07-11-2020||---||Sikh bodies to celebrate first Kartarpur corridor  anniv at Dera Baba Nanak||Amritsar, November 6To mark the first anniversary of Kartarpur corridor on November 9, the Dal Khalsa along with Akal Federation will hold a meet at Dera Baba Nanak-Kartarpur border.Disclosing this, Dal Khalsa spokesman Kanwar Pal Singh said their organisation believed that the Kartarpur Corridor was a landmark achievement for the Sikhs.Indian government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak temporarily suspended the operations on March 16 from its side whereas Pakistan had reopened the access in June this year.The community leadership, including Akal Takht Jathedar, has been urging the Indian government to reopen the corridor but ironically, all pleas have been ignored.Kanwar Pal Singh termed Indian government’s argument that it would reopen considering Covid-19 protocols as dilly-dallying tactics.Taking a dig at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Akali stream for twisting and distorting the facts on the issue related to management of Darbar Sahib at Kartarpur Sahib, he said, “With ulterior motive people here lose no opportunity to create animosity between Sikhs and Pakistani Muslims.”“I talked with Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Committee president Satwant Singh to get first hand information. He apprised me that the maryada and religious affairs will be looked after by PSGPC as it is being done in all gurdwaras and only administrative and development work would be looked after by Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETBP), a govt body with Muslim members,” said Kanwar Pal Singh .Harpal Singh Cheema and Narien Singh, heads of both the organizations called upon Sikh Sangat to participate in the anniversary event. “Indian government’s argument of Covid crisis is nothing but lame excuse. The entire country is buzzing with social, religious and political activities”, they said.Kartarpur Sahib corridor is a 4.7- km long passage, which was inaugurated by Prime Ministers of both the countries last year on November 9. Pertinently, Dal Khalsa dedicated the Nanakshahi calendar of the current year to the corridor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-bodies-to-celebrate-first-kartarpur-corridor-anniv-at-dera-baba-nanak-167377
07-11-2020||---||Agri Dept to provide certified wheat seeds||Amritsar, November 6The Punjab Government has issued a policy for distribution of certified wheat seeds in Amritsar. Amritsar Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini said this year 9,900 quintals of certified wheat seeds would be distributed in the district on subsidided rates. He said the government would deposit 50 per cent of the seed price or Rs 1,000 per quintal directly in bank accounts of farmers and subsidy would be given on seeds for a maximum of 5 acres.The Chief Agriculture Officer said this subsidy would be given to farmers up to 2.5 acres first after which the remaining subsidy would be given to farmers having land holding between 2.5 acres and 5 acres. The subsidy would be transferred only through the Aadhaar seed accounts. The prescribed proforma/ application for obtaining wheat seed subsidy can also be downloaded from the website of the department www.agri.punjab.gov.in. These applications should be verified by sarpanch, nambardar and MC councillor.He appealed farmers to submit their complete application in the focal point or block level or district level offices of the Agriculture Department by November 11.The block level officials of the department would immediately issue permits to eligible applicants. He said farmers would get seeds from an authorised sales centre registered with the Punjab State Seed Certification Institution.After purchasing the seeds on the basis of permit, farmer need to submit the certified seed bill and wheat seed certification tag with the Block Agriculture Officer within 10 days and after verifying the bill, subsidy would be transferred to their bank accounts.Subsidised wheat varieties 2967 HD 3086, Advanced PBW-343, Advanced PBW-550, PBW-1 Zinc, PBW-725, PBW-677, WH1105, PBW 621, WHD 943 and late sown verities such as PBW 752 and PBW 658 would be made available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-dept-to-provide-certified-wheat-seeds-167379
07-11-2020|| ||‘Find solution to current impasse over farm laws’||Amritsar, November 6 Expressing deep concern over the state of Punjab’s economy and industry in the wake of ongoing rail blockade because of agitation by farmer organisations, the district chapter of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has issued a fervent appeal to both the Centre and state governments and also the farmer organisations to come together and find an amicable solution to end this crisis.Naavniit Miterr, chairman, Amritsar Zonal Council, said it was a democratic right to raise the cause through peaceful protests and agitation. We understand that farmers may have some reservations with respect to the recently passed farm Acts. However, this agitation is now causing economic losses not only to large businesses but also to the local industries, labour in the factories, logistic providers, small karyana stores, who are unable to get the supply. He stated the more this blockade continues, the more harm it will bring to the overall image of state as an investment and business destination, which successive state governments had painstakingly tried to build.Rajiv Sajdeh, vice-chairman, CII Amritsar Zonal Council, stated that industry had already been reeling under stress because of the lockdown imposed in the wake of Covid-19. He said because of the ongoing agitation and blockade the industry was suffering from all ends, be it the supply of raw material and semi-finished goods to our factories.He said both events created a crisis like situation for trade and industry adversely impacted the working capital and liquidity in market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/find-solution-to-current-impasse-over-farm-laws-167380
07-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Local Bodies Dept approves Rs 366-cr Budget for Amritsar MC||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6The Local Government Department approved Rs 366 crore Budget (financial year 2020-21) for the Amritsar Municipal Corporation.It’s for the first time when the department gave approval without conducting the MC General House meeting, in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Last year, the Budget was Rs 451 crore.As per the current financial year Budget, the MC has expenses of Rs 370 crore. The MC allocated Rs 69 crore for the development of the city. The civic body would spend Rs 10 crore on recarpeting and construction of roads. New water supply lines and sewer lines would cost Rs 8.97 crore. The maintenance and construction of sewer lines would cost Rs 5 crore. Similarly, Rs 5 crore has been allocated for the construction and repair of streets in the city. Slum improvement would cost Rs 50 lakh and the MC would buy various machines worth Rs 1.50 crore.Parks would be maintained at a cost of Rs 50 lakh and another 50 lakh would be spent on street lights. The MC would spend Rs 50 lakh on implementation of the Swachh Bharat Mission. A gaushala would be counstructed with Rs 1 crore. The civic body has allocated Rs 2 crore to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic and Rs 2.50 crore has been allocated for miscellaneous expenses. The MC has to pay Rs 10 crore for repayment of loan to Japan International Corporation Agency (JICA). Around 17 crore would be spent on the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) projects.As far as recovery targets were concerned, the MC failed to achieve the targets set by the General House last year. During the current year, the MC had a target to recover Rs 40 crore from property tax, but it could recover only Rs 11 crore. The target for advertisement was 12 crore, but it recovered Rs 2.80 crore. Similarly, the MC had set a target to generate Rs 40 core by sale of its properties, but could collect only Rs 1.82 crore. The water and sewerage wing collected only Rs 2.69 crore against the target of Rs 35 crore.The MC failed to achieve targets of electricity tax, tehbazari, building application and composition fee, regularisation of unauthorised colonies, licence fee and additional excise duty.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said targets could not be achieved in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are focusing on recovery of taxes, bills and fees,” he said.Targets missed||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/local-bodies-dept-approves-rs-366-cr-budget-for-amritsar-mc-167382
07-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||ECHS scam: More arrests likely soon||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 6With the arrest of a doctor and an ex-serviceman and his wife by the local police in connection with the Ex-serviceman Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) scam on Monday, more arrests are likely be made in the near future.A huge amount of government funds was allegedly bungled by the hospitals in connivance with some ex-servicemen by claiming fake medical bills. Interestingly, the patients on whose names fake medical bills were generated did not know about this.The incident came to light when a complaint was lodged with the police by Army authorities after carrying out investigation at their end. They also submitted a 200-page report to the police along with the complaint.Following this, a case was registered with the Cantonment police against around 16 docs of several private hospitals, besides several ex-servicemen.On Monday, the police nabbed Neelkanth Hospital CMD Dr Sunil Devgan, an ex-serviceman Shinda Singh and his wife Parkash Kaur.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik, who is investigating the scam, said further investigation was underway. “As analysing documents and hospital records was a time-consuming process, investigation was still under progress. More arrests would be made in the due course of investigation,” he said.Malik also appealed to the people who wanted to get their statements recorded in the case to contact him. Following the arrest of Dr Sunil Devgan, many other suspects had gone underground. The police authorities said raids were on to arrest them.In his complaint to the police, Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander (Station Headquarters), Amritsar Cantonment, said during an internal investigation, the accused, including doctors and several ex-servicemen, were found guilty of connivance and misappropriating government funds. The armed forces submitted the 200-page report to the police. The police had booked 24 persons, including 16 doctors, for the fraud.The Army authorities found that several Army veterans misled ECHS card-holders to collect their cards and later connived with the hospital managements and fabricated the record in order to usurp funds from the Department of Ex-servicemen Welfare.The ex-serviceman lured ECHS card holders by stating that the Centre was providing a relief fund in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and asked for their cards. Later, they made fraudulent admissions in the hospitals during the lockdown and claimed hefty medical bills from the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/echs-scam-more-arrests-likely-soon-167384
07-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Gang of swindlers busted, three held||A team of Patti CIA staff, led by Sub-Inspector Sukhraj Singh (in-charge of the staff), arrested three members of a swindlers’ gang here on Thursday. The gang was involved in issuing fake driving licences, registration certificates (RCs) and other official fake documents.SI Sukhraj Singh, the investigating officer (IO) of the case, said the gang members, residents of Patti town, were identified as Arwan Kumar, his brother Sarwan Singh and cousin Jagjit Singh. He said the accused were produced in court on Friday which remanded them in three-day policy custody.The investigating officer said the gang had been involved in such fraudulent activities for the last two years and had established its contacts in other districts of the state.He said the team seized 39 stamps of DTOs of different districts, medical officers, school principals and other officials. The team also seized 32 fake registration certificates (RCs) of two- and four-wheelers, driving licences, etc. The team took the stamp-making machine into their custody.The Sub-Inspector said the gang members would note down missing vehicles from newspapers and give fake RCs on the stolen vehicles to thieves to sell these to innocent people. The gang members would take a large amount for issuing documents and had amassed huge property. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-swindlers-busted-three-held-167385
07-11-2020||---||MC urges residents to keep Amritsar city clean||Amritsar, November 6Health officials of the Municipal Corporation asked the residents to keep their surrounding areas clean in the wake of the festival. The MC will issue challans to the violators. Meanwhile, Mayor Karamjit Singh issued instructions to the officers of various departments of the Municipal Corporation to keep the city clean in view of Diwali festival. He stated that during the festival days, a lot of activities take place in the city. A large number of devotees visit the city to celebrate Diwali. Hence, there was a need to manage garbage. While instructing the officers of the Fire Brigade Department, the city Mayor said on Diwali, fireworks and lanterns are lit by the people of the city which sometimes leads to unfortunate incidents. He asked the officers of the fire brigade to be vigilant in dealing with any untoward incident keeping in view the safety of the dwellers.The Mayor issued instructions to the staff of the Fire Brigade Department to avoid any kind of negligence in their duty during the festive season and to take immediate action on every call.The health officials called the residents to cooperate with the sanitation staff and not litter here and there. Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said bins had been installed in every corner of the street and everybody should put the garbage in it. The MC will issue the challan in case of violation of the instructions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-urges-residents-to-keep-amritsar-city-clean-167387
07-11-2020||---||Tree axed at Urban Haat||Amritsar, November 6A private firm, outsourced by the Amritsar Development Authority (ADA) to develop the Urban Haat as commercial centre, axed a peepal tree here on Wednesday. Deepak Babar, president of Mission Aagaaj, raised the alarm in this regard. Babar claimed that the tree was decades old as the building of Urban Haat is more than 125 years old. “It is not the first tree axed by the developer as several other trees are missing from the Urban Haat premises”, said Babar. The firm has been reportedly converting the building into a hotel and has made several infrastructural changes in the old historic building. The government had restored and revamped the 125-year-old colonial-era building of Victoria Jubilee Hospital in 2015. Earlier, it was lying abandoned. Initially, the government had decided to develop the replica of the famous Lahore Food Street to boost the city’s tourism. Now, the project has been given to a private firm which is now reportedly converting the building into a hotel. The Amritsar Development Authority had sublet it to a Bathinda-based firm in November 2018. Deepak Babar said, “The authorities are not concerned about the city environmnet. If the centuries old building can be preserved, why not trees?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tree-axed-at-urban-haat-167388
07-11-2020||---||Artworks of 31 painters on display at SGPC workshop||Amritsar, November 6As many as 31 painters from all over Punjab participated in the workshop organised by the SGPC, depicting Sikh history on the canvas.The selected paintings with the theme on Sikh culture, history and struggle that led to formation of SGPC, would be presented in the special exhibition, to be organised as part of the SGPC’s centennial celebrations.After performing ardas, the painting workshop was inaugurated by SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal at Bhai Gurdas Hall.“The exhibition would be the centre of attraction between November 13 and 17. Every painter would be honoured but the five best painters would be specially rewarded,” he said.Others present on the occasion included former senior vice president Rajinder Singh Mehta, general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami and executive members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artworks-of-31-painters-on-display-at-sgpc-workshop-167389
07-11-2020||People having houses or agricultural land near the path of the proposed Delhi-Katra expressway are all set to get richer. Their properties will be acquired by the government at handsome rates. When the land was acquired for Kartarpur corridor||All eager to be part of Delhi-Katra expressway||Controversy over MP Sunny Deol’s Man FridayA few months ago, MP Sunny Deol had triggered off a controversy by appointing a screenwriter Gurpreet Singh Palheri as his Man Friday. And to complicate things for himself, he did this by making the appointment on his official letterhead. This gave the impression that people had chosen Deol as their representative in the Parliament but he chose somebody else to represent them. This development did not go down well among both his detractors and supporters within the BJP. On his part, Palheri was never comfortable with the intricacies of big time politics. The man is no longer in the thick of things and his place has now been taken over by young Pankaj Joshi. The MP’s man in New Delhi is veteran Ashok Chopra while affairs of the constituency are now being looked after by Joshi. The new incumbent has opened an office in Pathankot. Joshi is having a busy time looking after planning and execution of projects brought from the Centre by Deol. Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency has nine Assembly segments but the Pathankot seat takes the cake because it has become the fulcrum around which everything revolves. Joshi says his master is a hard task master. “Sometimes, he even wakes me up at odd hours to know the exact position of projects being undertaken by him in the area. I am surely on a learning curve,” he said.Arjun partap bajwa is Testing new watersActing was his first love, but now Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa, has been forced to consign it to the back-burner. His father and Qadian MLA, Fateh Jung Bajwa, has asked him to take over the affairs of his Assembly segment. Arjun is also a member of the Gurdaspur zila parishad and these days is active touring the villages doing his lot for people. During the lockdown period he could be seen among the masses distributing masks and sanitisers. Another responsibility thrust upon him is to supervise the Congress party’s affairs in the neighbouring seat of Sri Hargobindpur. Despite the fact that Fateh’s long time ally, Balwinder Laddi, is the sitting MLA of Sri Hargobindpur, yet it is Arjun, who holds confabulations with people. The crux of the matter is that Fateh and Laddi have fallen apart following which the former has asked his son to take over the affairs of Laddi’s seat. It is a known fact that Fateh is considered to be close to CM Capt Amarinder Singh. His voice is heard in the corridors of the Secretariat in Chandigarh. The grapevine is working overtime and there are rumours that Arjun may be asked to test the political waters in the 2022 Assembly polls. As they say, in politics everything is possible. Incidentally, among all the six seats Gurdaspur district has, Qadian and Dera Baba Nanak, are considered to be the safest ones for the Congress. If that is the case then the actor in Arjun will cease to exist. It will be replaced by the politician. How successful will he be in his new avatar remains in the realms of speculation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-eager-to-be-part-of-delhi-katra-expressway-167390
07-11-2020||---||Five GNDU teachers among top scientists of world: Stanford Study||Five scientists of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) have been listed in the world ranking of top 2 per cent scientists in an independent study conducted by Stanford University. In the study, the scientists of Stanford University created a database of more than 1,00,000 top scientists of the world and made ranking on the basis of standardised citation indicators such as citations, h-index, co-authorship and a composite indicator.The AchieversDr Narpinder Singh, head of the Department of Food Science and Technology, Dr Subodh Kumar from the field of materials science, Dr SS Sekhon (energy), Dr Tarlok Singh Lobana (inorganic and nuclear chemistry) and Dr Daljit Singh Arora (biotechnology) are on the listDr Narpinder Singh, head of the Department of Food Science and Technology, Dr Subodh Kumar from the field of materials science, Dr SS Sekhon (Energy), Dr Tarlok Singh Lobana (inorganic and nuclear chemistry) and Dr Daljit Singh Arora (biotechnology) have been listed in the ranking on the basis of research quality and quantity indicators. Dr Narpinder Singh is the seniormost professor of the university and worked as Director, Research, at GNDU for three years. He is a Fellow of the Cereal and Grain Association (formerly American Association of Cereal Chemists International) and was awarded by the Research Excellence Award by the Web of Science in Agricultural Sciences in 2019. He holds DST- JC Bose national fellowship and has been given ICAR Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Award. He has served as a visiting professor in the US, Japan, UK and China and has published 264 papers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-gndu-teachers-among-top-scientists-of-world-stanford-study-167187
