07-10-2020||Gurdaspur||Sunny Deol: No more a ‘farmer’s son’||Also read: Sunny Deol says agricultural ordinances will help farmers get better priceDeol had damaged the farmers’ psyche. Something big had to be done to fix things. Hence, came in the rally. The central leadership sent out messages to leaders directing them to ensure the event was well planned and equally well executed.Sujanpur MLA Dinesh Singh Babbu and state president Ashwani Sharma were the fulcrums around which things revolved. The ‘farmer’s son’ had indeed messed up things and it was left to local satraps to undo the damage.  – Ravi Dhaliwal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sunny-deol-no-more-a-farmers-son-152281
07-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Current times not sitting well with Rajbir||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 6Rajbir Singh, a rickshaw-puller from Chheharta, starts his day at 9 am and visits all prominent places in search of passengers. You can often spot him standing outside a leading hospital at the Mall Road.He has been in this line of work for last 20 years but never witnessed such soul-sagging times. Working for more than 10 hours, he’s unable to earn Rs400 till late evening nowadays. “The tourists are not arriving in the city. They were our main customers and didn’t hesitate to pay for a ride. Local passengers prefer an auto-rickshaw or a local bus,” Rajbir laments. As train services remain suspended, it was also one of the hotspot for making some dough. “We frequently used to get passengers from the railway station and bus stops. Now, I have to travel more to find takers.”At least he owns his rickshaw, so fortunes are a tad well in contrast to those who rent. His observation states that running a rented one is no more a viable option, for even a meagre amount of Rs50 per day rent has a rippling effect on the daily expenses. The crisis is long from being over for the rickshaw-pullers. “A large number of rickshaw-pullers, who used to ride rented rickshaws, left this work and shifted to labouring at construction sites,” he explains.According to him, the only positive thing which happened during the lockdown was hike in fare of the auto-rickshaws. “They charge Rs20 from Mall Road to the bus stand. Meanwhile, we have to argue to get Rs20 for small rides! Otherwise, local passengers are not willing to not pay this much,” he adds.“You can’t meet the basic needs of a family if you do not earn Rs400 daily. But we don’t have any other option,” Rajbir alleges that the poor are being ignored by the government. The only step taken was to give a few of the large number of rickshaw-pullers, coming to the city for running rented rickshaws, employment under the MGNREGA. “There is no other alternative for the urban poor. The government is only helping traders and corporate houses only,” he raises concern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/current-times-not-sitting-well-with-rajbir-152098
07-10-2020||Neha Saini||Unlocking the survival instinct||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 6The process of unlocking has been about rebuilding lives. As most sectors try to reopen and function keeping in mind the changes thrown in by the pandemic throughout the world, however, in city, most businesses and individuals are now looking to move towards normalcy. Among several who lost their livelihood during the peak lockdown days, Gaurav Mahajan, 38, a school bus driver, is now working in food delivery business. The circumstances of the food industry have changed drastically with zero contact system of operation being a mandatory provision. Even in food delivery business, Gaurav says the emphasis is on avoiding contact and ensuring maximum safety while delivering orders.“All throughout the lockdown, food delivery business was low as majority of people preferred homely dishes. But with things reopening, the business has picked up. We make two to three deliveries every day on an average and since most niche restaurants have now reduced walk-in load, online food deliveries have increased in demand,” he tells.A change of profession for Gaurav, a bus driver for a private school before dark days of the lockdown, delivering food might not be the most consistent source of income, but it’s better than doing nothing. “I had my own bus that I used to drive on contract for a private school. But ever since the curbs, schools have not reopened. Now, the DC has announced that even when the schools reopen, school transport would not be allowed until things normalise more or without parental consent. So, I had to weigh other options,” he says. Eventually, he sold his bus to support family; monthly income too suffered a downfall. “But at least I have a job,” he is relieved.In a profession, where he is constantly exposed to the risk of infection, the unlocking days mean that Gaurav has to wear mask and gloves as mandatory measures throughout the day. “We collect the orders through zero contact process; the restaurant uses disposable and polythene wrapped food packages and places it in our bags. On way to delivery, we do not touch the package, instead we ask the customer to do the honours,” he shares. Most transactions are cashless, but all carry a separate pouch bag for customers who had opted for ‘cash on delivery’. “We do not have to touch the currency notes and client also does not have to worry,” Gaurav explains.But these measures are not enough. He is devoted to a strict personal hygiene regimen once he is home. “I carry several packs of gloves and hand sanitisers in my bag. I discard gloves after touching any surface and use a new pair. Also, I sanitise my bike twice a day. I wash myself every time I come home. It’s become a ritual for us,” he adds.Meanwhile, Gaurav has also found a second job as a shop salesman to support his family. “My average monthly income has suffered and with no savings taking up multiple jobs is the new rule for survival,” he shares.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unlocking-the-survival-instinct-152099
07-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||GNDU staffer’s suicide: 2 booked after family stages protest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 6Following the demonstration by family members of Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, a contractual employee of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), the police booked two persons — Ram Lubhaya and Amarnath — for abetment to suicide on Tuesday.Harpreet ended his life by hanging at his house in Vikas Nagar area on October 3. He was perturbed after allegations of theft were levelled against him by some employees in the university. A case was registered against him and he was sent to judicial remand in Pathankot. He got bail on October 1.The family members staged a dharna outside the GNDU on GT road. They raised slogans against the police as well as the GNDU authorities and expressed dissatisfaction over their action so far. Earlier, they had refused to take the body after post-mortem examination.Harjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, alleged that her husband was working at the GNDU for the last 10 years and there was no complaint against him. Suddenly, some employees accused him of stealing fans. Without holding any probe, the police registered a false case against him.Rajbir Kaur, elder sister of the deceased, said they had brought him up as their child. She demanded immediate arrest of the accused who had circulated a video of him thereby leading to his insult in the society. She alleged Harpreet was also thrashed by the police in the custody.The deceased’s family members named four employees of the GNDU who had allegedly circulated the video on social media. They urged the police to register an FIR against the accused.The dharna was lifted after a case of abetment to suicide was registered against Lubhaya and Amarnath. Chhavi Dhillon, a Congress leader said if the cops do not arrest the accused at the earliest, they would protest again.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said on the statement of the deceased’s family, the police have booked two employees of GNDU. He said further investigation is underway and if the role of any other employee comes to light, appropriate action would be taken. He said raids were on to nab the suspects who went underground after the registration of an FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-staffers-suicide-2-booked-after-family-stages-protest-152100
07-10-2020||---||Amritsar residents paying cow cess, but no financial aid for this gaushala||Amritsar, October 6While residents have been paying cow cess on the purchase of automobiles and liquor, besides electricity bills, cattle shelters have been at the mercy of philanthropists and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to purchase fodder for strays.Some religious organisations have been working for the cause as the government-run cattle shelters are in a shambles.A large number of stray cattle can be seen roaming on the roads due to shortage of space at existing shelters and willpower of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC).Ram Tirath, executive member, Baba Bhaure Wale Gaushala Seva Samiti, said, “At present, there are 600 cattle at the shelter, but it’s solely dependent on donations from people and other organisations.”In 2010, the state government approved a monthly grant of Rs 50,000 for the gaushala to manage its expenses. “We got the grant till 2018 after which nothing has been paid to date,” said Tirath.The monthly grant was to be issued by the Municipal Corporation. However, the gaushala officials claimed that despite meeting several officials, the aid has not been paid.“After the lockdown was announced in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in March, we faced severe shortage of funds. A few NGOs have been helping us and our volunteers have reached out to residents for help,” said Tirath and added that the cow cess collected from masses public must be used for the welfare of stray animals.Animal lovers have asked questions related to non-availability of cow cess, which is collected by various departments of the government, but to no avail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-paying-cow-cess-but-no-financial-aid-for-this-gaushala-152101
07-10-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Three passers-by injured as two groups exchange fire near hotel||Tarn Taran, October 6  Three passers-by were injured during a cross-fire between two groups of the supporters of the college students near hotel Seven Star on the Tarn Taran- Amritsar road on Monday.  Four out of the 18 accused in the case have been identified as Bhagwan Singh, Inderjit Singh Babbu, Devinder Singh and Ravi among other residents. The police said the accused were the supporters of the college students who had gathered on the spot. Both sides opened fire on each other. Jagjit Singh Walia SP (Investigation) said the relatives of the injured immediately shifted them to different hospitals. The accused who were on cars too absconded from the spot soon after the crime and the police reached the spot very late.  The police said the identified accused were facing such types of criminal cases previously too.  None of the accused has been arrested as yet. A case under Sections 307, 160, 149 and 148 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered by the city police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-passers-by-injured-as-two-groups-exchange-fire-near-hotel-152102
07-10-2020||---||Bassi promises parking facility to traders at Truck Scheme Market||Amritsar, October 6Dinesh Bassi, Chairman , Amritsar Improvement Trust, on Tuesday assured the traders at Truck Scheme Market on Chamrang Road of providing parking facility. Bassi inaugurated development works in the market.The chairman said a 50-foot parking would be provided to the market. Apart from this, a 20-foot green belt will be developed, so residents can walk in the evening. Besides, a service lane will be constructed by installing interlocking tiles along with GT Road. “It will also enhance the beauty of the market. As the Chamrang Road leads to Sri Darbar Sahib, so we will provide all facilities to accommodate tourists”, said Bassi.Superintending Engineer Pradeep Jaswal, Executive Engineer Bikramjit Singh, Rana Pawan Kumar Rakhra, Nishan Khurana and Vivaan Khurana were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bassi-promises-parking-facility-to-traders-at-truck-scheme-market-152105
07-10-2020||---||Sixth state-level job fair ends at Guru Nanak Dev University||Amritsar, October 6The sixth state-level employment fair concluded at Guru Nanak Dev University here on Tuesday.Addressing the concluding session of the sixth state-level employment fair, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through video conferencing stated that 93,000 youths were placed in different companies during these fairs. He said under the flagship scheme “Ghar-Ghar Rozgar” unemployed youth were being felicitated to gain jobs.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Deputy Commissioner, said about 4,000 unemployed youths got jobs during the 11 job fairs held in the month September.Leading 15 companies had taken part in these fairs which included SBI Life Insurance, Pukhraj, Agri Herbal, Max Life Insurance, LIC, Octopus Solutions and others.He called upon unemployed youth to register themselves in the Employment Bureau only to get benefited from these fairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sixth-state-level-job-fair-ends-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-152106
07-10-2020||---||Spa centre owner found dead in hotel, family cries murder||Amritsar, October 6Mystery prevails over the death of a spa centre owner, identified as Princejot Luthra, who was found dead in a hotel room located on the 100-feet road falling under Division B police station here on Tuesday.The police took the body into custody and sent it for post-mortem examination. According to the police, his body had turned blue and it seems consumption of some poisonous substance led to his death.The family members, on the other hand, termed it a murder and demanded a probe into the incident.Gurwinder Singh, SHO Division B police station, said they were waiting for the autopsy report which would confirm the exact cause behind his death. At present, inquest proceedings have been initiated.As per details, he had booked the hotel room in his name. Yesterday, he along with his three friends and a woman came to the room. They apparently consumed liquor together as liquor bottles were there on the table of his room.Today, when he did not come out of his room, the hotel management people got the door opened and found him dead.Pritpal Singh, father of the deceased, said Princejot was a baptised Sikh around four years ago. But he fell in bad company and got his hair cut. He said his friends convinced him to open a spa centre against the wishes of his family members. He invested all his money in opening the Spa centre.The police authorities were also looking into how the hotel management allowed a room to a local resident which is against the norms.The police also found two Russian girls in the hotel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spa-centre-owner-found-dead-in-hotel-family-cries-murder-152107
07-10-2020||---||Political parties trying to hijack farmers’ protest: Kisan union||Amritsar, October 6Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KSMC) blocked Amritsar-Delhi railway track at Devidas Pura village for the 13th day on Tuesday.Protesters burnt effigies of politicians for trying to weaken their agitation.The agitators have been protesting against three farm laws, which were hurriedly passed by the Centre.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KSMC, said political parties were trying to yield mileage out of farmers’ unrest.He flayed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and AAP state chief Bhagwant Mann for their attempts to hijack the agitation.He said if the Congress was so serious in abrogating three farm laws then why it did not waive promised debt of farmers in Rajasthan, Chattisgarh and Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/political-parties-trying-to-hijack-farmers-protest-kisan-union-152108
07-10-2020||---||Two fall prey to virus, 99 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 6With two deaths reported in Amritsar district due to the Covid-19, the toll reached 399 on Tuesday.The deceased have been identified as Hari Singh, a 78-year-old resident of Bhagatawala area, and Bachan Singh (80), a resident of Ajit Nagar on Sultanwind road.The district health authorities reported 99 fresh positive cases today. The new cases include 57 influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 42 are contacts of positive patients.The total count of cases has reached 10,732 in the district. With recovery of 164 persons, the total recovery count has increased to 9,338. At present, there are 995 active cases.‘Extend services of pharmacists’The Punjab State Pharmacy Officers Association has urged the state government to extend services of pharmacists who had retired on September 30. The association said around 250 pharmacists working at different positions had recently retired and as a result, the workload on existing employees has increased manifold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-fall-prey-to-virus-99-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-152109
07-10-2020||Amritsar||Man robbed of Rs 50k by 3 persons||Fir filed against daughter-in-lawAmritsar: The police have booked a woman for abetting suicide of her mother-in-law. The deceased has been identified as Amarjit Kaur (52), a resident of Shamnagar village, falling under Majitha police station. Harwant Singh, husband of the deceased told the police that his younger daughter-in-law often used to quarrel with them. He said as a result, Amarjit had threatened to end her life a number of times. He said on Monday when he went to his job, he received a call from his elder daughter-in-law that Amarjit had consumed some poisonous substance after a quarrel. The police have booked the accused under Section 306 of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-rs-50k-by-3-persons-152111
07-10-2020||Former cabinet minister and BJP veteran Master Mohan Lal is a man who dons many hats. It will not be an exaggeration to state that he is one of the most erudite men moving around in the area among the political class. ||Master Mohan Lal is back in the reckoning||This supremely fit septuagenarian has done his Masters in seven subjects-English, Hindi, Punjabi, Political Science, History, Sanskrit and Law. Even his detractors admit that he carries the quality of doublethink. His deep knowledge and understanding of things— political or otherwise — makes him the master of doublethink which is the ability to hold two completely contradictory beliefs at the same time and to believe they are both true. This is precisely why he can hold his own in debates or discussions on any topic under the sun. He has remained a national level grappler and his performances as Ravana on stage in Ram Lilas from 1966 till 2001 were always lapped up by the audiences. His rapport with central leaders is also well known. The man, however, has a grudge, not against his parent party but against some of its leaders. In 2012, then BJP state President Ashwani Sharma, a former protégé of Master, pulled the rug from under Guru’s feet when he managed the party ticket from Pathankot city. At that time Master was the sitting MLA. He also carries a chip on the shoulder for the manner in which he was unceremoniously booted out as transport minister in 2011. To his credit, he did not let these aberrations make permanent scars on his political career. After a hiatus of nearly 8 years, man, who runs a wrestling coaching centre in the town, is now back in the reckoning. The recent tractor-trolley rally taken out by the BJP in Pathankot has acted as a catalyst in his return to the political stage. This time it will be a toss-up between the ‘Guru’ and ‘Chela’ for the ticket. There are also whispers doing the rounds in party circles that he may either be given a gubernatorial post or a big time responsibility in the BJP national hierarchy. A victory for Master’s party in the polls will surely be taken cognisance of by the senior leadership.Convincing farmers regarding farm lawsAfter the October 4 tractor-trolley rally in Pathankot, dubbed as an ‘awareness rally’ by the BJP in contrast to the ‘protest rallies’ being held by the Congress, SAD and AAP, three-time MLA and former Deputy Speaker Dinesh Babbu has earned the sobriquet of ‘The Lone Ranger’ for the effort he put in to make the event a success. The Assembly seat that he represents, Sujanpur, is predominantly a rural seat and hence the maximum number of tractors and farmers were from his area. Once the central leadership approved the event a few days ago, Babbu was clearly told by the party high command that the rally’s success depended solely on him. On his part, the MLA, known for his proximity to central leadership, including Rajnath Singh, said it turned out to be one of the most difficult assignments he had been given till now. “Parties opposing the Bills had fed so much misinformation among the farmers that it became an onerous task for me to motivate them to join today’s proceedings. The main problem was to drill in their psyche that neither the MSP structure would be disbanded nor their agricultural lands would be mortgaged to private players,” said Babbu. At the end of the day, the legislator was smiling as the majority of men and machines came from Sujanpur. (Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/master-mohan-lal-is-back-in-the-reckoning-152112
07-10-2020||Amritsar||Missing ‘saroops’: SGPC uploads probe panel report on portal||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) today uploaded the report of Akal Takht-appointed probe panel pertaining to misappropriation of 328 Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ on its official website.Key demand metWith the 1,100-page report being put in public domain, one of major demands of protesters has been metWith the 1,100-page report being put in public domain, one of major demands of protesters has been met. The protesters, who are holding a sit-in outside the SGPC office, have also sought criminal proceedings against the officials indicted by the panel.The three-member panel, headed by Telangana High Court lawyer Ishar Singh, had brought out a mismatch of 328 ‘saroops’ after scrutinising the records of 2013-14 and 2014-15.After Navita Singh, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, withdrew from the investigation, Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had appointed Ishar Singh as the chief investigator. He had also appointed High Court lawyer Harpreet Kaur and CA Harleen Kaur as assistants in the probe. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sgpc-uploads-probe-panel-report-on-portal-152022
07-10-2020||Amritsar||Records fabricated, says Army report||Army veterans misled the ex-servicemen community health scheme (ECHS) card holders and later connived with hospital managements and fabricated records in order to embezzle huge amount of money from the coffers of the Department of Ex-servicemen Welfare.These are the findings of the investigation carried out by the Army authorities which submitted a copy of the probe report to the local police for lodging an FIR.On the basis of the report, the police booked around 14 doctors among 24 persons, including Army veterans, on charges of cheating, forgery and breach of trust. No arrest has been made till now as the accused went underground following registration of the case.However, Ex-Servicemen Sangharsh Committee general secretary Harpal Singh alleged the connivance of Army officials in the fraud.Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the matter was serious and needed a thorough probe. Before registering an FIR, the legal opinion of the district attorney was also taken. He said every aspect of the scam would be looked into. He has handed over the scam probe to Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/records-fabricated-says-army-report-152023
