07-12-2020||GS Paul||BJP leaders confront farmers on new office foundation day event in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 7Senior BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, former cabinet minister Anil Joshi and party’s local unit president Suresh Mahajan, faced embarrassment when they had to confront the agitating farmers during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the BJP’s new office in New Amritsar on Monday.Ironically, amid slogans raised from both the sides in the presence of heavy deployment of police, the BJP leaders continued to perform the ‘bhumi pujan’ ceremony. Post the ceremony, the BJP leaders skipped the venue in haste.Farmers, under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), were conducting a motorcycle rally around the city when they came to know about the BJP’s function.The farmers were taking out a rally to sensitise every section of society and seeking their cooperation for the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call on December 8 against the anti-farm laws.The infuriated farmers reached the venue and condemned the BJP leaders in a peaceful manner for holding an occasion at a time when their farming brethren have been protesting in biting cold.The farmers argued that instead of blindly following the dictates of their party high command, the workers and leaders of the BJP Punjab unit should have supported the farmers of Punjab.“How could they be so unconcerned when they get ministry seats on the basis of votes polled by Punjabis? But their actions implied that they were blindfolded under the political influence”, they said.The KMSC’s state general secretary, Sarwan Singh Pandher, wondered that the BJP Punjab leaders showed little concern about the agrarian crisis of Punjab.Activists of various farm unions have been staging sit-in outside the residence of Malik consistently since July.“When the whole nation and Punjabis from abroad, including in the UK, the US and Canada, have been lodging protests against the Centre-enacted farm laws, it was an opportunity for the Punjab BJP leaders to show nerve to clear their stance by showing solidarity with the Punjab farmers”, he said.He alleged that the BJP leaders had deliberately scheduled this programme a day prior to the farmers’ ‘Bharat Bandh’ call with an ulterior motive.“Their aim was to scuttle the ‘bandh’ call under a deep-rooted conspiracy. The pro-BJP slogans they raised was to incite us losing our cool so that we could be entangled under the law-and-order situation. But farmers refrained from indulging in their tactics and peacefully contested the BJP leaders,” he said.He said the current situation needed apolitical approach with a sole motive of standing with the farming community in their fight against the repressive farm laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-leaders-confront-farmers-on-new-office-foundation-day-event-in-amritsar-181113
07-12-2020||---||Motorcyclists hold protest march in Amritsar over agri laws||Amritsar, December 6‘Amritsar Riders’, a group of motorcyclists, conducted ‘rosh’ march (protest) against the Centre for their failure to revoke the three agri laws on Sunday. Members of the group kicked off their protest from the residence of BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik.Parminder Singh Walia of Amritsar Riders said the objective of the rosh march was to extend support to protesting farmers. He said a group of farmers had been protesting outside the residence of Malik for the last couple of months, despite a dip in temperature.The riders passed through various areas of the city, including, Court road, Cooper road, Bhandari railway overbridge, Elevated road, Tara Wala Pul, Golden Gate and concluded at Jandiala toll plaza.Another member of the group, Ajay Chauhan, said the bike rally was just a precursor for extending support to farmers. He said riders from the entire state would head to Delhi and take part in the agitation next week.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) stated that the state unit of the BJP should back farmers. AAP leader Parwinder Sethi said: “The entire nation is supporting farmers against the draconian agriculture laws passed in an undemocratic manner by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government.”Another AAP leader, Naresh Pathak, said, “The BJP’s Punjab unit is still supporting anti-farmer laws, which will not be tolerated. Instead of blindly following directions of their party high command, workers and leaders of the BJP’s Punjab unit must support their farming brethren who have been peacefully protesting in biting cold against the anti-farm laws.”Seema Sodhi of the AAP said, “It was blatant attempt by the government to enact laws to favour corporate houses. The Badals, who advocated the Bills in Parliament and praised them in media a few months ago, have suddenly started condemning the agri laws. The decision to end an alliance with the BJP is not due to their sympathy towards the farming community, but fear of facing wrath of the farmers.”The AAP leaders said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was hand-in-glove with the Centre and was trying to befool people by issuing vague statements.Anti-farmer face of Capt Amarinder stands exposed as he did not utter a word against these ordinances during the meetings called by PM Narendra Modi before introducing them in Parliament, said Sodhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motorcyclists-hold-protest-march-in-amritsar-over-agri-laws-180926
07-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||No train connectivity, pvt bus operators earning big bucks||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 6 As the train connectivity stands snapped for the last over two months, private transporters running their buses between Amritsar-Chandigarh and Amritsar-Delhi, have been raking in the moolah out of it. Even as the railways is going to operate Shatabdi between Chandigarh and Delhi, there is no such move from the Amritsar railway station due to the rail blockade being enforced by the activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) at Jandiala Guru railway station, about 10 km from Amritsar. The two Shatabdi trains being run between Amritsar and Delhi continue to remain cancelled.  Barring arrival and departure of two trains, four goods trains are arriving in the district, that too, via a diverted route from Beas, Tarn Taran and Bhagtanwala to Amritsar railway station. No other train is being plied from the local railway station. A large number of trains used to have a stopover in Delhi. Even then, the demand used to be very high. So, private buses used to cater those passengers who could not secure a ticket in them.  Since, the entire crowd has shifted to private buses, bus operators are selling tickets at Rs1,000 per passenger, which used to be close to Rs 600 during normal days.  Bus operators stated that the number of passengers came down relatively after the resumption of trains from other stations of the state. So, local passengers have started boarding trains from Ambala and other railway stations.  Earlier, a Shatabdi train used to depart at 5:10 am and another at 4:55 pm. Similarly, a Shatabdi used to arrive at 1:25 pm and another at 10:30 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-train-connectivity-pvt-bus-operators-earning-big-bucks-180927
07-12-2020||Manmeet Gill||Weekly bazaar aggravates trouble for commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Despite a crackdown on illegal ‘weekly bazaars’ in the city, vendors can be seen setting up shops on the Mall Road on weekend from Sant Singh Sukha Singh Chowk to Celebration mall. As a result, traffic jams on this stretch has increased manifold.Earlier, vendors used to set up shops on one side of the road, but for the last few weeks, such shops could be seen on both sides of the stretch. Vendors had been setting up stalls on the Radha Soami Satsang marg, an inner road leading to TB sanatorium.These temporary stalls aggravate trouble for commuters on Sunday as people park their two-wheelers on the road. The stretch connects the city to Batala, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Jammu andHimachal.A resident said, “Nobody has a problem with people selling their goods, but a system should be in place so that commuters are not harassed. The Municipal Corporation has taken action on many occasions, but weekly encroachments are on the rise.”Residence of the Commissioner of Police also falls on the same stretch, but the authorities failed to get the bazaar removed and check problem of traffic congestion in the area, said another resident. Harjot Singh, a commuter, said, “Not even a single vehicle can pass when the bazaar is operational. It takes 10 minutes to pass the 200-metre stretch.”Temporary stalls aggravated trouble for commuters on Sunday as people park their two-wheelers on the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weekly-bazaar-aggravates-trouble-for-commuters-180928
07-12-2020||---||Amritsar MC should not seek help from pvt clubs: City NGO||Amritsar, December 6The non-governmental organisation (NGO), Amritsar Vikas Manch, on Sunday urged the Amritsar Municipal Corporation to not seek financial assistance from three clubs situated inside the Ram Bagh for its maintenance.Manmohan Singh Brar, chief, Amritsar Vikas Manch, said, “One of the three deorees (entrance gate) was used by the Service Club for many years. The club management destroyed inner structures and raised shelves and walls as per their need and conveyance. They handed over the structure to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) some years ago. A watch tower is still in their possession. The lease period expired many years ago and management of three clubs is not paying any rent to the MC.”Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron, Amritsar Vikas Manch, said, “We filed a writ petition before the Punjab and Haryana High Court to shift the clubs from Ram Bagh. The matter is still sub-judice. Thus, it is contempt of court to seek assistance of those people who are facing the court case.”‘Violation of pact’As per the agreement between the MC and the ASI, the second party (Commissioner of the MC) agreed that garden and open areas within the notified boundaries of the monument shall be maintained by the civic body.However, three clubs, including Amritsar Club, Lumpsden Club and Service Club, operational within the monument indulged in unauthorised construction, said members of the Amritsar Vikas Manch.‘Beautify ram bagh under Smart City project’The Amritsar Vikas Manch urged the authorities to cancel the tender for establishing sports and women parks. Ram Bagh should be beautified under the Smart City project as green parks under elevated road and other green belts were being maintained, said members of the Manch||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-should-not-seek-help-from-pvt-clubs-city-ngo-180930
07-12-2020||Open House||‘You just cannot break the backbone of the country’||Use of force will not solve anythingYes, it is my firm belief that Centre has been at fault in handling the situation wrought about by farmers who are apprehensive that the Centre’s farm laws will pave the way for dismantling the MSP regime. The Centre has wilfully bungled in solving the issue by being adamant and non-concerned. The PM kept on beating around the bush in his ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programme without showing the least concern about the farmers’ agitation and its remedy; it should have been time for him to initiate ‘kaam ki baat’. But the government is taking the serious issue casually, hoping the crisis will blow over on its own. Educated or not, farmers realise what the corporatisation of agriculture and contract farming will mean for the small cultivators. The government just cannot ignore because their discontentment does not augur well for the country. Rather than holding meaningful talks with farmers and coming out with some tangible measures to allay their fears, the farmers were assaulted with teargas and water cannons. They are called the backbone of Indian economy, and many such sobriquets are used to describe them but Haryana didn’t have any qualms in unleashing brutal force against them to stop them from advancing to Delhi. Even roads were dug up and borders sealed as if an enemy were going to invade Delhi. Why can’t the farmers be allowed to protest peacefully in the national capital? The Haryana CM, at the behest of his Delhi masters, ill-treated the Punjab farmers who deserved to be treated with respect. But Khattar government acted like Judas. The PM and his ministers vociferously claim that farm Bills are for the benefits of the farmers, then why did they not hear them patiently? In fact everyone talks of grand plans for doubling farmers’ income by 2022 but in reality no one bothers about their plight for no concrete policies have been made for them. The use of force cannot solve the problem as it can not muzzle their voice. Hence, it becomes imperative on the part of the Centre to recognise the pain, pangs and depth of farmers’ emotions and sentiments to reach out to them sensitively to find a viable mechanism to redress their genuine grievances.Tarsem S BumrahQUESTIONHow can the city roads be made safe for commuters and pedestrians?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 10).Government has taken farmers for grantedThe indomitable and dignified farmers of Punjab have always raised their voice when the governments turned a deaf ear to their miseries; the most prominent such movement before the present highly spirited agitation was ‘pagrhi sambhal jatta’, in 1907. The only messiah for them so far has been Sir Chhotu Ram, who was Revenue Minister of Punjab, during the British rule. If a minister could help the farmers during the alien rule to tide over their miseries, then how tragic it is that after the Independence the indifferent attitude of the successive regimes has made the living of the farmers pitiable. When the virus was speedily ascending, the regime took certain obscure decisions and proclaimed that it was turning a calamity into an opportunity. In this mindset, during the turbulent period, the government hurriedly promulgated the three laws. Since then, the voices have been raised against these laws but nobody heeded the simmering discontent of the farmers. This made the farmers and their unions and associations to stand against these at the national level. Call of ‘Bharat bandh’ and indefinite sit-ins proved ineffective. The state was also made to legislate on these laws. They had given a call for the march to New Delhi on 26th and 27th of November. A few days before that, the government again cleverly and deceitfully sent a notice for meeting on December 3. The farmers have remained calm, peaceful, willing to yield their ground to some extent, but they remained resolute throughout. The government had taken the farmers for granted, as it had done in the recent past in the case of mass migration of labourers during the abrupt lockdown, and during the demonetisation.Hardish SandhuTime for Prime minister to think deeplyOur Centre, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has certainly got into the habit of taking blind decisions. Had the Centre consulted farm unions before passing the new laws, the ongoing protests, where large numbers of farmers are daily having a hard time, would not have taken place. Why is he always worried about benefiting the corporates? Many years ago, PM had also exploited Sikh farmers in Gujarat by forcing them to sell their land to the corporates, who eventually built factories on their land as also reported by some media houses. He is now experimenting with the same model with farmers of Punjab. In other words, he pretends a lot to be a PM who best thinks of the common public but the reality is something else. When farmers are feeling threatened with new laws, why can’t he scrap them? As leader he should make everything as simple as possible and not complex, with which common man continues to suffer. What an irony that he did not have any empathy for the farming community too. It also makes me wonder what logic ‘Mann Ki Baat’ programmes holds when he rarely wants to listen to the concerned community before rolling out any new laws. But if he shall, there’s still time for him to think deep about his blind decisions usually announced in the middle of the night, or else he may prove very grave for our nation. Currently, all government has brought is just chaos peppered with stress, anxiety and darkness for farmers.Rameshinder Singh SandhuProtesters must be given justiceThere has been a ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest for two to three months which has shaken the government to core. Prime Minister Narendra Modi told the farmers that government’s intentions are as pure as ‘Ganga’. The Centre is also inviting protesters for talks as they have blocked five entry points. A lot of people are supporting the protest. The government is fully responsible in tackling the situation. New agricultural laws must be made with a profit to both farmers and government agencies. The whole situation must come to a conclusion. The common people are suffering. In my opinion this situation must come to a negotiation as soon as possible. Concluding, the protesters must be given justice.IzleenHow can government be so indifferent?It is a typical case of mishandling of an important issue by the Central Government. Ordinances are being issued for urgent matters when Parliament is not in session. Why were they issued during the pandemic, it was not so important matter? To replace the said ordinances, three farm Bills were brought to Parliament and were passed without forming a house panel or without debate and discussions. What was the hurry? Parliament panel when formed even invites suggestions and objections from the general public! Very recently the President said that dissent, discussions, debates and tolerance are integral part of a vibrant democracy. But our present rulers have changed the definition of democracy to a government ‘of the people, by the bureaucrats for the politicians’. Farmers of Punjab were peacefully agitating since last two months but the Centre never bothered to address their grievances, rather they added insult to injury by inviting farmers’ representatives to Delhi and Union Agriculture Minister not available to meet them. Finally, when farmers marched towards Delhi they were thwarted by Haryana and Delhi police. It is a classic case of treating every problem as a nail when you are having a new hammer. The Centre could have solved the problem by understanding the nature of Punjabi farmer. It is said that a Punjabi farmer would not allow you to take a piece of cane from his farm but happily give you a block of juggery if asked in friendly way. Above all, why stop a peaceful agitation when all political parties in our country are born out of the womb of agitation, name any political outfit BJP, Congress or the most recent formation AAP, all are formed from agitations at different times. After wastage of lot of time and valuable resources central government is not ready to talk to farmers without any preconditions which would go against them.Harsh N JoharHigh time farmers’ demands are heardIndeed, it is a double-edged sword. Farmers and the Union government, both are in an illusion. The government evaluated the power of farmers on a wrong note. People from the administration need to address this responsibly. And the Centre needs more mediators to solve this issue. In the end, I just want to add that we don’t need to judge either of them. Let the government and farmers sit on a table and discuss what is right. India is a democracy, no?Aayush SharmaCentre should agree to farmers’ demandsThe government has granted the freedom to farmers to sell produce from one state to another, but has not given the legal guarantee for MSP. Basically, farmers want written assurance in the form of mandatory MSP. With talks progressing this week, they expect the government to understand their side of the debate. The Centre should agree to make amendments in order to provide the MSP security, and farmers should shun the illegal and anti-social path of closing Delhi border. The movement should not deviate from its original activities.Saahil Hans||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/you-just-cannot-break-the-backbone-of-the-country-180931
07-12-2020|| ||Man found dead, kin alleges murder||Amritsar, December 6Angrej Singh (30), who works as driver, was found dead in Uthian village under mysterious circumstances here on Saturday. He has been missing for the past one week. Manpreet Kaur, wife of the deceased, informed the police that Angrej was missing since November 29. He had returned from his work and after 15 minutes left the house without telling anyone. She said he did not return home that night. She said she told about this to her father-in-law Bagicha Singh. She said she along with other family members looked for him in the village and other adjoining areas. She said yesterday again they tried to look for him. She said when they were passing through fields in Uthian village, they found some stray dogs feasting on a dead body. She said the family members identified him from his clothes and the mobile phone found near the body. She suspected that Angrej was killed by some unknown persons. The police authorities said a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC had been registered against unidentified persons following the statement of Manpreet Kaur. They said further investigations were under progress while the body has been sent for autopsy. They said the postmortem examination would reveal the exact cause of death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-found-dead-kin-alleges-murder-180932
07-12-2020||---||Recarpeting of roads around Amritsar ISBT starts||Amritsar, December 6Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu launched works related to recarpeting of roads around Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-State Bus Terminal at Ward Ward No. 47 in Amritsar (East) segment today. The works would be completed at a cost of Rs 15 lakh.The road around the bus stand was in pathetic condition and every pilgrim and passenger who visited the city had to face a lot of difficulties. The Mayor said they would recarpet all the roads around the bus stand.He said this road connects the Golden Temple where thousands of pilgrims visit to pay homage. He said the work was underway to repair other roads in the surrounding area as well.The Mayor said the development works would also be started at the City Centre.Rintu visited the IDH market and heard the issues of residents and trades. He said as the IDH was a wholesale market, it witnesses huge rush and they were committed for its development.Councillor of Ward No. 47 Jatinder Sonia and vendors from IDH market were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/recarpeting-of-roads-around-amritsar-isbt-starts-180934
07-12-2020||---||Amandeep academy adopts 7 budding cricketers||Amritsar, December 6Amandeep Cricket Ground, a professional cricket academy, has announced Rs1 lakh per month financial support package for the young cricketers who can now continue their passion without worrying about their bank balances.As part of the scheme, seven cricketers would be trained under seasoned professionals like Manish Sharma, a Ranji player, and Sandeep Sawal, a coach of Punjab cricket team.Dr Avtar Singh, chief orthopaedic surgeon, Amandeep Group of Hospitals, while making the announcements said the aim is to teach the fundamentals of the game and develop a culture of excellence, while utilising the services of best coaches and facilities available. “This is a progressive step towards the progression of the sport in India. I am delighted to offer my full support to this wonderful initiative. I have immense faith in the potential and capabilities of our entire team. Our aim is to ensure that we offer the best of infrastructure, training facilities to our players. This is the first such initiative in our state,” said Dr Singh. The seven budding cricketers selected by the team include Vinay Chowdhary, current Punjab Ranji player, Rohit Gulati, U-23 Punjab team, Salil Arora, U-19 India team, Sumit Sharma, U-23 Punjab team, Abhishek, U-23 Punjab, Vashish, U-23 Punjab, and Jatinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amandeep-academy-adopts-7-budding-cricketers-180935
07-12-2020||---||Ram Tirath Mela ends, guidelines breached||Amritsar, December 6The 10-day Ram Tirath Mela being held at ancient hermitage site of sage Valmiki concluded here on Sunday.Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Asthan, situated at Ram Tirath area, is believed to be the same site where Bhagwan Valmiki had composed the epic Ramayana and given refuge to Sita. This is where she had given birth to Luv and Kush.The devotees took a dip in its holy sarvoar. However, a majority of them were not wearing masks and social distancing was nowhere to be seen for the place was packed. People from different parts of Punjab visit the shrine to pay obeisance during the mela. The SAD-BJP government, keeping in view the popularity and antiquity of the shrine, had laid the foundation stone to raise the Bhagwan Valmiki temple at a cost of Rs115 crore in 2013. A water treatment plant to clean the water of the holy sarovar was also installed.The district administration had made elaborate arrangements to hold a trouble-free fair – cops were deployed heavily for security, while fire tenders and a booth for first aid was also set up.4 Covid deaths, 86 new cases reported in districtWith four deaths reported in the district due to the Covid-19 on Sunday, the toll has increased to 514. The health authorities also reported 86 new positive cases, taking the total count to 13,509. The new cases include 35 influenza-like illness cases and 51 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile with recovery of 57 patients, the count has reached 12,255. The district at present has a total of 740 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ram-tirath-mela-ends-guidelines-breached-180936
07-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Robbers decamp with rice truck||Hand chopping: Accused arrestedAmritsar: The city police have nabbed Daljit Singh, alias Jeetu, and Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu Mota, wanted in a murder bid case in which they had chopped hand of an auto-rickshaw driver, identified as Surjit Singh, alias Vicky, on November 28. According to the police, the duo had a number of cases of bootlegging against them. They were produced in the court and brought on police remand. Two days before the incident they had attacked and seriously injured Happy Masih of Housing Board Colony with sharp weapons. Seema, mother of victim, had told that Jeetu and Mota had an enmity with Happy Masih of same locality. She said on November 26, they along with their unknown accomplices had injured Happy Masih. Her son Vicky had helped Happy and took him to hospital for treatment. TNSTeen kidnapped from Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Shah Faraz, a 17-year-old native of Bihar, who was living with his first uncle Abbu Bakkar, near Shani Mandir, was kidnapped by some unknown person on November 26. The city police have registered a case under Section 365 on Saturday. Abbu in his complaint to the police alleged that someone must have lured Shah to give him some domestic job. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robbers-decamp-with-rice-truck-180939
07-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||A fusion of emotions and soul||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 6Decked up in traditional Rajasthani dress, Amar Singh, a folk artist, sets the mood inside a Rajasthani restaurant located at Novelty Chowk here.He plays ravanahatha (a traditional Rajasthani stringed instrument) and can sing in four languages - Rajasthani, Punjabi, Hindi and Haryanvi – as per the demand of the customers, who besides relishing the food also have the company of his soothing voice.He starts performing in the noon as it is time for customers to arrive at the eating joint. “I love singing and playing music and this is what my forefathers did. I learned this art from them and will pass the baton to my sons,” he said.The people present request him to play several numbers, mostly Punjabi and Hindi. Humbly accepting their demands, he plays famous Punjabi folk song “sun charkhe di mithi mithi ghook, mahiya mainu yaad aunda”, a big hit with the customers. But that Rajasthani touch given to Punjabi folk and other traditional songs is what makes it all the more captivating.It is the love and appreciation of people which gets him going. When asked how he learned these languages. “I learned it by listening to songs in these languages and interacting with people,” he used to ask colleagues about the meaning of the lyrics.However, the main occupation of his family was agriculture while his forefathers used to perform as a hobby. He also performs bhajans, Hindi and Punjabi songs during marriages and during religious fairs besides performing in hotels and restaurants.“I enjoy the people appreciate me and given get pictures clicked with me. “Sometimes I feel I am no less than a celebrity,” he chuckles. Earlier, he performed in restaurants at Chennai, Delhi and a couple of other prominent cities before coming to Amritsar this year. However, the lockdown forced him to return to his native place and return only a couple of months ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-fusion-of-emotions-and-soul-180940
07-12-2020||---||Minor girl (12) ‘gang-raped’, three booked||Amritsar, December 6In a shocking incident, a minor girl was allegedly ‘gang- raped’ by her maternal grandfather and his two sons in Majitha. The accused have been identified as Surti and his two sons Arjan Singh and Harpreet Singh.The incident came to light after the 12-year-old victim narrated the entire incident to her maternal aunt. Following which her aunt filed a complaint with the Majitha police. The complainant stated to the police that her elder sister tied the knot second time and her maternal aunt Kulwinder, wife of Surti, adopted the 12-year-old girl. She said Kulwinder died around a year ago.She said after her death, they went to the deceased’s house a number of times to take custody of the girl, but the accused did not allow to take her.She said on November 29, when she went to meet the girl, the latter informed that the accused used to sexually harass her. She said they brought the girl to their house and when they called Surti, he threatened to kill them.A case has been registered under Sections 376 B, 376 D and 506 of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act against the accused. While Arjan has been held, remaining accused would be nabbed soon, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-12-gang-raped-three-booked-180941
