08-05-2020||---||Variety of flowers add charm to GNDU campus||Amritsar, May 7As many as 72 varieties of flowers and 500 plants of roses in 25 colours add a colourful and fragrant charm to the Guru Nanak Dev University campus these days. With the lockdown underway and the campus minus the hustle bustle of the student life, the university is basking in natural beauty and serenity, which is a treat for eyes.Some 500 acres of the GNDU land covered with floral bloom that reminds one of true poetical vision of noted writer and environmentalist Bhai Vir Singh.Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu had initiated a project to plant 550 varieties of flowers in the botanical gardens of the university as a part of the commemorative celebrations of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. These varieties were especially brought from Bengaluru to mark the occasion.The botanical garden also boasts of three species of honey bees, seven species of butterflies and about 150 species.The green and colourful bounty of the campus has also invited some avian guests, including a large number of birds and peacocks. Specific winter flowers, including antirrhinum, pansy, petunia, verbena nasturtiums, poppy, marigolds, dahlias and sunflower, are spotted inside the campus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/variety-of-flowers-add-charm-to-gndu-campus-82070
08-05-2020|| Our Correspondent
||AIDS Control Society workers protest||Tarn Taran, May 7 Contractual employees of the Punjab State AIDS Control Society began an indefinite strike in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office here on Thursday.  The protesters were demanding regularisation of their jobs and hike in salary. They presented a memorandum of their demands to the officials concerned.   Harjit Singh, district president of the Punjab AIDS Control Welfare Association, said  doctors, paramedical staff and other categories or workers had been working in the department for the last 20 years on meager salaries. He said the AIDS Control Society employees were also being assigned duties in Covid-19 units. He said the employees were demanding protective kits for working in Covid units, 20 per cent salary hike and insurance cover.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aids-control-society-workers-protest-82071
08-05-2020||Sarbat Da Bhala Trust comes to aid of pathis’ families
||Sarbat Da Bhala Trust comes to aid of pathis’ families||Amritsar, May 7 Amid the lockdown, the Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust has come to the rescue of ‘pathis’ (who perform prayers) at Guru Ki Wadali near here on Thursday. Sukhdeep Singh Sidhu, the Majha zone in-charge of the Trust, said in the second phase of the relief programme, at least 50 families of ‘pathis’, who were associated with the SGPC but were rendered jobless due to movement restriction, were given ration kits. A team of the Trust, being managed by Dubai-based business tycoon SPS Oberoi, distributed grocery items and essential items that could last for one month. Sukhjinder Singh Haer, district head of the Trust, said these families had been identified and would be provided essential services continuously till the situation got normal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhala-trust-comes-to-aid-of-pathis-families-82072
08-05-2020||---||More pain: 50 new cases take Amritsar count to 276||Amritsar, May 7After the confirmation of 50 new cases among the returnees of Hazur Sahib on Thursday, the Amritsar district count of Covid-19 cases has reached 276. Similarly, Tarn Taran’s tally has risen to 157 with 13 more positive cases reported.Despite the rising number of cases, the district administration has decided to open its sub-registrar office from tomorrow and the District Industry office has permitted 315 units employing about 6,000 persons to resume operations.Officials of the Health Department said all positive cases were already kept in isolation centres and proper care was being taken of them.Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said today’s positive cases increased the total number of positive patients to 157 in Tarn Taran. Like in Amritsar, all the fresh cases were pilgrims who returned from Nanded Sahib.Fiftyseven positive cases were reported on Wednesday and 47 on Tuesday. Seven of the 13 cases reported today belonged to Ekal Gadda village and two belonged to Bhail Dhai Wala village. One each case was reported from Tarn Taran town, Muse Khurd, Dhuna Dhai Wala and Usman villages.Twelve of the 13 Covid-19 patients were kept at the quarantine centre of Guru Gobind Singh Khalsa College, Sarhali, and one was kept at the Khadoor Sahib centre. The positive cases were being shifted to the isolation wards. Once figured in green zone, Tarn Taran has now emerged at number two in the state in terms of Covid-19 cases.The Deputy Commissioner said reports of 165 samples were received today from Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar. Of them, 13 cases were found positive and 152 negative. The district received the reports of a total of 1,430 samples out of which 1,273 were found negative and 157 positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-pain-50-new-cases-take-amritsar-count-to-276-82073
08-05-2020||---||Amritsar administration plans alphabetical system for opening shops||Amritsar, May 7The district administration is yet to take a decision on giving relaxation in the curfew in the district. However, preparations for the same are under way. Shops have been marked with specific coding and would be opened accordingly on designated days of the week.Initially, the administration is marking the shops of essential goods, standalone shops and neighbourhood shops in the streets.On the directions of the administration, police personnel started identifying the shops and initiated the marking on Lawrence Road and some other localities on Thursday. The alphabetic codes some other localities on Thursday. The alphabetic codes are being given to the shops. There would be three codes A, B and C. Officials of the district administration claimed that the opening of some shops was under consideration, but no relaxation was announced yet.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said, “We are marking ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ on the shops of essential goods in some localities, but there is has been made no announcement of curfew relaxation yet. Initially, we are marking the shops of essential goods and standalone shops in streets. It’s not decided yet that which shop would be opened. The Deputy Commissioner would announce it after making all the arrangements.”The district is in red zone with the highest number of Covid-19 patients. Several other districts in the state have given relaxation in the curfew and shops are allowed to function for some hours.The district administration officials claimed that they did not decide on the date of opening of the marked shops. After completing the coding of the shops, the administration would issue the orders which shops would be opened on which day of the week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-administration-plans-alphabetical-system-for-opening-shops-82074
08-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||1,180 migrants leave for their homes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 7The first batch of 1,180 migrants left for their native state by a special Shramik train this evening. The train was scheduled to depart for Gonda (UP) at 6 pm, but it left at 7.54 pm.The district administration had made arrangements to accommodate 1,188 passengers and called 1,500 migrants. As many as 300 migrants did not reach the railway station.Sources said the train was late by two hours due to a delay in the medical checkup of all passengers. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the government had information about 60,000 migrant workers from Amritsar district, who wanted to return to their native places.“A message regarding transportation arrangements, time for pickup and medical examination process was sent on the cellphone number of migrant workers," said Dhillon.Although the administration had claimed to have made arrangements to pick up migrants from their homes, most passengers reached the screening centres on their own. Screening centres were set up at local marriage palaces.Sources said since several commercial establishments in some districts of Punjab had resumed operations, several migrant workers changed their mind to return home even after registering themselves for the same.Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla and Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust, Dinesh Bassi distributed langar and water bottles to the migrants.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill and Additional Deputy Commissioner Himashu Aggarwal also reached the railway station to greet the passengers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-180-migrants-leave-for-their-homes-82075
08-05-2020||When the lockdown was announced after the Janata curfew||He manages to strike balance between profession, passion||Dr PS Grover---------------Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 6What had started as a news of a possible disease outbreak in Wuhan in January has now become a first- hand experience of a global pandemic as the entire world is under the lockdown.When a majority of healthcare professionals and doctors have been working round the clock on the frontline, Dr PS Grover, a noted chest specialist from the city, has also been managing to strike a balance between his professional work and interests.Dr Grover, who is not directly dealing with Covid-19 patients, said he had a tough time dealing with the onset of the pandemic. ‘When the lockdown was announced after the Janata curfew, I spent the last week of March feeling annoyed. I used all my senses watching TV channels which led to depression and lethargy. Beginning of April changed my thoughts and attitude. Sitting idle was harming my body. Being a senior citizen and as per regulations, I couldn’t attend OPDs. So, I started free online consultation for my regular patients,” said Dr PS Grover.The online consultation keeps him busy in the first half of the day. He said the whole situation has had an impact on everyone's mind. “A majority of people are facing an acute stress which I have labelled as corona anxiety syndrome with symptoms of insomnia, loss of appetite, sweating, breathlessness, chest pain etc. While redressing the miseries of my patients, I too overcame my depression,” he said.The later half of the day is reserved for his passion – music. “Besides listening to my favourite songs, I started online music mehfils every weekend. The first online mehfil was attended by 76 artistes which has increased to hundreds now. I am also planning on to share videos of 90 seconds to bring positivity amid the corona crisis. I am involved in social activities through the Rotary Club and distributing masks and ration to the needy with the help of the local police. I also distributed PPE kits at GND Hospital in collaboration with the local IMA,” he said.In between, he loves indulging in home-cooked meals and some exercise. “As a doctor, you never can really retire from your profession. But the corona lockdown has given me a taste of post-retirement life," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-manages-to-strike-balance-between-profession-passion-82076
08-05-2020||---||Cop’s mother found murdered, robbery suspected||Amritsar, May 7A 47-year-old woman, Sarabjit Kaur, whose son is a cop, was found murdered in Sandhu Colony falling under the Sadar Police Station area here on Wednesday evening.Her son, Gurkirat Singh, is posted at the Gharinda police station here. The incident came to light when she did not respond to the repeated calls of a relative who later called him. Gurkirat called his neighbour who went to his house to find her lying in a pool of blood. He rushed back home in the evening.Following a preliminary probe, the police suspected that she was murdered by thieves as certain valuables and cash were missing from the house which was completely ransacked. The police registered a case under Sections 302, 454, 380 and 34 of the IPC against unknown persons.Gurkirat told the police that he left for office in the morning. In the evening, his cousin called her and said that Sarabjit Kaur was not responding to his phone calls. He said he called his neighbor, Sunnypal Singh, to see why his mother was not picking up the phone. He found the doors of the house opened while her body was lying in a pool of blood on the floor of the lobby. He informed Gurkirat about this who rushed back home from Gharinda where he was posted.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detective) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Sarabjit’s throat was slit leading to bleeding and her death. The house was ransacked. Gurkirat said around three and a half tola (35 gm) gold ornaments, Rs22,000 cash and a cell phone were missing from the house. Gurkirat’s younger brother lives in Canada. Gurkirat and his mother used to live alone in the house. He said the police was examining the CCTV cameras in the area to find clues about the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-mother-found-murdered-robbery-suspected-82077
08-05-2020|| ||City sees 3 snatching incidents, one nabbed||Amritsar, May 7Three snatching incidents were reported in the holy city amid curfew restrictions imposed in view of Covid-19 pandemic. A man was shot at by three armed robbers in the Kot Karnail Singh area here on Wednesday. The victim, Pardeep Singh, was returning home at Kot Atma Ram from Tej Nagar area on his scooter when the suspects intercepted him. He stated to the police that when he reached near ICICI Bank at Kot Karnail Singh, three unknown persons came on a bike and stopped him. He said before he could understand, one of the suspects took out a pistol and shot at him. He suffered bullet injury to his right leg. The accused snatched his wallet containing Rs 2,000, mobile phone and fled away. He said he was rushed to a private hospital for treatment. A case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered in this regard while no breakthrough has yet been achieved in the case. In another incident, armed persons snatched scooter and two mobile phones from a man who had gone to drop his friend at his residence on Wednesday evening. Manjit Kumar, the victim stated to the police, that he along with Bunty Kumar works at a hotel near the Shivala Phatak area. He said that he went to drop Bunty Kumar to his house at Dharampura Colony in the Mohkampura area on his scooter. He said when they reached near Ram Talai Chowk, two scooter-borne persons came and stopped them. He said two more persons were coming behind them on bike. They were armed with pistol. He said they snatched scooter, two mobile phones and fled away. Meanwhile, a snatcher was nabbed while his accomplice managed to escape from the spot. Both were identified as Jaskaran Singh from Khankot and Nijjarpura village. Surinder Kaur told the police that after buying flowers from nursery she along with her son Rajdeep was returning home. She said that when they reached near Government Elementary School Daburji two persons came on a bike and snatched her purse containing Rs 2,800.  She said her son, with the help of passersby, nabbed Jaskaran Singh of Khankot village while Jaskaran of Nijjarpura village fled away.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-sees-3-snatching-incidents-one-nabbed-82078
08-05-2020||  ||Man booked for murder bid||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 7   Intervening in the fight between two brothers proved dear for Harpal Singh of Ranike village when one of them opened fire at him. He sustained splinter injuries in the incident. Besides, his aunt also sustained injuries.  The incident occurred on May 2 while a complaint was lodged with the Gharinda police on Wednesday.  Harpal told the police that on May 2, he heard someone shouting in the neighbouring house of Gurbinder Singh. He said he, along with his aunt, went there and found that Gurbinder and Rajbir Singh were arguing with each other.   He said when he tried to intervene, Rajbir started abusing him. The complainant said thereafter, they returned home.  He said enraged over this, Rajbir shouted at them and threatened him for intervening in the fight between two brothers.   Harpal said Rajbir fired at him with .12 bore rifle, leaving him and her aunt injured. Thereafter, they were taken to hospital for treatment.   A case under Section 307 of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered against Rajbir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-murder-bid-82079
08-05-2020||Amritsar||24-hr water supply: comments sought||Migrants in UP demand helpTarn Taran: A total of 30 workers from the district who are stranded in Aligarh district of Uttar Pradesh (UP) have urged the Punjab Government to help them return to their homes. Satnam Singh of Naushehera Pannuan, Nishan Singh of Khilchaian, Harjit Singh, Sonu Singh, Sahib Singh and others said they used to work at the construction site of a thermal plant in Aligarh and had been stranded since the lockdown was imposed. They said they had not been given salary for the past two months or any relief such as ration. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-hr-water-supply-comments-sought-82080
08-05-2020||Amritsar||Association seeks full salary for nurses on probation||The Nursing Association at Government Medical College here has asked the government to scrap probation period of nursing staff and pay them full salaries, as they were risking their lives during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.As per government rules, the newly recruited employees get only basic salary during the period of their probation. Association president Narinder Buttar said: "The nursing staff on probation period gets only Rs10,300 as monthly salary. We demand that to encourage the staff, full salaries be paid during the probation period."The association has also demanded that services of contractual nursing staff be regularised. Buttar said many nurses were working on contract basis for the past 10 years. She said the government should regularise the services of all contractual health employees. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/association-seeks-full-salary-for-nurses-on-probation-82081
08-05-2020||---||Documentary captures varsity beauty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 7Capturing the beauty of nature and thriving avian community on the Guru Nanak Dev university, Inderjit Singh, a PR and media department staffer from the university, has made a three-minute documentary. It has been uploaded on the university’s website and has been receiving a good response as the usually packed campus is covered with flowers of various varieties.“I visited the campus after taking permission to make the documentary as I wanted to capture the beauty of the campus and share it with the world. I took help from BTech student Abhiraj Singh. I shot the video on my mobile phone without any additional equipment and in natural light. My purpose was to show the campus in a different light since usually it is packed with students and visitors,” said Inderjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/documentary-captures-varsity-beauty-82082
08-05-2020||Dharambir Agnihotri||‘I keep a close watch on arrangements’||I was successful in bringing the daily life of all sections of society of my constituency back on track shortly after the lockdown with the help of my party men and pro-people policies of the Captain Amarinder Singh government.In the initial days of the lockdown, I used to send cooked meal to needy people in Tarn Taran from my own pocket. Then panchayats, social organisations, NRIs, Congress party workers provided meal to the needy families in the villages. As many as 15,000 ration kits, including 9,000 provided by the state government, were distributed among the weaker sections. Wheat procurement is at its peak and there is no payment problem to farmers. I am in touch with the people of my constituency.I used to be at my clinic every day from 10am to 1pm without break in my native Sheron village, where residents were being given free OPD facilities. Due to my busy schedule, I had to stop going to my clinic but then I handed over the responsibility to my daughter-in-law, who, too, is a qualified medico. Needy people come here and strict vigil is maintained and precautions such as maintaining social distancing, sanitisation, hand washing are taken. I keep a close watch on the arrangements regarding food, besides other facilities for the inmates under watch at the quarantine centres.Strict instructions have been issued to provide work to needy families under MGNREGA in villages.Since the lockdown, not even a single incident of clash between villagers has been reported, as I have persuaded village representatives to avoid such acts.(As told to Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/i-keep-a-close-watch-on-arrangements-82083
08-05-2020||  ||Councillor, her family come to aid of homeless, migrants||Provide them with home cooked meals, essential items      This crisis has left homeless people, beggars and migrants helpless. When the lockdown was announced, many devotees who had come to visit the Golden Temple got stuck here. We gave them food and clothes. Besides, we have also been taking care of beggars and other homeless people  Jatinder Kaur Sonia, councillor, ward no. 47   Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 7Catering to the needs of homeless and migrants in her ward no. 47, councillor Jatinder Kaur Sonia has been providing them with home cooked meals and essential items without a miss.   Sonia, along with her family, starts her day by distributing tea and fresh cooked food among the homeless, who have found shelter on streets outside the Golden Temple.  “This crisis has left homeless people, beggars and migrants helpless. When the lockdown was announced, many devotees who had come to visit the Golden Temple got stuck here. We gave them food and clothes. Besides, we have also been taking care of beggars and other homeless people,” said Sonia, who is also the president of the district Congress committee (Urban).  Her two sons, Nishan (24) and Vivan (22), and her husband Gurpratap help her in procuring ration and essential items for the meals.   “We prepare food at our home and then pack it in proper kits for distribution. We serve food to migrants, who have found refuge along the streets in Dharam Singh market and Heritage Street and some beggars under the Bhandari bridge. Since kids and women engaged in begging are not getting any ration from government agencies as they are not registered, it is important that they get food,” the councillor said.  Till date, the councillor and her family have distributed ration among 2,500 needy families in her ward. Besides, they feed 1,000-1,200 people every day. They also distributed masks among them. “We apply sanitiser on their hands before serving them meals. We make sure that social distancing is followed properly,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/councillor-her-family-come-to-aid-of-homeless-migrants-82084
08-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Ailing hotel industry needs relief package to come back on track’||The lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the business community hard, including the hoteliers. APS Chatha, chief executive officer, Punjab Hotels and Resorts Association, sheds light on the issues of the hotel industry and expectations from the government in an interview with Neeraj Bagga. Excerpts:How has lockdown affected hotel units?The industry suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 5,000 hotels in Punjab, including 850 in the holy city. There are about 2.5 lakh people employed in these hotels, including 50,000 in Amritsar. Tourism, being the most sensitive industry, ascends the popularity graph, which swiftly leads to rise in its occupancy. A minor issue is enough to spell trouble for the sector, crashing down the occupancy. People have lost their capitals just by sitting in their houses. All hotels have large scale power connections between 100 kW to 800 kvA. These connections have the fixed minimum charge whether one consumes power or not and expenses are imposed. Minimum charges of industries were waived, but hotels which fall under commercial establishments were exempted. Hospitality was granted the industry status in 2012, but it was not implemented.Do you expect resumption of business in near future?Hotels, restaurants and resorts will not likely open even after the curfew as people will abstain from dining out and going for outings. When the government will lift the curfew, it is likely to grant permission to the hospitality sector to resume functioning only with riders as it will avoid gathering of people and ensure social distancing. We recently renovated a hotel and was about to hand over it to a national hospitality chain for functioning from April 1. However, it refused to take over keeping in view the present situation and announced to do the needful after the situation gets normal.How are employers dealing with the issue of salaries?Most of the hotels paid salaries for March. Corporate house-run hotels are offering 30 to 50 per cent salaries. Hotels being run by individuals are not paying salaries for April and have assured the staff to re-employ them when the situation limps back to normalcy.What is the scope of online trade in the industry?About 80 per cent rooms are booked online and the remaining 20 per cent through walk-in. Online booking companies have not made payments to hotels which are receiving calls from customers for reimbursement.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?For hotels, it is neither a challenge nor an opportunity. A challenge is expected to improve and touch greater heights. About 30 per cent of the hotels and restaurants will never function again. The lockdown has broken the spine.What are your expectations from the government?There is a strong need for government assistance and only a package can revive the industry. In this scenario, we can pay the salaries to staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ailing-hotel-industry-needs-relief-package-to-come-back-on-track-82085
08-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar MSME units face existential crisis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 7The industrial sectors, including hospitality, textile, pharmaceutical and engineering, have recorded unprecedented job loss due to the lockdown.The pan-India shutting down of economy is having a catastrophic socio-economic impact as it is expected to wipe out considerable capital of the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) units, which will further lead to job loss and reduction in industrial output.APS Chatha, president, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said global and national hospitality chains operating luxury properties in the holy city had already fired nearly 25 per cent staff and effected salary cuts between 50 and 70 per cent.In the unorganised sector, where a majority of the hotels fall, proprietors have conveyed to their staff that they would be re-employed only when hotels resume functioning.Job loss in the MSME units is immense where the proprietors are claiming their capital was being eroded with each passing day.Amarjit Singh Asal, a Left leader, said, “Construction and domestic workers have lost jobs. Thousands of workers earning their wages as per their daily output and on job work basis like weavers have lost their livelihood.”Johny Dhawan, who runs an embroidery unit, said about 5,000 people were employed in nearly 170 embroidery units, most of which saw a decline following import of high technology machines. He said there was nearly 50 per cent salary cut of employees in April.Warp knitting is a leading arm of the textile unit in the city. The total turnover of Punjab’s warp knitting industry is around Rs2,000 crore with Amritsar contributing a major share. Wrap knitting fabrics are used in a range of items including upholstery of cars, home textiles, travelling accessories and men’s and women’s wear.Ajay Mehra, president, Amritsar Warp Knitting Association, said: “Salaries for March were paid. For April, a decision was yet to be taken after talks with workers. He said the ration need of the workers and their families was being taken care of.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-msme-units-face-existential-crisis-81750
08-05-2020||---||43 fresh cases, Amritsar count 276||Chandigarh, May 7With 118 fresh Covid-19 cases coming to the fore today, the state count has reached 1,644. The death toll has risen to 28 as a patient lost his life to the deadly virus in Hoshiarpur.As per the media bulletin, Amritsar topped the chart with 46 new cases, followed by Tarn Taran 43, Jalandhar 12, Patiala and Gurdaspur six, Bathinda two and Sangrur, Ludhiana and Fatehgarh Sahib one each.With 12 new positive patients, Jalandhar district’s tally reached 148. The new cases included contacts of a patient, who died yesterday. Four people are from Qazi Mohalla, four Rasta Mohalla and three from Qila Mohalla. The samples of 90 staff members of Guru Nanak Mission Hospital were taken after one of their colleagues was tested positive yesterday. Doctors said so far none of them had tested positive.In Hoshiarpur, a 55-year-old man from Harkhowal village died during treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, on Wednesday. The victim's Covid-19 test report was found positive on Thursday. With this, the number of positive patients in the district has gone up to 90 and deaths three. The victim had come to the civil hospital for treatment on May 3 in a critical condition. He had renal failure and jaundice. He was referred to the Amritsar hospital.Among the two new patients in Bathinda, one is a cop who, had gone to Kota in Rajasthan to bring back stranded Punjabi students. The other had travelled to Jaisalmer in Rajasthan.The reports of 76 persons were received on Wednesday, of which two tested positive. With these two patients, the total count in the district reached 39.As per the health department, so far samples of 34,701 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 28,933 samples were found negative and reports of 4,124 were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/43-fresh-cases-amritsar-count-276-81761
