08-06-2020||Amritsar||Infant among Amritsar’s three coronavirus deaths||An eight-month-old baby was among Amritsar’s three coronavirus deaths on Monday, officials said---a development that comes as the district’s COVID-19 tally inches closer to 500.The baby was from Amritsar’s Gopalpura Manjwind village and was admitted to Government Medical College in critical condition. The child’s initial symptoms were fever, cough, diarrhoea and lack of appetite, doctors said. He was moved to the hospital’s ICU as soon as tests came back positive.The infant is the district’s youngest casualty to COVID-19.The other fatalities were both elderly, ages 60 and 78.District health authorities said both patients suffered from existing health conditions such as diabetes and heart problems.The state’s health bulletin however registered only one of the three deaths.When the other two are recorded, the district’s death toll will rise to 11, surpassing Ludhiana’s fatalities.Amritsar also reported 18 new coronavirus cases, although the official state tally shows only 12 cases on Monday.It is not unusual to see such discrepancies between district and the state’s official tally, especially given that many cases are confirmed after the state tally is already compiled.Meanwhile, Amritsar administration sealed off six localities in the walled city area on Sunday.Bambay wala Khoo, Gali Kandhari, Katra Moti Ram, Ram Bagh wali gali, Katra Nain Sukh wali gali and Ganj di Mori was declared a containment zones on Sunday.Government rules say that any area with 15 or more cases is declared containment zone. The cluster has reported 19 cases over the last week.Amritsar has been reporting a spike in COVID-19 cases this past week. The district currently has 128 active coronavirus cases, of which 75 have been reported in the last three days alone.Amritsar also has the most COVID-19 cases of Punjab’s 22 districts---the number of infections now stands at 481.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/infant-among-amritsars-three-coronavirus-deaths-96301
08-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga
||Govt yes to reopening of malls fails to cheer owners||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 7 Even as the government granted permission to malls and hotels to resume functioning from June 8, most of them do not seem to have likened the move. Anticipating negligible movement of people and tourists due to Covid-19, most of them are reluctant to resume operations.  Piyush Kapoor, General Manager of the Ritz Plaza Hotel, said, they would not open the 55-year-old luxury property.  “It is not practically feasible to open the hotel when nobody is travelling. Besides, there is also a quarantine period for travelers,” he said. In addition to this, there is a scope of only stalled marriage parties. In any given situation, there will not be more than 500 in the entire city. Similar number of hotels and restaurants were available in city. Also the gathering cannot exceed more than 50 persons. All these make profits far more distant for us.        APS Chatha, President of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHARA) said from where customers would come as the borders with neighbouring Haryana and Himachal Pradesh were closed.  He said the AHARA issued advisories to its member hotels to open their establishments only after thoroughly studying covid 19 norms and commercial pros and cons. As per the Central Government released guidelines to manage the spread of coronavirus in hotels and other hospitality units, which are set to reopen during its Unlock 1.0, it will be a litmus test for them to abide by the norms.  There are broadly 30 norms to be followed by hotels, which include deployment of adequate manpower with Covid-19 protective norms, Valet parking to be operational with operating staff wearing masks and gloves, a proper disinfection of steering, door handles, keys, etc. of the vehicles should be taken up, separate entry and exits for guests, to secure travel history, medical condition etc, along with ID and self-declaration form of customers, to adopt contactless processes such as QR code, online forms, digital payments such as e-wallet etc for both check-in and check-out, luggage should be disinfected before entry in the hotels, required precautions while handling supplies, inventories and goods in the hotel shall be ensured.  Hoteliers stated that these norms could only be followed by high-end hotels where customers with high paying capacity come for stay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-yes-to-reopening-of-malls-fails-to-cheer-owners-96114
08-06-2020||Amritsar||Gang of ATM looters busted, 8 held||With the arrest of eight persons, the Amritsar rural police have busted a gang of ATM looters and recovered over Rs 11 lakh from their possession. While one of them was nabbed yesterday, others were held today.The arrested suspects were identified as Nitu, Parminder, Sagar and Amrit, alias Nikku, all residents of Khasa, and Talwinder, Sanjiv, Deepak and Mandeep of Majitha. The suspects looted an ATM in the Gharinda area on May 10. On the statement of Prikesh Panju, who works with the Fidelity Information Services, a private company that manages ATMs of various banks, a case was registered in this regard.He said an SBI bank ATM at Khasa was looted by unknown persons on May 10. The suspects had decamped with over Rs 23 lakh. The incident came to light when the security guard reached the spot the next morning and found the shutters open after which he informed the authorities.Gaurav Toora, SP, Amritsar rural police, said following investigations, the police arrested Nitu yesterday and his interrogation led to the arrest of the remaining accused. All eight persons were nabbed by the police and they recovered Rs 11. 25 lakh in cash from their possession.Miscreants broke open ATM, decamp with Rs2.8LSome unknown persons decamped with Rs 2.80 lakh after breaking open an ATM of Punjab National Bank located in the Partap Bazaar area in the wee hours on Sunday.The police reached the spot after getting information from the bank authorities. The police found clues about the miscreants and further investigation in the matter was underway.Arun Kumar, manager of the bank branch, said he received a call at around 6 am that the shutters of ATM was open and locks were broken. He said later, the police were informed and bank staff also reached the spot. He said they were ascertaining that how much cash was available in the ATM.Chheharta police station SHO Rajwinder Kaur said the investigations were on to identify the suspects. The ATM was broke open with the help of a gas cutter.Dev Dutt Sharma, ACP (W), said forensic teams reached the spot to collect evidence. He said the police was also analysing the CCTV cameras to get any clue in the incident. The suspects apparently came in a car. He said the bank authorities in the evening informed the police that around Rs 2.80 lakh were looted from the ATM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-atm-looters-busted-8-held-96115
08-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Virus spread continues, 15 more cases in district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 7The number of Covid-19 cases in the district continues to rise as the district reported 15 new cases on Sunday.In the fresh spike of cases that started on Thursday, the district has reported a total of 78 cases. The total number of cases in the district is 483. Of new cases reported on Sunday, 10 were suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) who either reported at Flu Corners at hospitals or were identified by teams of the Health Department.One case each was reported from Mohini Park, Fateh Singh Colony, Rani Ka Bagh, Dsonda Singh Road, Loharka, Krishna Nagar, Bhau Sant Singh Nagar and New Partap Nagar in the city and Gopalpura Manjhwind and Kathunangal villages. Apart from them, four contacts of a male patient from Fullanwala Chowk have also tested positive. An asymptomatic case has also been detected from Kangra Colony.Meanwhile, two more persons have been discharged after recovery. With this the count of cured patients in district has increased to 346. Civil Surgeon Jugal Kishore said 129 active patients are admitted at hospitals.Meanwhile, in a bizarre incident, an unidentified teenager dressed as Nihang stole mobile phones from two patients at Government Medical College on Saturday night. He was seen entering the Corona ward in a footage of CCTV camera installed at the corridor.The patients — a doctor and his wife — were sleeping when the thief entered the room at around 1:30 am. According to sources at the hospital, a gold ring of a patient who had died was found stolen a few days ago. The incidents have raised questions on the security arrangements at the facility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-spread-continues-15-more-cases-in-district-96116
08-06-2020||Amritsar||23-year-old shot dead, 7 booked||A youth, identified as Suraj Kumar (23), a resident of the Haripura area, was shot dead by unknown persons late last evening. He was at his residence when the incident took place. A pall of gloom descended on the area as news of his death reached the place. He was engaged and was planning to get married on June 15. According to information, Suraj suffered bullet injuries in stomach and on leg. He was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead.Shambhu and Chandan, residents of the locality, were behind the murder, alleged his family members.Though the police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 452 of the IPC and the Arms Act against seven persons, including Shambhu and Chandan, no arrest has been made so far.Badal, brother of the deceased, said people told them that Shambhu and Chandan, along with some unknown persons, who came on motorcycles, shot him, leaving him seriously injured.The inconsolable mother of the deceased said the family was preparing for his wedding and the incident has left them devastated.Family members said they did not had any dispute or enmity with anyone and did not know why they shot him.Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Gate Hakima police station, said raids were on to nab the suspects while the body of the victim was handed over to the family members after autopsy. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/23-year-old-shot-dead-7-booked-96117
08-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Couple robbed at gunpoint in broad daylight||An ex-serviceman and his wife were robbed at gunpoint near Chabal, 20 km from here, by two unidentified armed robbers in daylight on Saturday.The robbers took stopped victims Gurjant Singh and his wife Sumandeep Kaur of Dode village, who were traveling on motorcycle, and took away earrings of his wife, their purses containing Rs3,000, a mobile phone, ATM and other documents. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-broad-daylight-96118
08-06-2020||Shop constructed after inauguration of cycle track on Saturday ||Illegal construction comes up overnight in green belt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 7Some unidentified persons illegally constructed a shop overnight in green belt outside MK Hotel in Ranjit Avenue here. The construction has been done amid the restrictions on movement of public from 7 pm to 7 am. The green belt was encroached a few hours after Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, MLA Sunil Dutti, Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) Chairman Dinesh Bassi and MC Commissioner inaugurated work on a 2.53-km cycle track in the area on Saturday. An employee of a nearby office said: “There was nothing at the place yesterday (Saturday). Today, when I reached the market, I found a room constructed there. It is strange that the land mafia made did it in a few hours and the police and the AIT couldn’t stop it.”The AIT Chairman said: “I have received information regarding the encroachment and have talked to officials in this regard. I have instructed them to demolish the structure and take necessary action against errants.”It is worth mentioning here that booth was constructed on a prime location of the city and in front of a four star hotel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-construction-comes-up-overnight-in-green-belt-96119
08-06-2020|| ||Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust reaches out to Sikligar Sikhs||Amritsar, June 7A leading businessman of Dubai and founder of Sarbat Da Bhalla Charitable Trust, Dr SP Singh Oberoi has been sending ration to the Sikligar Sikhs in Madhya Pradesh, who are going through dire straits. Now, the trust has also repaired their dilapidated houses. Sharing information in this regard, Dr Oberoi said Rahul Singh, a leader of the Sikligar Sikhs living in a village in Burhanpur district of Madhya Pradesh, had contacted him and told him that many people in his area were already going through economic recession. The families of all Sikligar Sikhs have been taken aback by the Covid, even though they are not getting two meals a day. In view of this, Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust had sent dry ration to 150 families for the month of May. He said after receiving rations, when he came across the videos and photos, he came to know that the houses of Sikligar Sikhs were in a dilapidated condition. When he spoke to Rahul Singh about this, he said the houses of seven families living here do not even have roofs. Seeing this, the trust immediately sent 100 iron sheets, repaired the houses and installed roofs so that no problem would arise in the coming rainy days.Dr Oberoi said the Sikligar community had done a lot for their gurus and they still lived with Sikh tradition. “The trust will never allow this community to lose anything,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhalla-trust-reaches-out-to-sikligar-sikhs-96120
08-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Rising cost of poultry products has hoteliers worried||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 7Hoteliers and restaurant owners, who are set to resume operations for takeaways and home deliveries from tomorrow onwards, are jittery over the rising cost of poultry products. The government has allowed the reopening of restaurants for takeaways and home delivery, and at hotels, food will be served in rooms only. Navdeep Singh, manager of Astoria restaurant, said the cost of broiler before the lockdown was between Rs 130 and Rs 140, but it had now increased to Rs 230 to Rs 250. Similarly, the price of mutton per kg was now Rs 600 to Rs 650, while it was Rs 400 per kg earlier. A kg of boneless mutton was now Rs 900, while it would cost Rs 550 before the lockdown.GS Bedi, president of the Amritsar Poultry Association, said the production of broiler had come down to 30 to 40 per cent. “Earlier, 12 to 20 lakh chicks used to be reared in hatcheries, but the number has now declined to five lakh," he said.He said there was a huge gap between demand and supply. Most orders for poultry products would come from hotels, restaurants and resorts, which were likely to open in phases from the next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-cost-of-poultry-products-has-hoteliers-worried-96121
08-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Farm labour cost up due to shortage of migrants||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 7Restrictions on the inflow of seasonal migrants from UP and Bihar for paddy transplantation have pushed up the labour charges in the rural belt. The prices have touched as high as Rs 5,000 per acre.Even though the government had fixed June 10 for the beginning of paddy transplantation, the recent rain in the area has caused water-logging in fields and farmers are taking advantage of the situation.A farmer from Malawali village here said, “The labour is asking for Rs 5,000 per acre. Last year, we had paid Rs 3,000. The shortage of migrant workers has increased demand for the local labour.” He said the farmers had planned a meeting to negotiate the prices with workers.Another farmer from the Kahnuwan block of Gurdaspur, who has already transplanted 10 acre, said, “We are paying Rs 5,000 per acre while it was Rs 2,800 per acre last year.”A farmer said, “My relatives had a few migrant workers. As they have to start the paddy work from June 10, they asked me to use the labour till then.” He added that even transplant machine owners were demanding Rs 5,000 per acre.The paddy transplantation charges last year were between Rs 2,700 and Rs 3,300 per acre. Most of the paddy transplantation work in the state is done by migrant workers. Even farmers prefer migrants workers over the local labour as they are more trained.“Four migrant workers usually transplant an acre in a day. On the other hand, local labour groups have women and children who are slow and take more time,” said Mohabat Pal from the Bhikhiwind area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-labour-cost-up-due-to-shortage-of-migrants-96123
08-06-2020||Amritsar||Stolen machinery, car recovered||Two killed in road mishapsTarn Taran: Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the area on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Gurmeet Kaur (45) of Ghanupur in Amritsar and Gurjant Singh (25) of Rai Shiana village here. According to the police, Gurmeet Kaur, along with her son, was travelling on moped when she was hit by a truck at the Chabal bypass. She died on the spot. The truck driver fled from the spot. He has been booked under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC. Gurjant Singh was killed when his bullet motorcycle was hit by a speeding car on the Tarn Taran — Goindwal Sahib road near his village. He was returning after paying his obeisance at the Naurangabad Gurdwara after paying obeisance. The car driver has been identified as Mandeep Singh of Kallha village. He has been booked under Sections 304-A of the IPC. He was released on bail. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stolen-machinery-car-recovered-96124
08-06-2020||---||Her law course on hold, she renders yeoman’s service to migrants||Amritsar, June 6A law undergraduate, Mantika Vohra (22), had a lot of plans on her mind but they have now been put on hold due to the Covid-19 outbreak. A student of law at the National Law College, Gandhinagar, Mantika came back to her hometown Amritsar once the lockdown was announced. “It was safe and since all colleges and educational institutions were shut down, I had no other option,” she says. Since then, she has been taking classes online, which she says have not helped much. “Online classes for us began a bit later after the lockdown was announced. Our semester was supposed to end in May. The digital classes have not been a great experience as they cannot compensate for regular classroom based teaching,” shares the fourth semester undergraduate.The only respite for her is that she has been relieved of the stress of examinations. “Our college will not conduct semester examinations and students will be promoted on the basis of their previous performance,” she added.An aspiring lawyer, she says, “I want to work with a law firm or take up an internship while I study but that seems an unlikely possibility as due to the lockdown, I do not know even when my college will begin with the new semester. Also, it will be quite a challenge to look for possible internship opportunities as firms will not hire given the current situation. Though, there are a few organisations that offer virtual internship.”Meanwhile, she has been working on her college project of helping out distressed migrant workers who suffered due to lockdown. “We have been making calls to migrants who want to travel to their respective home. I also provide them food and shelter through a network of donors and our college club that has sufficient funds for the relief work. It has been a productive phase for us as our college has reached out to 8,000 migrants during the crisis,” she says. She is also helping her mother, Jyotika, who is a chef, in her food catering business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/her-law-course-on-hold-she-renders-yeomans-service-to-migrants-96125
08-06-2020||Our Correspondent||This pakora maker’s customers were waiting to relish lip-smacking delight||Tarn Taran, June 7Baldev Singh, (50) a resident of Aladinpur, sells pakoras. He has resumed his work after a gap of more than two months of lockdown, with the hope of returning to normalcy soon. His customers, waiting to relish their lip smacking delight, have welcomed him. He comes on a bicycle everyday with his paraphernalia.He said he used to earn an amount ranging from Rs 400 to Rs 450, everyday, before lockdown. Now, he is hopeful of having a good sale since paddy season has arrived and many farmers working in the fields come to savour his pakoras. He claims to have many takers for his delicacy.He has his stall at the UBDC canal side, under a tree. It is covered with a tent which provides respite to his customers from the scorching heat.He reminisces how even his grandfather Gurmej Singh used to sell pakoras at the same site 80 years back. He said he learnt the technique of making pakora from his grandfather. His father Bhagwan Singh too carried the work from the same site. Tejinderpal Singh of the same Rasulpur vilkage said the people from the nearby Piddi, Banwalipur, Sheron, Aladinpur and others are fond of Baldev’s pakoras.Sakattar Singh of Rasulpur village said he comes there to takeaway pakoras worth Rs 20 everyday.Baldev Singh says he takes extra care of ingredients so as to take care of the health of his customers. He rued his income was meager, and he had curtailed his expenditure to make both ends meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-pakora-makers-customers-were-waiting-to-relish-lip-smacking-delight-96126
08-06-2020||Is it wise to open places of high footfall when Covid cases are rising?||Open malls, hotels, restaurants but with caution||It will give workers financial supportThe fresh guidelines allowing restaurants and hotels to start functioning from June 8 may inject a fresh lease of life into them. As the PM has said in his speech “Jaan Bi aur Jahan Bi”, so the opening of hotels, restaurants, shopping malls and places of worship has become a necessity. A large number of people are employed by these industries and places of worship. Around 73 lakh people work in the hotel industry alone. Opening these will give some financial relief to people, but strict guidelines must be followed like social distancing and all places should be properly sanitized from time to time. And a regular inspection of these places should be done by the administration so that nobody can violate the guidelines.Rohit Kumar SehdevMay prove to be a wrong stepThe opening of malls, hotels and places of worship should be the last priority of the government. When the lethal virus is having a free run and doctors, health workers and local governments are finding it difficult to tackle the infected patients, easing restrictions for the places of recreation and worship can wait for a while. All malls and high-end hotels in our country are centrally air-conditioned and according to experts, the virus spreads rapidly by the circulation of cold air currents in closed areas. Therefore, opening up of the places of recreation at this point may prove to be a step in the wrong direction. As far as religious places are concerned, social distancing is difficult to maintain during religious congregations, religious processions and while having food in community kitchens. When schools can resort to online tutorials, what’s wrong in paying obeisance while listening to live telecast of religious discourses and holy scriptures on TV channels. It’s time to act wisely and avoid going to malls, hotels and places of worship. After all, we are fighting a long-drawn battle with an invisible enemy and to win the war, all of us must inculcate self-discipline and self-restraint for the time being.Rajiv SharmaDecision of MHA defies logicIt is strange that when the number of Covid cases are rising sharply in the country, the MHA has announced the opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship in Lockdown 5.0. Clearly, the decision smacks of lack of sagacity and far-sightedness. The lockdown is there but in name only. People are already moving freely and mingling, with each other making a mockery of the extended lockdown. The situation can go from bad to worse when malls, hotels, restaurants, dhabas and religious places open on June 8. It is feared that the indiscreet decision of the MHA may have catastrophic consequences. The government has washed its hands of the responsibility to protect people against Covid. It no longer appears to be concerned about the well-being of the people. They are likely to flout the norms of the lockdown with impunity. The economy, industry and all sorts of businesses are certainly crying for a breathing space. Under the circumstances, the decision defies logic.Tarsem S BumrahPeople can survive without malls, hotelsConsidering the announcement of opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship despite the rising number of Covid cases, the government has failed to draw any inspiration from the wise old proverb ‘Prevention is better than cure.’ The places will attract incessant footfall and lead to the spread of the virus. It will pave way for another wave of coronavirus. The latest WHO guidelines suggest keeping of high footfall closed. We know it well that we can survive without malls or hotels, at least for now as we can pray at home. People, too, must coordinate with the authorities in fight against Covid-19.Rameshinder Singh SandhuOpening up in phased manner is only wayWith the ending of Lockdown 4.0, the country entered ‘Unlock phase 1’. During the lockdown, we were able to control the spread of the coronavirus but our economy got a big jolt and resulted in sufferings for migrant workers. Therefore, the only alternative is to open the economy but in a phased manner. The announcement about the opening of shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship is a part of that plan. I support the move because trade and industrial activities of our city have been suffering for long and the only hope is tourism. As the city has several religious and historical sites, its economy is dependent on tourism. I further suggest that the government should open up places such as the Jallianwala Bagh and Partition Museum and restart events such as the Beating the Retreat ceremony while ensuring compliance of the social distancing rules. We must act very cautiously to consolidate the gains of the lockdown.Naresh JoharBe cautious while easing lockdownIn order to reboot stalled economy, the MHA has decided to reopen shopping malls, religious places and restaurants. Resumption of public activity is essential but the severity of the coronavirus spread should not be underestimated. Extreme caution should be taken while easing restrictions as it will determine the future course of action. First of all, people must understand that the virus is still present and vaccine has not been developed yet. People need to learn to live under this ‘new normal’. The public should adhere to containment measures such as wearing mask, frequent hand washing, temperature screening at the entrance, deep cleaning of premises, etc. Testing should be made more frequent so that new cases can be identified on time. Also, lockdown cannot be imposed for a longer period in countries like India. For weaker sections of society, it has been a traumatic experience. The government must come up with policies to contain the spread of the virus without compromising on economy and people’s lives. Nobody can predict how the virus is going to behave in future. We need to be carefully while easing restrictions and reimpose these if cases start rising again.Anureet BalMHA’s decision is a welcome moveLockdowns imposed in countries across the globe have brought the world to a standstill. This resulted in a kind of global recession. As per a WHO official, the coronavirus is here to stay. So we have to learn to live with the virus and the lockdown is not the solution to prevent its spread. The government is now planning for phased reopening of commercial activities. The over 2-month-long lockdown has taught us to follow basic personal hygiene and social distancing to prevent the infection. However, the condition is more or less the same as it was before the lockdown. Streets are crowded and people are roaming freely, violating the social distancing norm. The decision by the Ministry of Home Affairs to open shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship is a welcome move. Many livelihoods are linked with the places. This will give a boost to the economy.Gulshakh KaurPhysical distancing will be given a missThe Union Government, after much dilly-dallying, imposed the ‘Janata Curfew’ on March 20, and then clamped sudden nationwide lockdown on March 24. Had the much-needed step been taken a little earlier, the problem could have been contained sooner and more effectively. Similarly, the decision to suspend international flights ought to have been taken in the first place. Alas! we delayed an important preventive action. Now post Lockdown 4.0, the decision by the Ministry of Home Affairs to lift curbs and controls on malls, hotels and places of worship seems a bit impulsive because a huge majority of the populace can do without hotels, which are mostly patronised by the tourism industry, as foreigners would think twice before going places. Religious crowds and congregations are not known for enforcing physical distancing. And, you cannot even think of allotting time to pray.Prof Mohan SinghQUESTIONThe realty business, which was already facing slump, has seen a further decline post lockdown, especially in the commercial sector. What can be done to revamp the property business in the state?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 11).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-malls-hotels-restaurants-but-with-caution-96128
08-06-2020||---||Punjab shrines prepare for visitors||Amritsar, June 7The managing committees of the Golden Temple and Durgiana Mandir are all set to abide by the government’s Covid prevention guidelines for religious places. The two major shrines of the holy city will be reopened for devotees from Monday.While the SGPC has initiated steps to adhere to all safety precautions, it is not happy with the restriction over distribution of prasad and langar. SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh said no clear-cut directions regarding “karah parshad” and langar were received, yet every effort was being made to ensure complete hygiene at the Golden Temple’s langar hall.Meanwhile, volunteers were seen sanitising both the shrines today. The managements have also put in place arrangements for checking temperature of all visitors and ensuring social distancing norms. The police have removed the barriers that were earlier set up on the entrances to the Golden Temple.At Durgiana Mandir, the bells have been covered with cloth. Arun Khanna, general secretary of Durgiana committee, said a mechanism had been adopted to ensure minimal touching of common surfaces.Will shut quarantine facility: Hoteliers Bathinda: Facing losses, hoteliers are planning to discontinue the provision of quarantine being offered by them. Punjab Hotel Association president Satish Arora said both Centre and the state government had failed to provide any relief to the hospitality sector, which was reeling under huge losses due to Covid-19. Arora said hoteliers had arranged around 3,750 rooms for the quarantine facility across the state by spending extra on staff and maintenance equipment, but they were hardly getting any quarantine customers. He said a decision in this regard would be taken at a meeting tomorrow. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-shrines-prepare-for-visitors-95961
08-06-2020||---||Spurt in covid-19 cases in Punjab, Amritsar tops list||Chandigarh, June 7With one more death reported from Ludhiana, the total number of casualties in the state has reached 51.Besides, with 93 fresh cases reported today, the state count has reached 2,608.Among districts, 35 cases were reported from Amritsar, 23 from Jalandhar, 10 from Ludhiana, seven from Patiala, five from Sangrur, three each from Gurdaspur and Faridkot, two cases from Pathankot and one case each was reported from Fatehgarh Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Fazilka, SAS Nagar and Barnala.With 35 new cases reported in Amritsar today, the total count of Covid-19 patients in this district has reached 469.Of the new patients, 10 are ILI (influenza like illness) cases reported from 10 different localities; eight from city and two from rural areas. At least 31 localities in city have reported positive cases during the recent wave of Covid-19 spread.The new cases also include 19 contacts; seven from Housing Board Colony, three from Katra Sher Singh, one contact each from Faijpur, Kesar dhaba and Ranjit Avenue, two contacts each from RB estate, Rose avenue and Katra Moti Ram.With 10 more persons testing positive in Jalandhar, the district tally reached 293 cases today. Like yesterday, the positive cases today also included two children, aged 6 years, among eight adults. The cases reported today include one new case and the rest are contacts of previously tested positive patients from Rose Garden, Bhargo Camp, Lamma Pind and Tagore Nagar. After a two-month lull – the Virl village, which reported the first positive cases in the district (contacts of Nawanshahr patient Baldev Singh) has also reported a case today.There are four new cases from Rose Garden, including the two six-year-old children, a 54-year-old woman and a 35-year-old man. The other eight cases reported in the district include a 48-year-old man from Virk Village, 49-year-old woman from Preet Nagar, 22-year-old woman, 22-year-old man and 56-year-old man from Lamma Pind and a 55-year-old woman from Bhargo Camp. Barring the Virk village man, all are contacts of previous cases.Meanwhile, with four more people testing positive in Kapurthala, the district tally rose to 44 today. The active cases in Kapurthala are now eight. The four people who tested positive today include a 20-year-old man, 40-year-old man, 33-year-old woman and a 15-year-old boy. They are all residents of Mayo Patti in Phagwara. Having travelled to Kapurthala from Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh, they are all migrant labourers who came to the district during the paddy season. Meanwhile, the two judiciary members and their staff as well as an SHO who were tested for Covid-19 have all tested negative. They had come in contact with the ASI who had tested positive a few days ago from the district.Two more cops have tested positive from Barnala.4,600 challaned for not wearing maskAs many as 4,600 challans for failure to wear mask in public, 160 for spitting and 24 for not adhering to social distancing norms were issued on Friday alone. Rapping violators, CM Capt Amarinder Singh said such irresponsible behaviour could not be allowed. Responding to questions during the latest FB Live edition of #AskCaptain, the CM said Covid situation had so far been manageable due to strict lockdown imposed in the state and the cooperation of people. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spurt-in-covid-19-cases-in-punjab-amritsar-tops-list-95966
08-06-2020||---||For ride back home, kiln workers flock to Amritsar||Amritsar, June 7Despite directions to brick-kiln owners that no worker could be laid off or abandoned without intimating the administration, around 500 migrant workers engaged in brick-kilns in Amritsar, Jalandhar and Dina Nagar (Gurdaspur) gathered at the Amritsar Railway Station today.Claiming to become jobless amid Covid-19 lockdown, they wanted to go back to their home in Chhattisgarh, yet felt helpless in the absence of any mode of transport. There was a buzz among migrants that Amritsar could be the destination from where they could get free ride to their native place. On June 3, 1,556 migrants from Chhattisgarh were sent through special train.Amritsar DC Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon said 4,500 Chhattisgarh migrants who worked with brick-kilns of the region were repatriated through special trains arranged through the Railway authorities.Sushila and Sonia, who worked in Dinanagar brick-kiln, said, “Someone told us that train runs from Amritsar, so we came here.” Gurdaspur DC Mohammad Ishfaq said he would get it checked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-ride-back-home-kiln-workers-flock-to-amritsar-95973
