08-09-2020||---||Farmers launch Jail Bharo Andolan over agricultural ordinances||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7A large number of farmers, including women, under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KSMC), came forward to give their arrest against three agricultural ordinances, recently promulgated by the Union Government here on Monday.The agitation was part of the state-wide Jail Bharo Andolan commenced by the committee. Caring two hoots for their safety in the current Covid-19 condition, a large number of farmers took part in the agitation.They did not even follow protocols like social distancing and wearing masks. They came in packed buses and other vehicles. Holding banners and buntings, they raised slogans against the NDA government and its alliance partner SAD.A 51-member jatha asked the police to arrest them. However, the police refused to arrest them. Addressing them, Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the committee, said ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ was today held in districts of the state. He said the agitation would continue till October 1, coinciding with the Parliament session.He said the three agriculture ordinances passed by the Union Government like amendment in the Essential Commodities (EC) Act to deregulate inter-state trade in agricultural commodities and provide a regulatory framework for contract farming were anti-farmers. He demanded that these must be repealed at the earliest.He said the Narendra Modi-led Union Government was continuing with its agenda to privatise state-owned departments like the Railways, LIC, etc. It was also moving towards the centralisation of PSPCL and agriculture.He flayed the SAD for endorsing the policies of the NDA. He said federalism was the main agenda of the SAD on which it had once fought elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-launch-jail-bharo-andolan-over-agricultural-ordinances-138141
08-09-2020||---||55 arrested in Tarn Taran||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, September 7A 55-member jatha of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, on the first day of ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ were arrested on the first day of the agitation launched against the alleged wrong policies of the Union Government, here on Monday.The committee also started Pakka Morcha in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here from where a rally was organised in which women workers of the organization participated in a big number.The KMSC was on an agitation path against the alleged anti-farmers and anti-people policies, including the three ordinances, promulgated by the Union Government. Both (men and women) workers of the organisation participated in the rally organised pledge to agitate for their rights in the agitation.Addressing on the occasion, Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the committee, said the Union Government wanted to capture all the constitutional, administrative authorities and others powers against the wishes of the federal system of the country.Flaying the Union Government for its privatisation policy, Sabhra said it was meant to hand over the procurement procedure to the corporate sector to procure farmers’ products to exploit them and the consumers at the time of procuring and selling food grains. He said farmers would be deprived of subsidies this way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-arrested-in-tarn-taran-138142
08-09-2020||---||With 5 deaths, Amritsar toll go past 200||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7There seems to be no respite from Covid as the district reported 169 new cases and five deaths on Monday, taking the case count to 4,996 and toll to 203. The deceased were identified as Bhajan Lal (77) of Gali No. 1 in the New Tahsilpura area, Manohar Singh (39) of Majitha Road, Surjit Singh (60) of Batala Road, Bhajan Kaur (75) and Raghubir Singh .Of the new cases reported on Monday, 105 patients were suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) and 64 were contacts of Covid cases. Navdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, said the district had 938 active cases while 106 patients have recovered from the disease. He called upon people to adhere to the Covid safety norms.Hospital staff test positiveWorking of the subdivisional hospital at Block B of Railway Colony has been hit as its head Dr Ashok Kumar and chief lab superintendent Madan Lal have tested positive.The administrative and laboratory works has got hampered after the development. The hospital has a laboratory, self-sufficient operation theatre (OT) and an accident relief medical van.Railway employees, retirees and their families were already anxious with inadequate facilities being offered at the hospital. They are now worried that medical facilities might be further curtailed at the hospital, forcing them to avail costly private health facilities.The hospital is already working with half of its sanctioned staff strength. Besides, it lacks vital medical infrastructure. Against the sanctioned strength of eight medicos, there are only five doctors. Contract of three doctors had expired around three months ago.Ashok Kumar, who got admitted to a private hospital for Covid treatment, said they were expecting renewal of contracts of the doctors soon. He said all efforts were being made to provide best facilities to patients, despite limited logistics. He said the hospital had separate AC wards for men and women patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-5-deaths-amritsar-toll-go-past-200-138143
08-09-2020||---||An award in the name of Amritsar-born engineer in Jharkhand's IIT-ISM||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7The management of the Indian Institute of Technology/ Indian School of Mining (IIT-ISM), a premier institute in Dhanbad, (Jharkhand) has announced a national award in the name of an Amritsar-based engineer Jaswant Singh Gill posthumously.Jaswant Singh Gill risked his life to save 65 miners trapped in a coal mineChristened as “Jaswant Singh Gill Memorial Industrial Safety Excellence Award”, it carries an award money of Rs 50,000.The award was constituted to recognise the bravery of Gill, who risked his life to save 65 coal miners, trapped in the flooded Mahavir Coal mine in Raniganj area of West Bengal on November 13, 1989.Gill had adopted the steel capsule technique that was attempted for the first time in the history of coal mining. His son Dr Sarpreet Singh Gill said move was a tribute to his father’s heroic act and selfless approach to save lives.The IIT/ ISM has taken this initiative as Gill had studied Mining Engineering from the ISM Dhanbad between 1961-1965. Born in Amritsar, he did his schooling from Khalsa College School and (BSc non-medical) from Khalsa College in 1959.After an illustrious career spanning over 33 years, he retired as Executive Director (safety and rescue) from BCCL (Bharat Coking Coal Limited) Dhanbad, a subsidiary of Coal India Ltd.After retiring in 1998, he returned to his hometown Amritsar and led a meaningful and an active life till his sudden demise on November 26, 2019. Earlier, he was awarded ‘Sarvottam Jeevan Raksha Padak’ by President of India in November 1991.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-award-in-the-name-of-amritsar-born-engineer-in-jharkhands-iit-ism-138144
08-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Blooming thorny beauties enhance charm of his garden||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7Almost three decades ago, Manjit Uppal fell in love with the thorny beauties adorning his garden. It was only his love for the cactus plants that took him to several exhibitions to procure various varieties of cactus.Uppal, a retired Guru Nanak Dev University employee, now boasts of having nearly 800 varieties of cactus and succulents in aloevera, sansevieria, caralluma, euphorbias milli of about 50 colours in his 150 yard terrace.The entrance of his house is also adorned with big thorny trees named pacypodium lamarie, which has beautiful white flowers which adds to the aesthetic beauty of his garden.“People are hesitant to keep these prickly cacti as they believe it brings misfortune in one’s life but they ignore the fact that the cactus pulp has many medicinal values as it stores water and provides oxygen round the clock,” he pointed out. The best part is they do not lose their strength and can survive in extreme conditions.“Scientifically, the cactus possesses more medicinal properties than other flora species as they release more oxygen than other plants as the pulp of cacti contains water with healing qualities,” he said. “However, owning these water efficient plants is an expensive affair,” he quips. A lot of cacti are sold at high prices and those who love plants are ready to buy them. It all started with only two cactus plants which he bought from a local nursery in 1992. “I used to plant flowers and other greens, but they demand so much care. It was difficult to take time out of my busy schedule at that time,” he said. He said later he started visiting some cactus collectors in Patiala and at Cactus Garden in Chandigarh which piqued his interest in the thorny plants.“I started collecting cacti in 1997. After developing an interest in succulents, I started visiting various cacti shows and exhibitions in Chandigarh, New Delhi, Panchkula and other places to gain more knowledge about thorny beauties,” he said. Every time he visits these exhibitions, he adds some more varieties to his terrace garden. He also runs two groups of social platform for selling and purchasing cacti.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blooming-thorny-beauties-enhance-charm-of-his-garden-138145
08-09-2020||Acollege lecturer||‘Social stigma hurt me more than virus’||Narrating her ordeal, she said, “Initially, I was suffering from mild fever, but on August 26, I developed symptoms of Covid-19. I got some respite from dry cough through home remedies. Last Saturday, I went to the hospital for examination and tested positive,” said Gurdeep Kaur.Almost on the verge of recovery, now, my husband is showing mild symptoms of Covid-19. We are confident that both of us will perfectly recover within a week after home quarantine. Even at our new location, we have a fear of being asked to vacate the place if somebody gets to know about our situation. - Gurdeep Kaur, College Lecturer“Some of my acquaintances had already suffered from the virus and shared their experience with me. I was told not to panic. My husband supported me a lot and I have started recovering too,” she said. Taking precautionary measures and ensuring the safety of landlords, Gurdeep informed them about her disease. “Our apartment was totally separate and we had only telephonic conversation with our landlords. But they panicked and asked us to leave the house. It was a tough time for us as they were not ready to cooperate in such a situation. I wanted to go for self isolation in my home, but had to move to the city, facing stigma,” stated Gurdeep.She has sent her children to their grandparents’ at a village in Tarn Taran. Her husband has been taking care of her.“Almost on the verge of recovery, now, my husband is showing mild symptoms of Covid-19. We are confident that we both will perfectly recover within a week after home quarantine. Even at our new location, we have a fear of being asked to vacate the place if somebody gets to know about our situation,” said Gurdeep Kaur.Talking about the home medication, Gurdeep said, “I consumed a healthy diet, including fruits, milk and milk products to get cured of the virus. I took complete bed rest. I never thought that this virus would harm me but as millions of people have been recovered from this. The support of my husband nursed me back to life. People should not understand the plight of patients and cooperate with them.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-stigma-hurt-me-more-than-virus-138146
08-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Teacher nurtures fortunes as party planner and online furniture seller||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7Alisha Talwar had been working as a business and economics teacher at Miri Piri Academy when the pandemic came in with a bang. As a result, like all institutions and employees, she too suffered.With the normalcy unlikely to come around soon, she was left pondering and gauging her next best options. Then one day, a virtual birthday party planned for her husband ignited the idea of organising such bashes. It was the right decision. And now, putting the pieces back together after losing her job, Alisha has managed to set up a new line of working and all seems to be going good.“I strive constantly to make the event more lively and entertaining. Working on different ideas, I involved a karaoke singer from Dalhousie named Sahil Chauhan, a choreographer Ridhi Rai and a make-up artiste to make it all more entertaining,” says Alisha.Nevertheless, it’s not that easy as it looks on the surface. Out of box thinking is the requisite. “As far as arranging virtual parties for children is concerned, it is easier but entertaining the elderly is very difficult and keeping them engaged during the time even harder,” she says of its challenges.Furnishing circumstancesBesides jumping into virtual parties business, she has also set up an online furniture business dealing in wooden and iron items.This began when she met with an iron furniture manufacture who had happily offered for his services. Subsequently, Alisha got two pieces of iron tables made for her house and had casually put it up online. Constant enquiring from her acquaintances about the said items pushed the idea of business to its crescendo. She also has had her share of luck all the while. During the pandemic she was joined by wooden furniture makers, which lured people to get their hands on furniture of their own choice as well.“Due to the lockdown, people are also coming up with innovative and creative designs in furniture and this gave me an opportunity to turn their imaginations into reality,” she shares. Anmol Singh, her husband; who runs a furnishing house of interiors, was involved in the process. “He greatly helped me all along,” she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teacher-nurtures-fortunes-as-party-planner-and-online-furniture-seller-138147
08-09-2020||---||Follow protocols, demands GNDU employees’ union||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7Reacting to the news that Dr Darya tested positive for the Covid-19 pandemic posthumously, GNDU Non-Teaching Employees’ union secretary Balbir Singh Garcha on Monday said those violating the Covid guidelines issued by the government must be held accountable.“It is sad that we lost such an eminent personality to the virus. Currently, the number of Covid-19 cases is rising rapidly in the city. It means that we have to be very cautious in the coming days. Though the university is allowing only 50 per cent of staff in every administrative block to work as per guidelines, there are some professors who claim that their department is safe due to large spaces. In such a case, if any employee contracts the virus, the person responsible must be held accountable,” said Garcha.Sources from the university claim that nobody, including the authorities, was aware of Dr Darya’s health condition. He had come to the department on September 1 and complained of sickness and took a day off. He was on leave after that. Dr Darya was the head of School of Punjabi Studies, GNDU. He died on Friday due to heart attack and was declared Covid-19 positive afterwards.Dr Darya’s younger brother Hira Singh said, “It’s true that he was Covid-19 positive but the family had no clue about it. It was confirmed only after his death. His wife and daughters too will undergo Covid-19 tests.” He said he and his family, who live in Taran Tarn, were safe as they had not come into contact with him recently. “He had complained of health problems last week and took medical leave. Later, when his condition deteriorated, he was admitted to a local private hospital,” said Hira Singh.Meanwhile, KS Kahlon, registrar, GNDU, said the university had been ensuring that all safety guidelines were followed. “We are carrying out regular sanitization drives and have all the immediate medical services available at the health centres.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/follow-protocols-demands-gndu-employees-union-138148
08-09-2020||---||Police launch number for info on illegal sand mining||Amritsar, September 7Officials of the Amritsar rural police on Monday appealed to the people to inform them in case illegal mining of sand is carried out in their areas. Information about such acts can be given to the police on the control room number 8054104837, said a statement issued by the police authorities here. Names of informers would be kept secret, it said.People can call on 8054104837 to give information on illegal sand mining The police authorities have appointed SP Gaurav Toora and DSP (D) Gurinderpal Singh to supervise operations against illegal sand miners. According to the police, 19 cases were registered against illegal miners in the past one month.The police, along with officials of the Mining Department, on Sunday seized 200 cubic feet of sand from a tractor trailer near Khanwal village. The driver, identified as Mukhtiar Singh of Sarangdev village, managed to flee from the spot. A case has been registered in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-launch-number-for-info-on-illegal-sand-mining-138149
08-09-2020||---||Fine arts academy celebrates SG Thakar Singh’s birth anniv||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7The Indian Academy of Fine Arts (IAFA) commemorated the 121st birth anniversary of Padma Shri artist SG Thakr Singh on Sunday. Keeping in mind the Covid-19 restrictions, a small virtual ceremony was held where members of the IAFA remembered the great artist, who was celebrated for his portraits and landscapes.One of the founders of the IAFA (Amritsar), SG Thakar Singh’s work had patrons like Rabindranath Tagore and Dr Rajendra Prasad among others. The IAFA has intellectual rights of over 40 paintings by the artist and many of his works are being restored by IAFA as creative heritage. Among the paintings permanently displayed in the gallery operated by IAFA, Thakar Singh’s prominent landscapes and portraits finds admirers even to this day.“SG Thakar Singh played a very important role in shaping cultural and art landscape of Punjab. His works are a legacy and we have preserved some of his paintings that are almost 100-year-old. His works have high aesthetic and creative value. We host a commemorative event every year to keep his art visible and to invite people who would want to study and know about this great artist,” said Arvinder Chamak, general secretary (IAFA). SG Thakar Singh was born in 1899 and was honoured with the Padam Shri in 1973 for his contribution towards art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fine-arts-academy-celebrates-sg-thakar-singhs-birth-anniv-138150
08-09-2020||---||Tarn Taran police rope in I-T Dept to nail  drug traffickers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 7The Tarn Taran police have roped in the Income Tax Department to nail drug traffickers by way of identifying their ill-gotten wealth and properties made through it.Disclosing this, Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale told The Tribune that the police had expedited the process of identifying the properties of drug smugglers and freezing them after following the due procedure. He said in last one month, the police had managed to freeze the illegal properties of drug peddlers valued at Rs 26 crore.He said since his taking over the charge of the office here, he was personally supervising the teams who were entrusted with the task of identifying the properties accumulated by drug traffickers by way of drug peddling.“My predecessor has identified the properties of around 125 drug-peddlers and within one month the figure has touched 182,” Nimbale said, adding that the process of confiscation of their properties had been initiated. “Besides, we have also identified around 500 such traffickers and the department was identifying their moveable and immovable properties and documents related to it,” he added.“I have written to the Income Tax Department while sharing the list of those who were under the scanner of the Punjab Police and had accumulated huge properties disproportionate to their known sources of income,” he said.The SSP said the police were also checking the antecedents of those farmers having their lands across the barbed fence on the international Indo-Pak border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-police-rope-in-i-t-dept-to-nail-drug-traffickers-138151
08-09-2020||Dubai businessman and philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi may be sending stocks of ration and medical equipment||Admn stumbles, bizman won't donate any more||Bollywood actor SSR’s death a burning topicUnsurprisngly, the high-profile Sushant Singh Rajput death case is also resonating here in Gurdaspur. Students can be heard discussing the finer points more than they ponder over their school syllabi. Judgments are being passed left, right and centre. Residents have their own versions of how, why and when he died. This parliamentary constituency has a fascination for Tinseltown with Vinod Khanna remaining a four-time MP and Sunny Deol being the incumbent one. Whether Rajput got blinded by the bright lights of Bollywood, inadvertently or otherwise, is still in the realms of conjecture and speculation but residents here have ensured he lives life kingsize even after his death.Pandemic sounds death knell for hotel industryThe outbreak has sounded the death knell for the hotel industry in border towns of Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Batala. Around 80 per cent of the industry has shut down while the ones still open are struggling to return loans taken from banks and private lenders at exorbitant rates. The fact that the virus originated in Wuhan has resulted in wiping away of Chinese dishes from the menus. People fear these recipes and no longer order them. The footfall remains low. Several owners are reluctant to push shutters up as they will have to pay full salaries to their employees amid low income.BJP gearing up for 2022 Assembly pollsThe BJP has already started the process of identifying its candidates for all the four seats it has been allocated in Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency, including the Dinanagar (reserve) seat. Insiders claim that the mettle may fall upon the erudite Renu Kashyap, daughter-in-law of former legislator Sita Ram Kashyap. Postgraduate in Commerce and English, she ticks all the boxes. Moreover, the party wants a woman candidate to take on sitting MLA and Cabinet Minister Aruna Chaudhury. There are others in the fray too, including Dalit leader Joginder Singh Chinna. What may tilt the scales in favour of Kashyap is the fact that, like Chaudhury, she too belongs to a political family. The identification process has also started for the seats of Pathankot, Sujanpur and Bhoa.Bajwa’s Satbachchan gives away masks and sanitisersWith leaders making use of Covid to stay in the spotlight by distributing ration kits, Qadian sitting MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa and his actor-son, Arjun Partap Bajwa, who is also a Zila Parishad member, have taken the initiative a step ahead. The father-son duo have established a social organisation, Satbachchan, which hands out masks and sanitisers in every nook and corner of the town. Fateh said they had purchased the items in bulk and now want their constituents to use them for safety of all. “I often tell the uninitiated that wearing masks reduces the chances of spreading the virus into the air and onto surfaces if at all you are affected. The other benefit is that a mask, depending on the type of fabric and how diligently you wear it, can reduce your exposure to the virus that might be present in the air thus decreasing your chances of catching the disease,” said Arjun||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-stumbles-bizman-wont-donate-any-more-138152
