08-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga 
||Area around city’s Golden Gate paints a picture of utter neglect||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, December 7 The Golden Gate, raised to welcome tourists arriving from the GT Road, is gathering dust due to lack of upkeep.  Pavements around it have come off from many places while the elevated road in front of it eclipses its view. The much-touted multi-core entrance gate of the holy city lies in a state of neglect. The green belt around the gate has been losing its sheen gradually. Kulwant Singh Ankhi, a resident of Pratap Nagar locality, says it seems as if was never cleaned; no gardener was ever spared to maintain the green cover around it. “The green shrubs, covered dividers, slip roads and traffic islands close to the golden dome shaped gate created an ambience to behold. However, the road dividers are lying broken and the ill-maintained green belt gives a shabby look.” It took many years of efforts and investment of about Rs 8 crore for raising the entrance gate. Its dome shape resembles the gold-plated dome of sacred Harmander Sahib, sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple.  Harpinder Singh Walia, a resident of the New Golden Avenue, feels that the elevated road on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT road eclipses the view of the dome shaped golden gate at the city’s entrance. “The view of the Golden Gate at the entrance of the city used to create a charm for the tourists coming from far flung areas to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple,” he adds. Municipal Corporation officials maintained that tankers water the plants and if there was any damage to the landscaping and tile works, it would be brought to the notice of the maintenance wing for early repair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/area-around-citys-golden-gate-paints-a-picture-of-utter-neglect-181396
08-12-2020||---||No breakthrough in murder case||Amritsar, December 7 Even after nearly 10 days, the police have failed to make any breakthrough in the alleged murder of a man identified as Jatinder Kumar of Ram Tirath Road here. He was found dead in the agricultural fields of Verka area on November 28. He bore injury marks on his head and a suspected belt injury near waistline. Jatinder, a divorcee, used to work as an electrician. Married in 2015, he divorced two years later. He along with his mother was living in a rented accommodation located on Ram Tirath Road. As per preliminary investigations, he was missing since the evening of November 26. He took dinner from his sister Nisha’s home in Jhujhar, Avenue locality, and had left for his house. After a while, she called to know if he had reached home. He received the call and said he had. However, he did not go to his place.Additional deputy commissioner of police, Harpal Singh, said the police have been working on different theories to crack the case. His call details were under a scanner to ascertain with whom he was in contact moments before he was killed. “We have certain clues but they are being verified,” he said, hoping to solve the murder soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-breakthrough-in-murder-case-181397
08-12-2020||Amritsar||Employment fair postponed||The employment fair, which was to be organised at the Block Development and Panchayat Officer’s office in Rayya has been postponed due to administrative reasons.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Ranbir Singh Mudhal, said the employment fair scheduled for December 8 would now be held on December 11.The first self-employment fair was held in Ajnala on December 3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employment-fair-postponed-181400
08-12-2020||---||Amritsar district reports 61 positive cases||Amritsar, December 7The district health authorities have reported 61 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 13,570. The new cases include 41 Influenza-like illness cases and 20 contacts of positive patients. The district has not reported any deaths on Monday. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 41 patients, the recovery count has reached 12,296. At present, the district has 760 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-61-positive-cases-181401
08-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Three armed men rob Rs 45,000||Tarn Taran, December 7Three armed men robbed Rs 45,000 from a salesman of a petrol station in Bainka on Sunday.Manjinder Singh, owner of Kisan Sewa Kender Pump, informed the Bhikhiwind police that the accused asked the salesman to fill petrol in their motorcycle.He said one of the accused pointed a gun at the salesman and snatched Rs 45,000 from him.A case under Section 392 of the IPC had been registered by the Bhikhiwind police, said ASI Dhanwant Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-armed-men-rob-rs-45-000-181402
08-12-2020|| 
||152nd girl arrives at ‘Pangura’||Amritsar, December 7  With another new born girl coming at ‘Pangura’ on Monday, the cradle scheme launched in 2008 has managed to rescue as many as 181 children in last 12 years.  The cradle, installed at Red Cross Society, has received 152 girls and 29 boys so far. Deputy Commissioner, Gurpreet Singh Khaira and his wife Amanjot Kaur, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), welcomed the infant at Pangura.  Red Cross authorities said the girl was actually received on November 20, but was admitted at a private hospital as she was not well at the time. Now, the girl was healthy enough to be brought at Red Cross Society.  Speaking on the occasion, Khehra said the cradle scheme deserve accolades for saving 181 children over the years, while it was also saddening that people still discriminate with girls. “Today’s girls are making their mark in every field thereby doing their families proud,” he added. He said the girl would be handed to the legal adoption centre for further upbringing where desiring parents could adopt her likes.  Dr Randhir Singh, secretary Red Cross Society, said the scheme was launched by then DC Kahan Singh Pannu for saving the abandoned children who were left on roads by their parents for one reason or other. “In many instances, they would die due to extreme weather or were mauled by stray dogs,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/152nd-girl-arrives-at-pangura-181395
08-12-2020||---||Bandh call gets support from all sections||Amritsar, December 7As kisan unions are gearing up to make the ‘Bharat Bandh’ successful on December 8, residents, traders, government employees and students have expressed total support. The unions announced to observe ‘chakka jam’ from 11 am to 3 pm.Many businesses in the city declared to keep their establishments closed to support the ongoing protest against the controversial three agri laws.The farm associations urged shopkeepers and other sections of the society to support the farmers’ protest.Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said, “The issue is not related to farmers only. If implemented, these laws will have wider implications. Farmers’ stir is going on peacefully and is inching towards success.”He said activists of all kisan unions would be staging protests at different places. He said they were banking on voluntary support from masses. Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee took out a motorcycle rally to create awareness regarding the ‘Bharat Bandh’.Sarwan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said, “We appeal the general public to support the bandh. Farmers were pushed to the wall and forced to start protest.”He said their activists would only appeal shopkeepers in case they open shops and would not misbehave with them. “Our purpose is to continue the protest peacefully. We will also keep a watch on the situation. We fear that people who are opposing farmers may try to defame the protesters,” he said.Meanwhile, Damdami Taksal and the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) called upon Prime Minister Narendra Modi to agree to the demands of protesting farmers.Baba Harnam Singh, head, Damdami Taksal, urged the Centre to revoke three agri laws and asked masses to take part in the ‘Bharat Bandh’.Piara Lal Seth, chief of the PPBM, said industry and trade suffered a lot this year in the wake of the Covid-19.He said the government should respect feelings of protesting farmers. He said expulsion of small farmers from the agriculture would mean that a number of traders and shopkeepers would also lose their earnings. Anoop Singh Virdi, chief, Sri Guru Singh Sabha, extended support to farmers. He said it was unjust to prefer corporate houses over farmers.Members of the Amritsar Poultry Association also forwarded support to the protesting farmers. The decision was taken in a meet attended Col Jagjit Singh Sahi (retd), Yogesh Sharma, Jaspal Singh Dhillon, Baljit Singh, Jwala Deep Sharma, Ashwani Sharma and Gautam Arora.GS Bedi, chief, Amritsar Poultry Association, said small poultry farmers were not getting good rates after the arrival of big players in this trade. He said a penalty of Rs 1 crore and imprisionment for burning crop residue was too harsh on farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bandh-call-gets-support-from-all-sections-181393
08-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Once God-fearing, all are now ‘virus-fearing’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 7Masks, sanitisers and distancing – these are the new Brahma, Vishnu and Mahesh for the devotees these days. It is a given that pandemic has thrown life out of gear for everyone, including the religious aspects of followers, as they can be seen masked and taking other necessary precautions to keep them and others safe.A visit to the Durgiana Temple revealed that the management has covered the bell at the main entrance with a cloth. Normally the devotees ring the bell at the time of entry to pay respect, not anymore though. Earlier as the government had issued an advisory to the general public to avoid touching multiple contact points, the management played it safe by enveloping the bell.The use of sanitisers at the entrance of all religious places is a common sight to see now. “This is a good initiative by the managements of religious places as people usually touch places while moving around the premises and paying homage,” said Vivek Kumar, a devotee adding that public should abide by the guidelines.Another devotee Sukhdev Singh said that all must wear masks while visiting. “Sometimes sevadars at the Golden Temple ask devotees to remove masks, which is a wrong thing,” he opined.After the relaxations were announced the gatherings at places of worship have increased, the recent spurt in the caseload is worrying the residents. “We should prefer to stay home. Many pious people are performing their daily prayers from home,” said a local.Meanwhile, others are praying that the pandemic ends soon and things return to normalcy. “Wearing masks in summers is very problematic. I hope that it ends before the winter drains or else it would be really difficult,” hoped another resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/once-god-fearing-all-are-now-virus-fearing-181394
08-12-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Abduction of minor: Police book accused after 3 months||Tarn Taran, December 7A disabled person from Naushehra Pannun village had to run from pillar to post for around three months to get a case registered against the accused who abducted his 13-year-old daughter on the pretext of marrying her.He said Harman Singh of Kahlwan village abducted his daughter along with his associate Chamkaur Singh of Rahal Chahal village.The complainant said he regularly visited Sarhali police station and Naushehra Pannuan police post to get the case registered, but to no avail. He said the accused was booked on December 6 after he threatened to commit suicide as cops were not taking any action against the accused. He said his uncle died of a shock as the police was not taking any action against the accused. Assistant Sub-Inspector Jaspreet Singh said a case has been registered under Sections 363, 366-A and 120-B of the IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act against the accused on December 6.The ASI denied the claims that the police did not registered the case on time. He said he himself tried to locate the accused and the abducted girl many a times.The complainant’s family alleged the police had freed one of the accused without presenting him before the court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/abduction-of-minor-police-book-accused-after-3-months-181398
08-12-2020||KAMAL DALMIA||‘Take it lightly at your own peril’||However, his attending doctors recommended for a Covid-19 test. The report, released on November 18, confirmed that he was infected. During this time, his son had also tested positive.Before being admitted to a leading private hospital he had been given antibiotics and doxy tablets. For the next 10 days he was kept at the hospital. “First day intravenous two shots of Remdesivir injection were administered and for the next four days a shot daily,” he tells. It was closely monitored as it could adversely impact the lever; also blood tests were conducted regularly. “Antibiotic and blood thinners and many oral medicines were given twice a day,” he adds.Kamal said that neither food nor clothing were allowed from outside in the Covid-19 ward. He appreciated the efforts of medical team comprising Dr HP Singh, Dr Raminder Kaur, Dr Varun Pushkarna and para-medical staff of the hospital for their services. Post discharge he was asked to abide by a week-long home quarantine and have a protein-rich diet, besides multi-vitamin tablets. Voicing a piece of advice for the city residents, he requested all to cover their face, to mind the gap “and do not avoid visiting doctors in case of any symptoms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/take-it-lightly-at-your-own-peril-181399
08-12-2020||---||GNDU extends date for offline exams||Amritsar, December 7GNDU authorities have decided to push the dates for offline examinations for odd classes after students protesting the move met and discussed their problems with them. The university had recently announced to conduct offline exams from December 14 to January 21, which was opposed by students. The date has now been extended till January 27.A delegation of students on Monday met with university officials and put forward their demands, which included shifting the exams to January, access to university library and waiving off the hostel fee for outstation students. “The move to announce exams offline was sudden and we insisted that students must be given adequate time to prepare properly for the exams. We need time to clear out all doubts and access to the university library as many students feel that online classes were not sufficient. The Dean Student Welfare and Dean Academic Affair listened to our demands and agreed,” said Gagan, a student of GNDU and a member of Punjab Student Union (Lalkar), who led the protest. She said the university also agreed to conduct practical exams before written exams. A long pending issue of hostel fee waiver was also sorted as university agreed to waive off the hostel fee up to 35 per cent. KS Kahlon, registrar, GNDU, said the decisions were taken keeping in mind the best interest of students in mind.“We will be conducting offline examinations as per the guidelines of the Government of Punjab and UGC. . The hostel fee will be adjusted or waived as per our best efforts.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-extends-date-for-offline-exams-181403
08-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Police arrest notorious criminal||Tarn Taran, December 7In a joint operation, the Verowal police and the Amristar (Rural) police have seized weapons and 105 gm of heroin from the possession of a notorious criminal and his relative on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Prabhjit Singh of Nathoke, and Jagroop Singh of Pakhoke, who is brother-in-law of Prabhjit. Deputy Superintendent of Police Sucha Singh Bal said, “The police have recovered a country-made weapon, a sophisticated pistol, 15 cartridges, Rs 3.80 lakh and two stolen motorcycles. We also recovered 105 grams of heroin from the possession of the accused.”The DSP said they also seized a car from them. He said acting on a tip-off the police raided the residence of Prabhjit in Jandiala Guru and nabbed the duo. A case has been registered under Sections 379-B, 21, 29, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act against the accused.The duo was produced before the court, which sent them to three-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-arrest-notorious-criminal-181405
08-12-2020||---||Schools, banks to stay closed||Amritsar, December 7In line with the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by various kisan unions, schools and banks in the city will stay closed on December 8. Releasing a statement in solidarity with farmers, the Recognised and Affiliated Schools’ Association (RASA), Amritsar, announced that institutes will remain shut and online classes will not be held on December 8. The Chief Khalsa Diwan has also announced that all its institutions will remain closed in support of farmers.Colleges will remain closed, though online classes will be conducted as usual. “Several exams for technical and other courses scheduled on December 8 have been postponed. We have kept safety of students in mind. Thus, we decided to close for the day,” said DS Rattaul, deputy, Khalsa College. The Bank Employees Federation of India issued a statement declaring support for farmers’ agitation and as a result, banking services will remain closed today. Meanwhile, Guru Nanak Dev University will remain functional, though it has postponed exams scheduled for the day for affiliated colleges. Guru Nanak Dev University Non-Teaching Employees Association declared to lend their support to the bandh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-banks-to-stay-closed-181407
