09-04-2020||---||40-yr-old shot at over minor dispute, two booked||Amritsar, April 8 A 40-year-old man, identified as Gurdev singh of Shahura village, was shot at by two persons in the village on Monday. The victim was taken to a hospital where his condition is said to be critical.The suspects have been identified Jasinder Singh and Gurbinder Singh, both residents of the same village. The victim told the police that he had a dispute with the suspects while playing cards in the village six days ago. He said they used abusive language after gathering in front of his house. The victim said on Monday, he, along with his nephew Navdeep Singh, went to Jaswinder Singh’s residence to complain about it. He said Gurbinder came out of his house and threatened them. He said thereafter, Jaswinder took out a revolver and shot at him. The police said a case had been registered against Jaswinder and Gurbinder, who were on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-yr-old-shot-at-over-minor-dispute-two-booked-68802
09-04-2020||---||MC suspends 2 employees for not attending emergency duty||Amritsar, April 8The Municipal Corporation (MC) has suspended its two employees for not attending coronavirus emergency duty in the city. According to information, both women employees not attended the office even after they were called by the officials. One of the suspended employees is working as clerk while another is sanitation worker, a MC official said. Employees of the Health Wing of the MC have been working hard to prevent the spread of virus. Field workers are working around the clock. The health officials claimed that these two employees were neither attending the office nor responding to the phone calls. Komal Mittal, Commissioner, MC, ordered to take disciplinary action after suspending them from the job.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-suspends-2-employees-for-not-attending-emergency-duty-68801
09-04-2020||---||Education Department issues notices to schools for demanding fee||Amritsar, April 8The Education Department on Wednesday issued show-cause notices to two more private schools in the city for demanding fees during the lockdown period.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla has been personally ensuring strict compliance of the government’s order that has prevented schools from demanding fee during the lockdown period. The minister has asked the parents to send complaints against erring schools on his email (vijayindersingla@gmail.com).The two schools that have been issued notices are Shri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Majitha Road, and Ryan International School, Singla said. Earlier, notices were issued to Angel’s Paradise, Ajit Nagar. The Cabinet Minister said the schools should not charge transportation fee and book charges from students for the next academic session till the lockdown is over.“The Education Department issued an order on March 23, asking private schools in the state to reschedule their admissions for the Session 2020-21. The schools have been directed to provide atleast 30-day window for submission of fees after the situation turns normal. They have also been instructed not to charge any late fees or fine from the students for the lockdown period.”He said violators of the orders have been served notices and given a seven-day time to reply. If they failed to give satisfactory reply, their affiliation or no-objection certificate would be withdrawn, he said.Meanwhile, the president of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), Nirmal Singh, clarified his stance over the issue of demanding fee from students. He said: “All schools and educational institutions of the CKD, including Shri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Majitha Bypas, were shut before the lockdown was announced by the state government. So, there is no question of demanding fee from students. The messages received by students regarding fee payment were auto-generated and sent by the bank concerned.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-department-issues-notices-to-schools-for-demanding-fee-68799
09-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||She is staying away from kids for her job||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8Posted at recently created corona ward in Government Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Dilraj Kaur, a nurse, is truly a frontline soldier.Mother of two small children, she took a tough decision of not going home after she was assigned the job of attending to Covid-19 patients.She, along with other staff, has been staying at the SGPC-run serai.Video call is the only way to exchange views and share feelings with her two children Dhurjeevan (7) and Diljot (5) and other family members. Dhurjeevan is studying in Class II and Diljot in UKG.She said her in-laws were taking care of the children as she had not visited her house since April 1. Her hobbies include cooking delicacies and desserts for her children. However, their demands remained unmet as she was focusing on her job.At professional front, she was handling patients suffering from ailments such as HIV, swine flu, hepatitis B.She was among the staff members of the hospital who had raised the demand for providing them PPE kits, sanitisers, gloves, masks, besides accommodation to attend to Covid patients.They were getting precautionary kits at the corona ward but were not given the same at the ICU and emergency wards where suspected Covid patients were kept.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-is-staying-away-from-kids-for-her-job-68798
09-04-2020||---||Ban on retail sale of veggies, fruits at Vallah market||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8The district administration on Wednesday banned retail sale of vegetable at the wholesale market at Vallah area. Entry of both, retail customers and sellers was banned at the vegetable and fruit market. The decision was taken after Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon paid a visit to the market on Tuesday.The number of retail customers had been extremely high at the market thus to avoid mass gathering and to check spread of virus in the city, the step was taken. Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, a commission agent, said visiting officials were alarmed at the arrival of customers in huge numbers at the market.He said no vegetable consignment was coming from outside the district and all the supply was made through local vegetable growers. Meeting a long pending demand of traders and growers, the local Market Committee had also installed sanitisation gadgets for disinfecting each consignment of vegetables arriving at the market.Meanwhile, people continued to take precaution and remained indoors as police officials were seen deployed at various roads, keeping a watch on curfew violation.Though, most of the people bought essential items through delivery boys roped in by the administration and vendors visiting house to house, some people ventured out to procure medicines and others essential items.A large number of women were also seen in front of bank branches to withdraw the amount that was credited to their Jan Dhan accounts under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana in view of the ongoing 21-day countrywide lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ban-on-retail-sale-of-veggies-fruits-at-vallah-market-68797
09-04-2020|| ||Warder booked for selling mobile phone to inmate||Amritsar, April 8 A jail warder of the Amritsar Central Jail was booked here on Wednesday for allegedly selling a mobile phone to  an inmate.  The warder has been identified as Harpreet Singh. Sukhdev Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said prisoner Gursewak Singh had a keypad phone in the jail and he wanted to sell it. On March 3, Gursewak Singh visited room No. 1 in barrack No. 3 to sell the phone to some other prisoner. When Gursewak was making a deal, jail warder Harpreet Singh reached the barrack and took the phone from Gursewak.  The warder demanded Rs 10,000 to not take any legal action against Gursewak. On March 5, Gursewak’s brother gave Rs 8,000 to warder Harpreet Singh at local bus stand as bribe. The warden further sold the phone to another jail inmate. The jail staff during a routine check recovered that phone from Sharif Mohammad on March 28 and he confessed that he bought the mobile from warden Harpreet Singh by paying Rs 7,000. Narinder Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Licensing and Security), said a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prison Act has been registered against the warder, while no arrest has been made so far.Mangal Singh, Assistant Superintendent of Central Jail, said the authorities during a routine check recovered another mobile phone from an inmate on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Sham Singh, alias Shama Don, a resident of Gujjarpura Gilwali Gate . A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Prison Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/warder-booked-for-selling-mobile-phone-to-inmate-68796
09-04-2020||Police take out flag march ||125 booked for violating curfew||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, April 8The police have booked 125 persons for violating curfew norms on Tuesday and Wednesday. Despite continuous efforts of the administration to make people aware about the need to stay indoors and follow curfew guidelines, many violators are found defying the orders. Those who failed to give satisfactory reasons for their travel were booked by the police. The police also carried out a flag march in Tarn Taran, Patti, Bhikhiwind and other places in the district under the guidance of SSP Dhruv Dahiya. The SSP appealed the people to remain indoors and avoid coming out.Daily a number of cases are registered against curfew violators. The police said 15 persons playing cards in Khadoor Sahib at a common place were booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC by the Goindwal Sahib police. Repeated appeals made by various health experts and the government are found of no use as people are continuing with violating curfew norms and not practicing social distancing. The administration too is taking strict action against the violators yet the scenario is no better. A large number of people ignore the advice and suggestions of experts which is given for their betterment. In another case, 30 persons who failed to give satisfactory reasons for being outside at public place and flouting curfew norms were booked in Manochahal Kalan village. Same cases were seen in Gill Waraich, Chuslewar, Algon Khurad, Bhojranwala (Chabal) and other villages too. The accused have been booked under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act 2005.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/125-booked-for-violating-curfew-68794
09-04-2020||  ||Social activist comes forward to provide PPE kits to nurses||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 8Social activist Mandeep Singh Manna has set an example by providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to staff nurses of Government Medical College here after they complained that the authorities were indifferent towards their safety.  Manna who had earlier distributed ration to the needy in city said, “As I heard shortage of PPE kits for the nurses who are prone to risk of virus infection, we decided to do something in this regard.” He said on the first day they could not arrange PPE kits and provided N93 masks which were available in market. Next day we arranged N95 masks and some PPE kits which were provided to nurses who were performing their duties at isolation and emergency wards. “We cannot win this battle against coronavirus unless our frontline workers feel secure,” he said. Manna said it was the duty of the government to make all arrangements on the very first day but it failed miserably. The nurses had earlier complained that PPE kits were being provided to those working in isolation and emergency areas. But later it also started providing safety kits to isolation ward too. Manna said only 11 kits were required in emergency and they have ordered for 50 kits.  In an appeal to the public, Manna said, “The city has many philanthropists and they should focus on providing medical equipment because if health workers fall ill, no one will be there to treat general public.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-activist-comes-forward-to-provide-ppe-kits-to-nurses-68793
09-04-2020|| ||Cops arrange food for needy||Amritsar, April 8 Police officials by pulling money out of their pockets have come forward to arrange food for slum dwellers and economically weaker sections living in the city. A team led by Jaswant Kaur Riar, ADCP Traffic, and ASI Kawaljit Singh has been cooking food every day from their Daswand ( a tenth part of income) money.   Jaswant Kaur said during curfew duty we observed that lockdown would put a large number of people out of work. We identified people, who need cooked food twice a day. Now, we have been preparing around 5,000 chapatis and dal for slum dwellers, she said.ASI Kawaljit Singh said, “The cooked food for the slum dwellers was need of the hour. We are successful to maintain social distancing while distributing the food. We are getting good response from them”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-arrange-food-for-needy-68792
09-04-2020||Neha Walia||Actor Sukhmani  is keeping herself  busy in cooking, writing scripts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 8Taking the lockdown in her stride, actor Sukhmani Sidana is spending some quality time with her family in Amritsar. The actor, who was part of several Bollywood films like Manmarziyan and web series Sacred Games, flew in from Mumbai a day before Holi and has since been spending time at her family home in city.“When I came to visit my parents in Amritsar, I didn’t think that my stay would be extended, thanks to the lockdown. But thankfully I got stuck where I’d like to be stuck. Ironically, I had been itching for some relaxed family time, being exhausted with my work and social routine,” shared the actor. Her lockdown routine mostly comprises of things that she otherwise is not able to do. “I wake up at a reasonably decent hour and have set a goal for myself to cook at least once a day. I try to cook my mother’s recipes, which most times have resulted in experimental cuisine, learn a thing or two from her in the kitchen. Obviously, I love eating home cooked Punjabi food so I am guilty of that indulgence. My afternoons are well spent with my pet Begum and ample time with my parents, solving Sudoku and crosswords. As the twilight hours get closer, I water my garden and spend some time with nature, and then most definitely indulge in a one-hour workout, followed by stretches and finally meditation. At night, I enjoy an early dinner, read a book or make it a point to watch at least one informative and enlightening documentary before I call it a day.”Sukhmani has also been dedicating her time to writing a few scripts. “I love to write, sometimes its random stuff. But currently, I am writing scripts for a new film project for Netflix and a TV show for Alt Balaji.” She has earlier been on the writing team of horror film Creature. She has a wood of advice for all. “There is anxiety and restlessness that is packaged along with the uncertainty of our world’s current situation. And everyone is facing this uneasiness, constantly thinking when will all this end? But I believe that lockdown and isolation are the best employed strategies to break the chain. So, individual responsibility plays crucial role here. Don’t venture out for the sake of yourself, your family and others.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/actor-sukhmani-is-keeping-herself-busy-in-cooking-writing-scripts-68789
09-04-2020||---||18 test -ve, no new case in 3 days||Amritsar, March 8In a major relief for the health administration, at least 18 contacts of coronavirus positive cases, including family members, doctors and other healthcare workers, tested negative, according to reports of Government Medical College laboratory.Satnam Kaur, wife of Jaswinder Singh, tested negative in the confirmatory test. Earlier, she had tested positive in the preliminary test after which the confirmatory test was conducted. A former superintending engineer (SE), Jaswinder Singh, a 65-year-old resident of the Chaatiwind area, had died two days ago. He had earlier tested positive.The health authorities said besides the relatives of positive cases, doctors and healthcare workers, who had been under observation as they came in contact with the patients, had also tested positive. After Jaswinder Singh tested positive three days ago, no new case had been reported in the district.Meanwhile, the health authorities also reached out to 12 Jammu and Kashmir students who had asked for permission to return as they had already completed their 14-day quarantine period.Civil Surgeon Prabhdeep Kaur Johal met the students and provided them essential items. She said students should not worry till they were in the city as they would be taken care of properly.The Civil Surgeon said people were coming for help in this time of crisis in different ways. She said an employee at her office, Rajesh Kumar, gifted masks, sanitisers and gloves to health staff to celebrate his daughter’s birthday.Dr Johal said people could contribute to the cause by staying home and abiding by all government instructions. She said areas such as Jaura Fatak, where two patients who had no travel history were test positive, and the Chaatiwind area, where one case was reported, were under scanner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/18-test-ve-no-new-case-in-3-days-68788
09-04-2020||---||NGO distributes masks in rural areas||Amritsar, April 8  In this time of crisis due to the coronavirus in the country, NGOs have been playing a vital role in serving society by distributing ration and other essential items among the needy. Doing its bit, Nashian Virudh Lok Jagriti Sansthan, an NGO, has been providing free masks to people living in rural areas. Navtej Singh, president of the NGO, said they had been preparing masks at home and distributing these among people in his native village and adjoining areas. “Now, people and sarpanchs of nearby villages have been asking us to provide masks. Till date, we have distributed 500 masks among people,” he said. The NGO is also spearheading a campaign against the rampant drug abuse in the rural belt of the holy city. It motivated many addicts to shun drugs. Moreover, it had taken them to Swami Vivakand De Addition Centre at Government Medical College for treatment. Nevtej said it was an urgent need that people from across society should come forward in this fight against the pandemic. They could contribute to this fight by staying indoors and taking precautions suggested by the government and the Health Department. He added that many NGOs were already helping the needy by providing ration and other essential items. “People have been complaining of a shortage of masks. Medical stores have failed to meet the shortage. Therefore, we decided to procure cloth and made masks. People have appreciated it,” he added. Amritsar: The MC has suspended its two employees for not attending coronavirus emergency duty in the city. According to information, both women employees not attended the office even after they were called by the officials.  One of the suspended employees is working as clerk while another is sanitation worker, a MC official said. Employees of the Health Wing of the MC have been working hard to prevent the spread of virus. Field workers are working around the clock. The health officials claimed that these two employees were neither attending the office nor responding to the phone calls. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-distributes-masks-in-rural-areas-68787
09-04-2020||---||A first: Holy city  residents to be screened||Amritsar, April 8The holy city will be the first town in the country to conduct screening of nearly one and a half million residents to stem the spread of Covid.The decision was jointly taken by the district administration and the Municipal Corporation in a meeting held here today.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said though the pandemic had not reached an alarming level here, the step had been taken to prevent its spread.At present, there are eight positive patients in the city. Two had died of the deadly coronavirus.Each resident of the city will undergo screening. This will identify the patients in the first stage of Covid.Rintu said the screening of those who came into contact with positive patients and their areas would be carried out on priority.DC Shivdular Singh Dhillonsaid Krishna Nagar and Sultanwind areas would be taken under a pilot project as positive cases were found here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-first-holy-city-residents-to-be-screened-68513
