09-06-2020||Chandigarh||56 more test coronavirus positive, Punjab's tally crosses 2,700||Fifty-six more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Punjab, pushing the virus count to 2,719 in the state, officials said on Tuesday.Among fresh cases, 20 were reported in Amritsar, which is leading the coronavirus tally in the state.Fifteen new cases reported in Ludhiana; five each in Mohali, Sangrur and Jalandhar; three in Pathankot; and one each in Patiala, Tarn Taran and Rupnagar, according to a state government's medical bulletin.Four among the fresh cases are foreign returnees and two interstate travellers, the bulletin said.The state has witnessed over 300 COVID-19 cases in the last six days.On the brighter side, 39 coronavirus patients were discharged from various hospitals, taking the number of total cured people to 2,167 in the state, it said.There are 497 active cases in Punjab.Amritsar continued to top the COVID-19 tally in the state with 502 coronavirus cases, followed by Jalandhar (311), Ludhiana (266), Tarn Taran (160), Gurdaspur (152), Patiala (139), Hoshiarpur (135), Mohali (133), Sangrur (116), SBS Nagar (109), Pathankot (94), Faridkot (73).Seventy-one cases each were reported in Rupnagar and Muktsar, 70 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 67 in Moga, 55 in Bathinda, 48 in Fazilka, 46 in Ferozepur, 40 in Kapurthala, 34 in Mansa and 27 in Barnala, according to the bulletin.Five patients are critical and are on ventilator support, the bulletin said, adding Punjab has seen 55 coronavirus deaths so far.A total of 1,36,343 samples have been taken so far for coronavirus testing, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/56-more-test-coronavirus-positive-punjabs-tally-crosses-2-700-96776
09-06-2020||---||Day after Suraj’s murder, kin held||Amritsar, June 8A day after the murder of a youth, Suraj Kumar, in the Haripura area, the police have arrested a girl in the case.According to the police, she was the reason behind the killing. Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Gate Hakima police station, said in his statement, Satpal, father of the victim, stated that the girl, who is his relative, had illicit relations with Shambhu and his brother Chandan, both residents of the same locality.Satpal said he had asked her to snap her ties with the accused, who were criminals and had a couple of criminal cases registered against them. He said enraged over this, the accused shot his son dead whose marriage was fixed for June 15.On Saturday evening, Suraj was with some children on the ground floor when other family members were on the first floor of the house. Satpal said suddenly they heard gunshots in the house. They rushed downstairs and saw Suraj in a pool of blood. When he came out, he saw Shambhu and Chandan running away from the spot while threatening and abusing.The SHO said police teams were raiding suspected hideouts of the accused. He said Shambhu and Chandan had around three cases registered against them. He said investigation was on to identify their remaining accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-surajs-murder-kin-held-96640
09-06-2020||---||Passengers queue up at Amritsar railway station, ignore Covid-19 containment norms||Amritsar, June 8Despite the government guidelines to follow certain safety norms in these times of Covid-19, passengers are not following them at the Amritsar railway station.The norms like social distancing and wearing face masks are being flouted openly. Railway officials and officials of the Government Railway Police lay stress only on ensuring that visitors join the queue.However, passengers in queues were seen without face masks and standing in close proximity to other passengers, not keeping the mandatory distance between themselves. Thus, they are courting risks.A police official, on duty at the platform, said, “When passengers are asked to keep wearing face masks, they say that they have taken it off to get some relief.”Ashok Salaria, Area Officer at the Amritsar railway station, said police officials manning the entry points of the railway station had been asked to let in no more than 15 passengers at a given time.The wearing of face masks and downloading of the Aarogya Setu app on cell phones were being strictly enforced. Thermal screening of all boarding passengers was being done by medical staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passengers-queue-up-at-amritsar-railway-station-ignore-covid-19-containment-norms-96641
09-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers criticise ‘One nation, one market’||Tarn Taran, June 8Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, staged a protest over several pending demands of farmers and farm labourers outside the District Administrative Complex (DAC) on Monday. They submitted a memorandum regarding their demands to officials.To hold protest amid the pandemic, the members reached the site in large numbers on tractor-trailers, violating the social distancing norm. They also sat close to each other during the protest.The ‘One nation, one market’ policy will deprive farmers of the minimum support price and ruin the farming sector. So, the decision must be rolled back.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh CommitteeAddressing the gathering, Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, the district president of the organisation, criticised the Union Government’s policy of ‘One nation, one market’, saying the policy would deprive the farmers of the minimum support price (MSP) and ruin the farming sector. The organisation demanded rollback of the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Act 2020 which “would privatise the electricity system and raise power tariffs.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-criticise-one-nation-one-market-96642
09-06-2020||---||Fake WhatsApp message on poultry ban worries sellers||Amritsar, June 8A doctored image of what appears to be a notification of the state government regarding a ban on the sale of poultry products in the state is doing the rounds on social media much to non-vegetarians’ worry.A notification purportedly issued by the Punjab Government had initially gone viral in Pakistani Punjab around five days ago. Pakistan media carried news about the viral message stating that it was fake news.However, the same message with a copy of the doctored notification is also doing the rounds on social media in the state. The fake message from the deputy secretary reads, “I am directed to draw your attention towards a very sensitive issue and order immediate blanket ban on all poultry products in your respective districts.”“While the poultry industry in the state is trying to come out from the losses incurred during the initial days of the lockdown, the fake message can confuse people,” said Rattan Singh, a poultry seller. In the initial days of the lockdown if the prices had gone down due to decrease in production, the increase in prices has become a problem. With chicken priced at Rs 300 per kilo, restaurants and hotels have either decreased quantity of the dishes or increased prices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-whatsapp-message-on-poultry-ban-worries-sellers-96643
09-06-2020||---||Post-relaxations, miscreants become active again in dist||Amritsar, June 8With curfew restrictions being eased, miscreants have become active again in the district. Three incidents of snatching were reported here on Sunday.A Jalandhar resident, Keshav Mahajan, was robbed of his car by armed robbers in the Jandiala area here on Sunday. Mahajan, a resident of Rama Mandi, along with his friend Kunal Chawla was returning to Jalandhar from Amritsar when armed persons travelling in a car intercepted them near Chohan village.He said the accused pointed a gun at Chawla and fired a shot into the air while threatening to kill him. He said the accused also took away their two cell phones and car papers with them. The police have registered a case.In another incident, two bike-borne persons snatched gold jewellery and a purse from a couple on the Khasa road near Ram Tirath here. The complainant, Sawinder Singh of Subhash Nagar, Chheharta, told the police that he, along with his wife Manjinder Kaur, was going to Chogwan side when the incident took place.He said the accused snatched gold ear-rings of his wife, a ring of his and a purse containing Rs 12,000 from his possession and fled. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B of the IPC.Meanwhile, Mahadeep Singh, a Hazoori ragi at the Golden Temple, was looted allegedly at pistol point by unidentified persons. He said he, along with his wife and son, had gone to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib. On their way back home when they reached near Tarlok dairy, six unknown persons came on bikes and a scooter and snatched their two cell phones, an ATM card and a Best Price card and fled. The police have registered an FIR against unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-relaxations-miscreants-become-active-again-in-dist-96644
09-06-2020||---||8-month-old, 2 others die in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 86 LOCALITIES DECLARED AS CONTAINMENT ZONESAs per government orders, any area with 15 or more cases is declared a containment zone, putting restrictions on movement.An eight-month-old and two others died due to Covid-19 in the district on Monday. Eight-month-old Sukhdeeo Singh, the youngest corona case so far, from Gopalpura Manjwind village was admitted to the paediatrics department of Government Medical College in a critical condition.His initial symptoms included refusal to feed, fever, cough and loose motions. After his test came positive, the child was shifted to ICU. The doctors declared him dead at 5.15 pm.Two other victims are 60-year-old Arjun Kumar of Katra Sher Singh area and 78-year-old Sat Pal of Sharma Colony. The district health authorities stated that both patients from walled city area suffered from diabetes and heart problems.With the three deaths in a single day, the death count due to Covid 19 in district has increased to 11. With 19 new positive cases, the count of coronavirus patients has also increased to 502 in the district.Meanwhile, the administration sealed a cluster of six localities in walled city area to contain spread of Covid-19. As per government orders, any area with 15 or more cases is declared a containment zone, putting restrictions on movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/8-month-old-2-others-die-in-amritsar-district-96645
09-06-2020||---||Amritsar Police to form teams to check illegal mining||Amritsar, June 8The Amritsar rural police nabbed as many as 12 persons indulging in illegal sand mining near the Ravi banks recently. The police have also appealed to residents to inform the police of any illegal activity.Illegal sand mining is a bane of rural belt of Ajnala and Ramdass. Thanks to the political patronage the illegal miners enjoy, the illegal mining is causing a damage to the environment as big gorges have formed on the river banks.The sand mafia has been so strong in the belt that a 60-year-old man lost his life when he opposed illegal mining near his land in March this year.Now, in order to check the illegal sand digging, the police have claimed to have installed seven permanent checkpoints near second line of defence, besides Daburji, Chabba, Bohru, Rajasansi, Dariya Mussa and main chowk Ajnala that cover areas of Ajnala, Lopoke, Chatiwind, Rajasansi and Ramdass.Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, rural police, said five cops had been deputed at these checkpoints round the clock. The police had recently arrested 12 persons involved in illegal mining and registered 20 cases in this connection. Out of these, the Lopoke police had registered 13 cases and the Ajnala police four, the SSP added.He said a plan was being chalked out with the mining department to form teams to check the menace. He urged the people to share information with the police about illegal miners so that appropriate action could be taken against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-police-to-form-teams-to-check-illegal-mining-96646
09-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Malls in Amritsar open to lukewarm response||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8There was a listless response of customers on the opening of malls and hotels in the city here today. Some of the customers who visited the mall were the ones who were in need of branded items. Operators of hotels and malls opine that the footfall will gradually improve with rise in the confidence of people.A customer, Davinder Singh, said he was to buy some summer apparels of particular brands. The customers were cautious and extremely self aware when they entered the malls. The customers did appreciate the safety measures which were in place for them and fully cooperated with us to abide by the social distancing norms.Malls remained opened from 10 am to 7 pm. Mall of Amritsar opened its doors to public on the June 8 as per the notification issued by the administration. Col Mandeep Singh, Central Director of Mall of Amritsar said they were absolutely thrilled to welcome all visitors whilst ensuring strict implementation of social distancing norms.So they joined hands with Bureau Veritas, one of the most prestigious certification organisations in the world to implement a unique ‘Safety First’ initiative to reassure customers on the implementation of stringent SOPs released by the Shopping Centres Association of India. Bureau Veritas will reassure and verify the detailing of protocols and measures to optimise hygiene, the disinfection of facilities and the most important operational processes followed at Mall of Amritsar. “We anticipate that the re-opening would be a gradual process as standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are being adhered to,” he observed.“We opened today with over 75 stores and saw that only those shoppers who wanted something specific came to the mall,” he commented.As per the government guidelines, food courts remained shut for dining in, but home delivery options and take away facilities were introduced through various apps.Putting in similar efforts retail outlets inside these malls ramped up their manpower ensuring that all prescribed protocols for safety and social distancing are adhered to.Sumeet Taneja, General Manager of Taj Swarna hotel said the hotel was opened today. He said, “Taj Swarna is taking reservations from today onwards as per the directives of the government and guidelines of the local authorities. Taj Swarna has implemented additional stringent hygiene and safety protocols across all customer-touch points, from pre-arrival to check-out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/malls-in-amritsar-open-to-lukewarm-response-96647
09-06-2020||---||Rules for death, birth registration relaxed in Punjab||Amritsar, June 8After the state government scrapped the condition of 21 days to report deaths and births to the registration office, the Municipal Corporation has started accepting applications of delayed cases for certificates.Following the two-month lockdown, a large number of residents were unable to report death and birth. The Municipal Corporation had offered curfew passes to the dependants of deceased and hospitals to report death and birth during the lockdown in the city. Officials of the death and birth wing of the civic body said most of the people, who cremated the deceased at the cremation grounds of Gurdwara Saheedan Sahib and Durgiana Temple, got the curfew passes and reported deaths to the MC office. Similarly, the maternity hospital also reported births to the MC.“The people, who cremated deceased persons at small cremation grounds, might not be aware of the rule and did not report deaths. So, the government has relaxed the rules for them. Similarly, only in a few cases, women gave births at homes. They can also apply for the birth certificate even if they did not report birth,” said Dharminderjit Singh, nodal officer for death and birth registration.The death and birth wing also cleared its pending applications during the lockdown. “As Suwidha Centres were closed, we were not getting new applications. Our office was open during the lockdown and we cleared the pending cases,” added Dharminderjit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rules-for-death-birth-registration-relaxed-in-punjab-96648
09-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Three injured in 2 firing incidents||Operator held for taking bribeAmritsar: The Vigilance Bureau (VB) has arrested a computer operator, Sukhjinder Singh, posted at Sewa Kendra Nangli on the Fatehgarh Churian road here, for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs2,000 from a local resident, Sandeep Singh, for issuance of a birth certificate of his mother. Accroding to VB officials, Sandeep Singh had applied under title ‘No record found certificate’ in December 2019. The operator demanded Rs2,000 for issuing the certficate. A case has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-injured-in-2-firing-incidents-96649
09-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Entrepreneurs should get loans at low interest rate’||RANJAN Aggarwal, Managing Director of RK Aggarwal Group of Industries that operating four factories in various sectors such as iron and steel, plywood, hardware and utensils, says the government must play a proactive role in resuscitating the MSME sector. Here are excerpts of his interview with Neeraj Bagga:How has the lockdown impacted your business?There were huge losses in the form of salaries to employees, payment of bank interest on advances, electricity bills during the lockdown period. During the lockdown, we had no income but only expenses.Like the Rs63,000 crore given to banks to deal with NPAs, the government should give financial support to small entrepreneurs. Interest on loans for the lockdown period should be waived and instalments should be deferred for a year. Businessmen must get new loans at the interest of 4 per cent to 5 per cent.Ranjan Aggarwal, MD, RK Aggarwal Group of IndustriesDo you expect any of your businesses to restart in the near future?At present, the demand is nil. Also, keeping in mind the safety of workers, it is difficult to restart operations. Most of the labourers are from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar and around 80 per cent of them have left for their homes. Without them, we can't restart production. We are waiting for them to come back and the demand to rise and lift the sagging morale of industries.How are you dealing with salaries of workers?Since May, we have been giving 70 per cent salaries to labourers. From this month, we are running factory at 30 per cent capacity but will give full salary to those working.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trade in our business is zero.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?The important lesson that I have learnt from the lockdown is to be self-dependent. In tough times, neither the state nor the Centre comes to the rescue. Each business house, big or small, should fulfil the corporate social responsibility as it leads to long-term productivity.How do you consider the current crisis, as a challenge or an opportunity?The current crisis is definitely a challenge. To handle the current labour crisis and to run the business when there is no demand are tough tasks. The closure of business will lead to liquidity crunch as securing payments for the products sold will remain a biggest task.What are your expectations from the government?In these tough times, entrepreneurs are expecting hand-holding from the government. The Reserve Bank of India should lower the repo rate from 4 per cent to 3 per cent. Like the Rs63,000 crore given to banks to deal with NPAs, the government should give financial support to small entrepreneurs. Interest on loans for the lockdown period should be waived and instalments should be deferred for a year. Businessmen must get new loans at the interest of 4 per cent to 5 per cent. Electricity tariff for the period should also be waived and power tariff for the next six months should be fixed at half of the present level. These measures will help industries recover. The Rs20-lakh crore package announced by the Union Government is of little use.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/entrepreneurs-should-get-loans-at-low-interest-rate-96650
09-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||This auto driver finds it hard to make both ends meet||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Rakesh Kumar, 35, an autorickshaw driver, is struggling to find a customer on a sunny afternoon in the city.Before the imposition of lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19, roads would be teeming with autos and were an essential mode of transportation for commuters. Now, they are being seen in small numbers.“My wife, earning Rs 4,000 per month, at a boutique shop, lost her job after the lockdown. “I have two school-going children to support and Rs 7,250 monthly installment to pay towards the loan taken for the CNG auto which I had procured two years back.”He recalled that before lockdown, after slogging for almost 12 hours, he used to earn between Rs 300 to Rs 400 per day, (after bearing all expenses on such as fuel, service, repair and loan installment). Now, after working for similar duration, he was hardly earning a little over Rs 100, which is suffice only for a day’s milk expenses.“We doubled the rates from Rs 10 per passenger to Rs 20. Even then it is of no use as we cannot accommodate more than two passengers at a time. The stretch on the GT road from Chheharta Chowk to the Inter-state Bus Terminal has a number of schools and colleges besides the railway station and commercial pockets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-auto-driver-finds-it-hard-to-make-both-ends-meet-96651
09-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||IELTS aspirant in a fix after closure of coaching centres||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 8Lockdown imposed by the government to prevent the spread of Covid-19 hit the career goals of Gurpal Kaur, who recently appeared for Class XII examination and planned to join International English Language Testing System (IELTS) coaching center. Gurpal had joined the IELTS centre after his exams in March, but the government imposed lockdown. Now she has to wait for the opening of her coaching centre.“The IELTS training centers are offering online coaching, but it has not been much effective. I need group discussions to improve my speaking skills. So I have to be there at the centre whenever it opens,” said Gurpal Kaur.The IELTS training centres are offering online coaching, but it has not been much effective. I need group discussions to improve my speaking skills. So, I have to be there at the centre whenever it opens.Gurpal Kaur, StudentShe had been planning to study abroad for the past two years. Now, when she was close to her dream, curfew was imposed due to Covid-19.“Now, I had to join a degree college to avoid gap in my study. Had everything been alright, I would have left for abroad in September itself. Now, I will not be able to appear for IELTS till August. The visa processing will also take time. Everything went wrong. It will raise the financial burden on my parents,” she said. The students, who aspire to study at New Zealand and Australia, are worried about the government’s policies about the international students.“A few countries changed the rules for International students after pandemic. Canadian colleges are offering online courses. Even they may change the immigration rules. I am worried if these countries might change the norms for international students. All I can do is just hope that things turn into normal. I will prepare for IELTS during this time,” said Gurpal Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ielts-aspirant-in-a-fix-after-closure-of-coaching-centres-96652
