09-08-2020||
||‘Release salaries of Sulabh workers’||Amritsar, August 8 The Employees Union of the Health Department has urged the government to ensure regular salary disbursal to multipurpose and sanitation workers under the Sulabh Scheme.  The Coordination Committee of Para Medical Employees and Ministerial Staff Union leaders stated that these employees had not been paid salaries for the last four months. They stated that the workers were facing difficulties due to nonpayment of salaries.  The employees’ leaders, Tajinder Singh Dhillon and Narinder Kumar, said the services of all contractual employees should be regularised as these employees were helping the government and society in fight against pandemic without caring for their lives and families.  They said the government was not providing their dues and instead taking decisions against the interests of employees and the state. They demanded that the recent decision to give Central Government pay scales to new recruits should be revoked and instead the government should implement the report of the pending pay commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/release-salaries-of-sulabh-workers-124155
09-08-2020||Amritsar||Implement Centre-state pact  signed on Ram Bagh: NGO||A local NGO has demanded action against officials, who did not implement the agreement signed between the Centre and the state on December 4, 2018, about the historic Ram Bagh.  Even after 21 months, Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, patron, and Manmohan Singh Brar, president of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM), called on President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira to implement the MoU and remove encroachment from the historic garden.  Gumtala said except for the buildings constructed by Maharaja Ranjit Singh from this garden, the rest of the constructions, including clubs, offices of the Municipal Corporation, food stall, tennis court and skating ring are among the encroachments and it should be demolished.  “Alcohol consumption and other commercial activities are prohibited as per the law in the garden but it is still going on in clubs. The agreement prohibits the entry of four-wheelers and heavy vehicles into the garden, which is also not being complied”, added Gumtala.  Ram Bagh was built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the name of Guru Ram Das, the fourth Sikh Guru. The 84-acre garden was modeled on the Shalamar Garden in Lahore. It was the summer capital of the Maharaja. There is a panorama and a summer palace of Maharaja in this garden. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/implement-centre-state-pact-signed-on-ram-bagh-ngo-124156
09-08-2020||
||Amritsar District gets plasma bank to aid fight against Covid||Amritsar, August 8 Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira inaugurated a plasma bank and teleconference centre at Government Medical College here on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, he said the plasma bank would help store plasma of cured Covid patients which would be used to treat critically-ill patients.  The Deputy Commissioner also honoured the cured patients who had donated plasma till date. In an appeal to the general public, he said the cured patients must donate plasma so that it could expedite the recovery process for others.  He also inaugurated a teleconference service centre for Covid-19 patients admitted at the hospital. He said the centre would enable hospitalised patients to communicate with their families through video conferencing, as well as doctors specialising in various ailments, including mental illness.  The doctors at the hospital, especially those involved, would also be able to counsel the patients of Covid-19 and strengthen them mentally. Khaira said sometimes patients were shaken due to fear of the disease, so it is very important to keep them in good spirits and this service would be a boon for so many patients.  Khaira said corona patients were constantly coming in the district which showed that the people of the district were being negligent. He said since the disease was contagious, it was important for people to take necessary precautions such as wearing masks, observing social distancing and washing hands frequent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-gets-plasma-bank-to-aid-fight-against-covid-124157
09-08-2020||Amritsar||Security beefed up in Amritsar ahead of I-Day||As the Independence Day celebrations were approaching near, the city police have tightened security in the city.  It has launched search operations at the vital locations and various parts of the city. On Thursday, the police carried out a search operation at interstate bus terminus here. Sniffer dogs were pressed into service during checking.  According to police sources, there are intelligence inputs that anti-national elements would try to deteriorate the peaceful atmosphere in the country by carrying out nefarious activities. Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Police Commissioner, said as the security had been enhanced in view of the Independence Day celebrations. He said this was a general alert in view of the Independence Day celebrations. Senior police officials have been directed to remain on the field and keep an eye on the anti-social and anti-national elements.  He said vehicles coming to the city would be checked and hotels authorities were also asked to inform the police about suspicious activities of the visitors. He said in the coming days more search operations would be conducted in different parts of the city and vital locations like railway station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/security-beefed-up-in-amritsar-ahead-of-i-day-124158
09-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Pool of misery: Sewage outside Civil Hospital poses health hazard to visitors||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 8Negligence and lack of coordination in various departments have posed grave inconvenience to visitors at the Civil Hospital. Due to the choking of the main sewer line, filthy and stinky sewage has accumulated outside the main gate of the Civil Hospital for the last 20 days.The patients and their attendants are forced to wade through the stinky water every day. The hospital staff have inserted bricks in the stagnated water to make a temporary path. The shopkeepers in the market said the motorcyclists often ran the risk of skidding on the slippery road.The hospital workers said water had accumulated there for the past 20 days. The chemists, who had been suffering due to water accumulation, had filed several complaints to Municipal Corporation to get the issue addressed but no avail. The MC employees pump the water out with trucks as sewer line is choked.Balwinder Singh, a chemist in the market outside Civil Hospital, said, “It is more than two weeks that we have been residing in a hell like situation. The sewer water stinks all day. Our business has been hit badly as no one wants to visit us amid such unhygienic conditions.”Manjit Singh, another shopkeeper, said, “With the negligence of MC, patients have been at the receiving end. On one hand, government is advocating the hygiene, but the stinky water paints some other picture.”It has been learnt that the main sewer line on the Ram Bagh side was choked during the construction work of the Bus Rapid Transit System lane and station. A large pillar had been installed by Public Works Department (PWD) in the centre of the road,” he said.“The Municipal Corporation employees have been suspecting that the workers of BRTS project damaged the line during construction, which led to regular choking,” he addedWhen contacted Vijay Kumar, executive officer operation and maintenance (O&M) wing of MC said, “We are working on the issue. It was a major fault on the main road. Now we are diverting the line. We have constructed a manhole after digging a separate line. The work will be completed within two days. Meanwhile, we are pumping the water out with our tankers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pool-of-misery-sewage-outside-civil-hospital-poses-health-hazard-to-visitors-124159
09-08-2020||Neha Saini
||Over 100 artists participate in KT Kala’s first virtual art show||Tribune news service Amritsar, August 8 With arts and cultural activities still suspended in the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the artists have been unable to host any exhibitions or programmes showcasing their works. KT Kala, under Kausa Trust Amritsar, attempted to break the lull by hosting a virtual art show featuring artists from across the country.  A first in city, the virtual art show invited online entries from artists across the country on the contemporary theme of Covid-19 pandemic. “We usually plan our annual art exhibition during this time of the year. This year due to Covid outbreak, we had to delay the exhibition but later we decided to do a virtual art show,” he said This is an attempt to keep the creative discourse running and also provide a platform for artists to share their works and ideas even during the pandemic,” said Brajesh Jolly, director, KT Kala.  The jury panel for the exhibition includes senior artists like Vijender Sharma, Dr Neeta Mohindra, Dr Anupam Bhatnagar and Dr Baldev Gambhir. The Kausa Trust has also announced cash prizes for the winners of each category. Fifty art works have been shortlisted for the exhibition that was inaugurated on Saturday by Swaroop Dar through a Zoom Cloud meeting.  Works of renowned artists including Bhupinder S Nanda, Kulwant S Gill, Dr Neeta Mohindra and many others have been uploaded on the online platform of KT Kala. Sculptor and painters from Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Bihar, Maharashtra and other parts of the country are participating in the exhibition.  “Our Facebook page and YouTube channel has the art show streaming live and the link will be shared to the registered users daily till August 15. A catalogue with detailed description of the art work and artist has also been uploaded,” said Jolly.  Over 100 artists, who participated in the inaugural online meet unanimously, agreed that the way forward, until the Covid-19 health threat, is to adopt virtual art shows and meets.  The prize money will directly be transferred to the bank accounts of the winning artists. “We have given away 10 prizes of Rs 3,000 each and commendation certificates as well. The prize money is a way to support the artists who have not been able to earn due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” said Jolly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-100-artists-participate-in-kt-kalas-first-virtual-art-show-124160
09-08-2020||Our Correspondent
||Hooch tragedy: Bias in relief distribution alleged||Tarn Taran, August 8 Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra, patron of the Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO), has accused the administration and the state government of alleged favouritism in distributing compensation to the families of those who died after consuming spurious hooch.  Bibi Khalra visited Bhullar village on Saturday to express her sympathy with the victims’ families. She said the family of Parkash Singh had not been given a cheque for Rs 2 lakh so far while other victims’ families had been given cheques on Thursday by a team led by Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and MLA Raj Kumar Verka. Bibi Khalra said it was a clear case of discrimination on the part of the state government and the administration. She said Parkash Singh was a close relative of Kanwaljit Kaur who had lodged a complaint with the local Sadar police station against Ramanjit Singh Sikki, MLA, Khadoor Sahib and his PA Jaramnjit Singh to register a case under Section 302 of the IPC against them as the spurious liquor was allegedly supplied by the MLA and his PA in the village. Bibi Khalra said the matter would be brought to the notice of the administration shortly. She demanded a total ban on both legal and illegal liquor trade in the state to save the lives of people. The family of one another victim, Gurcharan Singh of Bhullar village, was also not given compensation. Gurcharan Singh was unmarried and his father Joginder Singh was claiming his right to the compensation. Kanwaljit Kaur said she was to participate in the demonstration organised by workers of SAD and other political parties and organisations but as her village was converted into police cantonment she could not join it. Rajnish Kumar Arora, the local SDM, denied the allegation saying that he must probe the matter. BJP Mahila Morcha holds protest over tragedy Amritsar: On the direction of state BJP president Ashwani Sharma and Mahila Morcha president Mona Jaswal, the BJP women leadership held demonstrations at various parts of the city on Thursday.   They held the state government responsible for the ‘murder’ of over 100 people due to consumption of illicit liquor in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala districts. Amritsar Mahila Morcha president Alka Sharma said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh should resign on moral ground after taking the moral responsibility of the incident. She said the state government had failed to curb the illicit liquor trade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooch-tragedy-bias-in-relief-distribution-alleged-124161
09-08-2020||
||Workshop for govt school heads to apprise them of leadership skills||Amritsar, August 8 The Bharti Institute of Public Policy (BIPP) at Indian School of Business(ISB) conducted online workshops throughout Punjab on ‘Leadership and Motivation’ for directly recruited heads of government high schools through the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) of the Punjab Education Department.  Three cohorts of 100 participants each have been trained during these online training. A total of 989 directly recruited school heads would be imparted training by holding webinars for different batches. The each training webinar would be of five-day duration.  Four heads of government schools in rural belt in district attended the five-day online training workshop under this initiative. The workshop is a part of an overarching project titled ‘Improving Quality of Education in Punjab’, that BIPP is undertaking with the Department of Education, Punjab. With emphasis on building not only the physical, behavioural and attitudinal changes in teachers, the workshops also aim to equip them with managerial and leadership skills.  “These workshops have helped us understand that it is important for a head of a team to communicate with the team and even bridge the communication gap between teachers and students.  The workshops helped us to understand that leadership requires building a strong, communication-based network of human resources, in this case teachers, who would in turn improve their teaching as well as mentoring skills,” said Narinder Singh, who is headmaster at Government High School, Chavinda Kalan and also the district mentor for science.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workshop-for-govt-school-heads-to-apprise-them-of-leadership-skills-124162
09-08-2020||---||Amritsar District sees 2 deaths, highest 1-day spike of 111 new cases||Amritsar, August 8In the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in the district, the Health Department has reported 111 new positive cases on Saturday. The district also reported two deaths taking the toll to 92. The deceased have been identified as Kamlesh Rani, a resident of Rose Avenue, and Jang Bahadur, a resident of Krishna Square.Of the new cases, 43 are patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and 68, including 36 from the Central Jail, are contacts of positive cases. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, two cases have been reported from Nagina Avenue, New Garden Colony, Shri Ram Avenue, Kashmir Avenue, Airport Colony, Raja Sansi, Laxmi Vihar, Guru Bazaar and Ajnala while one case are from Ghalamala Chowk, Haripura, Nehru Colony (Majitha Road), Gumtala, Ghee Mandi, Indira Colony, Islamabad, Gurnam Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Ekta Bhawan, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Sector-4 (Ranjit Avenue), Dayanand Nagar (Lawrence Road), Sanjay Gandhi Colony, Prem Nagar, Baba Deep Singh Colony, Khandwala (Chheharta), Universal Enclave (Chheharta), Gilwali Gate, Green Field, Maal Mandi, Baba Bakala, Ranjit Vihar, Nagar Colony and Hathi Gate.Of the 68 contact cases, 36 are from the Central Jail (both employees and inmates), nine from the BSF battalion posted at Khasa, five from Jandiala Guru, four each from Majitha Road and Budha Theh Village, three from Maha Singh Gate, two each from Guru Ramdas Avenue (Airport Road), Indira Colony and Parvati Devi Hospital and one from B-Division police station.With the new cases, the total count of positive cases has reached 2,307 in the district. The health authorities claimed that 73 more patients had recovered from the disease. The district has witnessed a total of 1,720 recoveries till date. At present, the district has 495 active cases.Meanwhile, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni said four new Covid-19 testing labs would be inaugurated in the state on Monday. He said two labs were being opened in Mohali and one each in Ludhiana and) Jalandhar. Soni said each lab would test 1,000 samples daily. With the opening of the new labs, the state’s capacity to test Covid-19 samples per day would reach 16,000, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-2-deaths-highest-1-day-spike-of-111-new-cases-124163
09-08-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Men of steel: Covered in plastic, healthcare warriors share experience in PPE kits||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 8Imagine covering yourself in plastic from head to toe for eight or more hours everyday and then sit in a room with only a fan and no air conditioner. That is what most of the healthcare workers have to go through as they collect samples, attend to infected patients and perform other duties while wearing a PPE kit.“You do not even cover yourself in plastic. Just switch off the air conditioner and wrap a bed sheet around your body. Just do it for an hour or two and you would get to know how uncomfortable it is,” said a health worker when asked how it is to be inside a PPE kit.The frontliners complained that sample collection centres and patients’ wards do not have air conditioners. The wards have ceiling fans and air coolers. But AC’s haven’t been working for a few years now.“After an hour or two inside the PPE kit, you can feel the sweat inside your shoes and gloves. It is like you are swimming in a pool of sweat. It is suffocating and itches all over the body but you cannot scratch,” a health worker engaged in collecting swab samples said.At the swab sample collection centres, the employees in order to decrease their trouble try to complete all the paperwork so they do not have to stand for long in glass cabins to take swab samples. They try to sample all those persons in one go whose paperwork has been completed.However, at the Covid wards PPE kits have to worn for longer durations. The employees stated that once they are all covered in plastic, they cannot use washroom, drink water or have meals. The high temperature and humidity in air makes the condition even worse.Sample taking, collection and testingThe district has 27 swab sample collection centres. On an average, around 1200-1300 samples are collected everyday from all these centres. A medical lab technician may take swabs of around 30 to 70 suspected patients a day. The samples from entire district are then collected at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital from where they are sent to microbiology lab of Government Medical College (GMC) for testing. The reports tagged as urgent (particulary health workers or police personnel) are received within 24 hours, while the reports of remaining are available in maximum of 48 hours. Luckily, no employee engaged in sample collection task has tested positive so far. Apart from the GMC lab, the testing is also done by Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health sciences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/men-of-steel-covered-in-plastic-healthcare-warriors-share-experience-in-ppe-kits-124164
09-08-2020||
||Blast at firecracker factory in Amritsar, no loss of life reported||Amritsar, August 8 A massive explosion took place in a store of a firecracker factory in the Ibban Kala area here on Saturday morning. The sound of the blast was heard around two kilometers away from the factory. A wall of the factory collapsed due to the explosion. However, no loss of life or injury was reported in the incident. Officials of the Fire Department informed that they had received information about the incident at 9.55 am and a fire tender was immediately sent to the spot. Three fire tenders were sent later. Station Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said it took the officials half an hour to control the fire but five hours to extinguish it. With the help of modern equipment and fire safety kits, the fire personnel entered the affected area and extinguished the fire.” The officials said there was a large number of crackers and potassium stored in the factory. A portion of the factory was damaged due to the blast while the rest of the part where firecrackers were stored was saved by their timely action. Workers at the factory said when they switched on the pump in the morning sparks occurred in the wires. This led to a blast and fire in the factory. The villagers present on the spot said the impact was so strong that glass panes of some houses were also broken. “Such blasts have also taken place here in the past,” they added.  Despite such blasts in the past, no action has been taken against the factory owner by the administration so far. Personnel of the Chatiwind police station also reached the spot and asked the factory owner to show the licence and other documents. Officials of the district administration also visited the spot and initiated investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blast-at-firecracker-factory-in-amritsar-no-loss-of-life-reported-124165
09-08-2020||Having overcome the coronavirus||Wasn’t easy, but he shook off the virus||“My family was also tensed. I am a father of two daughters aged five years and four months,” Anil Kumar shares. On the same day of his being found positive, a medical team from the Health Department descended at his residence taking minute details of his medical history.“Earlier, I had started losing my sense of smell which surely caused a little consternation. This had continued for some days, prompting me to get a medical test conducted. Then on June 16, a test was conducted and the same day reports declared me positive,” he says.The next day, on June 17, he was taken to a Meritorious School for quarantine. He was confined there till June 25. “A three-time meal and tea were served everyday. Mess-cooked meal used to be served at 8 am in breakfast, lunch at 1 pm and dinner at 8 pm. While tea was given two times in a day, i.e. at 8 am and 4 pm,” he adds.However, facility was given to order eatables or snacks available at the mess on payment. He could also ask his family to provide him with some anytime.“During the nine-day quarantine period, neither medicine was given nor an injection was administered. If an inmate had complained of any medical complications, only then the authorities resorted to such measures. Once or twice a day, the body temperature used to be checked with hand-held thermometer and also the blood pressure (BP),” he tells.Anil was asked to sign a form declaring his recovery and well-being. For a week, starting from June 25, he was asked to undergo home quarantine. And it was no easy task for the family to hold back his 5-year-old Anisha to bar her a visit to his father.On July 4, Anil Kumar had shaken off the virus and went about his job in a factory, where he’s a packing supervisor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wasnt-easy-but-he-shook-off-the-virus-124168
