09-09-2020||Neha Saini||As wedding plans hit, tinkling traditional chooras lose sheen||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 8A traditional choora (a set of bangles), which is an indispensable part of an Indian bride’s trousseau, has been losing its sheen amid the pandemic. The only dedicated narrowed lane in the city for suhag chooras, has also lost its buzz. Once a hub of manufacturing lac (clay) and ivory chooras, the Choorewala Bazaar is now staring at an uncertain future. With over 350 artisans, who make the traditional chooras in the city’s famous bylanes, most of them have lost their livelihood due to the pandemic.“We lost out on 95 per cent of our business as no weddings have been taking place in the past five months and there is no demand of chooras in market. The retailers who used to place bulk orders in advance before the wedding season, have chosen not to place any order as the previous lot of chooras has not been sold,” said Gurdial Singh, an artisan who has been making chooras for the past 25 years.Amritsar is the local manufacturing and packaging hub for the traditional Punjabi choora industry. The local Choorewala bazaar has been in existence for the past five decades and artisans from Bengal, Rajasthan have set up shop and families due to the thriving business in the past. But the lockdown has hit the market hard.“Most of the artisans had no work throughout lockdown. Even when the market re-opened, we did not have many orders. Many have changed their profession and started working in factories or as manual labourers. We used to earn Rs 700-500 every day and make 100-150 pieces in a before lockdown. Now, we hardly earn Rs 150 a day as the manufacturing has dipped to 100 pieces in a week,” says Gurdial. The orders start coming in bulk from March-April onwards. But with no weddings, the livelihood of these artisans has been cut off.Charanpreet Singh, another choora maker, said post lockdown, the designing and bulk of manufacturing has shifted to Rajasthan. “Most of the designing is done there and we only get cutting and finishing jobs. Those who used to manufacture chooras at small scale in the city are now shelling out more money to get raw material, which puts additional financial burden. The prices of the chooras have also risen. Earlier, one could get a good quality choora even at a price of Rs 800. But now, it is somewhere between Rs 3,000-5,000.”Amritsar was popular for its traditional lac and ivory chooras, but later, with changing times, plastic chooras came into being. The high-quality German plastic is used to make chooras in red, white and green colour.Another problem that the artisans face is that of making chooras wearing masks and gloves. “Due to Covid 19, we have to wear masks and gloves as precaution. But in searing heat, it become difficult to breathe and we cannot handle our tools easily with gloves,” says Gurdial.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-wedding-plans-hit-tinkling-traditional-chooras-lose-sheen-138349
09-09-2020||Neha Saini||Keeping his cool, he turned up heat by launching start-up in thick of curfews||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, September 8When the going gets tough, he gets tougher. The line goes well with Sanchit Gupta, a young entrepreneur. As the lockdown was announced in March putting industries and business in turmoil, Sanchit wouldn’t budge an inch seeing establishments crumble.Instead, he dared. He played with the fire. The 26-year-old took up the challenge of launching own start-up within weeks even as initial restrictions were put in place.“I had been working on the idea of setting up a plant to make sustainable and eco-friendly concrete products. I had already worked out my logistics and support and was supposed to launch it in April when the lockdown was announced. I had already invested in every detail and didn’t want delays but things were not in my control,” shares Sanchit, director, UniBrick Industries.Keep calm and strive onNot deterred by the challenge of running operations amid constraints, he decided to begin production on schedule. “After an initial delay of 10-12 days when the industry was not allowed to operate, we launched production under restricted work conditions,” he says. No surprise he had struggled hard to find labour as due to curbs most of his skilled workmen had migrated to their native places. “We also had difficulty in procuring raw material due to travel restrictions,” he adds.But he worked out his options well, and managed to find a way. Likes of him always do. Sanchit, a civil engineering graduate from University of Toronto, used his professional experience of working in Canada. He trained and equipped the local labour in the machinery used for making eco-friendly, zero waste bricks. “We educated ourselves in machinery, we sourced our labour locally and only produced in small batches to cope with whatever demand we had at the time,” he shares. The only such eco-friendly concrete product plant in the region uses raw material like stone dust, fly ash etc for its produce.In the meantime, he also supported his employees by providing them with ration and relief material during the lockdown. “It was my responsibility as I didn’t think much about my cash flow but only about the survival of my workforce. We paid our employees two months salaries and only deducted 20% later to implement some cut offs that were immediately withdrawn once we managed to generate enough revenue. Also, we had been hiring throughout and managed to grow our staff strength from 12 to a team of 60 people now,” he saysDealing with the economic and logistic challenges sure was tough, but he didn’t go off track. If he would have launched his startup under normal conditions, things would have been easier. But he’s not thinking about it much. “I believe that after investing a lot in my idea, it was worth taking that risk,” he tells. He speaks of being serene and having kept his cool all along. “But given the pandemic, one has to keep their cool because the government is only going to help so much. If you are complacent and have faith in yourself, it’s definitely going to pay off.”His key takeaway from this experience, he says, “You cannot stop trying. If 99 things do not work, the last one will.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/keeping-his-cool-he-turned-up-heat-by-launching-start-up-in-thick-of-curfews-138350
09-09-2020||---||Record 230 fresh cases in Amritsar take Covid tally to 5,226||Amritsar, September 8The district recorded the highest single-day Covid-19 spike with 230 new cases being reported on Tuesday, according to the state Health Department. Similarly, seven people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 210 in the district.Before this, the highest single-day spike of 197 positive cases was reported on Sunday (September 6).Of 230 new cases, 127 are influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 103 contact of positive cases. Now, the total count of positive cases has reached 5,226, of which 3,943 patients have recovered and 1,069 are still active patients.The deceased have been identified as Iqbal Singh, 73, a resident of Moon Avenue, who was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and Covid pneumonia; Neelam Gupta, 59, of Moni Chownk, who was suffering from hypertension, diabetes and Covid pneumonia; Lalit Chopra, 70, of Akash Avenue, who was a patient of diabetes; Jeet Singh, 93, who was suffering both from hypertension and diabetes; Balwant Singh, of New Gurnam Nagar, who was had diabetes and Covid pneumonia; VK Sharma, of Ramanand Bagh, was ailing from diabetes, hypertension and Covid pneumonia; and Raj Kumar, 51, of Damganj, was suffering from diabetes, hypertension and covid pneumonia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/record-230-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-take-covid-tally-to-5-226-138351
09-09-2020||---||50 booked for firing, stone pelting at Guru Ki Wadali in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 8The Chheharta police have booked around 50 persons in connection with a firing and stone-pelting incident occurred in Hargobindpura locality in the Guru Ki Wadali area here on Sunday midnight that left three persons injured.The incident occurred when residents of the area objected to selling of drugs by several persons in the area. Among those booked were identified as Sukhchain Singh, alias Bobby, Diler Singh, Gori, Mani, Angrej Singh, Talli, Rohit and Ganju. The remaining miscreants are yet to be identified.The complainant, Sukhdev Singh, told the police that he studied in Class X at Dhand Government School. He said he, along with his friends, was standing near Mandir Wali Gali in Hargobindpura locality when the accused came and attacked him. They were armed with firearms, bricks and sticks. He alleged Bobby also opened fire in the air with his pistol.Asked about the reason behind the attack, he said he had stopped the accused from making rounds of the area. During the incident, the accused threw an iron chain on high-voltage wires leading to a spark and electricity failure. The accused also damaged power meters, besides indulging in stone pelting. Residents said though they had informed the police, they reached the spot around one and a half hours after the incident when the accused had already fled.The police have registered a case under Sections 336, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the culprits. Lakwhinder Singh, investigating officer and in-charge of the Guru Ki Wadali police chowki, said raids were on to nab the accused and further investigation was underway to ascertain the facts about drug trafficking in the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/50-booked-for-firing-stone-pelting-at-guru-ki-wadali-in-amritsar-138352
09-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Deewan Khana — An epitome of great revolutionary legacy Shaheed Bhagat Singh||Khatkar Kalan(Nawanshahr), September 8For over a century now, the ancestral home of Indian Socialist Revolutionary — Shaheed Bhagat Singh — is the pride of Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr.But a few people know that the house was built in 1858 by Bhagat Singh’s great-grandfather Fateh Singh, who named it ‘Deewan Khana’, as he would hold a durbar at the house to impart justice to the people of his village. Besides, he used to encourage people and tell them that governments may come and go, but their problems would find solutions if they earmark them jointly.As the country will be celebrating Bhagat Singh’s 113th birth anniversary on September 28, let’s all pledge to bring the change he dreamt of, and, instead of holding rallies, political events, we should follow his ideology in true spirit. Taking the message from this house, people should strengthen gram sabhas to plan the village. Bhagat Singh raised the slogans of Inquilab Zindabad and Samrajyavad Murdabad, but the country’s leaders and some parties were limiting his message, thereby restricting his ideology. – Prof Jagmohan Singh, Bhagat Singh’s Ludhiana-based nephewIt is said that after the death of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, the East India Company officials started suppressing people. So, to protect themselves, people took up arms. During the 1857 revolt, the British government requested Fateh Singh for help against the rebels, but he refused to oblige.“Since then, the house has been an epitome of great values and resistance to the colonial rule exhibited by the family,” said Prof Jagmohan Singh, Ludhiana-based nephew of Bhagat Singh.Prof Singh said it was after a great struggle that he managed to get the house converted into a protected monument in the 1980s, as many questioned the connection of Bhagat Singh with the house, claiming that he never visited the place. The truth is though Bhagat Singh was born and brought up in Faisalabad (now in Pakistan), he used to visit the house regularly, along with his grandfather Arjan Singh. He had many fond childhood memories associated with the house, Professor Singh said.Throwing light on his struggle to protect the house, Prof Jagmohan said: “While the portraits of Bhagat Singh have made their way to the offices of politicians, especially those from Punjab, who make a beeline to Khatkar Kalan village on every birth and death anniversary of Bhagat Singh or during elections, the martyr gets effaced from their memories in a matter of days.”A walk through the past...As per information, Bhagat Singh’s mother lived in this house till 1975, but it was in 1982, that the house was declared a monument under the Punjab Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964. After that the family handed over its responsibility to the government to preserve it as a national monument. But the legendary freedom fighter’s house was relatively ignored for a long time. Sources say it was first in 2005, when the chappar (sewer pond) found in front of Bhagat Singh’s house was converted into a memorial park, but the structure of the house was not touched and one of its walls remained in bad shape and the paint peeled off from its lower walls owing to dampness. Prof Jagmohan Singh said: “The Department of Archives/ Culture used to be mostly out of funds whenever they were approached for restoration. It was like we had to beg in front of the government for grants even though the house’s upkeep should have been its job.” It was only in 2015 that the Department of Cultural Affairs, Archaeology and Museums, for the first time, started restoring the house since it was handed over to it in 1984 by the family. Before that, the local panchayat used to take care of the house. The house was restored at a cost of Rs42 lakh by the state government, he said.Prof Jagmohan recalled that in 2017, when then Punjab Tourism Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu went to the village to take stock of the ongoing museum work at the village, he handed over a cheque for Rs2.5 lakh from his ministerial funds to then Deputy Commissioner Sonali Giri, in favour of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), as the state government miserably failed to clear the power bills of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s house and of the memorial park. “Such was the plight of the house and ignorance of the state government,” he said.Items on displayItems such as utensils, wooden boxes, a table, an almirah, some pictures, an old wooden bed with carving, a weighing machine, a charkha (spinning wheel), and a typewriter, which is said to be of historical importance and has links with the freedom fighter, have been put on display at the house.The house nowIt was in July 2015 that the state government hired a Chandigarh-based private firm to carry out the restoration work at the house in a way that it could attract more and more visitors.The restoration work was completed in 2016 and the roofs, which were in a dilapidated condition earlier, were removed and replaced with new ones keeping the original form. The walls of the rooms, kitchen have now been repaired with a special technique to strengthen these by restoring its historical value. The floors of the building were restored and its level has also been raised. Old doors and windows have been replaced with new ones. Special cabins for displaying the belongings of the martyr and his family have been made, so that these are not damaged by visitors by frequently touching it. The house has got a complete facelift and is one of the most visited places in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deewan-khana-%E2%80%94-an-epitome-of-great-revolutionary-legacy-shaheed-bhagat-singh-138353
09-09-2020||---||Foundation helps artistes survive pandemic wave||Amritsar, September 8Coming to the rescue of young artistes, who were left without a platform owing to pandemic, Prabha Khaitan Foundation has initiated a series of live music, dance sessions and paying them for each performance. The lockdown live series of the online performances began in July and till date has organised 14 performances, featuring upcoming artistes from across Punjab.Collaborating with Majha House’s online platform, showings last for half an hour and have been getting a good viewership on social media pages. The last session was held on Sunday with young musician Parth Chaddha and writer-educator Gurpratap Khairah. “I was positively motivated to take up poetry when Gulzar sahib in one of our interactions, liked something I had penned down,” said Gurpratap. He recited a poem and performed a ghazal written on the prevailing pandemic.“These sessions were started as an attempt to support the artistes, who have otherwise lost their livelihood to pandemic. Looking at the financial and creative crisis, the foundation came up with the idea of paying artistes for live online performances. They launched with the idea in Gujarat and Rajasthan, supporting many young folk artistes. In Punjab, 14 such performances have been successfully completed,” said Gurpratap, who is among the organisers of these concerts.The artistes get Rs5000 per performance and so far, those featured include Vipinpreet Kaur, a Malwai Gidda artiste from Muktsar, bhangra performance by Gurpreet Singh and team from city, sufi Hussain sisters Mehak and Shruti Kumar, sufi singer Supnandan Deep and Darshan Grewal. “Apart from money, these artistes also get visibility, which is lacking as most of the avenues are closed due to pandemic. There is also an opportunity of collaborations with different artistes from other states as online performances go viral,” Gurpratap said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foundation-helps-artistes-survive-pandemic-wave-138354
09-09-2020||Amritsar||Powercom employees in Amirtsar save cash, but lose cellphones||Several persons allegedly tried to rob four Powercom employees at gun point from the Khasa area here on Monday. However, the unscrupulous elements could not loot the cash while they snatched mobile phones of the victims.Mahinder Singh, cashier Powercom, said he along with his two colleagues was going to Punjab National Bank for depositing Rs 3 lakh. He said as soon as they came on the GT Road, a car started following them. At some secluded place, the accused overtook them and stopped car before their van.He said four occupants of the car came out and pointed a pistol at them while threatening to shoot and demanded money. They also asked them to take out their mobiles. He said though they tried to mislead them, the accused threw chilli powder in their eyes. They snatched polythene bag, mobiles and van keys from them and fled. However, they could not take away the polythene bag having Rs 3 lakh. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/powercom-employees-in-amirtsar-save-cash-but-lose-cellphones-138356
09-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Woman, paramour booked for minor daughter’s rape in Tarn Taran||The Goindwal Sahib police on Monday booked a woman and her paramour, who was her close relative, in connection with the rape of her 15-year-old daughter. The police said the accused had been identified as Manjit Singh and Kulwant Kaur, who was his widow aunt (wife of the father’s brother), both residents of Bharowal village here.After the death of her husband two years ago, Kulwant Kaur was living in the house of the widow of an elder brother of her husband. Meanwhile, Kulwant Kaur developed physical relations with the son (Manjit Singh) of her husband’s brother.The police said Manjit Singh also developed physical relations with the minor daughter of Kulwant Kaur. The victim brought the matter to her mother who ignored it. Then he brought the matter to the notice of her first uncle Jagdev Singh who informed the police about it.The accused had been arrested by the police. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-paramour-booked-for-minor-daughters-rape-in-tarn-taran-138357
09-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Farmers’ protest: 51 offer to be jailed on Day 2||On the second day of the Jail Bharo Andolan, the district leadership of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, presented its 51-member jatha to be court arrested here on Tuesday. The district administration did not arrest the members of the committee.The KMSC on Monday launched its agitation against the Union Government for promulgating three ordinances depriving farmers of the facilities being given for decades in the name of subsidies, minimum support price on the farmer’s products, etc.Meanwhile, the KMSC organised a rally near the site of the ‘Pakka Morcha’ held at the main gate of the local District Administrative Complex (DAC). Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the committee, was among others who addressed on the occasion. The leaders said the Union Government had opened the doors of the country’s market for the corporate sector to exploit the common man of the country. They also flayed the Union Government for its privatisation policy. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-51-offer-to-be-jailed-on-day-2-138358
09-09-2020||---||Police raid 4 IELTS centres at Ranjit Avenue, owners held in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 8The local police on Tuesday raided four IELTS centres in the Ranjit Avenue area here on Tuesday. They were allegedly teaching students even as the government had not allowed such centres to do so as yet.Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government ordered the closing down of educational institutes, including the IELTS centres in Punjab, as it could lead to the spread of the highly contagious virus among students.There was no relaxation provided to IELTS centres and there was specific input that several centres in the posh Ranjit Avenue area were holding classes. Following this, a raid was conducted at Way and Wings IELTS, Shine IELTS centre, Redwood IELTS and Blue Horse Education Private Limited.The police have arrested Harmanjit Singh Gill and his wife Amardeep Singh, both owners of Shine IELTS; Saurabh Kumar of Way and Wings IELTS; Vishal Mahajan and Kamaldeep Vaid of Redwood IELTS; and Munish Arora of Blue Horse Education Pvt Limited.HS Sandhu, Assistant Commissioner of Police, and Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge, CIA staff, said they had received a tip-off that the centres were teaching students violating government instructions not to open educational institutes during the lockdown period. He said around 10 centres were raided in the Ranjit Avenue area after forming police teams. While there were no students in other centres, the four centres were found taking classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-raid-4-ielts-centres-at-ranjit-avenue-owners-held-in-amritsar-138359
09-09-2020||Amritsar||Armed robbers loot floor tiles in Amritsar||1,900 sedative tablets seizedAmritsar: The rural police have nabbed Surjit Singh, alias Baba, of Chatiwind village for allegedly possessing huge quantity of sedative pills. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him. The police said a team of the CIA staff was patrolling in the Chatiwind police station area when they intercepted a Sikh man who tried to flee on seeing the police party. During search the police found 1,900 intoxicant tablets from his possession. The police said a case under Sections 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act had been registered and investigations were under progress to find out the source of contraband. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-robbers-loot-floor-tiles-in-amritsar-138360
09-09-2020||---||CBI team meets kin of 8 Hemkund Sahib pilgrims missing since 2017||Amritsar, September 8A two-member CBI team today visited the residences of eight persons who had gone on a pilgrimage to Hemkund Sahib in July 2017, but have not returned.All missing were residents of Mehta town and villages around it. The two-member team, led by Inspector Manoj Kumar of the CBI Special Crime Branch, Lucknow, interacted with family members of the missing persons and presented before them a comb, a parna (a piece of cloth) and some parts of an Innova car.The missing pilgrims included NRIs Premjit Singh (60) and his son-in-law Harkewal Singh (32), Kirpal Singh (52), his nephews Kulbir Singh (17) and Jasbir Singh (28), driver Mehnga Singh (35), veterinarian Harpal Singh (50) and his nephew Varinder Singh (28).Lakhwinder Kaur, wife of Kirpal Singh, said how could she identify her husband and other relatives on the basis of the articles showed by the CBI. The team also visited Mehnga Singh’s residence and interacted with his wife Rupinderjit Kaur and brother Narinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbi-team-meets-kin-of-8-hemkund-sahib-pilgrims-missing-since-2017-138329
