09-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Despite completing quarantine, Hazur Sahib returnees refuse to leave centre||Tarn Taran, May 8The district administration on Friday faced the wrath of Hazur Sahib returnees, who despite completing the 14-day isolation period at the Mai Bhago quarantine centre here, refused to leave the place in instalments. They said they would leave the place in one go.Of the 167 returnees, the maximum numbers of Covid-19 were detected from this centre. All the devotees staying here were returned from Nanded Sahib. At present, there are 60 Nanded returnees at the centre. The administration wanted to send seven of them home on Friday. Relatives of the returnees criticised the administration over the move and said they would take up the matter with higher authorities.At the Mamta Niketan School centre, 14 of the 49 returnees were sent homes.In another report, 27 Nanded returnees were sent to their homes from Guru Anged Dev College quarantine centre at Khadoor Sahib. Rajesh Sharma, SDM, Khadoor Sahib, today gave certificates of fitness to the persons for completing their quarantine period. The returnees were served food by Baba Sewa Singh head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib. Baba Baldev Singh, follower of the sect, said the returnees were sent in buses arranged by the sect. Baba Sewa Singh blessed the returnees with long and happy life.The administration was tightlipped over the development. Dr Anoop Kumar, Civil Surgeon, did not respond to the calls made to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-completing-quarantine-hazur-sahib-returnees-refuse-to-leave-centre-82420
09-05-2020|| 
||BJYM flays govt’s approach to handle Covid-19 spread||Amritsar, May 8  Members of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha staged a protest against the state government and condemned its way to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The office-bearers of BJYM alleged that the state government was responsible for the mishandling of pilgrims from Hazur Sahib.  Gautam Arora, BJYM president, said: “Innocent pilgrims from Hazur Sahib are being blamed for increasing the positive cases in the state. It is failure of Captain Amarinder Singh’s government that they did not send anyone to examine the health of pilgrims at Hazor Sahib. The transport system was faulty, which led to the spread of virus among pilgrims. The government should send its team to Hazur Sahib for prior check-up.”  The BJYM leaders also criticised Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for blaming pilgrims for spreading the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjym-flays-govts-approach-to-handle-covid-19-spread-82421
09-05-2020||---||US-based Khalsa foundation, college donate relief material||Amritsar, May 8The US-based Khalsa Global Reach Foundation and Khalsa College, Amritsar, on Friday joined hands to donate relief material for the quarantined patients in Amritsar and its neighbouring districts. The Khalsa College authorities, led by Principal Dr Mehal Singh, handed over the material, which was meant for positive patients quarantined at various locations, to SDM-I Vikas Hira at the college campus here.Dr Mehal Sing, who thanked Global Reach president Gurvarinder Kaur Sandhu for the special relief, said they contacted the district administration and sought demand for the relief material. The relief material included masks, sanitisers, steamers, hand-washers, shampoos, buckets, stools, tooth-brushes, tooth pastes, mosquito repellets and combs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/us-based-khalsa-foundation-college-donate-relief-material-82422
09-05-2020||---||Man booked for causing miscarriage||Amritsar, May 8The Bhindi Saida police have booked a man for fraudulently causing miscarriage of his wife. The accused, identified as Sonu Singh of Chhan Kohali village, was yet to be arrested while a case under Section 313 of the Indian Penal Code was registered against him.The victim stated to the police that she had an affair with the accused and during the period the accused developed physical relations with her. She said last month, during a medical examination, she was found to be pregnant. She narrated the entire incident to her family.She said both the families agreed for marriage for the fear of insult in the society. She said they solmanised their marriage at Gurdwara village.After the marriage, the accused started pressurising her for miscarriage. However, she refused his illegitimate demand. She said a few days ago she got ill and her husband brought her medicine.She said after taking medicine her condition got deteriorated and it caused miscarriage. She said her husband later told her that he had given her a medicine for causing miscarriage.Perturbed over this, she lodged a complaint with the police in this connection. The police said raids were on to nab the accused who was on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-causing-miscarriage-82423
09-05-2020||
||Police accused of letting wholesalers, not shopkeepers to open shops in city||Amritsar, May 8 Shopkeepers in different markets of the city on Friday accused police officials on field duty of allowing some businessmen (wholesalers) to operate despite the lockdown while a majority of shops remained shut. The shopkeepers who turned up at different markets to open their shops were not allowed to do so by the police saying that they had not received any instructions to allow shopkeepers to operate. However, leaders of the market association claimed that a few wholesalers were seen operating in connivance with certain police officials for the last one and a half months. Kamaljit Singh, secretary, Tahli Sahib Market Association, said, “We had read in newspapers that shops would be allowed to open from 9 am to 1 pm. We are with the administration and have been abiding by all its instructions.” He said a few wholesalers had been operating in connivance with police officials. The shopkeepers claimed that they had made videos of goods being dispatched from market places in the middle of night on occasions. Lucky Bhatia of the Guru Bazaar Market Association said, “Five per cent of the wholesalers with the connivance of police officials are doing business. They are regularly supplying items to their customers. We want that either all should be allowed or instructed to stay closed.” They complained that with a handful of businesses operating during the lockdown period the business of other shopkeepers would be affected even after the situation returned to normal. Even at sub-registrar’s offices, fard kendras and tehsil offices, which were opened by the administration on Friday, no applicants turned up. An employee at the tehsil office said, “The administration has started work formally, but still nobody is clear how it would be done. Things would be clear in the next one or two days.” “With public transport still off the roads and people seeking curfew passes to travel, it is still a long way for normalcy to return,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-accused-of-letting-wholesalers-not-shopkeepers-to-open-shops-in-city-82424
09-05-2020||---||Labour Bureau launches online portal||Amritsar, May 8The district Employment and Labour Bureau has announced that youngsters can connect with the bureau through its online registration portal www.pgrkam.com and register themselves for employment during the Covid-led lockdown.Deputy director, District Employment Bureau, Jaswant Rai, said the move was taken to encourage youngsters sitting at home by registering for employment as per their skill and education.He said the registration portal will provide online counselling facility from from 9am to 5pm (Monday to Saturday) and aspiring youngsters can contact on 9877567376 for the facility.The purpose is to reach out to maximum youngsters, who have been left dejected during the Covid-19 lockdown, and to motivate them to seek employment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/labour-bureau-launches-online-portal-82425
09-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Need to create a balance between life and livelihood post curfew’||THE CP fittings and bathrooms fittings industry has been facing multiple problems during the lockdown and strict government instructions have added to its woes. Umesh Jain, owner of Nath Sanito Corporation, established in 1976, says lowering the interest rates in coordination with the repo rate and reverse repo rate is the need of the hour. In an interview with Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, he throws light on steps required to bring things back on track. Excerpts:Lockdown is a challenge that can be converted into an opportunity, but the onus is on the government for the same. Otherwise, it is a challenge for MSMEs to survive and sustain. The opportunity can be utilised by setting up larger units and the supporting ancillary ones. The government needs to emulate steps taken by Japan and promote the ‘Make in India’ campaign.Umesh Jain, owner of Nath Sanito CorporationHow has lockdown affected your work?There is no sale, order and income due to the lockdown. The government has added to the woes of the industry by issuing orders to ensure full wages to labourers. The issue of paying salaries could have been sorted out easily by the industry and labourers mutually as no industry can afford to lose its skilled labourers. Since industries have to resume their work after the lockdown, all issues could have been resolved with mutual understanding.Do you expect resumption of work in near future?Resumption of work in near future is risky, but a balance between life and livelihood is needed. I feel though the number of Covid-19 cases may increase after the lockdown, there should be some wayout to come out of it as how long things can stay like this. Following strict guidelines to resume the work like keeping labourers inside the factory, arranging food and other essentials or their day-to-day transportation is not possible. Most of the units don't even have space for the stay of labourers.Has any major order or investment been cancelled or deferred?Being a domestic industry, our orders have been deferred as there is no work. We call up our dealers regularly to access the situation.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?With no work, there is zero income. We are using our personal savings and bank credit limits for our families and labourers. Using bank limits is further increasing problems as it will lead to more liabilities and we will need to pay more interests.Is the lockdown an opportunity or a challenge?It is a challenge that can be converted into an opportunity, but the onus is on the government for the same. Otherwise, it is a challenge for MSMEs to survive and sustain. The opportunity can be utilised by setting up larger units and the supporting ancillary units. With bitterness increasing among the world for China, the government needs to emulate steps taken by Japan and promote the 'Make in India' campaign for inviting the industries from China to India.What are your expectations from the government?The government has to take steps to support the industry in finding a wayout for creating a balance between life and livelihood. Interest rates on loans and credit limits should be lowered. The rate of interest should be coordinated with the repo rate and the reverse repo rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-create-a-balance-between-life-and-livelihood-post-curfew-82426
09-05-2020||Amritsar||Land dispute: Rania sarpanch hurt in firing,
12 booked||Two persons, including the sarpanch of the border village of Rania, were injured when several persons opened fire on them here on Thursday evening. A land dispute was cited as the reason behind the incident, said the police.The injured, identified as Surjit Singh (sarpanch) and Jagtar Singh, were rushed to hospital where their condition is stated to be stable. They had sustained splinter injuries.The police have registered a case of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act against around 12 persons. Of the 12, Jaswinder Singh and his brother Kulwinder Singh, both residents of Manawala village, and Dilbagh Singh of Lopoke are the prime accused.Surjit Singh told the police that he was having a conversation with Jagtar Singh outside his (Jagtar’s) residence when four vehicles arrived there. Before they could understand, accused Jaswinder Singh came out of the car and shouted to fire. He said Kulwinder fired at him from their .12 bore rifle due to which splinters hit on the right side of his chest. Another shot was fired at Jagtar Singh when he came to the rescue of Kulwinder, leaving him injured. The accused later attacked them with sharp weapons. They also ransacked Jagtar Singh’s house.Lopoke police station SHO Harpal Singh said Jagtar had a land dispute with accused Jaswinder and Kulwinder. He was storing dry fodder at the disputed land when the accused came on the scene and attacked them. Sarpanch Surjit Singh was present at that time and was talking to Jagtar when the incident took place.A case under Sections 307, 323, 452 and 427 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/land-dispute-rania-sarpanch-hurt-in-firing-12-booked-82428
09-05-2020||---||Every office to have nodal officer to monitor health of staff||Amritsar, May 8 Deputy Commissioner Directs...The use of biometric attendance system will be temporarily suspendedIf any employee has high fever or any Covid symptom, he/she should be temporarily isolated and it should be brought to Health Dept’s noticeThe Punjab Government on Friday issued guidelines and protocols for the safe functioning of government offices during the Covid-19 epidemic to ensure the safety and wellbeing of employees.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon has directed to appoint a nodal officer in each office to regularly monitor the health of employees. He said seating arrangements should be made in offices by ensuring a distance of at least two metres between employees. In addition, the offices should not be crowded and rules regarding maintaining social distance should be enforced in all cases.The DC said as much as possible, office work should be done through e-office, emails, telephone, SMS, WhatsApp and other electronic media and all government meetings should be held by video-conferencing.He clarified that the use of biometric attendance system would be temporarily suspended. He said if any employee in the office has high fever or any symptoms of Covid-19, then he/she should be temporarily isolated and immediately brought to the notice of the Health Department.“Hand sanitising stations should be set up on the office premises, especially near entrances and high contact surfaces. Alcohol-based sanitisers (at least 70 per cent ethyl alcohol) should be placed at the entrance of the office for the staff to wash their hands thoroughly before entering the office. Avoid the use of air conditioners and if necessary, make it necessary to turn on the exhaust fan for fresh air inlet. To ensure proper cleanliness, instructions are given that indoor areas, including office spaces and conference rooms, should be cleaned every evening after office hours or before the staff arrives in the morning,” the DC said.The advisory states that handshakes or hugs should be avoided during meetings. Employees should not move around the office unnecessarily and should only work from their assigned place. Employees should avoid touching the face, mouth, nose and eyes with their hands and should go out of their homes wearing cloth masks all the time. The mask should be worn in such a way that it covers the nose as well as the mouth. After use, the cloth mask should be washed daily with soap and water. Employees are advised to stop using leather purses and handbags. If absolutely necessary, they can take a small bag and disinfect it when they return home.If an employee suffers from fever or other symptoms of Covid-19 such as (cough/ sneezing/shortness of breath), the employee should voluntarily inform the head of the office and stay at home. Medical advice should also be sought for timely detection and treatment of Covid-19. Employees whose residence falls in the cantonment or buffer zone may not be present in the office but should notify the head of the office immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/every-office-to-have-nodal-officer-to-monitor-health-of-staff-82431
09-05-2020||Sukhpal Singh Bhullar||‘I ensure no one goes to bed on empty stomach’||DURING the 2017 Assembly elections, while at the counting centre, I heard from the media that I polled the maximum number of votes in my favour. That day, I pledged to dedicate my life to the service of residents all my life.The lockdown has badly hit normal life, especially that of the weaker section. There are 42,000 families belonging to the weaker section in my constituency. Only 25% families were distributed wheat under the Atta-Dal scheme with biometric system, when suddenly the lockdown was announced. The 75% families were left out and they had nothing at their homes as the state government banned the distribution of wheat with biometric system to avoid coronavirus spread.I raised the issue with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, the minister concerned. Stock could be distributed with the manual system after verifying the beneficiaries from the records. He said in the initial days, cooked meal was distributed to needy families of the constituency in Khalra, Bhikhwind, Amarkot and Khemkaran's four sectors.I managed to bring back the combine harvesting machines, stuck in other states, to the area. Proper arrangements were made in the grain markets.As migrant labourers have returned to their native states and there is a possibility of labour shortage for the coming paddy season, I am in touch with the CM and other authorities to allow paddy sowing from June 1, instead of June 15 in routine, on the land across the fence near the Indo-Pak border to resolve the problem.(AS TOLD TO Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/i-ensure-no-one-goes-to-bed-on-empty-stomach-82432
09-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Nothing stopped for him  during these testing times||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 8THE BRIGHTER SIDEDr RS Sethi, District Health and Family Welfare Officer and president of the Indian Medical Association (Amritsar chapter), has been working tirelessly since the outbreak of the novel coronavirus.“I have been part of meetings held between Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore and the district administration for planning and execution at different levels. Undoubtedly, workload has increased and so is our determination to fight this pandemic and emerge as a winner,” says Dr Sethi.He is one of the programme officials associated with the Civil Surgeon.“I have been given the responsibility of the isolation ward set up at Meritorious School. When pilgrims from Nanded had returned, the district administration and health officials had also established such wards at hostels of various educational institutes and health centres to quarantine them,” he said.Dr Sethi said after performing his official duty, he attends meetings of the IMA and distributes safety kits, sanitisers and masks among doctors, nurses and paramedical fraternity in Government Medical College, Civil Hospital and other health institutions in the area.The IMA holds meetings with its officials on a regular basis to take stock of security and safety measures in place for health staff.Dr Sethi said he had also been helping in providing treatment to non-Covid patients who were not being attended at private and government hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nothing-stopped-for-him-during-these-testing-times-82433
09-05-2020||Tarn Taran||Teachers demand insurance cover||BBK DAV students shine in examsAmritsar: BBK DAV College for Women acknowledged its students, who secured top three merit positions in various exams held in December 2019, the results of which were announced by GNDU. Ekamdeep Kaur of BSc Biotech (Sem-1) secured the first position; and Malkeet Kaur of BFA (Sem-5), Inderpreet Kaur of BFA (Sem-1), Palak Mehra of B VOC Software Dev (Sem-1) and Sonali Sharma of PGDC Fashion Design (Sem-1) second positions in their respective courses. Naina of BFA (Sem-1) and Simran Gossain of B VOC Banking and Finance Services (Sem I) secured third positions. TNSMajitha sarpanch donates PPE kitsAmritsar: Majitha village sarpanch Manpreet Singh donated 25 PPE kits to the local government health centre. The PE kits were handed over to the SMO of the centre of the village, besides other items. Manpreet said health staff of the centre were currently visiting villages for the screening of those people who returned from Hazur Sahib. "They are doing their duties at the risk of getting infected without proper safety gear. So, we donated the PPE kits to ensure that all of them are protected,” said Manpreet. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-demand-insurance-cover-82434
09-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||State’s 25% Covid positive cases come from two border districts||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 8Two border districts — Amritsar with the highest number of 286 cases in any district and Tarn Taran with third highest number of 161 patients — account for 25 per cent of the total reported Covid-19 positive cases in Punjab.In Amritsar, the administration reported 11 new cases, while Tarn Taran reported four more cases on Friday. The officials said all fresh positive patients had returned from Nanded, recently.While Amritsar only had 14 cases previous to return of pilgrims from Sri Hazur Sahib, Tarn Taran had not reported even a single case till April 27.After the arrival of pilgrims from Nanded, who tested positive, Amritsar reported only two other cases — that of a lab technician and a patient screened at the flu corner.An official of the Health Department said: “Maximum infected persons were already at quarantine centres. Had these pilgrims reached their homes, the infection could have increased exponentially.”Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said: “With four new cases reported on Friday, the total count has increased to 161. All patients are stable and recovering.”13 +ve cases admitted to SGRDC HospitalWith a 300-bed Covid care centre at Government Medical College and a 1,000 bed isolation facility for positive but asymptomatic patients at meritorious school, the administration has also admitted 13 positive cases at Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital near Shaheedan Sahib Gurdwara.Earlier, these patients were admitted to Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences, Vallah. However, to ensure patients of general ailments, they were shifted to a facility near Shaheedan Sahib. The officials said the entire hospital had been converted into a Covid-care centre meaning that patients with other diseases would not be treated at the place.DC clarifies orders on opening of shopsClarifying the orders for opening of shops, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said only standalone shops which are away from markets and are in residential areas or societies can be opened. Dhillon said in market places, only those shops which sell essential items can be opened. He said non-essential category shops in market places can be opened only after the permission of the SDM. Dhillon said shopkeepers should also encourage their customers for digital transactions instead of physical exchange of currency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/states-25-covid-positive-cases-come-from-two-border-districts-82436
09-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Fear fails to stop this doctor from performing duty amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceKalanaur (Gurdaspur), May 8In the backwaters of this border district, Dr Lakhwinder Singh Athwal, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Kalanaur, has become a sort of a cult figure. His fame spread when he home quarantined 235 people, who had returned from foreign countries. Later, he also isolated 58 pilgrims who returned from Nanded in a private school where he had established a 100-bed facility.We have to nail the virus at all costs. It will be a massive achievement for humanity if we do so. The successful warrior is nobody but an average man but with laser-like focus and desire.Dr Lakhwainder Singh Athwal, Senior Medical Officer, KalanaurThe doctor, a national award winner in 2019 for promoting health and wellness centres in areas near the international border, is fond of quoting the phrase 'this too shall pass'.“It is an old Persian saying. Former US President Abraham Lincoln, something of an aphorist himself, was a fan of this line because it is true and appropriate in all times and situations. We have to nail the virus at all costs. It will be a massive achievement for humanity if we do so. The starting point of all achievement is desire. If you have the desire, half the battle is won. The successful warrior is nobody but an average man but with laser-like focus and desire,” he added.Dr Athwal said when he was assigned the task of identifying the foreign returnees, he initially thought it would be an insurmountable task. He then formed a 12-member team. Its members went door to door and managed to convince the people to stay at home. “I salute my team members because they relegated fear to the sidelines. Some persons resisted staying at home propounding the logic that they had come for just a few days and wanted to complete important errands. Those who are resisting quarantine are not advocating for ‘live free or die’, they are advocating ‘I must have my freedom even if it means harming others’. Remember, if your freedom comes at the cost of other people’s lives, then that is not freedom. It is the purest form of savagery,” he said.The doctor himself used to drive on dusty, potholed roads to villages, particularly near the border, to check whether the people were obeying the norms. Even in the midst of the pandemic and its accompanying fears, the SMO has not let work at his Community Health Centre (CHC) suffer.“The OPD is catering to 500 patients daily. Surgeries are being carried out and so are caesareans. Covid-19 has failed to act as a damper,” he said.He candidly admits that trepidation and anxiety are all pervasive as new cases surface here, there and everywhere with monotonous regularity.“Arrogant humanity always thought that among all living beings, only humans can write a sensational story in the world! But here is a virus that has proved the opposite of this. Let us fight it and bring life back on the track,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fear-fails-to-stop-this-doctor-from-performing-duty-amid-pandemic-82437
