09-01-2021||Amritsar||Sending mails streamlined||Insurance firm’s staffer robbedTarn Taran: A three-member gang of robbers has been active in Chohla Sahib-Sarhali and on the national highway 54 for the last two weeks. The gang robbed Rs 40,000 and other documents from an employee of an insurance company near Chohla Sahib on January 6. Sub-Inspector Sahib Singh said the victim Karanjit Singh after collecting installments from customers was heading towards Chohla Sahib from Ruriwala. He said three armed men robbed Rs40,000 from the victim at gunpoint. The police have registered a case under Sections 379 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54 of the 59 Arms Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sending-mails-streamlined-195926
09-01-2021||Amritsar||Two held with 2 kg of opium||The Counter Intelligence wing of the Punjab Police have arrested two persons and recovered 2-kg opium from them. The accused have been identified as Sukhwinder Singh and Bhaag Singh, both residents of Bohru village.A police official said the duo was travelling in a car and intercepted near Manwala flyover. He said the contraband was concealed beneath the driver’s seat. Preliminary probe revealed that the accused had brought the opium from Meerut. The duo was produced before the court, which sent them into police custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-2-kg-of-opium-195922
09-01-2021||---||Woman kills self; husband, mother-in-law booked by cops||Amritsar, January 8A 21-year-old married woman, identified as Sukhdeep Kaur, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance at Jallupur Khera village falling under Khalchian police station here on Thursday. A medical board was constituted which conducted a postmortem on the body at the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital here on Friday. After an autopsy, the body was handed over to the family.Sub-Inspector Paramjit Singh, investigating officer of the case, said the police had booked the victim’s husband Nishan Singh and mother-in-law Kanwaljit Kaur in this connection. He said a case under Section 306 of the IPC had been registered against them.Mukhtar Singh, father of the victim, told the police that his daughter, Sukhdeep Kaur, was married to Nishan Singh around a year ago. He said she gave birth to a girl two months ago. He said Sukhdeep had told the family that both the accused used to harass her for giving birth to a girl. He said at around 12.30pm on Thursday, Sukhdeep called him and said Nishan and Kanwaljit Kaur had beaten her up.An hour later Kanwaljit Kaur called and said she had consumed some poisonous substance and she was taken to a private hospital. He said in the evening she died in the hospital. He demanded that the accused should be arrested and put behind bars. The investigating officer said further investigation was under progress and the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-kills-self-husband-mother-in-law-booked-by-cops-195924
09-01-2021||---||Segregation of waste starts in 11 city wards||Amritsar, January 8 Office-bearers of solid waste management company (Averda) hired by the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) claimed to implement segregation of waste (wet and dry) in 11 wards of the city at household level.  The MC, Averda and some city-based NGOs had conducted awareness drives in the last few months in this regard. As a result, 11 out of 85 wards achieved more than 75 per cent waste segregation at source, while 15 wards were fast catching up. Amit Bajpai, director, Averda, said, “We launched a programme on segregation of waste in collaboration with the NGOs and the results are quite encouraging. In the first phase, which started in September 2020, we reached out to 42,128 households across 17 wards through 70 workshops. As a result, 29,639 households are now giving segregated waste.”  Averda along with its outreach partner the Feedback Foundation deployed a multi-layered intervention to change citizens’ behaviour.  Ajay Sinha of the Feedback Foundation said, “After several workshops for waste generators, triggering sessions and door-to-door visits, awareness levels about safe waste management practices have improved drastically. We created awareness in colleges, schools, markets and at household level.”  The agencies also worked on reducing garbage dumping hotspots by introducing innovative interventions, including creating rangolis, installing dustbins in markets vegetable and fruit mandis.  Bajpai said, “Citizens are being asked to download Swachhata App so that they can register their complaints about laxity in waste collection or dumping of waste in real-time. The MCA has been responding to these complaints with alacrity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/segregation-of-waste-starts-in-11-city-wards-195907
09-01-2021||---||Health Dept conducts dry run for Covid vaccination||Amritsar, January 8The Health Department conducted the first dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination at three health facilities in the city — the District Hospital, the Health Centre, Verka, and Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital, Vallah — here on Friday.A group of 17 persons, all from the Health Department, were administered the mock vaccine. Though the state Health Department had forwarded a list of 25 officials but many of them had already been transferred. They were from the Health Department and were in the forefront to serve people during the pandemic.Before administration of the mock vaccine, their identity proofs like Aadhaar numbers were recorded and a health check-up was done. Following this, mock vaccine was administered and their health was monitored for the next half an hour. 20 more cases reported in districtThe district health authorities on Friday reported 20 positive cases in the district, taking the count to 14,662. Of them, 12 were contacts of positive cases and eight were of influenza-like illness. Besides, 34 patients recovered taking the tally of recovered persons to 13,899. Now, the number of active cases in the district is 202. However, no death due to the Covid-19 contagion was reported on Friday.Civil Surgeon Dr RS Sethi said people would receive a text message on their mobile phones for vaccination. After reaching the hospital, the staff would verify the message and then his/her identity proof would be recorded. “Upon confirmation of the sound health, people would be administered vaccine. Post vaccination, they would be put under observation for 30 minutes.”Dr Sethi said they had made arrangements for 27 centres and each of them would be headed by a Senior Medical Officer (SMO). Each centre will have two teams consisting of five medical officials. “Firstly, the vaccine will be administered to healthcare professionals (either government or private), then to defence personnel followed by those who are ill and those 50 years and above in age,” he said.The Amritsar Tribune team visited the district hospital and found a part of the OPD earmarked for the Covid-19 vaccination — a lobby for waiting, three rooms for verification, vaccination and observation purposes.A five-member team headed by Supervisor Dr Kunal oversaw the vaccination. The number of staff members and infrastructure would be increased once the vaccine would be delivered here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-dept-conducts-dry-run-for-covid-vaccination-195908
09-01-2021||---||Minor ‘raped’, youth booked||Amritsar, January 8A minor girl was allegedly raped by a youth at Teda Kalan village here on December 13 while a case was registered only on Thursday following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court after the victim’s father filed a petition.The accused was identified as Sukhraj Singh of the same village. However, the victim accused her father of rude behaviour and told the police that she did not want to live with her father. She said she felt safe with the accused and his family.Just an allegation by my father: girlThe girl got her statement recorded before the magistrate and the police that the allegation levelled by her father against the youth was false and she wanted to live with him and not with her father.Bhupinderjit Kaur, investigating officer of the case, said the girl got her statement recorded before the magistrate and the police that the allegation levelled by her father against the youth was false and she wanted to live with him and not with her father.“Being minor, the girl was now sent to Nari Niketan following the orders of the court and further investigation was under progress,” she said. For now, a case under Sections 342 and 376 of the IPC and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against alleged accused Sukhraj Singh. He was not arrested yet as the matter was under investigation. She said the medical examination of the victim would be conducted after the mandatory corona test.The complainant alleged that on December 13, 2020, the accused pulled her 15-year-old daughter into his house and raped him. He alleged the accused used to tease his daughter earlier also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-raped-youth-booked-195909
09-01-2021||---||GNDU gets first instalment for new projects||Amritsar, January 8Prof Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University, has reiterated that the university is fully committed to implementing the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP 2020). Presiding over the Syndicate meeting held on Friday at the university, Sandhu said under this policy, four-year courses of the bachelor’s degree would be introduced in the colleges, along with online courses of Punjabi language. The Syndicate members also welcomed a newly inducted member of Senate, Satnam Manak, a senior journalist.Sharing the upcoming projects, Prof Sandhu informed that under the recommendations of the Foreign/NRI Student Advisory Committee, an international student cell will be set up to deal with admissions and other formalities of foreign students as per the guidelines of ICCR. Among one of the major projects to be undertaken by the university, an interfaith study centre designed by the Architecture Department of the university would also be raised at a cost of Rs432 crore. It was announced by the Government of India during the 550th Parkash Purb celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev.The first instalment of Rs175 crore has been received by the university. “Interfaith study centre would be established as the centre of research activities on all religions. A symphony of religious music will be created inside its premises and eight departments, a directorate office, a museum and panorama, a library and a guest house would also be set up,” he said. The eight departments established will be Sri Guru Granth Sahib languages; division of divine music; division of comparative religions; division of conflict resolution; centre for reconstruction of ancient musical instruments; division of study on travels of Guru Nanak Dev; division of archives and division of theology.Despite the challenges of Covid, the university received several grants for infrastructural enhancements, including Rs107 crore for enhancement of quality and excellence in universities; Rs2 crore for setting up digital library by the Department of Higher Education, Government of Punjab; Rs25 crore for MYAS-GNDU centre for sports sciences and medicine; Rs11.90 crore under Khelo India and Rs17.05 for promotion of university research and scientific excellence under DST PURSE. Prof Sandhu said the university had enrolled 35 per cent more students than in previous years even in the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-gets-first-instalment-for-new-projects-195910
09-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||220 CCTV cameras installed in city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 8While the high definition CCTV cameras installed at various chowks in the holy city are lying defunct for over the past year, new CCTV cameras have been installed at different intersections in the Civil Lines which were launched by the Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill here on Friday.Around 220 cameras were installed at 40 locations in the city. These have the power to capture images from as far as 1 km with great clarity. The project was funded by the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT). However, due to some issues with the company hired for its maintenance, these cameras were lying defunct for nearly one and a half years.The police authorities had taken up the issue with the AIT a number of times, but no solution could be reached as trust authorities had dragged their hands for funding the same again.The Police Commissioner while detailing about the new project said of 40 locations a majority fell in the Civil Lines. Around 202 cameras were installed at these points. Besides, there was another proposal of installing 119 cameras in different parts of Ranjit Avenue area. Tenders have been floated for the same and hopefully it would be installed soon. “After Ranjit Avenue, the cameras would be installed on the Amritsar-Attari bypass road also,” he added.“There has been a backup of around 30 days for these high-resolution cameras. The control of these cameras was set up at the Police Lines here. CCTV cameras have been instrumental in not only detecting but also works as deterrent in the crime,” he pointed out, before appealing to people, especially those having commercial properties on the main roads, to install good quality CCTV cameras.All about womenIn order to ensure women-friendly atmosphere at each police station, the city police have set up women help desks under ‘Punjab Police Mahila Mittar’ programme. The Police Commissioner that women cops, who are deputised for the job, would entertain complainants approaching the police station for lodging their complaints and redressals of the same. He added that desks would be attached with Saanjh Kendras and would forward complaints to designated police stations or women cell for further redressal. Assistant Commissioner of Police Manpreet Shimar would be the nodal officer of these help desks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/220-cctv-cameras-installed-in-city-195911
09-01-2021|| ---||Ex-serviceman shot at by armed assailant, survives||Amritsar, January 8  Malkeet Singh (50), an ex-serviceman, was shot at by an unknown person near Bal Bawa village when he was going to his job. He works as a supervisor in a meat factory located at Vichhoya village.  Jhander police station have registered a case of murder bid and the Arms Act against the unidentified bike-borne person in this connection and launched further investigations. Injured Malkeet Singh was rushed to a private hospital for treatment.  According to the police, he suffered gunshot injuries on the backside near his waist. The police have recovered two empty shells of bullets from the spot.  Victim’s son Jagjit Singh, stated to the police that his father was going to the meat factory in Vichhoya village on his bike when an unknown person came from behind and shot at him. According to eyewitnesses, immediately after shooting his father, the assailants took a turn and fled away from the spot.  Davinder Singh, investigating officer, said there was no breakthrough in the case so far as the victim was recuperating in the hospital and was not fit to give any statement. “As we are yet to record his statement, there was no progress in the case. Only his statement could shed a light on the motive and suspect behind the incident,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-serviceman-shot-at-by-armed-assailant-survives-195912
09-01-2021||---||4 held with country-made weapons in four days||Amritsar, January 8 The easy availability of country-made weapons have become a headache for the Punjab Police which has been struggling to curtail crime rate and repeated firing incidents in the holy city.  In the past four days, the police have seized four country-made weapons from as many persons. Out of these, the Amritsar rural police confiscated three weapons.  On Thursday, the rural police had nabbed Amritpal Singh and Akashdeep Singh of Bhoma and Khabbe Rajputa village, respectively in separate incidents. The police recovered .315 bore calibre ‘desi kattas’ from their possession. Two live bullets were also seized from Amritpal Singh.  Cops of the Sultanwind police station have arrested Manpreet Singh, alias Manu of Patti Balol Di in Sultanwind village, and recovered a .32 bore pistol and three cartridges from his possession. The source of the weapon was being ascertained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-held-with-country-made-weapons-in-four-days-195913
09-01-2021|| ---||Central Sikh Museum now has Baba Jang Singh’s portrait||Amritsar, January 8 The SGPC has placed a portrait of Baba Jang Singh of Karnal in the Central Sikh Museum at the Golden Temple complex on Friday. Baba Jang Singh was martyred at gurdwara Sri Rakab Ganj Sahib, Delhi, in 1982 during the Dharam Yudh Morcha. The Golden Temple’s head priest Giani Jagtar Singh, Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, Takht Kesgarh Sahib Jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh and Baba Ghala Singh Nanaksar were present on the occasion and unveiled the portrait. Earlier, Bhai Bhupinder Singh recited Gurbani Kirtan and Bhai Sultan Singh offered prayers. Addressing the function, Giani Harpreet Singh said, “The sacrifice of Baba Jang Singh has a special place in the Sikh community. The Sikhs should take inspiration from the sacrifices he made and be there for the chardi kala (high spirits) of Sikhism.” Giani Jagtar Singh said, “The Central Sikh Museum is a precious treasure of Sikh history, and here the portraits of great personalities are displayed who have contributed for the kaum (community). Baba Jang Singh of Karnal sacrificed his life for the sake of the kaum.” Baba Karamjit Singh also shared information about the martyr and acknowledged the SGPC and the Singh Sahiban for setting up his portrait in the Central Sikh Museum. On the occasion, heads of various sampradas (branches) and prominent personalities were honoured with siropas (robe of honour). Among others present on the occasion were former Jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti, Giani Iqbal Singh, SGPC general secretary advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, SGPC member Rajinder Singh Mehta, Bhai Ajaib Singh Abhayasi, Giani Ram Singh, Baba Jeet Singh Johalanwale, Baba Joga Singh Karnal, Baba Ravinder Singh, Baba Baldev Singh Mandirawale, secretary of Budha Dal Diljit Singh Bedi, OSD to SGPC president Dr Amrik Singh Latifpur, Prof Balwinder Singh Jorhasingha and Bhai Sukhjit Singh Ghanayia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/central-sikh-museum-now-has-baba-jang-singhs-portrait-195914
09-01-2021|| ---||Mayor Rintu inaugurates dev works at Verka||Amritsar, January 8  Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inaugurated various development works at Verka on Friday. The city Mayor inaugurated the interlocking tiles and concrete flooring at Ward No. 23. The repair work at cremation ground also initiated.  The interlocking tiles and concrete flooring works have been started which will provide a lot of convenience to the residents and commuters, the Mayor said while addressing the gathering.  He said that under the leadership of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh special attention was being paid to outer areas of city. The continuous development works were being carried out to change face of the city. The Mayor said the MC had installed smart LED lights in every area of Verka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-rintu-inaugurates-dev-works-at-verka-195915
09-01-2021|| ||CITU activists demonstrate against agri laws||Amritsar January 8 Activists of several trade unions associated with Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) staged demonstration at Deputy Commissioner’s office to support the farmers’ protest here on Friday. The office-bearers of industrialist labour union, Asha workers, anganwadhi workers, Lal Jhanda Pendu Chunkidar Union, Lal Jhanda Bhatha Mazdoor Union, MGNREGA workers, municipal employees and Bhartiya Khet Mazdoor Sabha resented the farm laws and raised anti-government slogans. The activists also conducted a protest rally and presented themselves for arrest. Jeet Ram, district president CITU, stated that farmers have been protesting against the contentious laws for last several months. The government is not showing any concern towards their demands. The anti-farmer laws should be repealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/citu-activists-demonstrate-against-agri-laws-195916
09-01-2021||---||Bizmen protest, seek tax parity with companies||Amritsar, January 8Members of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) along with 57 different trader organisations on Friday held a protest against the Central and state governments for burdening them with taxes during the Covid-19 economic duress period. They raised slogans against the government for favouring corporate houses at the cost of small businesses being run by middle class families. Ranjan Aggarwal, a leader of the trading community, demanded that the Capt Amarinder Singh government must introduce one-time settlement of all VAT returns dating before July 2017 and Powercom must withdraw the peak load charges and fixed charges introduced during the lockdown period on the industrial units. He sought delivery of actual power supply to industrial units at Rs 5 per unit. Seeking an end to the disparity in the income tax between the corporate and the MSME sector, PPBM president Piara Lal Seth sought equalization in income tax slab with corporate sector.The financial stimulus extended to the corporate houses reduced the income tax slab rate from 30 per cent to 22 per cent during the last fiscal. It benefitted them to the tune of Rs 1.45 lakh crore this fiscal. However, the same was denied to the proprietorship and partner companies and they were to pay 30 per cent tax.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bizmen-protest-seek-tax-parity-with-companies-195918
09-01-2021||---||Teal Ribbon campaign creates awareness on cervical cancer||Amritsar, January 8The Phulkari CAN on Friday launched Teal Ribbon initiative to celebrate International Cervical Cancer Awareness month. January is celebrated as cervical cancer awareness month.Praneet Bubber, founder, Phulkari, said, “The month-long celebrations will include many activities to promote awareness in population regarding cervical cancer. We want Punjab to be a first cervical cancer free state in India. We commissioned a monument designed and executed by artist Vrinda Sindhwani and it will be displayed at public places, including malls throughout the month.”Nidhi Sindhwani, chief, Phulkari CAN said, “Through the Teal Ribbon initiative we hope to partner with as many retail and other consumer establishments, so that every home in the city is aware that the colour teal represents cervical cancer – the colour of hope.”The Teal Ribbon initiative has roped in local entrepreneurs and brands to support and promote the cause by adding a special tag to shopping bags that leave their store in the month of January.Their outreach efforts also include international level webinars for discussion among medical professionals on progress and new techniques for eradication of cervical cancer.The Phulkari’s efforts are supported through their knowledge partners CAPED, WHO and the Indian Cancer Society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teal-ribbon-campaign-creates-awareness-on-cervical-cancer-195919
09-01-2021||Amritsar||Farm laws: Telco launches drive against ‘misinfo’||A leading private telecom operator, which has been targeted in various parts of the state for the past few days as a protest against farm laws, has now initiated an on-ground campaign to clarify its stance to the farmers and consumers. The perception that the group will be one of the beneficiaries of the new farm laws has led to vandalism of its mobile towers, DG (digital generating) units and stealing of batteries.No plans to enter contract farmingfarming’ in the past and has no plans to enter the businessBacking farmers, the group has endorsed that suppliers should strictly abide by the MSP mechanism while purchasing foodgrainsThe group has moved Punjab and Haryana High Court and the hearing of its petition against vandalism has been scheduled for February 8.In the meantime, the group has initiated a campaign across the state in the form of pamphlets and posters pasted through its 30,000 wide retail chain sensitising the farmers and its telecom clients that they were being ‘misinformed’. Many such posters, under heading ‘Tathya’ (reality), could be seen pasted on walls, doors and counters of it franchise outlets.To widen the message’s reach, sarpanches of Majha, Doaba and Malwa villages in Punjab were approached to convey that the firm has never done any ‘corporate or contract farming’ in the past and has no plans to enter this business. In the posters and pamphlets, which are in English, Hindi and Punjabi, the group claims that it has not purchased any agricultural land, directly or indirectly in Punjab, Haryana or anywhere else in the country for the purpose of corporate or contract farming.Besides, the group endorsed that suppliers should strictly abide by the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism when it comes to purchase of foodgrains. A group official said some rival cellular operators were taking undue advantage by encouraging the consumers to port their SIM cards to their network in many parts of Punjab.“Though after the intervention of the state government, the group has managed to restore the mobile phone towers by up to 90 per cent, we have discovered handwritten posters in the market by rival operators saying ‘apne desh ko bachao… aur number port karao….’ and giving recharge worth Rs 500 absolutely free. Our fight is against these unethical practices of trading too. This is happening across the state and Haryana too,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-laws-telco-launches-drive-against-misinfo-195717
