09-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Sukhpal Khaira, Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra extend support to farmers||Khaira and Bibi Khalra expressed these views at Harike, 32 km from here today, while addressing the agitating farmers. The leaders supported the demands of the agitating farmers.Sukhpal Singh Khaira, in his address, called the state government to convene a special session of the state Assembly immediately to resolve the matter of farm-Bills. He also demanded to exempt Punjab from the implementation of these Bills. He alleged that Modi’s policies were in the interest of the corporate sector, which might cost farmers and the other weaker sections of the society. Bibi Paramjit Kaur Khalra, patron of the Khalra Mission Organisation (KMO), called the move of the Union Government ‘anti-Punjab’ which might harm the livelihoods of many. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sukhpal-khaira-bibi-paramjit-kaur-khalra-extend-support-to-farmers-153276
09-10-2020||---||Reopening of schools: Over to state to release SOPs now||Amritsar, October 8In accordance with the Unlock 5 guidelines issued by the Centre, schools and colleges in the city will reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity after October 15.But the state government is yet to take a final decision on issuing SOPs for reopening schools for senior classes. While the Centre has allowed flexibility to state governments to take the final call, most private and government-aided schools are waiting for guidelines from the Education Department on how to operate classes keeping in mind the new Covid-19 safety protocol.While private schools in the city have opened to full staff, preparations are on to reduce seating and sanitising the premises ahead of October 15. In government schools, sanitisation is being done twice a day to ensure the safety of staff.“The Education Department will soon release the SOPs for the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII. While parents’ permission is required to allow kids to attend school, there will be an option for students to keep attending online classes as per their choice. The education secretary, too, has been working out details on the issue and we are expecting that the guidelines will be issued in a day or two,” said Satinder Bir Singh, DEO (Secondary), Amritsar.While the state government may have additional SOPs regarding the reopening of schools, Centre guidelines such as maintaining 50 per cent seating capacity and attendance not being mandatory may be implemented as such. The city does not have any designated containment zones and the number of cases being reported in the city, too, has seen a decrease recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reopening-of-schools-over-to-state-to-release-sops-now-152952
09-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||ECHS scam: Police begin probe, seize records||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 8The police have marked a probe into alleged Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) scam wherein huge amount of government funds were bungled by claiming fake medical bills.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Malik has reportedly seized records of the hospitals whose owners and doctors were booked for the fraud.In his complaint to the police, Brig MD Upadhyay, Station Commander (Station Headquarters), Amritsar Cantonment, said during an internal investigation, the accused, including doctors and several ex-servicemen were found guilty of connivance and misappropriating the government funds.The Armed Forces submitted 200 page report to cops and the police had booked 24 persons, including 14 doctors for the fraud.The Army authorities found that several Army veterans mislead the ECHS card holders to collect their cards and later connived with the hospital managements and fabricated record in order to usurp funds from the Department of Ex-servicemen Welfare.Sources revealed that Army veterans who were booked in the case were appointed as Guardians of Governance (GoG) by the government to ensure ‘effective implementation’ of the government schemes.“The accused lured the ECHS card holders by stating that the Centre was providing up to Rs 10,000 as a relief fund in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and asked for their cards,” said the police sources.Later, they made fraudulent admissions in the hospitals during the lockdown and claimed hefty medical bills from the department. The fraud came to light when the Army authorities called the patients about the treatment.“They were shocked to learn when patients told that they were never admitted to the hospitals for any treatment. One of the patient even claimed that he was not in Amritsar and was in New Delhi when he received the call,” sources said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/echs-scam-police-begin-probe-seize-records-152953
09-10-2020||---||Farmers extend protest till Oct 11||Amritsar, October 8Farmer organisations on Thursday decided to extend their agitation against the farm laws till October 11. They criticised Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar for lathicharge on farmers on Wednesday.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhran, secretary general, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said their agitation against the farm laws passed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government would continue in future. Farmers observed today as a black day and wore black clothes. Farmers raised slogans against the Centre for passing anti-farmer laws. Farm unions have been protesting against the Central Government for the last 15 days on Amritsar-Jalandhar railway track.Sabhran said the Bharatiya Janata Party should prepare an environment for talks before inviting farmers. He said the manner in which the Haryana Government had treated farmers should be condemned. He said they would also continue their protest against corporate houses and BJP leaders.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said every farm union has supported the agitation. He said they would burn effigies of corporates on Dashera. He urged residents and employees union to participate in the farmers’ agitation and extend their support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-extend-protest-till-oct-11-152954
09-10-2020||---||Majithia urges Centre to reopen Kartarpur corridor||Dera Baba Nanak , October 8Former cabinet minister and senior SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia led a gathering of around 200 devotees and urged the Centre to immediately reopen Kartarpur corridor on Thursday. The passage was closed on March 16 in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Majithia questioned the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) decision to keeping the corridor closed when almost all religious places in the country were reopened.“The corridor was inaugurated in November 2019 on the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. I fail to understand why it is taking so long for the Centre to take a decision,” said Majithia.He added that even the Pakistan government had opened the shrine for devotees to pay obeisance.“There is absolutely no logic in keeping the Kartarpur corridor closed to the public. All prominent religious sites have been opened. The Central Government should keep in mind the sentiments of Sikh pilgrims who want to pay obeisance at the shrine on the 551st ‘Parkash Purb’ in November,” he said.He evaded a direct reply when questioned whether PM Narendra Modi-led government was disinterested in the corridor’s opening as the Akalis had bid adieu to their alliance with the NDA. “I do not see any politics here,” he said. “When Mecca can be reopened after several months of staying closed due to the Covid-19, the Kartarpur corridor, too, should be opened. It was after a struggle of nearly 70 years that the Union Government deemed it fit to construct a passage connecting Dera Baba Nanak with shrine in Kartarpur of Narowal district (Pakistan). This struggle should not go in vain,” said SAD youth in charge Ravi Karan Kahlon.Majithia said they would lead a delegation to New Delhi and submit a memorandum to the government in this regard. Batala MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, former Gurdaspur MLA Gurbachan Singh Babbehali and Sarabjot Singh Sabi, among others, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majithia-urges-centre-to-reopen-kartarpur-corridor-152955
09-10-2020||---||Four succumb, 93 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 8With four more deaths reported in Amritsar district due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the toll reached 404 on Thursday.The deceased have been identified as Harbhajan Singh Gill, a 72-year-old resident of Dudhala village, Vijay Kumar, a 74-year-old resident of Green Field (Majitha road), Sukhwant Kaur, a 48-year-old resident of Aman Avenue, and Gursharan Singh, a 73-year-old resident of holy city.The district health authorities also reported 93 new positive cases with which the count has increased to 10,928. The new cases include 42 influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 61 were contacts of positive patients.With recovery of 152 more patients, the total recovery count has reached 9,596. At present, the district has a total of 928 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-succumb-93-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-153104
09-10-2020||---||GNDU offers new short-term courses||Amritsar, October 8Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has started short- term courses to boost career opportunities for students.One such course is drug and pollution testing laboratory (DPTL). Dr Preet Mohinder Singh Bedi, who is the coordinator, said a large number of students passing the intermediate examination were looking for short courses. “On the demand of students, we started short-term programmes, including water and waste water analysis, air monitoring and analysis and instrumental methods of analysis. Short-term courses are like career-boosting opportunities for students,” he said.Boosting career opportunitiesDr Bedi said, “These courses help students in enhancing their skills and acquire more knowledge on core subjects. In a way, it helps the students in gaining more information, different perspectives and an in-depth understanding of vital subjects or topics which a student is willing to know more about.”He informed that the DPTL was established as per the decision of the Syndicate. “It was set up for providing a wide range of testing services independently. Its main objective is to carry out high-end testing, consultancy and research,” he said.Dr Bedi said these courses have been designed to aid in understanding operation, daily working, analysis, calibration, troubleshooting and software handling. On-site training programmes may also be offered as per the specific requirement. The university will provide a certificate after evaluating performance of each student in every module.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-offers-new-short-term-courses-153113
09-10-2020||---||Paddy arrival peaks in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 8A total of 99,701 metric tonnes (MT) of paddy has arrived in the district so far in the ongoing season, of which around 94, 896 MT of crop has been purchased by different government agencies, while 4,272 MT has been purchased by private players. The district mandi officials stated that a total of 22,296 MT of crop arrived on Thursday. Of the total procurement so far, a maximum of 48,064 MT has been procured by Pungrain, 18,690 MT by Markfed, 17,540 MT by Punsup, 8,827 MT by Punjab Warehouse and merely 1,775 MT by the Food Corporation of India. The mandi officials stated that last year only 77,000 MT of crop had arrived in the market till date.They said the increase in arrival this year was being attributed to early sowing of paddy which the government had allowed in view of the Covid-19 situation.The district mandi officials stated that procurement was expected to pick up speed in the coming days as harvesting would be at its peak. The officials have asked the farmers to bring only fully ripened crop with moisture content below 17 per cent so that the farmers do not have to wait.The district administration has issued an instruction to the combine harvesters and farmers to not to harvest the crop at night as the grains catch moisture. Meanwhile, farmers in various pockets of the district have reported low yield in the early sown varieties due to inclement weather conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/paddy-arrival-peaks-in-amritsar-153118
09-10-2020||After taking control of Amritsar in 1805 Maharaja Ranjit Singh||Gates  to the grand past||Maharaja’s 12 gatesThere were twelve strong gates in the city. Some of them were surrounded by defences with two or three brass guns. The Lahori Darwaza served as the main entrance on the road from Lahore. Moving in anti-clockwise direction, one is confronted by other gates of the city: Khazana, Hakeema, Rangar Nangalia Gilwali, Ramgarhia, Doburji, Ahluwalia, Deori Kalan, Rambagh Deori Shahzada and Lohgarh. The names of a few have changed since mid-19th Century. The WallA massive double wall of unbaked bricks, with a double moat was constructed by the Maharaja. Gurbaz Singh, in his work Tarikh-i-Punjab (Punjabi translation of the portion dealing with Punjab in Ahmad Shah’s Tarikh-i-Hind) writes that the fortification was 25 yards broad and 7 yards high. The circumference of the walled city was around 5 miles. The British had the moats filled and built a few police chowkis. The old wall was demolished and a new one rose. However, it, too, has perished and its later versions, renovated and reconstructed, are available at a few spots.Hall GateIt is the 13th gate built by the British in addition to the 12 erected during the Maharaja’s era. It is named after then Deputy Commissioner CH Hall. It was named Gandhi Darwaza after Partition, but only for a short period of time. The original name remains. There used to be a prison at the place which was shifted to Gumtala after the construction began.Hathi Darwaza (Darwaza Sehzada) This gate used to have many baghs outside it. A prominent citizen of the time, Lala Sant Ram Sapra, also lived in the area. It is said to have acquired its name from the stable of elephants resting close by. Chattiwind Gate (Ramgarhia Darwaza)A road from the gate leads to Tarn Taran. It is rather young as it was recently built by the Ramgarhia community. In the old days, a ‘talab’, ‘sarai’ and ‘thakur dwara’ built by Mahesh Ram Khatri was a prominent attraction of the area. Sultanwind Gate or Delhi Darwaza (Doburji)The gate connected the city to Sultanwind, Verka and Doburji villages further connecting to the main road for Jandiala. Khazana Gate (Darwaza Khazana)Many believe that gate is named after the Maharaja’s treasury, when in fact, it is named after a servant named Khazana, who owned the land on this side of the city. Going with the popular belief, the government around three decades ago got a ‘sandook’ built in the nearby chowk to depict treasure. A road from here also connected the city to Kasur (now in Pakistan).Lahori GateWith Lahore as the capital, the gate was most prominent among all the others built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. A prominent place outside it used to be Bagicha Hakeem Gulab Rai, which, too, has been the victim of time. Gate Hakeema (Darwaza Hakeema Wala) The gate was built under the supervision of two hakeems — Noor-ud-Din and Chirag-ud-Din. As a route from here led to Patti, it was also known as ‘Majhe Wala Darwaza’. This also led to villages — Bharariwal and Fatehpur. Darwaza RambaghOne of the most prominent of 12 gates, it was en route Maharaja’s Summer Palace, Ram Bagh to Darbar Sahib. It was through this gate that the Maharaja, during his stay in the city, would go to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib. The Ram Bagh Deori, in close vicinity to the gate, was recently renovated by the government under heritage project. LOST IN TIMELohgarh GateA road starting from Lohgarh Gate had side shootings leading to the nearby towns, Majitha and Fatehgarh Churian. Qila Gobindgarh was the only strong establishment outside the walled city in that period. It links city to Gujranwala and Sialkot. Gate Bhagatawala (Darwaza Rangar Nangalia)Presently, no gate exists at the place. A railway station outside the gate was built in 1908, which was called Bhagatawala station. Darwaza Gheo Mandi (Ahluwalia Darwaza) Lost in the mists of time, it is still named Gheo Mandi Darwaza. During the Maharaja’s reign, the gate was known as Ahluwalia Darwaza after Ahluwalia sardars.Gilwali GateNo gate is seen at the site today. This used to lead to Harike Pattan and connected city to Gilwali village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gates-to-the-grand-past-153187
09-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Police party attacked at Sarai Amanat Khan, eight booked||Tarn Taran, October 8A police party was attacked in Sarai Amanat Khan village when it had gone to arrest a proclaimed offender (PO). The police said the accused had been identified as Shamsher Singh, his wife Rajwinder Kaur, mother Bhajan Kaur, Harpreet Singh Happy, Devinder Singh Binda, Govinda and Mithoo.The police said the party led by Assistant Sub-Inspector Sukhwinder Singh, in-charge of the local staff, had gone there to arrest Shamsher Singh, who was declared a PO by the Court. As soon the police party arrested Shamsher Singh, he, along with the other accused, attacked the cops. The accused had torn the uniform of the Assistant Sub-Inspector. Shamsher Singh was absconding from the spot. The accused had been booked under Sections 186, 353, 223, 225, 148 and 149 of the Indian Penal Code by the Sarai Amanat Khan police. None of the accused has been arrested by the police till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-party-attacked-at-sarai-amanat-khan-eight-booked-153191
09-10-2020||Amritsar||SGPC members sweep Street||Protest over pastor’s ‘torture’Tarn Taran: Members of the Christian community and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers protested in front of City police station, Patti, against torture of Pastor Sokha Masih (67), allegedly by cops at Kairon police post on Wednesday evening. Ranjit Singh Cheema of the AAP, Pastor Sukha Masih and Christian leader Michael Chabal, alleged Pastor Sokha Masih was called to Kairon police post in connection with some inquiry and was tortured. Cheema condemned the police action and sought suspension of guilty cops. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-members-sweep-street-153194
