09-12-2020||Neha Saini||Theatre artistes from Amritsar stir up creative quotient of protesters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 8“Revolution, anywhere in the world, has always given birth to protest art that has defined the way for those who helmed it. Similarly, what’s happening at the farmers’ agitation will define how the Punjabi music and art will chart its way from now on,” said Kewal Dhaliwal. The acclaimed and celebrated theatre director has been leading some powerful displays at the site of protests at the Singhu border. He is joined by several other prominent names from the fraternity in Punjab, who are lending a creative colour to the stir.“Creative expression of protesting is the most peaceful way one can support the farmers. The overwhelming support from Punjabi music and art fraternity to the movement has been a positive development,” he said. Dhaliwal recently performed a musical play ‘Hariyan Sohniyan’ along with his team at the site of protests. The play was a narrative about how a Punjabi farmer sows two crops a year and feeds the nation, while he himself remains in hunger and depravity.“It was a folk musical play that raised a lot of questions for farmers as well as the politicos, who choose to see them with apathy. Despite growing food that eventually feeds the country, a farmer has always remained in poverty, never with a full stomach and a full pocket. The marginalised farmers, who are in large numbers in these protests, have always been exploited, whether by government agencies or by private players. Their condition never changed,” said Dhaliwal.Along with him, Gurmail Shamnagar, another theatre artist from Majitha, also performed with his team. Dhaliwal will be heading to the site for another play.“The site has become a canvas for expression to those who chose to do it peacefully. So, we have a proper itinery prepared for the art and creative activities being organised at the place. We have performed at the petrol pumps while on our way and interacted with lot of protesters, who appreciated the support,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theatre-artistes-from-amritsar-stir-up-creative-quotient-of-protesters-181642
09-12-2020||Tribune New Service||‘Dive deep to understand our agony & make life easier for us’||Amritsar, December 8Calling the push towards ‘Accessible India’ a mere superficial attempt to make life better for the disabled citizens, Rinku Malik, 31, a music teacher from city, says that there needs to be a deeper understanding of what independence and self-reliance means for persons with disabilities (PwDs).“Most of the PwDs are determined to become self-reliant and not just with their day-to-day chores but also in terms of earning a living. Where the government lacks is not just in providing accessible infrastructure but also adequate opportunity in employment,” he says. Malik has been suffering from visual impairment since childhood, but no matter the challenge, he remained educationally inclined throughout. “For me, it was always about breaking the stigma that comes with disability by standing on my own two feet and I managed that. I had to change a lot of schools due to difficulty in finding required facilities to get educated. In higher education, it was really a challenge to find writers while sitting for examinations and this problem persists even today and probably as one of the major causes due to which many visually impaired persons are not able to complete higher education,” he says.A music teacher at Government Elementary School, Guru Nanakpura, Rinku says that visually impaired people can manage very well on their own, if there is a push towards empowerment through awareness. “Many people, professionals still do not know how to deal with PwDs. We have been given right to service in banking and other sectors through special provisions and aids, but we cannot get them as officials concerned are not informed about them. They must be trained in dealing with services offered to PwDs. Similarly, the schools and colleges must be instructed to provide writers and support staff for disabled students,” he says.He endorses use of technology as learning aide for visually challenged. “There are several softwares that convert sound into words and they are used in several countries. Why cannot we implement such measures to make life easier for our disabled? A lot of simple tasks will be made easier if we include PwDs, especially visually impaired, in the digital India movement,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dive-deep-to-understand-our-agony-make-life-easier-for-us-181643
09-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill---||Welder sees light at the end of pandemic tunnel||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 8 A trained welder, Mangal Singh travels 20 kilometers to city every morning to work at the construction sites. Contrary to others, Singh’s business did not suffer losses even during the lockdown days. “People were free and most of them got their pending works at home done,” he said.  “As soon as the relaxations were announced, I started receiving orders from shops for renovation,” he added.  Singh said working with iron is hard and requires a lot of strength. “Though, many tools are available these days but the work is still tough. Sometimes, I have to stay at the construction site overnight to complete the work,” he said.  Mangal’s biggest worry related to his work is the availability of power. “As the power cuts are frequent, sometimes, the entire day is wasted waiting for the power to resume. Due to long distance from my village, I could not even go home. So, I have to while away the time at the construction site which is frustrating,” he said.  Singh, who had learnt the welding work while working for a tractor part manufacturing firm in the city said, “I worked there for a few years but later started receiving ample orders from construction contractors. I always wanted to work a job where I could choose my own working hours.”  He said initial years of his struggle were tough as he had to cycle 40 kilometers everybody. “Now, I have a motorbike and work has become much easier,” he said. He normally works on making decorative wooden frames, staircase safety railings, and safety railings on roofs and iron frames for doors and windows, apart from iron and steel furniture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/welder-sees-light-at-the-end-of-pandemic-tunnel-181644
09-12-2020||---||2 held for truck driver’s murder||Amritsar, December 8Three days after a truck driver was found dead in Uthian village under mysterious circumstances, the police said that he had died of drug overdose when he consumed synthetic drugs along with his two friends.Those arrested were identified as Sukhdev Singh and Jaspal Singh, both residents of same village.The rural police authorities said that the duo had burned his face with acid in order to hide his identity.The victim, Angrej Singh (30), was found dead in Uthian village under mysterious circumstances here on Saturday. He has been missing for the past one week. He was identified from his clothes and mobile phone.Manpreet Kaur, wife of the deceased, informed the police that Angrej was missing since November 29. He had returned home after four months from his work. After returning home within 15 minutes he left the house without telling anyone. She said he did not return home that night. She said she told about this to her father-in-law Bagicha Singh. She said she along with other family members looked for him in the village and other adjoining areas.She said when they were passing through fields in Uthian village they found some stray dogs feasting on a dead body. She said the family members identified him from his clothes and the mobile phone found near the body. The police authorities said that the three injected synthetic drugs. However, Angrej started feeling sick and fell down. The duo got afraid and fled away. When they returned he had died. They later poured acid on this face. The police said they were investigating from where the two had procured drugs.Youth held with illegal weaponThe Lopoke police have arrested one person, identified as Amarjit Singh, alias Faltu, a resident of Sarangra village for allegedly possessing a country-made weapon of .32 bore caliber. Three rounds were also found from him. A case under the Arms Act was registered against him while further investigations were underway to ascertain the source of the weapon. He was nabbed for Sidhwan Bhangwa drain following a tip-off, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-truck-drivers-murder-181645
09-12-2020||Our Correspondent ||Drug peddlers fire at police team, 2 arrested||Tarn Taran, December 8 An ASI, posted at CIA staff Patti, was injured seriously when drug smugglers opened firing on a police party in Pangota village. The police party, led by ASI Baag Singh, had gone to conduct a raid in the village. The smugglers fired at the police injuring ASI Baag Singh, who had been admitted at the Patti Civil Hospital. The bullet hit his arm and thai. Two of the smugglers—Manbir Singh of Marhana and Jugraj Singh of Pangota—have been arrested with 325 gm of heroin, while their accomplice Gurjit Singh of Pangota, who fired at the ASI managed to escape from the spot on his motorcycle. The smugglers have been booked under Sections 307, 323 and 506 of the IPC, and Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddlers-fire-at-police-team-2-arrested-181646
09-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Police remain on toes for ensuring law and order||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 8 Even as the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by the agitating farmers in Delhi on Tuesday remained peaceful, the city police remained on their toes in order to thwart any untoward incident. The entire city was divided into three zones and security arrangements in each zone was being supervised by an Additional Deputy Commissioner rank officer while an ACP rank officer was deputed to vital checkpoints, informed Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh. A flag march was carried out in the Hall bazaar area in the morning. The city residents in a show of solidarity kept their establishments closed for the entire day. Jagmohan Singh said in the city nobody forced the shopkeepers to shut their premises. The people themselves kept their shops closed. No untoward incident was reported in the city. “Entire police force was on the road while senior police officials were also asked to remain alert and in the field to ensure law and order. We have armed battalion with us which was also deputed in the city,” said DCP. Patrolling parities could be seen on the road. The police was seen appealing residents to not believe any rumours and come out of their houses only during an emergency situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-remain-on-toes-for-ensuring-law-and-order-181647
09-12-2020||---||Cultivators cultivate a sense of unity||Amritsar, December 8The farmer organisations’ cry for ‘Bharat Bandh’ evoked overwhelming support from people of diverse backgrounds, including trading, industry, shopping malls, educational institutes, religious bodies in the city.Routine life was thrown out of gear as all commercial markets, establishments, including shops, petrol pumps downed their shutters acceding to the call to press upon Modi-led government to revoke all three farm laws.The strike rounded off peacefully with no untoward incident reported. A complete shutdown was observed in the city crippling all walks of life and commercial establishments. Most of the roads were deserted, with the moving silence only broken by an occasional passing of a vehicle as people preferred to remain indoors.Commercial hubs, including wholesale textile markets like Katra Ahluwalia, the Shastri market, Tahli Wala bazaar, Pratap bazaar and nearby streets were shuttered. Similar scenes were witnessed at the stationery items market, Mai Sewa Wala bazaar, gold and silver ornaments’ market Guru bazaar, Bhandiyan Wala bazaar, Chaurasti Attari and Batti Hatta. Grain markets like Daal mandi, Mishri bazaar, Swank mandi, Wadi Dhab, Dhab Wasti Ram, Lachhmansar Chowk and surrounding areas were no different.The usual clinking and clanging of factories flecking industrial areas like Focal Point on the GT Road, Mehta road, Islamabad, Chheharta and others areas were muted today.The golden sideActivists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) held a rally at the Golden Gate and blocked the traffic for around four hours on the GT Road.Despite five meetings with the Union government not eliciting any outcome, Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, still sounded positive. He said the end result will be in favour of farmers and was grateful to urban residents and the trading community for extending their support to the agriculturists. He stated they would get its benefit. Otherwise, big malls will usurp small shops and they would go out of work. “It was no longer an agitation by the farmers but ‘Jan Andolan’ as differences between rural and urban, religions and of castes have evaporated,” Pandher told. Apart from farmers, women and children were present in large numbers at the Golden Gate. They raised slogans against the ‘black laws’ besides chiding corporate houses. A rally was also conducted blocking various prominent intersections of the city.Schools, institutes shutteredAll educational institutes were closed; majority of schools did not even hold online classes. Higher educational institutions, including Guru Nanak Dev University, Khalsa College, DAV College, BBK DAV College for women were partially closed to show solidarity. Meanwhile, the non-teaching staff cordially supported the stir. The students of Government Dental College and Hospital, too, staged a protest outside the Company Bagh and raised slogans against the Centre demanding the rollback of the Bills.Left parties, trade unions join handsLeft parties aligned with various trade unions to protest at the main Bhandari bridge. Their rallying cry slammed the Union government for following capitalistic policies, favouring corporate houses and privatisation of jobs. They said in this aping of international norms the government was hell-bent on destroying the ages-old profession.District Congress party workers, led by president Jatinder Sonia, held a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner office. She said PM Modi was adopting political chicanery by holding meetings with farmers. “Farmers know how to secure justice for them and they will succeed,” she added. The protest concluded outside the residence of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik.Also, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria held a protest on the Sultanwind road. Members of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) also participated. Emergency services like medical services, chemists and even marriages were allowed.Over 200 mini-bus and bus operators leave for DelhiA batch of over 200 members of the Mini-bus Operator Workers Union and Amritsar, Gurdaspur’s District Bus Operator Association headed to Delhi to join farmers’ stir on Monday.They went in four buses to take part in the protest at Delhi. Amritsar, Gurdaspur’ District Bus Operators Association President, Ashok Mannan, said transport operators extended support to the farmers who have been protesting for last two months to annul the ‘black laws’.Tarksheel Society called on the Union government to not make it an ego-satisfying issue and withdraw it for peace stability in the country.Sumit Singh, president of Tarksheel Society, stated that the agitation by farmers have become a mass movement taking in its stride all segments of the society. He, however, flayed those who were trying to give it a religious and spiritual colour. “Majority of people in the country have been victim of opportunistic political parties, priestly class, so-called leaders of religions, corruptions and many more,” he shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cultivators-cultivate-a-sense-of-unity-181648
09-12-2020||The world is confronted with unprecedented mental health problems due to Covid-19. The pandemic has sounded the alarm bell for millions of people all over the world. They are grappling with the disastrous consequences of the deadly virus and problems in the field of mental health have seen a phenomenal rise in the past few months.||Let’s reach out & help each other||Many factors are responsible for this. The economic consequences of the disease have struck people badly. Many have lost their jobs, companies have closed down and businesses have failed. The livelihood of people has been threatened. People have less or no money to make both ends meet. The poor are the worst affected.The social support system of people has weakened. They are afraid of meeting friends and relatives. The enforcement of physical isolation and social distances has increased the loneliness of people. Doctors, nurses and healthcare workers are afraid of going to work as they might bring back Covid with them. They are fearful for themselves and their families. Many precious lives have been lost and the dead have been denied a decent burial. For long, people have been huddled together in small apartments or flats which restricts their movement and makes them irritated, angry and intolerant of each other.Due to all these factors, there has been an increase in mental health problems such as depression, anxiety, irritability, anger and frustration. Likewise, the number of suicides has also gone up. They have no way to give vent to their frustrations and take resort to suicide to “end their suffering”.What coping mechanisms are available to people in these difficult times? On top of the list comes meditation and yoga. Spending time in prayers brings solace to the mind. Any kind of physical exercise such as walking, cycling and playing indoor and outdoor games is highly recommended. Listening to soft soothing music also calms the mind. Getting a good sleep is also important. Talking to friends, relatives and loved ones is extremely cathartic and relieves stress. Laughter therapy also helps fight depression.Every individual has to devise his own strategy for overcoming stress and anxiety. However, if one does get into a problem, it should not be hidden or ignored. Let there be no hesitation in seeking professional help. Taking treatment is better than suffering in silence. Post-Covid, there is greater awareness and acceptance of such mental health issues. Film stars, sportsmen and other well-known personalities have openly acknowledged their mental health issues and sought treatment. Therefore, the theme of World Mental Health Day—2020 was “Mental health for all — Greater investment, greater access”.Let us reach out, support and help each other during these difficult times.—Gurminder K. Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lets-reach-out-help-each-other-181649
09-12-2020||---||One death, 66 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, December 8The district reported one more fatality on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 515. The deceased has been identified as Surinder Kapoor, a 72-year-old resident of Vijay Nagar (Batala Road).The district health authorities reported 66 new cases on Tuesday, taking the infection count to 13,636. The new cases include 41 Influenza-like illness cases and 25 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 66 patients, the improvement count has also increased to 12,338. The district at present has a total of 783 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-death-66-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-181651
09-12-2020||---||40-year-old woman killed,  one arrested||Amritsar, December 8A woman was allegedly murdered by a man in Ganda Singh Wala area near the Majitha road here on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as Charan Kaur (40), whose body was found from a vacant plot.The suspect, Sukhdev Singh (45), has been arrested and a murder case has been registered against him.The police said a one-sided love affair might be the reason behind the murder as as the victim had refused his proposal.Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said, the body was sent for the postmortem examination while further investigations were on. The accused had repeatedly hit the victim with a brick.Giving details, he said Sukhdev was a painter and used to live with his wife. His son Rajbir was in jail, while his daughter was married. He said the accused wanted to have a relationship with the victim against her will. She threatened to reveal this to his family.Enraged over this, he hit the victim with a brick and threw her body at a vacant plot, which was later traced by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-year-old-woman-killed-one-arrested-181653
09-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||3 armed men rob DSP of car at gunpoint||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 8Raising a question mark on the law and order situation in the city, three armed persons snatched a car from Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Sikander Singh from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar locality in the Putlighar area in the wee hours of Tuesday.Posted with Special Task Force here, the DSP had come for physiotherapy session at a private clinic when armed persons pointed a gun at him and snatched his car. He lives on Fatehgarh Churian road here.Ironically, this is the same area where several persons posing as sewermen had decamped with cash and jewellery worth lakhs from a textile trader after making the family hostage exactly a month ago.According to information, the police said the accused were travelling on bike. Though the police have sounded an alert in the border belt and sealed entry and exit points, but are yet to make any breakthrough in the robbery. .Police officials said that DSP Sikander Singh was suffering from pain in the leg and having physiotherapy at a clinic in Guru Arjan Dev Nagar. Today he came alone in the Maruti Suzuki Swift PB-02-CG-5026. The accused intercepted him near the clinic and threatened to shoot while pointing a gun. They asked him to come out of the car. As he came out, they sped away in his car. He also had his pistol, uniform and other important documents in the car.Ironically, due to ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by agitating farmers in Delhi, the police have made elaborate arrangements. The police force was deployed in the morning itself while officials were also on the road for security arrangements.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said that the CCTV cameras in the area were being examined to find some clues about the suspects who were yet to be identified. The incident occurred at around 6.45 am. The DSP was called for physiotherapy at 7am.Not only city police, but the Special Task Force has also joined hands with the local police to crack the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-armed-men-rob-dsp-of-car-at-gunpoint-181654
09-12-2020||---||Students hold protest in solidarity outside GNDU||Amritsar, December 8Students held a protest in solidarity with farmers’ call for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday outside Guru Nanak Dev University. The protests saw participation from people from all walks of life besides NSUI volunteers and members of Research Scholars’ Union resolved to support farmers in this ongoing battle against oppression.“It is shameful that a PM has brought our farmers to this stage that they have to beg for their rights on roads. Our anndatas will never forget this disrespect and the BJP will have to pay for this. Farmers across the nation are agitating for their rights and aspirations, which we support fully and unconditionally,” said Akshay Sharma, president, NSUI. Alleging that the laws will decimate agriculture by dismantling the MSP regime, Sharma said Punjabis won’t accept anything lesser than revocation of these draconian laws.Meanwhile, the GNDU remained partially functional with only online classes being held by the faculty as offline classes remained suspended for the day.Dental Students’ Association of Punjab (DSAP), too, held a protest at Majitha Road, outside Government Dental College and Hospital and in Hoshiarpur in support of Bharat Bandh. Terming the laws as anti-people, members said they would join hands with farmers and if required, they will intensify their struggle in the coming days. DSAP Advisory Board members Dr Manpreet Dhugga, Dr Nikhil Bhagat, Dr Navdeep Singh and Dr Harminder Goraya joined the demonstrators in Hoshiarpur for observing Bharat Bandh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-hold-protest-in-solidarity-outside-gndu-181656
09-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Complete bandh in Tarn Tarn district||Tarn Taran, December 8Complete shutdown was observed in Tarn Taran district on Tuesday. The roads, bazaars and other establishments wore a deserted look. Balbir Singh, a businessman from Chabal township, said as the Centre had forced men, women and even kids to live under the sky for weeks together, he decided to express his solidarity with the agitating farmers. He said it was the inhuman on the part of the Union Government to not hear the voices of lakhs of protesters. Farmers, workers, labourers, men-women and youngsters, too, took to streets to lodge protest. The workers of the CPI, CPM , RMPI and the workers of different employee organisation of teachers, Powercom, Roadways , cooperation, safai sewaks, Anganwari, Asha workers besides farmers participated in the protests organised at different parts of the district. The supply of milk, fodder, vegetables etc. was stopped in urban areas from the villages.CPI state leader Harbhajan Singh, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, state-level teacher leader Balkar Valtoha , state-level Powercom employee leader Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, state leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, CPM leader Jaswinder Singh Manochahal, Baldev Pandori, leader of the cooperative employees Tara Chand were among others, who addressed the protesters. Protest marches were organised in the district at several places.Caption: Farmers and other sections of society take part in Bharat Bandh on Tuesday in Tarn Taran district. Photo: Gurbaxpuri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complete-bandh-in-tarn-tarn-district-181658
