10-06-2020||---||No let-up: 13 new cases surface in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 9With 13 fresh cases surfacing on Tuesday, the total count of Covid-19 cases has increased to 515 in the district. Of the new cases, six are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases, five are contacts of positive cases and two are asymptomatic patients.The health authorities stated that one ILI case each was reported from Garden Enclave, Varindavan Garden, Shastri Nagar, Katra Khazana, Hall Gate Purani Mandi and Rambagh.Meanwhile, two contacts of a positive case from Garden Colony and three contacts of a case from Sharma Colony were reported. Further, Moon Avenue and Garehwali Gali near the bus stand also reported two (one from each locality) asymptomatic cases.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said 15 more patients had been discharged from hospital after complete recovery. The district has seen 378 recoveries and 11 deaths due to the disease so far. At present, the number of active cases admitted to hospital is 126.A large number of cases, with the exception of returnees from Nanded, are being reported from the city, especially old city areas with narrow streets and a dense population. The district administration has already declared a cluster of six localities in the walled city as a containment zone.The district administration has begun sanitising areas and a survey of people having symptoms of Covid-19. Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni who reviewed the situation in a meeting with officials stated that instructions had been issued to the administration to ensure that the testing of at least 1,000 persons was done daily.Meanwhile, the Health Department organised a training programme for rural medical health officers and homoeopathy medical officers for sample collection, sample sealing and self protection. Officials stated that as extensive testing was on the cards, the department would need more expert hands for the purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-13-new-cases-surface-in-amritsar-district-97160
10-06-2020||---||Three held for murder of  specially-abled youth in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 9With the arrest of three persons, the city police on Tuesday claimed to have solved the blind murder case in which a handicapped youth was killed and his body was set on fire. Those arrested have been identified as Pawan Kumar of Haripura, Sanjiv Kumar of Guru Nanak Pura and Varinder Sharma of Kishan Kot area.A monetary dispute was the reason behind the murder. According to the police, the victim, Ramesh Kumar alias Vicky, had lent money to the accused. A quarrel had taken place between Ramesh and the accused as he had demanded his money back.On the statement of Seema Rani, sister of the victim, the police had registered a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC against unknown persons at that time. She told that she got a call from neighbours of Ramesh that a fire and smoke was coming out of the house of Ramesh. She said when she rushed into the house she found the half-burnt body of the victim.A preliminary probe by the police found that Ramesh was first thrashed and stabbed before he was set on fire. There were blood stains on the floor. Anil Kumar, SHO, Islamabad police station, said the accused was arrested by the police on specific input and the auto on which they escaped was also impounded.He said investigation revealed that the victim and the accused were drinking together in the house of Ramesh Kumar. He had lent some money to the accused and demanded it back. This led to a verbal spat and in a fit of rage, the three stabbed him with a knife and peelers in the house leaving him critically injured. They dragged him to another room and put a bed sheet on his face and set it on fire. The SHO said the accused was produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-for-murder-of-specially-abled-youth-in-amritsar-97161
10-06-2020|| ||Bus services on more routes resume||Amritsar, June 9The Transport Department today kick started operations of buses to all those remaining destinations, which had so far been closed due to lockdown, enforced in the wake of Covid-19.Drivers and conductors managing buses rued that it took nearly half an hour and more to fill the buses which were being run at half of their total seating capacity. Before the lockdown, it used to take even less than 10 minutes to get passengers. They felt that people were scared of contracting Covid and were abstaining from boarding buses lest they should not get infected. All buses are being operated non-stop and no passenger is allowed to board en-route. Each bus will not have more than 50 per cent of the total bus capacity.The Transport Department has been resuming bus service in phases. It was on May 20 that the first phase had started with inter-district bus service on Amritsar to Pathankot.Later on June 2, its area was widened and buses between Amritsar and Chandigarh, Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, Amritsar and Ludhiana were started.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bus-services-on-more-routes-resume-97162
10-06-2020||---||Workers of gas pipeline firm damage water supply pipes in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 9Workers of a private company damaged water supply pipes and the walls of a sewer manhole in the Moon Avenue area on Majitha Road here on Monday. The damage was caused when they were installing a gas pipeline. This led to water accumulation in the area. MC officials said the workers damaged water pipes from five separate locations. Later, MC workers repaired the pipes and the manhole. The officials said there was an agreement with a private firm installing the gas pipeline that they would have to pay for the damage.The city Mayor asked the company to follow the MC’s directions.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “I have issued instructions that the company will work only after coordinating with MC staff. The officials of operation and maintenance (O&M) would remain present at the site.”       The MC officials claimed that as per the agreement, GSCL Company was bound to inform the MC officials and the traffic police before starting the work in any area. The Mayor said such inconvenience to residents would not be tolerated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/workers-of-gas-pipeline-firm-damage-water-supply-pipes-in-amritsar-97163
10-06-2020||---||Four held for youth's death||Amritsar, June 9The police today arrested four persons, including two women, for the death of a youth due to drug overdose.The youth, identified as Gurpreet Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur, was found dead in his car on Friday. According to investigation, he died due to drug overdose.Following the probe, the police arrested Karan Bhagi of Kartar Nagar, Gurwinder Singh of Khairdeen Ke village in Tarn Taran, Puja of Sandhu Colony, currently leaving in New Amritsar, and Doli Verma of Jagdambe Colony.During the investigation, the police found that Gurpreet along with Karan and Gurwinder had consumed heroin. However, Gurpreet died at the residence of Puja. Later, they dumped his body near Shukar Chak village and fled away.Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said they were looking for Sukhwinder Singh of Drumma wala bazaar, who had supplied heroin to the victim. He said raids were on to nab him and ascertain the source of the contraband.The police have added Sections 201 and 511 of the IPC and Section 29 of the NDPS Act in the FIR.Earlier, Surinder Singh, father of the deceased, had told the police that Gurpreet was a drug addict and was under treatment for the last one year.His son went to Jalandhar on Thursday. On Friday, he got information that Gurpreet’s body was lying on the back seat of a car parked near the bridge of Shukar Chak village. He suspected that unknown persons had injected heroin to his son, which led to his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-held-for-youths-death-97164
10-06-2020||Amritsar||2 cell phones seized from jail||Fruit vendor robbed of Rs13KAmritsar: A fruit vendor was robbed by two unidentified persons near SSSS College here on Monday. The victim, Sunil Kumar, said he was going to the Vallah vegetable market in the wee hours for buying fruits and when he reached near SSSS College, two persons intercepted him by brandishing a sharp-edged weapon. He said the accused thrashed him and snatched Rs 13,000 and a mobile phone from him and fled. The Maqboolpura police have registered a case against unidentified persons in this connection. TNSBRTS employees stage protestAmritsar: Employees working with the Metro Bus under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) met the company officials to put forth their demands. A large number of drivers, conductors and other employees, working with the BRTS project, gathered at the Verka Bypass office on Tuesday to protest non-payment of salaries. The company officials assured them of the payment. Mandeep, General Secretary of the BRTS Employees Welfare Association, said buses were off road and they were at home since the lockdown. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-cell-phones-seized-from-jail-97165
10-06-2020||---||Youth booked on rape charge||Amritsar, June 9A 19-year-old girl has accused a youth of sexually exploiting her. The police have booked the accused, identified as Manjit Singh of Bhindisaida village, on charges of rape and threatening here on Monday.The victim told the police the she had been in friendship with Manjit Singh for the last one year. She said Manjit lured her into a sexual relationship on the promise of marrying her. She said the accused made physical relations with her on June 4. Later, she came to know that he was going to be married on June 8.She got herself medically examined and found that she was pregnant. She said when he informed Manjit about this, he started threatening him.The police said a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC had been registered.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Gurwinder Kaur said earlier too she had lodged a similar complaint which was found wrong. She said now the victim had approached the police through court and therefore, an FIR was registered. She said the suspect and his family members had gone into hiding and therefore, no arrest could be made. She said further investigation was under way.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-on-rape-charge-97166
10-06-2020||---||1,700 persons home quarantined in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 9With the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the sector magistrates and rapid response teams, constituted under Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, MC, have home-quarantined more than 1,700 persons.Officials said a large number of persons were travelling back to the city from other states by train. They all were being quarantined in their homes. Even those returning from foreign countries were being quarantined at the centres constituted by the government.The rapid response teams also trace contacts of positive cases and quarantine them. With the rise in the number of positive cases, the number of home quarantine persons is also increasing rapidly.The administration has 20 surveillance teams working under the sector magistrates. They trace contacts of Covid patients and quarantine them. The sector magistrates monitor their health for 14 days.Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, MC, who is the nodal officer of the teams, said, “The number of passengers from other states is increasing as train services have resumed. We quarantined them at their homes. Then a number of patients tested positive in the last few days. We traced their contacts and quarantined them.”There are several areas of the city where people are being quarantined to prevent the spread of the infection. Teams of the health wing regularly monitor the health of the quarantined persons. “We update the list of quarantine persons daily as several complete their quarantine period and some more came under surveillance,” added the nodal officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-700-persons-home-quarantined-in-amritsar-97167
10-06-2020||Our Correspondent||9-kg heroin seized on Indo-Pak border; 2 held||Tarn Taran, June 9The district police on Tuesday seized 9.120 kg of heroin was hidden under the earth from beyond the zero line near BSF Kulwant Post and arrested two smugglers.Addressing mediapersons here, SSP Dhruv Dahiya said on a tip-off, police teams led by DSP (Investigation) Kamaljit Singh and Inspector Prabhjit Singh, SHO of the local city police station, searched the suspected area. The consignment was packed in six plastic bottles.A case under 21,29,61,85 NDPS act has been registered by the Patti sadar police.The contraband was valued at Rs 45.60 crore in the international market. The SSP said Jagjit Singh Jagga and Gursahib Singh Bhakki, both residents of Dall village under the Khalra police station, had been arrested as both had brought the consignment from Pakistani smugglers.The SSP said the district police had recovered about 52.199 kg of heroin this year so far. Of the total quantity, 37.058 kg was recovered during the lockdown period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-kg-heroin-seized-on-indo-pak-border-2-held-97168
10-06-2020||---||GNDU among top 4 institutions in the state||Amritsar, June 9Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has been placed among top four institutions in Punjab and top 10 in North India by Nature Index .Nature Index was a prestigious database of nature research, including author affiliations and institutional relationships, for high-quality research output and collaborations, said Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice- Chancellor.He said other three institutions from Punjab were IISER, Mohali, IIT-Ropar and Panjab University, Chandigarh.Professor Sandhu said the index tracked contributions to research articles published in 82 high-quality natural science journals, chosen by an independent group of researchers.He said data in Nature Index was updated regularly, with the most recent 12-month made available under a creative commons licence. He said the database was compiled by Nature Research.Nature Index provides absolute and fractional counts of article publication at the institutional and national levels and, as such, is an indicator of global high-quality research output and collaboration. It uses article count (called count) and fractional count (called share) to track research output.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-among-top-4-institutions-in-the-state-97169
10-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Cycle repair shop owner lost his customers during lockdown||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 9Charanjit Singh, a cycle repair shop owner, opens his shop at 7 am, waiting for customers. But the wait gets longer as the day progresses.“Only a few customers visit my shop for repairs nowadays. Earlier, people commuting in cars or bikes came for fixing the punctured tyres, but with lockdown in force, traffic movement is less on roads and hence he has a fewer number of customers,” he said.The unprecedented health crisis all over the world definitely posed a great challenge before the humanity.“We are also no exception. These are testing times,” he said. He said, “People have been feeling the pinch and preferring to remain at home rather than visit public places. The situation is unlikely to improve in the near future with the current health scenario.”“Even though the curfew has been lifted and lockdown restrictions been eased, nothing has changed in the past two months. The situation is the same even after the lifting of curfew,” he said. At present, people have been thinking twice before spending,” he added.The government thought nothing for people who had to suffer during the 70-day curfew and lockdown.During lockdown, I lost my regular customers who used to call me for work, (cycle repairs) which helped my family in the survival during these testing times.Recently, I got my son married and after a couple of months, curfew was imposed, now, I have ran out of my bank balance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cycle-repair-shop-owner-lost-his-customers-during-lockdown-97170
10-06-2020||---||Sarbat Da Bhalla Trust provides safety kits to BSF||Amritsar, June 9The Sarbat Da Bhalla trust run by a Dubai-based philanthropist SPS Oberoi today presented large stocks of PPE kits, masks, sanitisers and other safety equipments to Border Security Force (BSF) at the Khasa headquarter here. Dr SPS Oberoi, who was present on the occasion said the trust was also providing ration to 60,000 poor families every month. He added that the trust had also provided safety equipment to medical employees, police personnel and others who were at the forefront of Covid. He added that a Budget of Rs 20 crore for providing help against the disease was earmarked by the trust in first phase. He said that the equipment would help BSF as many farmers had to till their land across the fence during the current season. The trust provided 250 PPE kits, infrared thermometers, 100 litres of sanitisers, 5,000 triple-layer face masks, 1,000 gloves and 50 face shields. Oberoi said he would continue the donations no matter the cost. DIG Bhupinder Singh thanked Dr Oberoi for his services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhalla-trust-provides-safety-kits-to-bsf-97171
10-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Covid puts brakes on his plan to study abroad||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 9Abhinav Bansal, a BTech pass out, (Mechanical Engineering) from Amritsar College of Engineering and Technology (ACET), had planned to visit Canada to carve out a career for himself in Mechanical Engineering. But his plans got deferred due to Covid.During graduation, his interest in automobiles technology led him to join SAEINDIA Collegeiate Automobile (SAE) Club in the college to design and develop an all terrain vehicle. He, along with other members of the SAE Club, delivered initial presentation “Virtual 2019 concept off-road Automobile” at SAE BAJA competition and got selected in a team to design and manufacture Mahindra BAJA off road all terrain vehicle at the ACET campus.The team presented this off-road vehicle in the national level competition held in March 2020 at Chandigarh where a total of 84 teams of various engineering colleges across the country participated in the competition.This 22-year-old, who had planned to go to Canada for his master’s for the session beginning in September 2020, now got discouraged due to Covid-19. He, like many other aspirants, remained glued to news channels and other such sources for updates from the Canadian Universities about the start of session and new visa rules.“Now, I will go in the next session. Currently, I am applying for a value added specialised course of short duration in mechanical engineering to utilise my time. He expresses his gratitude to the faculty of the college who always supported and motivated him even during the crucial time.Vijay Banga, Principal of the ACET, said mechanical engineering was a robust dynamic field with global demand increasing every year. Mechanical engineers can work in many industries and varied projects such as automation and robotics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-puts-brakes-on-his-plan-to-study-abroad-97172
10-06-2020||---||Amritsar worst affected in Punjab, count breaches 500-mark||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, June 9With 56 fresh Covid cases coming to the fore on Tuesday, the total number of patients in the state has risen to 2,719.As per the media bulletin, 20 cases were reported from Amritsar, 15 from Ludhiana, five each from SAS Nagar, Sangrur and Jalandhar, three from Pathankot, one each from Patiala, Tarn Taran and Ropar.The count of Covid-19 cases in Amritsar has increased to 502. A Dubai-returned male and nine contacts of five earlier cases apart from 10 with influenza-like illness are among the new cases.With the exception of returnees from Hazur Sahib in Nanded, the maximum positive cases were reported from Amritsar so far. The district at present has the highest number of 135 active Covid-19 cases and registered maximum deaths (11).In Ludhiana, among the new patients are two foreign returnees and a 42-year-old woman and her 13-year-old daughter from Chowni Mohalla. A 32-year-old man from Islamganj, the driver of a previously positive patient with travel history to Rajasthan, has also tested positive.A 48-year-old-man from Vishwkarma colony, Tajpur, who had come in contact with a positive patient, also tested positive. A 57-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman doctor from Khanna along with her two domestic help workers are the other patients.Of five patients from Sangrur, two are admitted to a Ludhiana hospital. One has travel history to Kuwait and another had travelted to Kolkata.Narrow holy city lanes pose challengeAmritsar: Cabinet Minister OP Soni on Tuesday visited various localities in the walled city and found that government guidelines for Covid prevention were not being followed properly. He appealed to city residents to abide by the norms, while also acknowledging that lanes, most of which are less than 6-ft wide, made social distancing difficult. He said dense population and narrow lanes made it an uphill task to follow social distancing in the walled city areas. He also held a meeting with officials of the district administration, Municipal Corporation, Health Department and others to tackle the situation emerging out of Covid. Acting on the recommendations of the Health Department, the district administration declared six localities in the walled city containment zones. Prof Balvinder Singh, conservation spatial planner and former head of the Guru Ramdas School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said residents needed to be more careful in the walled city due to its labyrinth street pattern. Neeraj Bagga||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-worst-affected-in-punjab-count-breaches-500-mark-97015
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh hosts lunch for Amritsar MLAs||Amid reports of Navjot Singh Sidhu interacting with some of the disgruntled party MLAs, CM Capt Amarinder Singh hosted a luncheon meeting for some legislators from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency. Sidhu, however, was not present in the meeting.Among those who attended the lunch were Inderbir Bolaria and Raj Kumar Verka, besides Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Nagra. After the meeting, the MLAs said issues pertaining to the development of their constituencies and efforts to contain Covid-19 were discussed. The CM informed the MLAs that Rs 25 crore was being released for each Assembly segment.Party sources said the invites for the lunch were sent three days ago after reports of AAP wooing Sidhu surfaced. The CM has already rubbished these reports on Sidhu, stating that he was “very much a part of the Congress” and had been in touch with the party high command in that capacity and if Sidhu had any issue, he could meet him.Verka, who met Sidhu a few days ago, said concerns of Sidhu on Bargari and drugs were the concerns of all party leaders. “As the concerns are being addressed, Sidhu will be back to work for the party. It will happen soon and he will campaign for the party in the 2022 elections,” said Verka. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-amarinder-singh-hosts-lunch-for-amritsar-mlas-97033
10-06-2020||Chandigarh||Eway to connect 5 Sikh shrines  in the offing||The Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry has issued directions to the National Highways Authority of India to develop a new expressway to connect Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib and Tarn Taran with Amritsar. It will create a new Sikh circuit covering five religious shrines as part of the proposed Delhi-Amritar-Katra expressway.Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said she had received a communication from Union Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari which sought keeping the sentiments of Sikhs worldwide under consideration.She said Gadkari had assured her that he had got the entire issue examined, and now a new greenfield alignment would be developed via Nakodar to cover all Sikh shrines associated with five different Sikh Guru Sahiban.Gadkari had also told her that the expressway would be extended to Dera Baba Nanak to provide connectivity to Kartarpur Sahib corridor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eway-to-connect-5-sikh-shrines-in-the-offing-97036
