10-01-2021||Charanjit Singh Teja||There was a time when spotlight was on him||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Eminent theatre artiste Suresh Pandit (76) keeps himself engaged with art and literature as he prefers staying home after the Covid-19 outbreak. Painting, writing poems and reading literature is what keeps him busy for most of the day.Pandit played and directed hundreds of one-act and full-length plays during last 55 years of his theatre career. Born in 1945, he joined diploma in fine arts at Art Gallery Amritsar in 1965 where he met theatre artiste Gursharn Singh and joined his theatre group. His first play was ‘Maut’ written by Gurdial Singh Phull. Coming to his directions, he has directed a play called ‘Kanak di Balli’ of Balwant Gargi. He translated ‘Petite Bourgeoisie’ of Maxim Gorky, directed it and was performed in Bombay, Amritsar and several other cities. He got the second best direction award for ‘Petite Bourgeoisie’ in a competition organised by ‘All-India All Languages Full Length Play’ competition in 1970. He also directed the Maxim Gorky’s ‘Lower Depth’, Samuel Beckett’s ‘Waiting for Godot’ received much appreciation for it.“I preferred realistic theatre which highlights social issues. We used to stage plays at open air theatre at the Gandhi Ground. In 1979, I got a call from Doordarshan Delhi and worked for a telefilm ‘Lakeer’ and another telefilm ‘Akhara’ at Doordarshan Jalandhar,” said Pandit, who also has had a whiff of work as a textile designer.Suresh Pandit also played lead role in a TV serial ‘wanjara’ at Doordarshan Jalandhar. “It’s the fruit of my hard work that great artist Balraj Sahni acted in two of my plays ‘Uparli Manzil’ and ‘Arash Tohn Farsh’ under my direction”, he added.In 2017, Pandit played a memorable role in Punjabi movie ‘Lahoriye’. Then he also worked in ‘Mr and Mrs 420’ and ‘Puwara’. “I got first movie at the age of 72. My journey with theatre television and movies is going on. But I do reserve time for paintings too,” Pandit, who is the 2018 winner of Shiromani Punjabi Television Radio Film Award, he quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/there-was-a-time-when-spotlight-was-on-him-196411
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent
||Family held hostage, cash, weapons looted||Tarn Taran, January 9 Four masked robbers looted weapons, cash, gold ornaments and other valuable articles from a farmhouse at Khadoor Sahib village here on Friday midnight.  In his complaint to the Goindwal Sahib police, Amar Singh, head of the family, stated that at midnight when his pet dog was barking, he went near the gate of the house and opened the door. Four masked robbers hurriedly entered his house. After attacking him with a sharp-edged weapon, they held hostage all family members in a room.  Amar Singh said after searching the almirahs and other boxes, they took away his licensed pistol, rifle, Rs 15,000, about 5 tola gold ornaments and a laptop from the house and fled away.  IO ASI Sukhdev Singh  said a case under Sections 458 and 380 of the IPC was registered and launched further action to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/family-held-hostage-cash-weapons-looted-196412
10-01-2021||Neeraj Bagga||Raen Basera is almost full of emptiness||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9Despite the severe cold wave gripping the city like any part in the northern India, Raen Basera, a home for destitute, has not recorded any increase in the number of inmates.The Covid-19 pandemic is said to be the reason behind it. Otherwise, number of inmates increases manifold with temperature dipping every year.Vijay Kumar, an inmate, who had been living at Rambagh’s Raen Basera for the last four years, said it was for the first time that only seven persons were residing here. Otherwise, over 200 impoverished people, who normally forced to live roadside, used to shift here, which was housed in an abandoned hospital building.Photos. Sunil kumarThe inmates get bed, bathroom, medical facilities and food. A Red Cross vehicle ferries meal for them from the Golden Temple daily.A caretaker at the Raen Basera said most of the destitute were habitual of consuming tobacco or alcohol. Since such activities are prohibited here, they prefer to stay out. Attempts to locate the needy and bring them to the place have not yielded much positive results. “If people stop giving them money, they will come to live here,” he opines.Two units of Raen Basera are situated at the Gol Bagh with a combined strength of 100 beds. They also serve as shelter homes for those passengers who do not have funds to foot the bill of hotels. Caretakers state that since the movement of trains was negligible due to the farmers’ stir and in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the footfall remained low. Yet there’’s no denying the fact that a huge number of beggars, especially children, can be witnessed on the roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raen-basera-is-almost-full-of-emptiness-196413
10-01-2021||---||Chaos rules Anand Amrit Park road in absence of traffic lights||Amritsar, January 9Unchecked traffic flow around Anand Amrit Park has led to chaos and amplified the risk of accidents here while the authorities seem to be oblivious to the danger involved.Residents fear that the unregulated traffic flow around the park goes haywire at its intersection on the four-lane road.Commuters heading to the Loharka area pay scant regard to one-way traffic norms so as to take a short-cut. Pawandeep Sharma, a resident of the Ranjit Avenue, said: “To avoid taking the long route, motorists do not mind taking risks and drive on the opposite side of the one-way lane, which is risky.”“There is not even a single day when accidents are not reported in the yet motorists do not mind taking risks. They don’t mind putting their lives in jeopardy.”Even the dense fog engulfing the region and the adjoining open areas of the park fails to act as a deterrent to commuters who don’t mind taking risks.He demanded a traffic signal to be installed at the intersection to regulate the vehicular flow and avoid any mishap. Failure to put the relevant infrastructure at place could lead to loss of life.Residents have been demanding traffic cops to man the intersection. Over the years, as a result of urbanisation, many residential localities have sprung across the bypass roads. Lokarka road is one among these. A large number of localities are situated on this road leading to many villages.Balram Kumar Sharma, president of the Punjab Sudhar Sabha, said, in case the local authorities do pay heed to the demands of the residents, they would be compelled to hold a stir. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the concerned citizens could approach the area councillor with their demand so that it could be taken up on a relevant platform. The proposal will then be put up in the joint meeting of the police, MC and other departments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chaos-rules-anand-amrit-park-road-in-absence-of-traffic-lights-196415
10-01-2021||Amritsar||Physical hearings of cases in district courts from January 11||The District and Sessions Judge here has asked judicial officers to hold courts physically from January 11 while adhering to the guidelines issued by the Punjab and the Central governments regarding social distancing and wearing safety equipment during the court proceedings. The order was issued to all judicial officers on Saturday besides the local police and jail authorities with copies being sent to the Registrar General of Punjab and Haryana High Court, district attorney and presidents of bar associations of Amritsar, Ajnala, Baba Bakala sub-division. The physical hearings had been suspended since the outbreak of Covid-19 in March last year. Officiating District and Sessions Judge Sarbjit Singh Dhaliwal also asked all judicial officers to send their report on a daily basis. Amritsar Bar Association president advocate Vipin Dhand said it would take another week for streamlining the functioning of the courts. He said the decision was taken by the Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court after a request by a 17-member action committee of the Bar Council (of High Court) led by Karanjit Singh. The action committee has also threatened to go on a strike if the High Court did not resume the physical hearings immediately. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/physical-hearings-of-cases-in-district-courts-from-january-11-196416
10-01-2021||---||Prime suspect held after 8 months||Amritsar, January 9The city police have nabbed Naval Sood, a prime suspect in the seizure of 4 lakh sedative pills in April last year. He has been evading arrest since then.Sood, who originally hailed from Dhariwal in Gurdaspur, was held from Prashant Vihar, Rohini in Delhi. He used to run a chemist shop in Gurdaspur. The police also recovered a car (PB02-N-0090), a laptop and a mobile phone from his possession. The laptop and the mobile phone has been sent for forensic analysis while the accused was produced in the court on Friday and brought on police remand for further interrogation.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said the city police had seized around 4 lakh habit-forming drugs which were smuggled from Delhi in a special parcel train. The drugs were smuggled in the garb of essential commodity. The same was sent to a private godown located in the Bhagtanwala area.Investigation revealed that the consignment was ordered by Naval Sood and Mukesh Yadav of Amritsar. Owing to the nationwide lockdown because of Covid pandemic, Indian Railways started 134 special parcel trains to ensure the supply of essential commodities.Bhullar said following a tip-off, the police raided Golden Deep Enterprises at Bhagtanwala and recovered eight cartons containing 4 lakh intoxicants containing banned tramadol salt. He said the accused were to supply these drugs in various parts of the border belt at higher rates. The accused were booked on charges of fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy besides, under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic and Substances Act.Naval’s preliminary interrogation revealed that he had ordered around 15 cartons containing 7.5 lakh sedative pills from Delhi.Out of these, eight cartons were seized by the police while seven boxes were delivered to Simratpal Singh. The police had nabbed Mukesh Yadav and Simratpal Singh in July last year.Investigation revealed that the intoxicants were manufactured by a firm based in Narela.The Haryana Police had arrested the father-son duo, owners of the firm in October. They were brought on production warrant and arrested in the case earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-held-after-8-months-196417
10-01-2021||Amritsar||DC issues first approval certificate||Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira recently issued the first in-principal approval certificate under the Punjab Right to Business Act, 2020.While highlighting the features of the Act, Khaira said time has been fixed for the issuance of this approval to the departments concerned under the Act.“A time of three years and six months has been given to industrialists to get approvals required for running his business while the concerned departments will not take action for non-approval. After applying on the Business First portal, the in-principal approval will be issued within three days for setting up the industry and within 15 days in the industrial zone. Accordingly, the unit will be notified within 15 days,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-issues-first-approval-certificate-196418
10-01-2021||
||Commissioner asks MTP staff to achieve targets||Amritsar, January 9 Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal on Friday issued instructions to the head of department of the Municipal Town Planning wing to achieve recovery targets here. Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner (MTP), said the Commissioner asked all Assistant Town Planners, building inspectors and draftsmen to follow the cases of building plans, NOC, change of land use, tower applications to achieve the recovery targets in their respective areas. On the directions of the MC Commissioner, MTP Narinder Sharma conducted a meeting with the staff and asked them to achieve the recovery targets till March 31. Following the negligence of staff, the MTP wing has failed to achieve recovery targets. The MC had set a target of Rs 13.50 crore for the wing. According to information, only Rs 6 crore has been recovered till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commissioner-asks-mtp-staff-to-achieve-targets-196419
10-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Congress organises workers’ meet||The Congress party organised a workers’ meeting here today to start campaign for the election of the local Municipal Council and called upon the city residents to extend their support to the party to carry on the development. Local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri presided over the meeting while Dr Raj Kumar Verka, MLA from Amritsar (West), who had been appointed an observer by the party high command supervised the meeting. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh too was present on the occasion.Though the State Election Commission had announced the holding of the election for the Municipal Council Patti and the Nagar Panchayat Bhikhiwind for February 12, the election-date for the local Municipal Council was yet to be declared as the state government had increased the number of wards from 23 to 25.Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, addressing the party workers, said during the past four years, development works worth many crores had been completed in the town. He called upon the residents to support the Congress Party to carry on the works. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-organises-workers-meet-196420
10-01-2021||---||Amritsar residents sensitised to perilous use of plastic string||Amritsar, January 9Members of the Animal Protection Association (an NGO), led by Dr Rohan Mehra, made people aware of not using plastic string, outside the Hall Gate.Dr Rohan, chairman, Animal Protection Association, said the sale of plastic string was still going on unabated despite tall claims of the government to ban it. The banned string was being sold openly in the city. The use of plastic string has been causing accidents in the city in which several birds lose their lives. Not only this, even many human beings have been injured during accidents.Members of the Animal Protection Association appealed to the government to start an aggressive campaign against plastic string to curb the unfortunate accidents.“Taking a tough stance on this, the police should also act more vigorously so that people selling this string stop its marketing. Our organisation found many birds which were rescued from string in a few weeks,” he said.Members of the association distributed several local-made non-plastic strings among the children and asked them to adopt non-plastic strings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-sensitised-to-perilous-use-of-plastic-string-196421
10-01-2021||Amritsar||Divyangs get certificates at awareness camp||The Louis Braille Welfare Association for Blind’s district chapter organised a facilitation and awareness camp at DAV College in association with the district administration.  The camp was held to help people with disabilities in processing and issuing relevant government documents, including Aadhaar card, certificate of disability and several such documents required for benefits under government welfare schemes. Officials from different administrative departments processed the documents submitted by applicants on the spot.  Vikrant Dutta, president of the Louis Braille Welfare Association, said their organisation would hold more such camps in several districts. “Getting these government documents required by the PWDs usually takes long time to process including several days and people with disabilities face problems as they have to make multiple visits to government departments for the process. We have tried to make things easier for them by hosting a camp where six important documents including Aadhaar and certificate of disability will be issued to them within a few hours in a single day.”  The NSS and NCC Department of DAV College also held an awareness session at the camp where PWDs were made aware of their future opportunities and the suggestions were also given to live a self-reliant life.  More than 50 persons with disabilities (PWDs) were given certificates on the spot, 100 PWDs received the benefit of quick processing of their documentation procedure. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/divyangs-get-certificates-at-awareness-camp-196422
10-01-2021||
||‘Probation period must be reduced’||Amritsar, January 9 The district unit of the Directly Recruited Headmasters’ Association, Punjab, led by president Vinod Kumar, on Saturday submitted a memorandum to Raj Kumar Verka, urging the state government to reduce the duration of probation period of newly recruited headmasters to one year.  The delegation, comprising Dean Deepika, vice-president Gurpreet Singh, Gurjinder Singh, Aman Bajwa, Navneet Kaur and Poonam, apprised the minister that all of them had been serving the department for more than eight years before clearing the competitive exam conducted by the Punjab Public Service Commission for direct recruitment of headmasters.  At present, the probation period for headmasters is two years. Keeping in view their teaching experience in the department, the genuine demand of reducing the duration of probation period should be accepted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probation-period-must-be-reduced-196423
10-01-2021||---||Amritsar airport accommodates 600 flights||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 9The Airports Authority of India (AAI) appreciated authorities at the Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Amritsar, after it accommodated 600 international flights under Vande Bharat Mission on Saturday. The AAI officials have tweeted that the Amritsar airport is glad to have crossed the mark of 600 international flights bringing back over 1.21 lakh passengers under the Vande Bharat Mission and air bubble agreements.The air bubble agreements are temporary arrangements aimed at restarting commercial passenger services when regular international flights were suspended as a result of the pandemic.The AAI officials claimed that they are “serving all flyers with utmost sincerity and together against coronavirus” in its tweet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-airport-accommodates-600-flights-196424
10-01-2021||---||Education Department launches project to polish girl students’ abilities||Amritsar, January 9District Education Department will be collaborating with ‘Nanhi Kali’, an NGO, to initiate a project for learning improvement for girls across the government schools in the district. The project called ‘Nanhi Kali’ will be implemented in selected schools across a block and focused on providing academic and other aids to the girl students.Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan while elaborating on the project said Nanhi Kali will be the resource partner in the project as Education Department will be facilitating the work carried out by the NGO. “Under the project, Nanhi Kali will provide learning kits, including study material, stationary, shoes, sweaters and necessary items for school to the kids. For older girls, it will also be providing sanitary pads and health kits. Another important highlight of the project is that it improved learning among girls, the NGO will provide a tutor who will take extra classes free of cost for the students of school selected for implementation of this programme,” she said.The department is also carrying out several other ground activities to mobilise teachers and encourage students under Mission Shat Pratishat. Several teams, including school heads and teachers are carrying out door-to-door visitations to motivate students before the annual PSEB examinations are conducted. Deepika Dean, newly recruited headmistress of Government High School, Abdal, has started door-to-door campaign to make the parents aware about reopening of schools as well as to mobilise them to send their wards so that they could be prepared for the ensuing final exam.Earlier, she had mobilised village Panchayat to donate adjoining land and a defunct community hall to the school for ensuring better infrastructure facilities to the students. “Ever since reopening of schools, students have been attending with the consent of their parents. Now, the government has opened schools for the Classes V to VIII also with their consent. The door-to-door campaign was especially planned to reach out to those parents, who could not come to school,” Deepika said. Besides the parents, the villagers were made aware about infrastructure as well as quality education facilities coupled with various welfare schemes like mid-day meal, free school uniform and scholarships for eligible beneficiaries being provided to motivate them to get their wards enrolled.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-department-launches-project-to-polish-girl-students-abilities-196425
10-01-2021||Amritsar||2 snatching incidents reported in rural areas||A goods carrier driver from Ludhiana was looted by armed persons near Mattewal village here in the wee hours on Friday. The victim, Harmeet Singh, was coming to deliver furniture to a furniture house at Chawinda Devi village here when the incident took place.  The victim told the police that he ran a goods carrier (PB-10-FV-4279). On Thursday, he loaded furniture on to his vehicle from JJ Furniture House located on Dugri Road in Ludhiana which was to be delivered to Guru Nanak Furniture House at Chawinda Devi village here.  He said he started his journey at around 1.30am. He said when he reached near Mattewal village at around 4.20am, the accused travelling in a car signalled him to stop. He said the five occupants in the car came out of it and attacked him and snatched his mobile and vehicle carrying furniture and fled away. Meanwhile, three armed robbers allegedly attacked Sukhwinder Singh and left him seriously injured. He, along with his cousin, was going to market for buying household goods. Bhola Singh, the complainant and resident of Dal Katcha village, told the police that he, along with his cousins Sukhwinder Singh and Preet Singh of Khanewal village, was going to market on Thursday when bike-borne persons intercepted them. They attacked Sukhwinder with a sharp-edged weapon and asked him to hand over whatever he had. Bhola said as they got frightened, they did not intervene. The accused also threatened to shoot them. He said later one of the accused was identified as Hardip Singh of Dadupura village. The police have registered a case and launched further investigation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-snatching-incidents-reported-in-rural-areas-196426
10-01-2021||Our Correspondent
||Illicit liquor seized||Tarn Taran, January 9 The Excise Department on Friday seized seized huge quantity of Illicit liquor in Tarn Taran.  According to information, the exicse officials seized 4,600 litres lahan and three tirpals in Mand area in Harike alongside Beas river.  In another raid, the Excise Department confiscated 1,53,000 ml of illicit liquor from Bhupider Singh, a resident of Naushehra Dalla village. The accused have been booked under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illicit-liquor-seized-196427
10-01-2021||Amritsar||Amritsar district logs 1 death, 16 fresh cases||Two held with 117 gm of heroinTarn Taran: The police have arrested two persons with 117 gm of heroin on Friday. One of the accused was the husband of a lady police personnel residing in the official residence at the local police lines. The accused have been identified as Bikaramjit Singh and Gurpreet Singh Gopi of Harike village. Sub Inspector Sukhdev Singh of the local CIA staff, who along with his police party arrested Bikaramjit Singh, said five gm of heroin had been recovered from his possession. The accused had been booked under Sections 21-A, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act by the local city police. Accused Gurpreet Singh had been arrested with 112 gm of heroin from his village by the Harike police, who was booked under Section 21-B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-1-death-16-fresh-cases-196429
