10-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Farm organisation plans to gherao residences of MPs||Tarn Taran, July 9Hundreds of farmers, commission agents, ‘palledars’, ‘munims’ of the commission agents and others activists of various organisations took part in a state-level conference organised by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, here on Thursday. The meeting was held to lodge a protest against the three agricultural Ordinances promulgated by the Centre.The committee gave a call to gherao the residences of Union Minister Harsimrat Badal, Union Minister of State Som Parkash and all other Lok Sabha members from the state on July 21 to express their resentment against the new laws.Addressing the gathering, Satnam Singh Pannu, state president and other leaders of the committee, condemned the three Ordinances, calling these as a step to deprive farmers of the facilities being availed of by them after making “great sacrifices” and long struggles.Pannu said the purpose behind the Ordinances was to safeguard the interests of the corporate sector and the Centre was ignoring the need of assured procurement for development of the farm sector. He said small-sized farms would go into the hands of multi-national companies (MNC).“The Ordinances are also against the fundamental spirit of the federal structure of the country as the Union Government is taking control of the power sector from the states,” Pannu said.The workers took out a march to the SDM office, where they blocked road traffic and burn effigies of the Union Government, the SAD and other BJP allies at the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-organisation-plans-to-gherao-residences-of-mps-110957
10-07-2020||---||Rain brings delight for residents, farmers||Amritsar, July 9 The downpour in the area on Thursday morning brought substantial decrease in temperature much to the delight of local residents. As the residents were troubled by the scorching heat for the last many days, a comparatively less hot day was much welcomed change.  The residents complained that the high temperature from the last few days had made life uneasy as they could not step out from their homes due to heat. “Even during the later evening hours, the heat made it difficult for people to go out. Comparatively it was a comfortable day too as sun played hide and seek,” said shopkeeper Sukhmeet Bhasin.  The Meteorology Department has predicted more rains in the state during the next few days, the residents are hopeful of a comfortable weather. “One cannot stay indoors all day and night. Already due to Covid-19, the movements have been restricted and with the heat wave we are not being able to get fresh air,” said Vandana Sharma, a homemaker.   The agrarian sector is happy with this twice a week rainfall. “We need to depend less on tube wells for irrigation even if rains substantially once in a week. With two rains, we are delighted,” said farmer Naginder Singh. He added that with the ground water table going down, more rains are required so that farmers do not have to use tube wells and rains can recharge the water table.  As the day time temperature hovers around 40 degree Celsius during day time, it is difficult for people to manage without air conditioners. With increased electricity consumption, the city is already facing the problem of unscheduled power cuts in many areas. However, with it raining today, lesser power cuts were witnessed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-brings-delight-for-residents-farmers-110958
10-07-2020||---||Expert throws light on mental health issues||Amritsar, July 9 Acknowldeging the need to tackling mental health issues and stress, especially among students, because of the current uncertain scenario, the department of botany and post graduate department of mass Communication and Video production of DAV College organised an online session with mental health coach Nishtha Gupta, MBBS, MD (psychiatry).  The convener for the session was Daizy Sharma, head of the department of Botany.  The seminar saw the presence of more than 100 participants, including the students and staff of DAV College and other colleges of the city.  Expressing concern over the growing cases of depression and suicides among people, especially youth, Dr Nishtha Gupta, explained the basic prospect of mental health and the factors it is based upon. She covered concerning topics such as anxiety, depression and some commonly spread myths in detail. She said the symptoms of depression included mood swings, irritability, insomnia, rage, restlessness and deliberate self-harm.  “We need to pay attention if any of our close friends, family or peer displays such symptoms and reach out to them. Some of the basic measures to prevent suicides include providing support services, reducing access to means of self harm, talk therapies and enhancing coping strategies of people having suicidal tendencies,” she said.  Gupta concluded the talk by emphasising that people should be attentive towards mental health and stress others to lead a healthy life. Arif Nazir, head of the department of mass communication and video production moderated the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expert-throws-light-on-mental-health-issues-110959
10-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Tung Dhab drain raises stink in Amritsar, poses health hazard to residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9Residents of Mahal village and adjoining colonies are disgruntled with the authorities for failing to cover the Ganda Nullah (Tung Dhab drain) that passes near the localities. Though the work to cover the drain commenced several years ago, it is progressing at a snail’s pace while the problems of the residents are compounding over the years.Foul smell emanating from the choked drain has become a health hazard for the residents. Mahal village was brought under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation in 2007 while the colonies that mushroomed along the drain on the Amritsar-Attari bypass were regularised in 2013 by the then SAD-BJP government.The residents rued that they had been paying property for the past several years, however, the authorities hadn’t done anything to alleviate their sufferings.Manmohan Singh Dhillon, a resident of the Anmol Enclave area, said domestic and industrial waste, along with agricultural waste, was being discharged directly into the Tung Dhab drain which merges with Hudiara drain that falls into the Ravi. Now, in the absence of door-to-door garbage collection, many residents dump waste in the Nullah, causing blockage, he said. “The drain that was meant to carry storm water is being to discharge untreated solid waste, leading to contamination of groundwater,” Dhillon said, adding that work on covering the drain that commenced several ago had given a hope to the area residents, but with the slow pace of work, all hopes have crashed.Balwinder Singh Kahlon, another resident, said harmful gases emanating from the drain not only caused health issues but led to breakdown of household electrical appliances, including refrigerators and air-conditioners, as well. “The gases damage copper pipes in a couple of years, leaving no option at hand but to replace these,” he said.Ironically, several VIP persons, including former Local Bodies Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, live in the posh locality located near the area.Residents alleged that the successive governments had only paid lip service while giving a scant regard to the health of its citizens. “Several programmes have been held as part of Mission Tandrust Punjab, but nothing has changed on the ground,” said anguished Sikander, another resident of a private locality in Mahal village.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu Mayor said as far as the door-to-door lifting of garbage was concerned, the job is handled by a private company engaged by the MC which lifts garbage from every area falling under the MC limits. “When sewerage pipes were being laid on the Ram Tirath road, many areas became unapproachable and that’s when the problem was faced. Now the door-to-door garbage lifting service has resumed. I will get resolved any problem that surfaces,” he said. He said the work on covering the Tung Dhab drain was being done by the Water Supply and Sewerage Board, so only officials of the board could comment on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tung-dhab-drain-raises-stink-in-amritsar-poses-health-hazard-to-residents-110960
10-07-2020||Charanjit Singh||Block Extension Educators — the unsung heroes of the testing times||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9The combat against the Covid pandemic has united everyone. The frontline workers have been giving their all, putting their lives at risk, taking paycuts and what have you. It is staggering to witness the amount of effort being put in.However, amid all the hype, the Block Extension Educators (BEE) of the Health Department have slipped out of sight somehwhere in between. Much like the work conducted by the campaigners of the 'Mission Fateh', they almost have the same work profile creating awareness about the government schemes and health programmes in their respective block. But the outbreak meant that the BEEs, apart from their usual rut, will have to incorporate the message of awareness about the virus as well. Hence, tightening the noose around their already crammed schedule — as per the calendar, the BEEs went through 52 programmes, cutting across the year, organising awareness and mobilisation drives. The programmes included National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, National Leprosy Eradication Programme, National Programme For Control Of Blindness, Revised National TB Control Programme, just to name a few.Amirably, through these testing times, and with already so much on their plate, they have been working round the clock spreading awareness about the pandemic. They have also been tasked with some new works like survey of the infected cases, counselling of quarantined persons and positive ones, mobilisation for sampling. Thus, churning out a new normal, which, if put in one word, is commitment toward their work.To further stretch their timetable, the educators also observe all the international and national days and weeks for health awareness such as the World Population Day, No tobacco Day and World TB Day. Apart from this, they also have to attend the public meetings to arrange the camps. However, this hasn't deterred them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/block-extension-educators-%E2%80%94-the-unsung-heroes-of-the-testing-times-110961
10-07-2020||GS Paul||Stranded Indian, Pak nationals return via Attari-Wagah border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9As many as 94 Indians and 81 Pakistani nationals, who were stranded in the two countries owing to the lockdown post Covid outbreak, were repatriated through Attari-Wagah border on Thursday. It is learnt that a body of Pakistani national was also transported to the other side of the borderThe Indian nationals were a part of a group of 748 persons in Pakistan. They were allowed to return in three batches last month. However, only 634 of them could return in the three batches on June 25, June 26 and June 27, following necessary health security protocols.Of the remaining (114) Indians, 20 could not be facilitated back for want of requisite permission. ASI Arun Pal Singh, Attari-Wagah border protocol officer, said among the returnees, a lady hailing from Gujarat was feared to be a suspected case of Covid-19. She was taken away in an ambulance to Government Hospital in Amritsar.“As she arrived, her temperature was found to be abnormal and she was instantly shifted to Amritsar Hospital for further check-up. Her further tests will reveal the exact details about her condition,” he said.Those who returned include 34 persons from Jammu and Kashmir, 16 from Rajasthan, 13 from New Delhi, 11 from UP, 10 each from Punjab and Gujarat. They will be shifted to their native states, where they will undergo the quarantine process.The Ministry of External Affairs had facilitated the movement of 82 Pakistani nationals through Wagah border on July 9 on the request of Pakistan high commission in New Delhi.Raghini Sharma, a Pakistani resident, said she was of Indian origin, but got married in Pakistan. “I came to India as my mother died on March 7. Between this period, the lockdown was imposed. Now, I am happy to reunite with my family,” she said. Mursalin from Karachi said he came to Kanpur six months ago to attend a wedding, but got stuck amid the Covid lockdown. “I was constantly in touch with the Pakistan embassy here and the permission was granted only now,” he said.Imran said he came to see his daughter in India. “Due to the lockdown, I, too, got stranded. I am thankful to both India and Pakistani governments for facilitating us to go back home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stranded-indian-pak-nationals-return-via-attari-wagah-border-110962
10-07-2020||---||Hindu leader Sudhir Suri booked for ‘hurting’ sentiments of Sikhs||Amritsar, July 9Controversial Hindu leader Sudhir Suri has been booked by the rural police for allegedly hurting the sentiments of a community.Complainant Balbir Singh Muchhal, a resident of Muchhal village, stated to the police that Suri along with Hardeep Sharma had used derogatory remarks against people belonging to the Sikh community. A preliminary probe was conducted by SP Investigations in this connection following which a case under Section 153-A of the IPC was registered against the duo.Meanwhile, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, district president of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, condemned the irresponsible remarks given by Sudhir Suri. He said he should immediately remove the video from his social media platform in which he made objectionable marks against Sikh NRIs and their family members.He said such statements were detrimental for Hindu-Sikh brotherhood and peace in the state. He said such statements not only hurt a particular community but entire population of Punjab. He demanded immediate action against Suri. “They should be arrested and put behind bars,” he urged the district administration and the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hindu-leader-sudhir-suri-booked-for-hurting-sentiments-of-sikhs-110963
10-07-2020||Amritsar||‘Dairy sector will take over a year to come back on track’||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dairy-sector-will-take-over-a-year-to-come-back-on-track-110964
10-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar death toll hits 50||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9With the death of a 55-year-old resident of Dilbagh Singh Nagar on the Tarn Taran road, the total number of casualties in the district from Covid-19 reached 50. Deceased Jaswant Singh was undergoing treatment at a private hospital here.The district also reported 12 new cases on Thursday. Of them, 10 showed symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and two were contacts of a Covid patient from Guru Ramdas Nagar.Of 10 cases with ILI, one each has been reported from Dilbag Singh Nagar, Kot Atma Singh Nagar, Sandhu Avenue (Chehratta), Azad Nagar (Sultanwind Road), theb Ajnala Road area , Sahibjada Jujhar Singh Nagar, Baba Saheb Chowk and Sudarshan Nagar. Two ILI cases were reported from Saheed Udham Singh Nagar.The count of Covid patients in the district reached 1,060 on Thursday. A total of 863 patients have recovered from the disease. The number of active cases in the district stood at 147 on Thursday. With 50 deaths, the district has a mortality rate of 4.71 per cent against state’s average rate of 2.6 per cent.Sudden spike in deathsA sudden increase in Covid-19 deaths in the district is being witnessed after the first week of June. Till June 9, the district had reported only 11 deaths. However in the last 30 days, 39 patients have succumbed to the disease.Meanwhile, coaches and sportspersons from the district Health Department on Thursday conducted a door-to-door campaign to create awareness regarding Covid-19 among residents. The District Sports Officer, Gurlal Singh Riar, said the campaign was a part of Mission Fateh launched by the state government to fight the pandemic.Eight new cases in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Eight fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Thursday. Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar said the Health Department received 217 reports, 208 of which returned negative for the disease.One of the eight new cases was from the Tarn Taran town while the rest were inmates of the sub-jail in Patti. The Civil Surgeon said the patient from the town been sent to the Covid-19 care centre at Bhai Bhago Sheron and the jail inmates were being treated at the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital.The district had 18 active cases, five of them from other districts, on Thursday. Six persons had been placed in home quarantine, said the Civil Surgeon. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-death-toll-hits-50-110968
10-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Man booked for raping minor||Four booked for abducting girlTarn Taran: The Kacha Pakka police on Wednesday booked four members of a family on the charges of abducting a girl. The girl’s mother in her complaint to the police alleged that suspect Abdal in connivance with three other family members abducted the victim and lured her for marriage. The suspects had been identified as Abdal Singh, his father Sahab Singh, mother Raj Kaur and brother Robin Singh, residents of Lakhna village. The police had registered a case under Sections 363, 366-A and 120-B of the IPC against the four absconding suspects. OCYouth shot at, nine bookedAmritsar: A local youth, Simarjit Singh, was allegedly shot at by several armed persons in National City Colony on main GT Road falling under the Maqboolpura area here on Wednesday. Luckily, he escaped unhurt. The police have booked Gursewak Singh and his eight unknown accomplices, while raids were on to nab the suspects, said Himanshu Bhagat, investigating officer. An old enmity is seems to the reason behind the incident. Surjit Singh, father of the victim, said Simarjit was strolling on the rooftop when the accused came in an SUV and shot at him with an intention to kill. After firing they fled. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-110969
10-07-2020||Neha Saini||Lockdown blues: With funds drying up, NGOs feel the pinch||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 9City NGOs are facing an acute financial crunch.Reason: The lockdown and its aftereffects, which has taken a toll on the voluntary donations.Many non-profit organisations engaged in the field of educating and providing for the underprivileged have been forced to either cut down on their outreach activities or completely halt these until funds are generated.Continuing with kids’ education a concern for MissiondeepMissiondeep, a non-profit organisation that has been providing free education and skill-based training to over 200 children from extremely social and economically backward families, has been forced to shut down its residential programme for the needy children.“We had to send students back to their homes during the lockdown due to health and safety concerns. But, a majority of our students come from extremely disturbed and poor families, whose parents are either daily wagers or rag pickers or even substance addicts. Since this class of citizens has been the worst sufferers of the lockdown, our students call up saying that their families were not exactly happy to have them back as it puts additional burden on them. We are fostering six girls in our hostel, as they do not have any family or relatives. Another big concern is to continue with their education through online or digital medium since most of them do not even own a phone,” says Amrita, a teacher and mentor at Missiondeep.With three facilities for boys and girls running in the city in Ranjit Avenue, Friends Avenue (near Khairabad) and Guru Ramdass Avenue, 90 per cent of Missiondeep’s funds come through donations.“We are in a difficult situation, as we cannot abandon these kids, who might not get another opportunity to educate or learn as some of them have really struggled to get a better life. But we cannot force anyone to donate money to us. So, we are trying to cut down on our expenses, contribute from our own pockets, at least those who can, to pay salaries of over 50 employees working with us, including of drivers, non-clerical staff and hostel caretakers,” Amrita said. They are also sharing ration or any material donations that are coming with their needy staff members. “That’s the most we can do currently,” she said.Institute of Blind banking on Good Samaritans for helpThe Institute of Blind at Gol Bagh, one of the oldest institutes of learning in North India for the visually impaired, too, has been facing fund crunch as voluntary donations have stopped post Covid-19 outbreak. The institute runs multiple academic and vocational programmes for visually impaired and has professionally trained staff, a library and a computer lab to maintain.“It’s been quite challenging to maintain the overhead expenses since the donation amount was usually used to improve our infrastructure. A few people come and give us food and ration, but our management had to step in and generate funds to pay the salaries of the staff during the lockdown,” said Hari Singh, superintendent, Institute of Blind. He said the institute had been getting aid from the Centre ever since it was established in 1923. “The Central government funds were a big help, but no funding has been granted to us for the past three-four years. Why did the funds stopped coming, even we don’t know.”Central Khalsa Orphanage worried about fall in donationsCentral Khalsa Orphanage, run by the management of Chief Khalsa Diwan, too, has been feeling the pinch of drying up funds. The orphanage provides shelter, runs a school for the kids on its premises, apart from engaging them in outreach activities.“The fall in donations is a big concern, as there has been a considerable drop especially during the lockdown and after. For now, we have earmarked some amount from the funds of Chief Khalsa Diwan for the orphanage and the old-age home, run under our aegis, as the inmates are our responsibility,” said Nirmal Singh, president, Chief Khalsa Diwan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-blues-with-funds-drying-up-ngos-feel-the-pinch-110970
10-07-2020||---||Didn’t betray Brahmpura, will seek his guidance: Dhindsa||Amritsar, July 9Despite having political differences with SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said he would still want him to be on his side.In contrast, Sewa Singh Sekhwan, who has deserted the SAD (Taksali), said Brahmpura’s leadership had been rejected by the people. Dhindsa, accompanied by his son Parminder Dhindsa and his supporters, today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.When asked about Brahmpura’s allegations of betrayal, Dhindsa said: “Brahmpura saheb is a close associate of mine. I still request him to join us and guide us. He was adamant to carry on with his party, no matter who leaves him.”He said their objective was the same. They (senior leaders) were compelled to quit the SAD when the core issues were “ignored for vested interests”.“The party deviated from its objectives and misused the SGPC. Prior to the 2017 state Assembly elections, a series of sacrilege incidents took place. Now, the mysterious disappearance of 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib is being reported. It was all scripted for political gains. The SGPC remained a mute spectator,” he alleged.“Scores of ‘pathis’ and ‘dhadis’ were thrown out of jobs due to the lockdown, but the SGPC failed to come to their aid. I promise the people of Punjab that if we are entrusted with ‘sewa’, we will punish each and every one responsible for such misdeeds,” he said. Sekhwan, meanwhile, said Brahmpura’s leadership was not acceptable to the masses.“We tried our best to convince him for the merger of the SAD (Taksali) with our group, but he remained adamant. So, we switched over to Dhindsa’s side in the larger interest of the community,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/didnt-betray-brahmpura-will-seek-his-guidance-dhindsa-110800
10-07-2020||Amritsar||‘Fake’ Covid reports: Punjab Govt shifts Vigilance  probe to police||The state government shifted the case of “false” Covid reports to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau (VB). Questions are being raised over the sudden development even as the accused have applied for a bail in the local court.The VB got the orders in this regard yesterday. The victims have expressed disappointment, saying the decision had come at a time when VB sleuths were tightening the noose around “rich and influential” suspects.“This is really bizarre. We have heard about cases of corruption being shifted to the VB, but for the first time, a probe is being shifted from the VB to the local police,” said Raj Kumar Khullar, one of the victims and the complainant in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-covid-reports-punjab-govt-shifts-vigilance-probe-to-police-110807
10-07-2020||---||Minister’s remark motivated: SGPC||Amritsar, July 9The SGPC took a strong exception to Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s statement that the SGPC should review the decision of hiring a Pune-based firm, Sonai Dairy, while ignoring Punjab Milkfed’s Verka for supply to gurdwara kitchens. Committee’s senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said the government’s own departments needed to be flexible and efficient.“Randhawa’s statement was politically influenced, far from facts. He has said the order was given to the Pune firm as its rate was lowest and there was a difference of Rs 5.2 crore for three months’ supply in comparison to Milkfed’s offer,” Mehta said.He said Verka milk was being supplied at the rate of Rs 38 per litre and the contract expired on March 31. “We asked them to continue the supply at the same rate, but Milkfed charged us Rs 42 per litre, despite the fact that during lockdown milk rates had nosedived.He contradicted the minister’s statement that ignoring Milkfed would hit 3.5 lakh milk producers in the state.A sub-committee finalises the tendering process and the order is given to the lowest bidder as per norms, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ministers-remark-motivated-sgpc-110815
