10-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar's Bazaar Mai Sewan evokes a forlorn tale of lost grandeur||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9With 25 publishers abounding the Bazaar Mai Sewan, it was considered once the world’s largest setting of Punjabi (Gurmukhi) books. But as of now, all glory has been lost in the mists of time.The original area starting from Darshni Deorhi to Chowk Ghanta Ghar, which was more than 200ft, has been reduced. Several historic buildings, including Udasi Akhara, Sangal Wala Akhara, Gianian Wala Bunga and Hathi Khanna dotting the bazaar are all gone.Meanwhile, a big chunk of the history was demolished by the government for the construction of Galiara around the Golden Temple in 1988. Most of the book sellers and publishers were moved to other markers, while many left the business. Today, you could say the market is totally no-nostalgia-evoking, unrecognisable remnant of its past grandeur. Only shops of drafting materials, hotels and religious symbols can be seen. A scanty of booksellers is the only reminder.Market’s displacement and reckless decisionsDuring the much-condemned attack of the Indian Army on Akal Takht in 1984, a number of shops were reduced to ashes. Come 1988, the government’s decision of Galiara at the expense of market left many sellers in turmoil. Many were displaced.Narinderpal Singh, owner of Mehar Singh and sons, laments: “They didn’t care about its legacy during the Galiara’s construction. The business of books is perfect, but the new generations of the publishers are not adopting it. Religious literature is high in demand. We are sitting at the heart of Sikh world and customers from all over the world visit us. The government ruined our market.”They didn't care about its legacy during the Galiara's construction. The business of books is perfect, but the new generations of the publishers are not adopting it. Religious literature is in high demand. We are sitting at the heart of the Sikh world and customers from all over the world visit us. The government has ruined our market. —Narinderpal Singh, owner of Mehar Singh and SonsGursagar Singh, owner of Singh brothers, recalls: “There was a great time of the market, when it was the hub of the Punjabi literature. The business is good, but owing to scenarios several prominent publishers have switched to other occupation.”Balwinder Singh, former Head of the Guru Ramdas School of Planning at Guru Nanak Dev University, sai: “I have submitted a thesis for MPhil on Bazaar Mai Sewan to my guide BS Brar. Once, it was world’s largest market of Gurmukhi books. Now, it’s almost ruined; the market witnessed huge changes during the 20th Century.”Establishment of printing press and publishersWith the emergence of Gurumukhi printing press, a large number of these were established in Lahore and Amritsar. The first Punjabi printing press (using Gurmukhi font) was established through a Christian mission in Ludhiana in 1835. Eminent Punjabi writer Bhai Vir Singh established Wazir Hind Press in the city in 1899. During the 1980s, Lahore became a hub of Gurmukhi printing presses publishing religious text and Qissas.Meanwhile, Amritsar emerged as the main market of religious and Gurmukhi literature. During the early 20th Century, a large number of publishers settled in the Bazaar Mai Sewan and established their machines. Famous Qissakar (story writer) Kishan Singh Arif (1836-1904), whose father Narain Singh was a publisher and bookseller in the same bazaar, published Qissa Shirin Farhad, Puran Bhagat, Raja Bharthari, Raja Rasaloo, Dulla Bhatti and Kalianwali Heer.A number of publishers, including Mehar Singh and Sons, Buta Singh-Partap Singh, Chattar Singh-Jewan Singh, Singh Brothers, Khalsa Brothers, Jawahar Singh-Kirpal Singh, Uttam Singh-Gurmukh Singh, Ameer Bhandar, Kastoori Lal and Sons, Munshi Chirag Deen, Bhai Fakeer Singh and sons and Ladha Singh-Kartar Singh among others had established their presses later on and published religious literature.Shrouded in mythical pastThe Bazaar Mai Sewan started early in the Ranjit Singh era (1780-1839). It was Maharaja Ranjit Singh, who dedicated this bazaar to a lady named Mai Sewan. She was the wife of a military commander Fateh Singh Kaaliawaala. Mai Sewan was known for her dedicated services at the Durbar Sahib and was one of the most respected figures among the locals. Interestingly, a myth also runs parallel to the belief. It is said that it belongs to Mai Sewan, a devotee of the third Sikh Guru — Amardas ji. Once, she expressed her desire of wanting her name to live forever to the master. The Guru is said to have complied with the demand. When fifth Guru Arjan Dev developed the city and allotted land to the settlers, a bazaar leading to Guru Ke Mehal (residence of Guru) was dedicated to Mai Sewan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-bazaar-mai-sewan-evokes-a-forlorn-tale-of-lost-grandeur-139043
10-09-2020||THE TRIBUNE INTERVIEW||‘Covid induced a shift in students’ focus towards vocational courses’||Manpreet Kaur, Principal, Khalsa College of Education for Women (KCW), has been closely associated with the history of the prominent women’s college, as an alumnus, teacher and later head of the institution. An academic for the past 38 years, she says in present times, it is important to be practical and empathetic as an educator. Talking about the paradigm shift in the education sector during an interview with Neha Saini, Kaur says the changes induced by the pandemic would also shift focus to practical courses, increasing the scope of vocational courses. Excerpts...What changes has KCW witnessed after the outbreak of the Covid pandemic?The pandemic has changed the way most educational institutions function. We have learnt how to get more work done with a lesser number of people. We cannot isolate ourselves from it and have to live with it. KCW has made the transition smooth by setting up 15 digital classrooms with smart boards and we are organising daily online classes of five-hour duration each. The institute is working with a reduced staff strength.Since online admissions are on, has the student preference for courses seen any change in the wake of the pandemic?It definitely has. Students are now opting for short-term courses vocational courses such as retail management, diet and nutrition, styling etc. The response to courses that include mandatory competitive exam is also good. The demand for vocational courses has also increased as these offer easy exit options unlike conventional ones. So, a student can go for a diploma, degree or certificate course, depending on their suitability. The fee for these courses is low and we are seeing a lot of students from border areas opting for vocational courses as they help in self-employment. Our college was listed among 10 best vocational education and training institutions in India in 2018 and we continue to offer online training in vocational courses.The demand for vocational courses has also increased as these offer easy exit options unlike conventional ones. So, a student can go for a diploma, degree or certificate course, depending on their suitability. —Manpreet Kaur, Principal, Khalsa College of Education for WomenHow are you encouraging marginalised students to access education, given the challenges posed by economic distress and virtual teaching mode?We have given an option to students to pay fee in instalments with no fixed minimum amount. Also, we have been collaborating with several international NGOs to fund the studies of students from economically weaker families our students, especially girls. A US-based NGO, Dhiyan Pukar Diyan, has adopted 30 students and is supporting their education. Another US-based organisation has donated Rs5 lakh for the education of girls from needy families. We are also supporting the education of 250 students from poor families through scholarships and stipends. Our management has a programme that offers scholarships to students who score 85 per cent or above marks in their exams.Have you brought any significant change in sports programme at your college?Our sports programme has a high enrolment of students from the rural belt as we offer free diet, nutrition counselling, training, sports kits and accommodation to girls who want to pursue sports. Many girls from our college have played at the nation and international-level games. As far as changes are concerned, our training module and course schedule remains the same. But now only five players are allowed to practise at a time, be it indoor or outdoor games. We are carrying out regular sanitisation of sports arena, gyms and equipment. We have to maintain our sports standards despite the pandemic.As an educator, what are your key takeaways from the new National Education Policy 2020?The National Education Policy is an attempt to widen the scope of education and make it more international. Focussing on multi-discipline institutions would definitely improve the quality of students and faculty intake. Also, the push towards research and development is encouraging, especially in Punjab, as the standard of academic research in the state at present is pathetic. It needs an overhaul to bring in young minds and fresh perspective.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-induced-a-shift-in-students-focus-towards-vocational-courses-139044
10-09-2020||---||Cycle track in Ranjit Avenue will boost biz, clears Smart City CEO||Amritsar, September 9Shopkeepers of the district shopping complex in Ranjit Avenue are raising objection to the under-construction cycle track at Ranjit Avenue market, but the CEO of the Smart City project, Komal Mittal, claims it would only help them.Traders at Ranjit Avenue under the District Shopping Centre Association had recently registered their protest regarding the cycle track being built in Ranjit Avenue under the Smart City Mission. They had even written to the authorities, claiming that the track would affect their business.Komal Mittal, CEO Smart City Mission, told traders that there was no need to worry. “The width of the under-construction track is only 7 feet and it is not being built on the parking space, but on vacant space, where vehicles are being parked at present,” Mittal said.Not only will a cycle track be made, but horticulture and street furniture will also be done-up. This will enhance the beauty of the market and people will spend more time here. Arranging parking space and increasing the influx of cycles will not only increase business, but will also create new opportunities for business. —Komal Mittal, CEO of the Smart City projectShe said vehicles were being parked outside the shops in a very haphazard manner, due to which the parking space was not being utilised properly. She said along with the construction of the track, the parking space was also being rearranged, so that the parking space could be utilised properly. Mittal said the passage would be given 25 metres on the track, on which bollards would be installed.“Not only will a cycle track be made, but horticulture and street furniture will also be done-up. This will enhance the beauty of the market and people will spend more time here. Arranging parking space and increasing the influx of cycles will not only increase business, but will also create new opportunities for business,” Mittal said.After the lockdown, many people took to cycling. Komal Mittal said the letter written by the association had been answered. She said as far as the maintenance of the track was concerned, the contractor would maintain it for three years.“Earlier, a meeting was held with the association on this issue, in which only two persons appeared from the association’s side. We are still ready to clear up the misunderstandings about the track. The association should cooperate for the construction of the track, as it would benefit them,” the CEO said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cycle-track-in-ranjit-avenue-will-boost-biz-clears-smart-city-ceo-139045
10-09-2020||GS Paul||CKD recommends name of Bhai Gurmej Singh for Padma Bhushan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) has urged the Centre to consider Golden Temple’s former hazoori ragi Bhai Gurmej Singh’s name for Padma Bhushan award keeping in view his invaluable services in the field of Gurmat Sangeet and Sikh propaganda.Bhai Gurmej Singh, who himself is blind, is the only one who had transliterated entire Sri Guru Granth Sahib into Braille, the first ever initiative taken by him. He had served the Golden Temple for three decades before he got retired in 1998.Being blind, he dreamt that many like him should not be bereft of reading Guru Granth Sahib. To realise his wish, he started his work on transliterating Guru Granth Sahib into Braille. It took him 12 years to complete the project.The first Braille copy having 2,153 pages in 18 volumes, with page size of 11 x 12 inches, was presented to the visually impaired children at CKD orphanage where he had spent his childhood.The holy script in Braille was accomplished in a few sets. Keeping one for himself, he had presented one set to the Golden Temple for the convenience of the visually impaired devotees and the rest to three other blind home centres.CKD president Nirmal Singh who wrote the letter to the Centre told that Bhai Gurmej Singh was only eight when he came to the CKD-run Central Khalsa Orphanage where he learnt the gurmat sangeet lessons. “Against all odds, his contributions in propagating Gurbani helped the visionless devotees to read it deserved the honour by the nation”, he said.Bhai Gurmej Singh was decorated with “Shiromani Ragi” tag by the SGPC, CKD, DSGMC and the Language Department of Punjab. At present he has been contributing his service at Bibi Bhaini Istri Netraheen Kirtan and Sikhlai Cenrtre in Chheharta (Amritsar). The department of Gurmat Sangeet of Punjabi University has awarded Bibi Jasbir Kaur Khalsa fellowship to Bhai Gurmej Singh in recognition of his service to the Sikh community in 2013.Born in 1940 in Bajidpur village, he had lost vision at the tender age after suffering from the dreaded disease small pox. His father Parsa Singh then sent him to the CKD Orphanage which operates a wing for blind students and impart them vocational training in Kiran. He also learnt the nuances of Braille here only.CKD’s dharam parchar head Bhag Singh Ankhi told that Bhai Gurmej Singh’s creations would be remembered for generations.Former hazoori ragi of golden temple||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-recommends-name-of-bhai-gurmej-singh-for-padma-bhushan-139046
10-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers’ protest against agri ordinances enters third day||Tarn Taran, September 9On the third day of the Jail Bharo Andolan, the leadership of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, presented its 51-member jatha to be court arrested here on Wednesday. However, the district administration did not arrest the members of the jatha.The protesters blocked the national highway for more than an hour and burnt an effigy of the Central Government. They were protesting against the government for promulgating three ordinances depriving farmers of the facilities being given for decades.Meanwhile, a large number of protesters organised a rally near the‘Pakka Morcha’ in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here. Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the organisation, was among others who addressed on the occasion. He said the handing over of the agriculture system to corporate sector would make farming community bankrupt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-against-agri-ordinances-enters-third-day-139047
10-09-2020||Amritsar||Khalsa College campus gets ‘swachhta tag’||Khalsa College has been recognised as a Social Entrepreneurship, Swachhta and Rural Engagement Cell (SES REC) campus by the Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Ministry of Education, Government of India. The status was conferred keeping in view the college observing the practices of mentoring, social responsibility, swachhta, care for environment and resources.KCA Principal Mehal Singh said the certificate of recognition had been issued by Dr WG Prasanna Kumar, chairman of the council, declaring the college one of the swachh institutions in the country. The college, he said will further frame the SES REC action plan and will be working in the areas of sanitation and hygiene, waste management, energy conservation and greenery in the Covid-19 times also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-campus-gets-swachhta-tag-139048
10-09-2020||---||Another highest single-day spike of 347 cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 9The district on Wednesday recorded a yet another highest single-day rise in Covid-19, with 347 fresh cases taking the caseload to 5,573.Five fatalities were also reported that took the death toll to 215. Of the new cases, 204 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 143 are contacts of Covid patients. The district has 1,280 active cases and 4,074 persons have recovered from the virus.The deceased were identified as Jagjit Singh (68), Sukhdev Raj (52) of Haripura, Dariyaa Singh (49) of the university campus (he died on Friday and was tested positive posthumously), Wariyan Kaur (95) of Bachiwind village and Balwinder Singh (65) of Patti Bhara Verka village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/another-highest-single-day-spike-of-347-cases-in-amritsar-district-139049
10-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Remembering Havildar Abdul Hamid – the hero of Indo-Pak war of 1965||On his 55th martyrdom day, Company Quartermaster Havildar Abdul Hamid, PVC, one of the heroes of the 1965 Indo–Pak War, was paid tributes by residents of Asal Uttar village, 50 km from here, at a function organised by the village panchayat, in collaboration with the Shaheed Abdul Hamid Yadgar Committee on Wednesday. The Golden Arrow Division of the Army was to pay tributes to the hero at the village, but the programme got postponed. The administration had capped the gathering at 30 persons.Heroic actOn September 10, 1965, a Pakistan regiment launched an attack at a strategic location near Cheema village (Bhikkiwind Road) in the Khem Karan sector. Intense artillery shelling preceded the enemy attack and then Patton tanks penetrated the forward position.Realising the gravity of the situation, Company Quartermaster Havildar Abdul Hamid, who was then commander of a RCL gun detachment moved defended the country. Taking an advantageous position, he knocked out the leading enemy tank and then, swiftly changing his position, sent another tank up in flames. By this time, the enemy tanks in the area spotted him and brought his jeep under concentrated machine-gun and high-explosive fire.Undeterred, Havildar Abdul Hamid kept on firing on yet another enemy tank with his recoilless gun. During this, he got wounded and later succumbed to his injuries. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/remembering-havildar-abdul-hamid-%E2%80%93-the-hero-of-indo-pak-war-of-1965-139050
10-09-2020||Neha Saini||This device won’t let you drink and drive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9Coming up with a probable solution to drunken driving, a group of students from Khalsa College of Engineering have developed an “Alcohol Detection System” to help the police check drunken driving and reduce accidents. The device works through a digital software system which when installed in the car would automatically detect the alcohol level in driver’s blood and suspend the ignition system in case of high consumption.The project was part of the Startup business proposals submitted to the Punjab Technical University (PTU), Jalandhar, and the proposal has been appreciated and earned cash prize from the varsity.The team of students, namely Amritpal Singh, Anureet Kaur, Jaskirat Singh and Neha, all from the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, had presented the idea through virtual presentation. “The sensors embedded in the device detect alcohol levels in the blood stream and send signal through car engineering to stop the engine, if the driver is drunk beyond limit,” said Anureet Kaur.“We tested the device on an Army truck in real time and it worked,” Anureet added. The team was assisted by Prabhdeep Singh, assistant professor, CSE.Dr Manju Sharma, director-principal, KCE, said the project was presented as part of the university’s programme for innovative business ideas and technologies to academicians, entrepreneurs and industrialists, from all over the country for Business Startup’s at PTU campus a few months ago.“The event was jointly organised by The Indus Entrepreneurs, Chandigarh, and IKGPTU Kapurthala. Over 150 teams from different colleges of the state participated in the event”, said Dr Sharma. She said, “Since drunken driving is one of the major causes of accidents in the state, a lot needs to done to control it. I think the device will be helpful in curbing road accidents.”PTU will provide free plug and play facility and mentoring at IKG Punjab Technical University campus for the team. “These students have shown how technology can be used to earn a living amid the Covid-19 gloom,” said Dr Manju.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-device-wont-let-you-drink-and-drive-139051
10-09-2020||Amritsar||Dal Khalsa launches poster campaign against ex-DGP Sumedh Saini||The Dal Khalsa on Wednesday launched search posters of former Punjab DGP Sumedh Singh Saini in the district and announced that identical posters would be put up across the state.Addressing a press conference, party president Harpal Singh Cheema said those who arrest or help in arresting Saini would be awarded with gold medal.He said to restore the rule of law in the state, it was imperative that those who break the law in uniform should be brought to justice for their crimes. Saini, convicted in the Balwant Singh Multani murder case, has been in hiding for the past few days to evade arrest.Harcharanjit Singh Dhami and Kanwarpal Singh said that the High Court had dismissed Saini’s petition and paved the way for the police to arrest him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-launches-poster-campaign-against-ex-dgp-sumedh-saini-139052
10-09-2020||Though the cash-starved Tarn Taran Municipal Council does not have enough money to pay its employees||No funds? But where’s the money coming from?||The Municipal Council has not provided residents with drinking water facility and street lights, too, were not in place, but “influential” dwellers have made some arrangement by taking power connections from cables passing through the locality. The question is where’s the money coming from?All praise for this state-level awardee Hindi MasterYadwinderpal Singh, Principal, Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Pandori Gola, is all praise for Gurmeet Singh, Hindi master of the school, who was honoured with state award this Teacher’s Day. The Principal said Gurmeet was really a deserving candidate to be awarded, as his sincere efforts of developing a mathematics park, science park and career park have given the school building a facelift and it also became a smart school this year.He said the school courtyard had been renovated with beautiful interlocking tiles. “The efforts of the teacher during the lockdown increased students’ admission to school by 13 per cent this year and 100 per cent results in the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) exams,” he said, adding that Gurmeet remained available in school even during the lockdown to supervise construction work.All eyes on sub-jail, PattiDistrict and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur Randhwa has her eyes on sub-jail, Patti. Reason: As many as 10 jail inmates have been tested positive for Covid and the judge does not want any untoward incident to happen on the premises. The jail authorities have been instructed to sanitise the jail premises regularly.On the instructions of Harpreet Kaur, Gurbir Singh, Civil Judge (Senior Division), visited the jail and interacted with the inmates to listen to their problems. The judge also held a meeting with the jail staff and supervised the barracks and the kitchen regarding cleanliness. The authorities have been instructed to regularly examine the inmates medically. The inmates were apprised of their rights. He also advised them to be good citizens and lead normal life. (Contributed by Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-funds-but-wheres-the-money-coming-from-139053
10-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||SFJ chief Pannu’s cousin tried to avert Operation Bluestar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 9Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, US-based chief of the banned pro-Khalistan organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), is a cousin of nationalist and former High Commissioner to Ghana Daljit Singh Pannun, who passed away in 2007. The land of both families is situated near each other at Khankot village.Daljit Singh had made efforts to avert “Operation Bluestar” by mediating between Jarnail Singh Bhinderanwale and the Union Government. He was a pen friend of Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, when he was an Indian Ambassador to Russia. Later, Dr Radhakrishnan invited him to Delhi when he was made Vice-President.Gaurav Toora, SP (Amritsar Rural), said: “The police have initiated the process to attach the properties of all proclaimed offenders, including Gurpatwant Singh.”A total of 22 acres of family land has been divided between Gurpatwant Singh and his two brothers.Attachment of propertiesAs per NIA, the orders for the attachment of properties of Gurpatwant Singh Pannu were issued in accordance with the ‘powers conferred under Section 51-A of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967’His entire family land is being cultivated by Bikramjit Singh, a local farmer, on an annual contract for the past 20 years. Bikramjit said teams of the NIA and intelligence agencies had questioned him a few days ago. He told them that he used to pay land rental to Gurpatwant’s father Mahinder Singh and after his death to his mother. “Now, sometimes Gurpatwant’s brother Magwant comes to collect the amount,” he said.Of the 22 acres, 18 acres fall in Sardara Wala Khankot. The village is divided in three areas with two other being Parla Khankot and Ram Singh Wala Khankot. Situated close to the city and residential colonies being carved out close to Sardara Wala Khankot, the market value of each acre is valued at nearly Rs 60 lakh. The remaining four acres are situated on the rear side of a five-star hotel. It was once owned by Daljit Singh.Residents of Khankot, Gurpatwant’s ancestral village, refrained from commenting on him.Sukhdev Singh, sarpanch of the village, said Gurpatwant’s family had migrated to the US over three decades ago, so the young generation did not know much about them. He added that there were three houses of his relatives in the village. However, they were reluctant to speak to the media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sfj-chief-pannus-cousin-tried-to-avert-operation-bluestar-138871
