10-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Blood Donation Week begins||DLSA donates 200 PPE kitsAmritsar: To help the district administration overcome the shortage of necessary equipments like PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers for doctors and paramedical staff, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) on Thursday donated 200 PPE kits. DLSA Secretary Sumit Makkar presented the kits to Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal. After coming to know of the shortage of PPE kits in the hospital, District and Sessions Judge Balwinder Singh Sidhu, who is also the DLSA Chairman, had asked them to arrange the kits, said the DLSA Secretary. TNSDrug smuggler’s property freezedTarn Taran: The district police have freezed the property (worth Rs 1.31 crore) of drug smuggler Bohar Singh of Mari Kaboke (Khalra). The police said on Thursday that 1 kg of heroin was seized from the smuggler seven years ago. Under its drive to freeze the property of drug smugglers, the district police have freezed property worth Rs 40.54 crore of 39 smugglers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blood-donation-week-begins-69160
10-04-2020||Amritsar||DAV panel to address mental health problems of students||In a first among educational institutions, DAV College, Amritsar, has set up a committee to address mental health issues such as depression, anxiety and other psychosocial concerns of students due to Covid-19 outbreak.The UGC/MHRD had also issued directions in this regard, to universities and colleges across the country to establish a committee to look into mental health issues among students amid the lockdown on the wake of coronavirus outbreak.Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar instructed the Career counseling and guidance committee of the college to look into the issues being faced by students pertaining to mental health. "It was observed that many students are feeling depressed or their anxiety levels are increasing each day due to the lockdown and coronavirus outbreak. Many are worried about their forthcoming exams, which are getting delayed and might possibly affect their future course of action like applying for jobs or pursuing courses in various other universities for higher education," said Dr Rajesh.The counselling cell of the college is headed by Department of Commerce associate professor Prof Ullas Chopra, and assisted by Dr Ashish Gupta and Prof Sania Sareen. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dav-panel-to-address-mental-health-problems-of-students-69159
10-04-2020||Amritsar||Sanitation workers honoured||Observing World Health Day, sanitation workers engaged in collecting garbage from the houses at Sarvarpura, Sultanwind Road, here were honoured by residents for their contribution in keeping the surroundings clean by regularly lifting the garbage and helping people fight the global pandemic with their services.Among the honoured sanitation workers was a driver and safai worker, Darshan Singh, who was honoured with a 'siropa' and garlanded by Sultanwind residents, Raman Kumar Sharma and Focal Point Industry Association general secretary Charanjit Sharma in the presence of Amritsar Municipal Corporation secretary Sushant Bhatia, sanitary inspector of the area Rakesh Gill and others.Essential items, including pulses, flour, sugar, tea and soaps etc, were also given to the santiation workers for their selfless service amidst the threat of coronavirus pandemic. Recognising the services being delivered by these frontline warriors, people of the area thanked them and applauded them to encourage them for their services. Sushant Bhatia appealed to all the residents of the area to cooperate with the administration by adhering to the directions of the government such as washing hands at regular intervals, staying indoors and keeping a safe distance from each other while interacting. He assured the residents of continuous and unhindered service by the Municipal Corporation during the adversity in the light of the spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-workers-honoured-69158
10-04-2020||Amritsar||Aujla writes to PM, sets out austerity measures||In a letter to the Prime Minister, Member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla has urged him to suspend all media advertisements by the Union Government and PSUs for two years, the Central Vista beautification project and foreign visits of the President, the Prime Minister, the Union Ministers, the Chief Ministers, the state ministers and the bureaucrats and to transfer all the saved money to the PM-CARES Fund to strengthen fight against Covid-19.He, however, criticised the suspension of the MPLAD scheme for the next two years, terming the move as "injustice" towards the voters and their representatives. "It would have been acceptable if all MPs had been asked to spend the funds for the fight against Covid-19. To suspend it completely is unacceptable," reads the letter.Aujla said the Union Government spends an average of 81,250 crore every year on media advertisements (not including an equal or greater amount spent by PSUs and government companies). On the Central Vista project, he wrote: "I am sure that Parliament can function comfortably from the existing historical buildings. The money can instead be used to built health infrastructure and diagnostics and equip frontline workers with personal protection equipment kits and other facilities."He said the government must order 30 per cent reduction in the expenditure budget (other than salaries, pensions and Central Sector Schemes)"This 30 per cent (amounting to around Rs 82.5 lakh crore) can be utilised for creating an economic safety net for migrant workers, labourers, farmers, MSME-unit holders and those employed in the unorganised sector."Aujla said around Rs 8,393 crores have been spent on the Prime Minister and Union Cabinet Minsters' foreign visit in the past five years. He has also demanded that the money in the PM-CARES Fund be transferred to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PM-NRF)."This will ensure efficiency, transparency and accountability in the allocation and utilisation of the fund," he has said in the letter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aujla-writes-to-pm-sets-out-austerity-measures-69157
10-04-2020||---||MLA Verka pens song to create Covid awareness||Amritsar, April 9In a series of awareness songs on the coronavirus pandemic, Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka has penned a song titled ‘Stay at Home’. The song has been sung by city-based music composer and artiste Harinder Sohal and his daughter Manpreet Sohal.The six-minute song features Verka, urging people to follow the curfew and lockdown advisory and showing solidarity with the frontline warriors who are fighting against Covid. “It is a people’s issue and I have always expressed my views and solidarity through music. The song has been released as a motivation for residents to observe social distancing and remain indoors to stop the spread of the coronavirus. It is a way of informing people about the steps being taken by the government for them during the crisis. But, it is also telling people not to fear or panic,” said Verka.Verka had earlier penned commemorative songs for the 100th anniversary of Jallianwala Bagh massacre and 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.Harinder, who has also composed the song, said the entire song was shot individually by Raj Kumar Verka and himself. “We did not venture out to even meet each other. Instead, we shot the video individually and later, edited it at my home studio.” The song has messages from Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, urging people to fight the pandemic by obeying the advisory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mla-verka-pens-song-to-create-covid-awareness-69156
10-04-2020||Amritsar||60 rounded up for defying curfew in Amritsar||In the past 24 hours, the police have booked 60 persons from city and rural belt, including a couple of shopkeepers, for violating curfew and venturing out of their houses without any satisfactory reason and opening their establishments without pre-requisite permission from the authorities. All of them were arrested and later released on bail.The police have tightened the noose around the violators and have roped in drones to keep a check over violators and identify people who come out of their houses. Even after repeated instructions by the government and the district administration, many residents are found flouting the laws and violating curfew restrictions. As many as 18 persons were booked from the city are and that of 42 from rural area, for violating the curfew imposed in view of the novel coronavirus pandemic.Deputy Commissioner Shiv Dullar Singh Dhillon had circulated a message on social media platform urging people to stay indoors. He pointed out that being outside they can catch infection by coming in contact with contaminated surfaces and things. However, several people were not adhering to the directions and coming out on roads citing various excuses, that forced the administration to issue stricter orders.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh and SSP Amritsar (rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal said drones were pressed into service to keep a check upon violators. Those who are found outside their homes without any valid reasons would be taken to task.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/60-rounded-up-for-defying-curfew-in-amritsar-69155
10-04-2020||Gurdaspur||In self-imposed isolation, SPS Oberoi continues to look after needy||When in Dubai, construction magnate SPS Oberoi used to keep himself so busy that he never knew how the time flew. Even as the businessman was preparing to fly back to his business hub after his recent stay in the country, he got trapped in the lockdown.The philanthropist was in Gurdaspur district to supervise activities of his charitable organisation, ‘Sarbat Da Bhala’, when the curfew was imposed. He immediately drove to his Sector-5, Chandigarh, residence. Since then he has been in self-quarantine and has been managing the affairs of his NGO from his home itself.Oberoi is fond of narrating a quote of US-based best-selling author Mandy Hale. “When you find yourself cocooned in isolation and cannot find your way out of darkness, remember that this is similar to the place where caterpillars go to grow their wings. When I feel low, I turn to the cycle of the caterpillar and butterflies for guidance,” he recounts.The businessman says he is finding himself busier in Chandigarh than what he used to be in Dubai.“These are trying times for humanity. My organisation has been doing its best to mitigate the problems of the people. We have already donated 12 ventilators to different hospitals in Punjab, including two to the Gurdaspur Civil Hospital. We have also distributed ration, including sugar, pulses and rice, in a big way. Throughout the day, I stay in touch with deputy commissioners (DCs) and district police chiefs trying to coordinate the smooth movement of ration and medical equipment. We have now ordered 22 more ventilators based on demands given by DCs,” he said.Oberoi’s organisation, which has offices throughout the country and even in Nepal, has already distributed hundreds of sanitisers to police personnel throughout the state. “Policemen doing duty at checkposts are among the most vulnerable to Covid because they are in touch with people from all walks of life. I have also ordered 13,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits and 20,000 masks. These will be given to doctors and paramedical staff,” he added.Oberoi, who is respected all over the world for his philanthropic missions, said it was not an easy time and uncertainty might keep everybody up longer than usual.“It is useful to meet yourself for real and to understand you are lonely but not alone. And to be sure that when everything is over, we will take care of the things that matter with greater consciousness,” he maintained. “Now, relevant is that nobody should suffer and we should fight the Covid scare in unison,” said Oberoi as he readied himself once again to call a DC on his mobile phone. The official was requesting the businessman for additional 100 boxes of sanitisers and the reply he got was what everybody gets-in the affirmative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-self-imposed-isolation-sps-oberoi-continues-to-look-after-needy-69154
10-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Sanitisers missing from ATMs, residents fume||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 9Most of the ATMs in the city do not have hand sanitisers to clean hands before or after using the keypad.Residents are risking their lives by withdrawing money from ATMs. As per the advisory, there should be hand sanitisers inside every ATM.Experts claim that keypads of ATMs are the most contaminated surfaces in public areas and potent carriers of coronavirus. Yet, most of the ATMs in the city are not providing sanitisers. During a visit to several ATMs, only a few were equipped with a hand sanitiser.Around 10 ATMs of different banks on various roads of the city did not have hand sanitisers. Not only this, some ATM booths of national banks were not even cleaned properly. “Banks were asked to sanitise ATM counters every day. It had also asked them to keep hand sanitisers in each of their ATMs advising customers to use it before and after using the machines,” Harpal Singh, a local resident.Meanwhile, banks keep hand sanitisers at the entry and security guards ask everyone to use it but hand sanitisers are very rare at ATMs. On being asked, a bank manager at Lawrence Road said: “We don’t have security guard for the ATM booth. People steal hand sanitiser bottles from booths.”Dilbag Singh, a guard at an ATM booth, said: “We had placed a bottle of sanitiser for visitors last week. I was having food in the cabin behind, when some visitor stole the sanitiser.”“Hundreds of people use ATM booths everyday. The government should ask banks to make proper arrangement,” said Sarbajit Singh, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitisers-missing-from-atms-residents-fume-69153
10-04-2020||Neha Saini||In testing times, she is out to feed strays||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 957-year-old Kiran Kanojia, a resident of Pawan Nagar, sets out every morning with a bag full of biscuits, packets of bread and animal feed to find the destitute and hungry strays in every corner of the city.Determined Kanojia, who has been working as one of the members of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals, walks to different areas every day to feed dogs, birds and stray cattle as the lockdown has hit them hard."These strays used to normally feed on the left overs of restaurants and food joints. But since the lockdown, they don't find much food or have to eat garbage. I bring food for them so that they survive the lockdown without having to starve," said Kanojia.She starts her day by going to the homes of volunteers, who give her food for animals. "I make sure that I collect the food door-to-door, ensuring complete health protocol as per the Covid advisory. I have been helped by several young volunteers of Society for Prevention of Cruelty against Animals, who do the same work and feed stray animals in different areas in the city. I walk usually to regular stray spots with food and water for them," she said.Kanojia has been always an animal lover. "Since my childhood, I used to take care of animals whether it was my pet or strays. They need our help and care in this tough time as much as we humans do. Sometimes, I get help from police officers who are generous enough to drop me back home after a tiring day," she added.She said it would be better if the administration made feeding strays as an essential service. Thereafter, many other volunteers would be able to take care of these unfortunate animals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-testing-times-she-is-out-to-feed-strays-69152
10-04-2020||---||Government criticised for not giving extension to Health Dept staff||Amritsar, April 9Members of the Punjab State Ministerial Staff Association criticised the government for retiring Health Department employees despite it had, in an earlier order, extended the date of retirement for employees due to the ongoing coronavirus crisis.The association stated that a few employees had been given retirement from Government Medical College (GMC) and Government Dental College (GDC) here. Association’s general secretary Jagdish Thakur said as per the government’s earlier instructions, the services of all employees at institutions under the health and family welfare were extended to September 30.The ministerial workers complained that despite announcing extension in service, a number of employees from their cadre at the GMC and the GDC had been given retirement. The association demanded that services of all who retired on March 31 despite the government instructions should be extended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-criticised-for-not-giving-extension-to-health-dept-staff-69151
10-04-2020||Amritsar||Residents seal villages in view of rising Covid cases||As the coronavirus is spreading its tentacles in the state, 80 per cent of the villages in rural areas have sealed their entry and exit points to restrict the movement of outsiders in the village.“The step was taken to check the spread of the disease as cases of coronavirus are rising in Punjab,” said Lakhbir Singh, sarpanch of Kohali village. He said the village had four entry and exit points and all had been sealed. “We are not allowing any outsider in the village. Only the labourers working in the brick klin or in fields, who are known faces in the village, are allowed to come and go,” he added.Echoing the sentiments, Bhatti, sarpanch of Ram Tirath village, said they were with the people and the government in their fight against the virus. “We know in these difficult times and it is difficult to keep people indoors. But we are appealing to the people to abide by the curfew restrictions, stay at their homes and avoid venturing outside their houses without any exigency,” he said.The Rural police have appreciated the village panchayats for taking the step. After locking down the villages, the village panchayats are submitting certificates to the police department. The police officials have appreciated their steps and motivated them to fight the deadly virus.“There are 813 villages in the Amritsar rural belt and 80 per cent of them had sealed their entry and exit points on their own,” said SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal, adding that a couple of policemen would also be deputed if the need arose.“It is commendable that people and village panchayats have come forward on their own in this regard. This means they understand the crisis and are ready to help the police, the administration and the government in stopping the virus from spreading,” he said.Gagarmal village sarpanch Surjit Singh said ration and other essential goods were being distributed on the doorstep while langar was also being arranged for needy people. He said if anyone needed anything in the village, the panchayat would provide the desired items on their doorstep but no outsider would be allowed in the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-seal-villages-in-view-of-rising-covid-cases-69150
10-04-2020||---||Jallianwala facelift project stalled, fresh deadline June 15||Amritsar, April 9The restoration and renovation work of Jallianwala Bagh has been stalled and the authorities have pushed the deadline of the project to June 15.Earlier, the first phase of the project was targeted to be completed by the first week of April ahead of the commemoration of 101th year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to be the chief guest on the occasion.A board has been put up restricting the entry of visitors till June 15. Earlier, the entry to the bagh was restricted till April 12.MP Shwait Malik, who is also a member of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said the project had been stalled for sometime in the wake of Covid outbreak.“We have no option but to shelve the renovation work in adherence to the social distancing norm. We didn’t want huddling of labourers, hence the decision. PM Modi would have been the chief guest at the 101th anniversary programme, but it was not meant to be. Now, we expect the project to be completed by mid-June,” he said.The work of restoration and allied services worth Rs19.36 crore is being carried out by the Union Ministry of Culture under the supervision of Archaeological Survey of India. It is being executed by National Buildings Construction Corporation (India) Ltd.A new exit point with a 15-feet-wide gate has been made. The old structure around the martyrs’ well has been replaced with a new structure having glass walls on its surroundings for giving a clear view of inside the well. Besides, a 50-seat auditorium on the first floor is being revamped with 3-D projection system to showcase a documentary film.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-facelift-project-stalled-fresh-deadline-june-15-68971
