10-08-2020||---||No respite: Four lose Covid battle, 69 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 9The district reported four more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease, taking the toll to 96 on Sunday. The district also reported 69 new positive cases taking the total count of positive cases to 2,376.The deceased has been identified as 36-year-old Davinder Singh, a resident of Rayya, 21-year-old Baljit Kaur, a resident of Fatahpur Rajputan, 70-year-old Surjan Singh, a resident of Kamboj village (Ajnala) and 65-year-old Jasbir Kaur, a resident of Universal Enclave (Chheharta). The district health authorities stated that the 21-year-old victim was a patient of hypothyroid and hypertension.Of the new cases, 37 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 32 contacts of positive cases. One each ILI case was reported from Fatehgarh Churian Road, Gali Ram Mandir, Gali Number Three (Majitha Road), Chogawan village, Ram Nagar (Guru Nanak Pura), Khandwala, Gumtala, Baba Deep Singh Colony (Chheharta), Gate Hakeema, Naraingarh, Jodh Nagar, Bal Kalan village, E-Block (Ranjit Avenue), Fateh Singh Colony (Majitha Road), Bharat Nagar, Kot Khalsa, White Avenue, Nawi Abadi, Verka, Cooperative Hospital, Nehru Colony, Hukam Singh Road, Katra Karam Singh, Kashmir Avenue, Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, Basant Avenue, Fatehpur Rajputtan, Josan Market (Hall Bazaar), Kapoor Nagar and two each from Sant Nagar (Verka) and DR Enclave.Of the contact cases, nine are from IVY Hospital, six from Dayanand Nagar (Lawrence Road), four from NDY City locality, three each from Kamboj village (Ajnala), B-Block (Ranjit Avenue) and Kashmir Avenue and two each from New Vishnu Puri and Ajnala.At present, the district has a total of 427 active cases. The health authorities stated that the total count of recoveries from the district had increased to 1,853 while 133 recovered in the last 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-four-lose-covid-battle-69-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-124392
10-08-2020||---||2-hour rain exposes Amritsar MC’s tall claims||Amritsar, August 9The heavy rain that lashed the holy city for around two hours on Sunday left the Heritage Street and other posh areas inundated, exposing the tall claims of the Municipal Corporation about the desilting of sewer lines.The poor drainage led to the overflowing of drains and sewer lines at GT Road, BRTS lanes, bus stand, Mall Road, MM Malvia Road, Majitha Road, Batala Road, Putalighar, GT Road, SSSS Chowk and several other areas of the walled city.All major sewer lines remain choked, which led to the accumulation of rainwater on roads and streets till late evening.Apart from this, the rainfall also exposed the true picture that hid behind the glitter of the Rs250-crore Golden Temple Heritage Street project. The streets were flooded with rainwater even after the rain stopped. The devotees were seen wading through stagnant water, holding shoes in their hands. In the absence of storm sewerage, sewer lines get over burdened during rain. The MC operates disposal points to drain the water out from city roads.Commuters, especially motorcyclists and pedestrians, had a tough time. Several vehicles were halted on roads abruptly due to water-logging and drivers had to push their vehicles aside to clear the way.Malkeet Singh, a resident of the low-lying area near the bus stand, said: “It is not happening for the first time. It is unfortunate that the MC is not learning any lesson from its past mistakes. A separate storm sewer is needed in the city.”Narinder Kumar, a resident of Putaligarh, said: “Water-logging was quite visible, especially in Putligarh, Gawal Mandi and Khandwala. Water was accumulated in several areas till evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-hour-rain-exposes-amritsar-mcs-tall-claims-124393
10-08-2020||---||Notorious gangster Sunny Yama held||Amritsar, August 9The State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) unit has arrested an alleged notorious gangster, identified as Ranjodh Singh alias Sunny Yama, a resident of Fairland colony on Fategarh Churian road here on late last night. It also confiscated four illegal weapons along with over 100 live cartridges of different calibre.As per information, Yama was wanted in many criminal cases registered at different police stations here. He was allegedly being sheltered by several political leaders.An official of SSOC preferring not to be named said Yama was nabbed following a tip-off. During a search, the police found a .30 bore pistol along with ammunition. Besides, two 9mm pistols were seized during the search of his car. His interrogation led to the seizure of another .32 bore pistol. A total of 109 bullets of different calibre were seized from him.Sources said the accused was planning some major incident in the holy city. The source of illegal weapons was yet to be ascertained. A case under Section 120 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act was registered at the SSOC police station here. He was brought on police remand for further interrogation.Three of a family booked for murder bidThe Maqboolpura police have booked three members of a family on the charge of murder bid after they shot at a property dealer who sustained a bullet injury on his leg.The victim has been identified as Amrik Singh, alias Bitta. The accused have been identified as Sukhraj Singh, his wife Balraj Kaur and son Swarn Singh, all residents of Mehoke village.The victim told the police that he worked as a property dealer and lived as a tenant. He said he and his family was advised home quarantine. At around 8 pm on Saturday, two unknown persons barged into their house and before he could understand they opened fire on him. A bullet hit him in the leg.His son rushed him to Guru Ram Dass Hospital where he is under treatment.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 452 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against the three.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notorious-gangster-sunny-yama-held-124394
10-08-2020||---||Civic body invites applications from street vendors for loan||Amritsar, August 9To revive the businesses of street vendors that have been badly affected by the Covid-19 lockdown, the Central Government has launched a special micro-credit facility that will provide Rs 10,000 to street vendors as initial working capital. The Municipal Corporation has asked the street vendors in the city to take the benefit of PM SVANiDHI (Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi) scheme.Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal jointly appealed to the vendors to get themselves registered to get a guaranteed free loan of up to Rs 10,000 under the scheme.The vendors who earn their livelihood on rehri and farrhi can visit the zonal offices of Amritsar, including Zone No.6 Company Bagh, Zone No.2 Lahori Gate, Zone No.1 Sultanwind Gate, Zone No. 8 Chheharta Chowk and Citizen Facilitation Centre at Ranjit Avenue to get the certificates. The zonal offices can also be contacted to get the certificate.The MC officials claimed that those who were vending till March 24 this year could avail of the benefits of the scheme, the duration of which is till March. The vendors can avail of a working capital loan of up to Rs 10,000, which is repayable in monthly instalments in one year. On timely or early repayment of the loan, an interest subsidy of 7 per cent per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-invites-applications-from-street-vendors-for-loan-124395
10-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Foot overbridges remain under-utilised as pedestrians prefer to cross busy roads||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 9Foot overbridges wereconstructed under the previous Punjab Government’s ambitious project of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS).From near Taran Wala Pul (Canal Bridge) to Chheharta bypass, there are around five such bridges, besides a foot overbridge outside the railway station, which were constructed to facilitate the pedestrians to cross the main GT Road without any hassle and risks.Nevertheless, people have developed the habit of crossing the roads even if it means risking their lives. This has left them redundant, which has now become a haven for addicts. There was a provision of constructing lifts for the convenience of commuters to make it user-friendly, but it has yet to see the light of the day.Pritpal Singh, a resident of Amar Kot area pointed out that the authorities have failed to install lifts and in the absence of proper infrastructure, it is an ardous task for people, especially elderly, to climb the stairs of bridge.The people rued that it turned out to be a sheer wastage of public funds as the foot over bridges have not been serving the intended purpose. As the drug addicts took over these overbridges, residents have turned wary of using them.The iron grills installed on the boundaries of the BRTS lane and on the road sides went missing from various areas within a few months of the launch of the project several years ago. Either these grills were uprooted by the shopkeepers for the ‘easy access’ to their shops or they were stolen by anti-social elements.“When we can easily cross the road on foot through the gaps in the grill, why would one go up and down stairs to reach the other side of the road,” said a resident.A vegetable vendor near a bridge said only a few people use foot-bridge.“Instead of spending so much money on construction of foot overbridge, the government could have gone for underpasses just like Delhi,” said Chander Mohan, a resident of Putlighar area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/foot-overbridges-remain-under-utilised-as-pedestrians-prefer-to-cross-busy-roads-124396
10-08-2020||---||Farmers demand rollback of agri ordinances, burn effigy of PM||Amritsar, August 9Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding that three recent ordinances presented by the Centre should be removed immediately.The farmers stated three ordinances; Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinances were against the interests of the farming community.The farmers blocked the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road and threatened that they would initiate a ‘jail bharo’ agitation soon if the government failed to act. Sarwan Singh Pandher, General Secretary Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee said, “Our demands include scrapping of the three ordinances, complete debt waiver for farmers as announced by Capt Amarinder Singh earlier and an impartial inquiry into the recent deaths due to hooch tragedy.”Pandher alleged that the illegal hooch nexus was being run by the Congress and SAD strongmen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-demand-rollback-of-agri-ordinances-burn-effigy-of-pm-124397
10-08-2020||---||Left parties flay ‘anti-people’ policies of Modi government||Amritsar, August 9On the anniversary of the ‘Quit India’ Movement, activists of the All India Kisan Sabha, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All-India Khet Mazdoor Union, all associated with the Left parties, today held a protest titled ‘Corporate Houses quit India’.Holding red flags, they gathered at the Company Bagh and raised slogans against the Union government and their leaders, flaying the ‘communal, ‘anti-employee’ and ‘pro-corporate houses’ approach.Led by their leaders, Darbara Singh Lopoke, Jeet Raj Bawa and Gurnam Singh Talwandi, they offered themselves for arrest. However, Police Station, Civil Lines, refused to arrest them and they handed over the memorandum of their demands to the Naib Tehsildar.In his address, Sucha Singh Ajnala, district secretary of CPI (M), said though the country was free, its ‘anti-people’ policies of the Union government forced people to lead a life of slavery and servitude in their own country. He said the trust of people in the constitutional bodies had been eroded and state-owned companies were being privatised.He stated that the Narendra Modi Government did not have any roadmap for development of the country. So, its leaders were following a communal agenda to incite communities living on edge. He guessed that this politics was being pursued to lead to the Civil War.He, however, added that awakened country men were aware of the agenda of the BJP Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/left-parties-flay-anti-people-policies-of-modi-government-124398
10-08-2020||---||Get building plans approved online now||Amritsar, August 9To increase transparency in approval of building plans and save time of the people, the government has launched online approval of building plans. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said building plan would be approved only through online portal to provide hassle-free services to residents. With this initiative, people would not have to wander in offices and middle men would be eliminated, she said.Komal Mittal said the Punjab Government was committed to providing maximum e-services to the general public under the e-service programme and to achieve the goal, e-portal was launched on August 15 in 2018. She said some technical shortcomings in the portal which surfaced earlier had been rectified and the portal was working smoothly.She said keeping in view the interest of the public, the Punjab Government had launched Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS) for approval of layout, land-use transfer, approval for telecommunication towers and approval for NOC of plots.The MC Commissioner said the services were available on https://enaksha.lgpunjab.gov.in/portal. The portal includes facilities such as computer verification of the CAD drawing files, online payment facility, sending of files, sharing online status with the applicants through e-mail and SMS and computer generated certificate with digital signature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/get-building-plans-approved-online-now-124402
10-08-2020||---||No fear of pandemic? Amritsar residents flout mask guidelines with impunity||Amritsar, August 9Residents can be seen flouting Covid-19 guidelines with impunity as can be seen from large number of residents and devotees moving openly about market places without masks.A visit to different markets of the city on Sunday revealed that hundreds of people were oblivious to the risk and were not careful about following the government guidelines.Residents complained that wearing a mask in hot, humid weather was uncomfortable. The government had earlier increased the fine for not wearing mask at public places to Rs500 from Rs200.However, it failed to motivate people to increase the use of masks at public places and instead led to criticism, as single occupants of four-wheelers were issued challans.“Most people wear mask due to the fear of challans. There has been a lack of public participation in the fight against the disease,” said a shopkeeper near Dharam Singh Market. The shopkeeper said: “We see hundreds of people roaming in the streets without masks every day. Some do not even care about social distancing norms and make others uncomfortable.”Even though the market places are not allowed to open on Sundays, except for shops selling essential items, a large number of people can be seen roaming around.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said: “Covid-19 cases are rapidly increasing in the district and it indicates that people are not following safety guidelines. The public should abide by the guidelines as medical research has established that wearing a mask helps in containing the spread of the disease.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-fear-of-pandemic-amritsar-residents-flout-mask-guidelines-with-impunity-124404
10-08-2020||Our Correspondent||No test, man cremated as per Covid protocols||Tarn Taran, August 9The cremation of a suspected Covid-19 patient performed in Patti here on Sunday is raising many eyebrows and officials of the Health Department are holding the patient’s family responsible for negligence.The victim has been identified as Sardool Singh (38), son of Piara Singh, who belonged to a Dalit family. He was admitted to the Civil Hospital, Patti, four days ago as he was suffering from fever. The doctors referred him to the local district-level Civil Hospital from where he was further referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, on Saturday evening as a suspected Covid-19 patient. During his four-day stay in the Patti and Tarn Taran Civil Hospitals he was not tested for the Covid-19 disease.Kuldeep Singh died on way to the Amritsar hospital on Saturday night. The body was handed over to the parents for cremation.The victim’s father Piara Singh said after the bath, they kept the body outside the house when suddenly a police party appeared on the spot and told them that the body should be cremated as per the Covid-19 protocols. The family members were given five PPE kits before cremating the body, but no other precautions were adopted. He said no official from the Heath Department and the civil administration was wearing PPE kits.Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar said the body was cremated following the Covid-19 protocols. He said the victim was suffering from several ailments for years. The victim’s family members took the body to home without informing the Health Department officials on Saturday night.He said as soon as Dr Beer Inder Kaur, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Patti, got to know of the incident this morning, she immediately instructed the police to ensure that the body was cremated as per the Covid-19 protocols. The CS said the family was responsible for all the lapses. She said all members of the family would be tested for the Covid-19 disease.Kuldeep Singh, a cousin of the victim who was accompanying the body at the time of leaving the hospital, said there were so many lapses committed on the part of officials of the Health Department. He said the body remained in the open throughout the night raising the risk of the spread of infection to other people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-test-man-cremated-as-per-covid-protocols-124405
10-08-2020||Open House||NEP holds hope, needs effective implementation||It’s limited to only study mattersThe success or failure of any policy/scheme in our country depends on the efforts made on the ground level. The National Education Policy is confined to matters relating to study only whereas other related issues are equally important. For example, buying school uniforms twice a year is a costly affair for a middle-class family. Instead of designer uniform, why not go for a regular plain colour uniform? The basic concept of the uniform is to avoid contrast between poor and rich students and bring smartness and discipline in them. Even in big cities, school uniforms are available at one or two particular shops at very exorbitant rates. Schools should be free to choose plain colour of their own choice. In this way, plain colour uniforms can be got stitched from any tailor, generating more business for them. Similarly, in the NEP, it should have been made mandatory for the students of Classes VI to VIII to go on school trip once a year to a place situated at a distance of 1,000 km from his/her native place. In this way, students would get to know of the lifestyles and culture of people living in other parts of the country. This will be a genuine attempt for national integration and unity. Friendship and relation developed at a young age would last for a long time. The NEP should have looked into such aspects also.Naresh JoharHope it fills all gaps in education systemThe Indian education system is basically related to the marking system, homework sheets, workbooks or assignments and rote learning. A lot of time is wasted in copying and doing these things which are useless and trash. Hence, these things are a great burden and even more for those who write slowly. As a result, children do not find time for other activities like sports and arts since parents force them to give top priority to studies. Even teachers are bound to teach the only things given in the syllabus. And so, teaching something in depth and properly takes time which backlogs the portion and creates a problem for the teachers themselves. Modern education system teaches only the concept of mugging up. It is a barrier to the country's progress. Students in India are expected to cram up the books, chapters and syllabus and write their answer accordingly. Activity-based learning is an excellent solution for schools to aid their traditional education methods with a modern and advanced learning approach that brings confidence, healthy competition, innovation and creativity amongst students. The best way to address this problem is to introduce life-changing skill training in the school-based curriculum. Giving them some options at the onset of teenage gives them the chance to explore & learn more things beyond their textbooks. There should be a job-oriented skill development at the 12th level in education system so that students earn money after that for their livelihood or for their higher studies like in developed countries. Hope the new education policy fills all these gaps.Amarjit KalsiThe new policy is a Step in the right directionThe National Education Policy 2020 is set to alter the course of the future education system in the country. A step taken in the right direction after a long gap of 34 years signalling ‘new normals’ with major shift from examination-centric to experimental learning and thinking as the key component of the curriculum of schools and colleges to follow in times to come. The options and flexibility to change subjects up to Class X will help explore the latent talent of the younger students. Use of local languages, the mother tongue as the medium of instruction in schools is another landmark initiative envisaged in the policy to promote the culture of innovation and mindset of explorations amongst students. Permitting foreign universities to set up centres for higher education will halt the brain drain from India.Anil Vinayakwill create job-creators rather than job seekersThe NEP 2020 is a welcome step in the right direction with its major focus on critical thinking, experiential learning, interactive classrooms, integrated pedagogy, competency based education and much more. And the PM says the policy will create job creators, not job seekers. Obviously it is supposed to help in transforming the education system of the country. The present education system lays stress on theoretical not on practical knowledge because of which it needs a drastic change. So, the NEP has abolished 10+2 system envisaging no separation of arts, science and commerce streams. In fact, the 10+2 system and separate streams were not there in the 60s and the early 70s. Hence nothing new about it. The only difference is that now it has been made 5+3+3+4 without clarity about board examinations. Earlier in the 1986/92 policy, schooling was compulsory for children aged between 6 and 14 and now it has been made mandatory for children aged between 3-18. The emphasis is also on the child’s mother tongue but children in government schools were already receiving education in their mother tongue up to Class V. Here it is silent whether the so-called English-medium private schools will follow the policy in letter and in spirit or not. And what about ministers and politicians who send their wards abroad to enable them to receive education in English? Now the policy lays no stress on memorisation and rote learning. The NEP observes that the introduction of systematic, well-planned and rigorously implemented programmes of vocational education is crucial in the proposed educational re- organisation and these would be introduced from Class VI and will include internship too. The countrymen are being impressed upon to become “atamnirbhir” (self-reliant) but the policy is opening doors to foreign universities to set up their shops here. The NEP 1986 had also sounded similar sentiments. The NEP 2020 has been presented as a Magna Carta of the education system for years to come.Tarsem S BumrahNew policy will change lives of school studentsWith emphasis on early childhood care and education, the 10+2 system of school curricula is to be replaced with the 5+3+3+4 system, corresponding to ages 3-8, 8-11, 11-14, and 14-18 years, respectively. The new system will have 12 years of schooling with three years of anganwadi/pre-schooling. Students will be given increased flexibility and choice of subjects so that they could choose their own goals according to their talents and interests. I believe with the NEP will change the life of students and they would prefer to study in India only. I appreciate the Indian government for the wonderful decision.Rohit Kumar SehdevWill reduce anxiety among studentsThe India education system is more inclined towards rote learning with no emphasis on analytical study. We follow the basic thumb rule for examination ‘long answers fetch high marks’. What we actually lack is a basic understanding of subjects. The National Education Policy 2020 is the modified version of the earlier policy of 1986. The proposed revamp of the education system has some promising points for students. The burden to score well has affected the mental health of pupils. The new pattern of board exams would lay emphasis on testing concepts and ability to apply knowledge. Students can also choose the level of exam between medium or advance. Students will be given two chances in a year to take the board exams. This will reduce the anxiety among students, improve their conceptual and critical thinking and make them job-ready professionals. Credit-based assessment in higher education is another big relief for students who dropped out from degrees due to unavoidable circumstances. As per the new policy, credit earned during the degree will remain valid and the course can be resumed anytime in future. The NEP 2020 has a basket of benefits for students and teachers, with a focus on personality development, analytical thinking and technology-driven learning. However, the benefits will accrue only after proper implementation of the proposed plan.Gulshakh KaurGive competitive edge to Indian job-seekersThe NEP is ambitious and futuristic but much of its success will depend on how it is executed. The new NEP will introduce an array of changes —scrap the 10+2 system for a 5+3+3+4 system in school education. The important issue is the language that should be used to impart education upto Class V. Let’s take an instance, a person lives in Kerala and his child has studied upto Class IV in Kerala. After, he shifts to Punjab where most schools would teach in Punjabi, the child might not be able to adjust. In my opinion, priority to English must be given because the language has a global language for communication worldwide. This will also give a competitive edge to job-seekers from India in relation to those from China and Southeast Asian countries in western countries such as Canada and the US.Saahil HansPolicy gives flexibility, future-readinessThe New National Education Policy (NEP) approved by the Union Cabinet is ambitious and futuristic but whether it transforms the education system will depend on how it is executed. The policy offers students a flexible academic journey where students have the option to pick and choose subjects according to their interests and are not restricted to set patterns. The replacement of 10+2 pattern with 5+3+3+4 pattern aims to include the uncovered age group of three to six years. The idea of imparting early education in the mother tongue is an enlightened one but it is the leading language that provides access to the larger world, whether it is professional jobs, higher education or research. The proposal may harm students who shift their schools from one state to another. The policy says the choice of streams can be made from Class VI, but the mechanism to make choices is missing. The policy will align the education system with the global education system, and the process will continue even in the higher education sector. A four-year instead of three-year undergraduate programme is on the charts with MPhil standing scrapped while PhD remaining accessible after a master’s degree. The NEP 2020 offers flexibility and future-readiness to students. The toughest criticism of the NEP is that it is quite idealistic. The gap between vision and application will need more than action plans and implementation strategy.Saanya AggarwalQUESTIONThe police and the Excise Department recently seized 2.5 lakh litres of lahan during raids conducted in Ludhiana villages. The Excise Department ‘destroyed’ the lahan by throwing it into the Sutlej thereby ‘endangering’ aquatic life. Shouldn’t the lahan, seized in large quantities, be disposed of in a scientific manner? What guidelines the government needs to come up with in order to ensure its proper disposal?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 13).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nep-holds-hope-needs-effective-implementation-124406
10-08-2020||---||Check stocks of neutral spirit in distilleries, govt tells cops||Amritsar, August 9After the team probing the illicit liquor tragedy found that extra neutral alcohol (ENA) was being pilfered from distilleries and supplied to bootleggers, the police have been directed to check neutral spirit stocks in each distillery.A magisterial probe was also ordered by the Punjab Government and investigators are looking into the role of the distilleries. The police have been asked to keep a check on dhabas on GT Road and link roads here, an official said. Investigations revealed that the ENA, meant for industrial purpose, was pilfered at dhabas in Rajpura and Zirakpur.While police teams had raided different dhabas at Rajpura and Zirakpur, the name of an eatery in Jandiala also cropped up during the investigation.Meanwhile, the rural police reportedly arrested Raju, the main supplier of spurious liquor. Yesterday, they nabbed Gurwinder and Lovepreet, involved in the manufacturing of spurious liquor. The duo followed the similar process used at Pandori Gola village that led to the tragedy claiming over 100 lives in three districts — Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala.The police are also conducting raids to arrest Bikka and nine others, who used to purchase illicit liquor from the duo. They booked Raju, Gurwinder and Lovepreet for attempt to murder and under relevant sections of the Excise Act.About 160-litre spurious alcohol in four cans of 40-litre each, two empty drums, two empty cans of 40-litre and seven small pouches of 2-litre each were seized from Gurwinder’s house, from where the two accused were apprehended.On testing, it was found that the liquor was spurious. Its key chemicals were 1-propanal, iso-butanol, acetal, ethyl lactate and ethyl hexanoate.Majithia seeks cbi probe into ‘nexus’Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Sunday visited the families of victims of the spurious liquor tragedy during a ‘bhog’ ceremony at Amritsar’s Mucchal village. He demanded an inquiry by a High Court judge or the CBI to unearth the “nexus” operating in Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/check-stocks-of-neutral-spirit-in-distilleries-govt-tells-cops-124364
