10-05-2020||---||Revenue Patwar Union members donate blood||Amritsar, May 9A blood donation camp was organised to observe World Thalassaemia Day at Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital here. On the occasion, members of the Revenue Patwar Union donated blood in view of the shortage of blood these days.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, who was also present, said blood collection had affected as blood donation camps, which were a regular feature by different societies, could be not organised recently.The DC said he himself was a blood donor and had donated blood 37 times so far. “It is the most precious gift you can make to society and to your fellow human beings. People should come forward to donate blood so that lives could be saved,” he said.District Revenue Officer Mukesh Sharma said that members of the patwar union had donated 25 units of blood during the camp. He said more donation camps would be organised soon. Patwaris had earlier cremated a local resident, Jaswinder Singh, who died of Covid-19, as his family had refused to accept his body after his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revenue-patwar-union-members-donate-blood-82888
10-05-2020||---||Amritsar sees no fresh case, 189 test reports awaited||Amritsar, May 9After a gap of 10 days, the district reported no new Covid-19 positive case on Saturday. The total count remains 287.The administration on Saturday received reports of 27 samples from a private diagnostic lab and all reports were negative. In the past 10 days, the number of Covid-19 patients in the district has increased to 287 from merely 14.Meanwhile, Sahil, a lab technician at Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at Government Medical College here, who earlier tested positive, was discharged after complete recovery. He was deployed at the lab where the samples of Covid-19 patients were tested. He reportedly got infected during the testing of samples.With Sahil’s discharge from hospital, the district has so far seen nine recoveries. A health official said: “We had yesterday sent 189 samples for testing to VRDL lab at GMC. The reports of all samples are expected tomorrow.” The health authorities are expecting a slowdown in the number of positive cases. “We had yesterday received 219 reports negative. With a large number of samples testing negative, we hope the spread of the disease has been contained for now,” an official said.Rumour-mongering creates trust deficitThe rumour-mongering on social media platforms especially in relation to returnees from Nanded who have tested positive in large numbers has created a trust deficit in the population, especially rural residents. While messages questioning the authenticity of test reports and integrity of government are already being circulated, a new message claiming that the state government would get Rs3 lakh from the Centre for each patient who tests positive has baffled rural residents. “The message makes people believe that the government is just trying to increase the number of positive cases and it is the reason why many people who test positive, but are asymptomatic, claim they are completely fit and not infected,” said a health official, adding that such fake messages create trouble as people become skeptical of government efforts. Initially, when Nanded returnees had started testing positive, many of the messages creating suspicion started circulating.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-sees-no-fresh-case-189-test-reports-awaited-82889
10-05-2020||Amritsar||2 drug-peddlers arrested with illegal weapon||The rural police nabbed two alleged drug-peddlers and confiscated a country-made pistol from them on Friday. During a preliminary interrogation, the police recovered alleged drug money of Rs1.25 lakh. Harpal Singh, SHO, Lopoke police station, said the accused, identified as Gurjant Singh and Akashdeep Singh, both of Baba Bakala, were arrested following a tip-off. They were going from Khasa to the Ram Tirath side when they were intercepted. During search, the police recovered a .315 bore pistol from Gurjant Singh and a toy pistol from Akashdeep. Investigation carried out so far revealed that they were involved in drug peddling. The police recovered Rs1.25 lakh from them. Though they belonged to a normal family, the possession of huge amount of money made the police suspicious of them.  The amount was part of the drug money. Owing to the lockdown, they were not able to sell drugs to consumers and therefore they had gone to villages near the Indo-pak border to find some peddlers to deliver the drug consignment, SHO Harpal Singh said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-drug-peddlers-arrested-with-illegal-weapon-82890
10-05-2020|| 
||NGO refills gas cylinders of needy||Amritsar, May 9  A local NGO refilled 30 LPG cylinders of needy persons, who were unable to pay for LPG due to job loss. The Jai Ho Club led by Vicky Dutta found that residents of Dhobian Wali Gali near Shakti Nagar were unable to cook food due to non-availability of gas. So he arranged the refill of 30 gas cylinders.  Dutta said, “For the last 50 days, our club is sanitising slums and distributing ration to needy persons. Almost 35 households of washermen community were sitting idle due to job loss. We are providing them ration, but they were unable to cook it. The daily wagers were not having enough money to refill their LPG cylinders”.  Keeping this in view, the club discussed it with Binny Kanaujia and Manish Bhardwaj, who were keen to serve the people in this tough time. On the appeal of Jai Ho Club, they funded refill of 30 gas cylinders.  Vicky Dutta said, “The washermen used to wash and iron the clothes. Now they don’t have work. The money which they save has been finished. More residents would come forward and share their LPG cylinder with needy persons. So they keep cooking at their home.”  Vini Kanaujia, Manish Bhardwaj, Harsh Gusai, Tarun Arora, Deepak Palla, Subhash Dutta and Gopal Arora were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-refills-gas-cylinders-of-needy-82891
10-05-2020||
||Despite ban, burning of crop residue begins||Amritsar, May 9 Even as the district administration has warned the farmers of penal action for burning crop residue in wheat fields, the sporadic instances of violation has started coming to light. At present the farmers are resorting to controlled fires in late evening hours to avoid detection by the government agencies.  A visit to rural areas revealed farmers have started burning crop residue. “Farmers are currently burning the crop residue on those fields only which they require for planting paddy nursery or vegetables”, a farmer said. He said fields were immediately ploughed after burning and irrigated so that by next morning ashes cannot be seen.  District Agriculture Officer Harinderjit Singh said they were regularly making announcements in rural areas to motivate farmers to not to burn crop residue. “For direct seeding of rice the fields even do not require to be ploughed and farmers can sow paddy while the wheat stubble is still standing,” he said. He said burning reduced soil health besides creating pollution and it was a punishable offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-ban-burning-of-crop-residue-begins-82892
10-05-2020||---||Storytelling on a virtual stage||Amritsar, May 9As lockdown has forced art and creative discourse to move to virtual platforms during Covid-19 pandemic, theatre plays too have found a way to get audience, virtually. City- based theatre artiste Gurinder Makna presented a live digital performance on Punjabi story Ram Gau written by Harpreet Sekhan and directed by Kewal Dhaliwal. The story was picked up from one of the anthology Gaddi Chadan Di Kaal Barhi Si that was adapted to stage by Dhaliwal in 2004.The story was narrated and enacted by Gurinder Makna, who live streamed the performance on Kahani Depot, an online platform started by Akbar Rizvi in 2017. “Kahani Depot is dedicated to reaching out audience across the country and it has a formidable network of artistes including music, theatre and other art folk forms. My performance was planned as the Covid 19 lockdown and its impact on theater artistes and fraternity will be long lasting. So, like all other creative forms, theatre too will have to innovate and improvise, establish its base through such streaming channels to find audience,” said Makna.The 33 minute storytelling by Makna was consistent and based on a story that highlighted the core issue of migration and its after effects felt by the immediate family members of the one leaving for foreign shores. “The story is about a village headmaster, who has always been revered as a voice of great weight and respected in his village. After retirement, he is called by his family to stay with them in Canada. Once there, the initial excitement of being in a foreign land for the first time in his life soon is overcome by the longing and yearning to come back to his homeland, as he faces apathy, indifference. The story is about how we think that life in other countries is better than our own, while only realising it later that it comes with loneliness,” said Makna. He had got help from his wife, who played stage manager while he gave the online performance. It was also a first live virtual performance by any artiste from the city.Makna said if theatre has to survive in a post lockdown scenario, then online portal such as these will have to become the new stage for artistes.Story highlights issue of migration||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/storytelling-on-a-virtual-stage-82893
10-05-2020||Amritsar||BJYM protests plan to home-deliver liquor||Criticising the state government’s decision on home delivery of liquor, leaders of the local unit of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) on Saturday distributed milk and curd among residents.“The state government has failed to distribute ration sent by the Centre. The CM is isn’t aware that cases of domestic violence are on the rise. Gujarat has prohibited the sale of liquor but has had no effect on its economy,” said Gautam Arora, the president of BJYM’s local unit. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjym-protests-plan-to-home-deliver-liquor-82894
10-05-2020||---||Brave doctor honoured||Amritsar, May 9In recognition of her unparalleled bravery, Dr Anupama Gupta was presented an award and salutation by Member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla on behalf of the FICCI Ladies Organisation (FLO). Dr Gupta had lost both her legs while saving victims of a highway pile up in December last year.She has also been given lifetime honorary membership of the FLO as an appreciation for her act of inimitable bravery.“Dr Anupama Gupta has set an example of altruism and compassion with her indomitable courage. Before I hand over the baton of the FLO’s Amritsar chapter to the new chairperson, I wanted to welcome Dr Gupta to our organisation,” said Aarushi Verma, the outgoing chairperson of the FL, Amritsar chapter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brave-doctor-honoured-82896
10-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||For this principal, life has become more hectic these days||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 9For Upma Mahajan, principal of SD Arya School, Dinanagar, the coronavirus is akin to sighting an elephant in the room. She said people know there is a problem, but they do not want to discuss it out of trepidation and anxiety.Life has become more hectic as ever for the school principal.“People who always felt sadness for not living in the extraordinary times of history are now upset that they got an opportunity to experience one of the extraordinary days of history. When the scary face of the truth appears, romantic thoughts disappear. Remember, ordinary days are the best days,” she said.Before the lockdown, she used to work from 8 am to 2 pm in her school with students and teachers.Now, she stays indoors throughout the day, but remains busy 24 into 7. For her, it seems to be a paradox.“Taking online classes is one of the most difficult things to do. We use the Zoom app and CBSE portals like Diksha and Swayam for teaching. Earlier, I rarely cared what my students did in the evenings. Now, I have to tell them to do aerobics and yoga, fearing impressionable minds do not go astray sitting idle at home. Later, I also get in touch with parents to get their feedback,” she added.On being asked about the message for her teachers, she said, “We will come out of this storm. And for sure, we will overcome this moment of despair. How long this will last cannot be ascertained. But the one thing that we can be sure of is that we will not be the same anymore. Hopefully, we would have changed for the better. This is the way of life. And this is the way how life teaches us its lessons.”For her, 24 hours get over in a blink while earlier she had enough time for her family. “This is the biggest regret I am living with. But then it is better to look ahead and prepare rather than to look back and regret,” she added.The principal is a firm believer in destiny. “You must remember from the moment we are born. It is our destiny to leave the planet at a time chosen by Mother Nature,” she said.In between the conversation, her phone rings and there is a panicky student on the other side seeking an advice on how to deal with the situation. What followed was a 10-minute extempore on the advantages of social distancing.“Often when you think you are the end of something, you are actually at the beginning of something else,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-this-principal-life-has-become-more-hectic-these-days-82897
10-05-2020||Amritsar||Man robbed of scooter, cash||Thieves strike at goldsmith shopTarn Taran: Thieves stole Rs56,500, 10 gm of gold and an LED screen from a goldsmith shop at Balehar village near Bhikhiwind, 40 km from here, on Friday night. A case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered by the police. In his complaint to the police, Karanbir Singh, the owner of the shop, stated that the thieves made a hole into the roof of the shop and took away the valuables worth over Rs1 lakh. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-scooter-cash-82898
10-05-2020|| ||5 booked for sexual assault||Amritsar, May 9A teenage girl was allegedly molested and her brother was thrashed following a land dispute in Panju Kalal village. Though the incident occurred on April 24, a complaint was lodged with the police on Friday after attempts to reach on compromise failed. The 17-year-old victim stated to the police their parents live separately. Her father Gurdeep Singh was lodged in jail. She said on April 24, she along with her brother came to house. The village panchayat opened the doors of the house for them. She alleged the accused with whom they had a land dispute barged into our house and thrashed them. They tore her clothes in the attack. Among those booked were identified as Puran Singh, Dilbagh Singh, Gurjot Singh, Sukhdev Singh and Karandeep Singh. They were booked under Sections 354, 354-B, 452, 232 and 324 of the IPC by the Bhindisaida police. The police said raids were on to nab the suspects who were on the run since the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-booked-for-sexual-assault-82899
10-05-2020||Barindermeet Singh||‘Combined efforts needed to combat the crisis’||Unprecedented times require unprecedented efforts. Nobody was prepared for a disruption of this scale and magnitude. It will require a combined effort from all stakeholders to combat the crisis. Nobody would have ever thought a mutant flu virus could turn our world topsy-turvy.When lockdown-1 was announced, the first thing I did was to spray disinfectants across the length and breadth of the city through my workers. I myself took part in the exercise.Since Day 1, I have not left the constituency and will not abandon it till things stabilise.A whopping 20,000 ration kits were distributed through the Kartar Singh Pahra charitable trust, named after my grandfather.Unlike other leaders who are out to take political mileage from the pandemic, which is indeed a shameful act, I made certain the kits were distributed among all strata of society, particularly the downtrodden.Right now, as I see things, the world is unstable and feeble with insecurity. Under these trying circumstances, we must be its strength offering our soul as stability.I got in touch with health officials and converted the old Civil Hospital, located in the heart of the city, to one big isolation ward.Sanitary napkins, too, were distributed by me in the slum areas.I tried reaching out to people who could not reach out to me, courtesy the curfew.The virus is rewriting our imaginations. What felt impossible has become thinkable. We are getting a different sense of our place in history. We know we are entering a new world, a new era.This is the time for all of us, irrespective of our political affiliations, to rise in unison to fight the disease.I know humanity is passing through its darkest hour. But I also see a dawn. And remember that the darkest hours are just before the dawn.(As told to Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/combined-efforts-needed-to-combat-the-crisis-82900
10-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Centre must give embroidery units relaxation in repayment of loans’||Johny Dhawan, owner of Shri Bala Ji Trading company, has a vast experience in the embroidery and yarn business. In an interview with Charanjit Singh Teja, Dhawan, who is also the president of the Amritsar Embroidery Thread Association, discusses the impact of the lockdown on the embroidery and yarn industry. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted the embroidery industry?The industry suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 225 major embroidery units in the city. The cycle has been disrupted due to the curfew. The industry has around 1,800-crore annual turnover. We buy clothes from Gujarat, including Surat, and carry out the embroidery work here. After design and embellishment of clothes, we further sell these in the local market and neighbouring states. We export shawls. We are paying the power bills, bank loans, installments of machines and salaries of workers when the manufacturing work has come to a halt.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?It depends on the government that when it will allow us to start manufacturing. The embroidery industry was already suffering as a huge investment is required for establishing a unit. Costly machines were bought after getting loans from banks. The long shutdown will ruin the industry. Sophisticated embroidery machines will need costly service when we restart them after a long break. The embroidery industry can't afford more delay in reopening. The opening of the industry will not help much. We need a market to sell the product. If shops will open, we will get our payments of the previous orders.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?Almost 90 per cent of the embroidery workers work on contact. We have 10 per cent staff who get salaries that include accountants, dispatchers and office boys. We have paid the salaries of March. We have also paid half of the salary of April and provided them ration. We will take care of our workers as most of them are with us from years, but the government should also support them. Contractual workers are sitting idle. We are worried about them. Now they started returning to their native states. It will add to the woes as after reopening of units, we will not get labour.What is the role of online trading in your business?The online trade does not exceed more than five per cent in the profession. Being a designer item, dealers want to minutely look at the suits and shawl before purchasing them. There are a lot of shades of thread and designs so it is even not possible to exhibit everything online.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a major challenge as the lockdown will break the backbone of the embroidery industry. We are bearing all expenses. We supply our product without taking money. It is being collected after one month. So we will not be paid for the already supplied product. We have to pay in advance for the yarn as soon we start the work. So we are in a deep crisis.What are your expectations from the government?The Centre should ask banks to provide relaxation in loan repayment and installments. Otherwise, we will go bankrupt. We also need working capital for six months. The government should release some funds without interest. We are paying heavy taxes. The government should help those industrialists who have a good record of paying taxes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-must-give-embroidery-units-relaxation-in-repayment-of-loans-82901
10-05-2020||---||Out on streets, NGO volunteers feed 500 stray dogs a day||Amritsar, May 9A group of volunteers have diverted all their attention towards the strays during the lockdown. The strays in the city are being looked after by the volunteers of Voice of Animals, an NGO. They have been feeding over 500 stray dogs every day.Nidhi Adlakha, president, Voice of Animals, said, “There is no relief or any other help for the strays, including dogs, cattle and other animals. They have been left abandoned during the lockdown. Volunteers in every area of the city ensure that these strays do not have to go hungry.”Till date, the NGO has received support from 100 volunteers in the city, who are feeding and looking after the strays.“We had to struggle to find support early during the lockdown as feeding all strays in the city was not possible overnight or it is not a single person’s job. By now, we have 100 such volunteers who every day take rounds in their respective areas to feed the strays. They provide them rice, biscuits, pedigree and water. There is risk as we have to sanitise the strays first. We had a task to create awareness among pet owners not to abandon their pets after there were rumours that Covid-19 can be caused by pets, which was not true,” said Nidhi.The NGO has been working without any government help or financial support, bearing expenses on its own.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/out-on-streets-ngo-volunteers-feed-500-stray-dogs-a-day-82902
