10-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||An important passage here has a whole lot of holes||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9The four-lane stretch between Verka Bypass Chowk to the Golden Gate, situated on the Amritsar-Jalandhar road, has worn out. With countless potholes and cracks appearing on the surface, it can hardly be termed as a road.Being a shortcut to the Attari-Wagah joint check post and connecting with Mehta, Majitha, Batala, Fatehgarh Churiyan and Ramtirath bypass, a large number of heavy vehicles frequent this nearly 2-km stretch which has further hastened its disintegration.Apparently, it offers a tough time to motorists damaging their vehicles and leading to potential mishaps. “It has caused swift wear and tear to vehicles,” confirms Raminderjit Singh, a resident of Anmol Avenue.The stretch is part of the ambitious four-lane project which connected the centuries old GT road with the Attari-Wagah JCP. As per its objective, the four-lane stretch provides a shorter transit route to cargo ferrying trucks and tourists. It is obvious saves them from the city’s bottlenecks.GS Bedi, a resident of Ranjit Avenue, said the stretch is a part of the wider road under two toll plazas from Nijjarpura to Khasa village. A vehicle owner has to shell out Rs40 to and fro. “Had the concerned agency repaired the condition timely it would have increased the longevity of the stretch. Now, it will have to re-carpet the entire course,” he adds.Jaspreet Singh, who is a regular taker, said a large number of residential colonies have also sprung up on this stretch, making it a harrowing experience for all. “The four-lane road offered trouble-free mobility to the residents. However, its deplorable condition and too long a period to repair belie the tall claims of the authorities,” Singh explains.Sunil Yadav, Project Director of the NHAI here, said renewal of bitumen concrete of the stretch was due and would soon be taken up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-important-passage-here-has-a-whole-lot-of-holes-168634
10-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Festive season turns bitter for sweet makers in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 9Once known as leading processors of traditional sweets and offerings for gurdwaras and temples, shopkeepers of Mishri bazaar have turned traders.Hari Om, one of them, said, Rajasthan had overtook the city’s manufacturers. They were preparing these items on boilers and availability of cheap labour and land bringing down their investment cost. “Most of the traders of Mishri bazaar do not move out of the walled city to set up modern units. Now, the entire scenario has changed and we cannot compete with them,” he added.The change, in all its likelihood, has swelled as a result of the pandemic-induced uncertainty and advanced orders for buying traditional sweetmeats like sugar and jaggery made “phulliyan (puffed rice), batase, khand khidone (edible sugar toys)” have halved this season ahead of Diwali in comparison to the last year. Thus, making them reconsider their business.Bobby Singh, a processor of traditional sweetmeats, said retailers were buying in small quantities lest they should not risk their investment during these uncertain times. He stated that the post-lockdown traders were treading cautiously. “So, I prepared only half of the quantity of these traditional items that we used to prepare a year ago,” he revealed.Over 40 years ago entire markets of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir were controlled by the local market. Not anymore. Hari Om chimes in: “The demand for “khand khidone” (edible sugar toys), an inevitable part of the Puja during the night of Diwali, has taken a big hit. Most of the people do not buy more than a piece.”Similarly, other traditional items used to serve as snacks during winter had lost the market to FMCG products which are available in Rs5 and Rs10 packets. “So, only a couple of shops are engaged in preparing the ancient sweets,” he added. The age- old market situated in the proximity of the Golden Temple, now prepare mishri and meethe channe for gurdwaras apart from phulia, makhane, pickles, jam and murabbas.Sumeet Kapoor, a resident of Basant Avenue, said the auspicious occasion used to offer them an opportunity to revisit the past and experience a feel of it. “Now, it is all disappearing,” he rued.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/festive-season-turns-bitter-for-sweet-makers-in-amritsar-168635
10-11-2020||---||Farmers call to observe black Diwali against ‘draconian’ laws||Amritsar, November 9With ‘rail roko’ agitation entering the 47th day, farmers gave a clarion call to observe ‘Black Diwali’ against the newly enacted three farm laws by the Centre.Under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, farmers had shifted from rail tracks to open grounds to facilitate the movement of freight trains.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said, “For the last one week, rail tracks have been vacated, keeping in view the interest of traders and general public. The Centre is defaming farmers and making frivolous excuses by not resuming services of goods trains. We appeal residents to observe ‘Black Diwali’ as the draconian farm laws will make life of farmers miserable.”Pandher said on November 14, people should cooperate with the farming community. “Our representatives will go to bus stands and fix black flags on buses. We will ask shopkeepers to hoist black flags atop their shops. We will appeal the general public to fix black flags on their vehicles,” he said.Punjabi singer Harf Cheema visited protesting farmers at Manawala toll plaza on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road and those observing dharna outside the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party MP Shwait Malik.Showing solidarity with farmers’ stir, Cheema said it’s a do or die situation for the farming community. “Agrarian crisis should be dealt in a proper manner and there is no looking back now. Like Malwa, youths of Majha, too, should hit the streets to support farmers,” he said.Farmers demanded that to ease tension, the Centre must run goods trains at the earliest. When asked about the Centre’s call for holding talks, Harjit Singh Jhita, a farmer, said, “The Centre has agreed to hold talks, but after Diwali. This implies that the Central government intends to prolong the economic blockade of Punjab at a time when festive season is on.”Under debt, farmer commits suicide in Manochahal KalanTarn Taran: Sukhwinder Singh (53), a resident of Manochahal Kalan village, who was under debt, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance during the wee hours on Monday. He was rushed to a hospital in a serious condition where he breathed his last. Satnam Singh Manochahal, a farmer leader, said the deceased farmer had a limit of Rs 7 lakh from Punjab and Sindh Bank. He said the deceased had repaid Rs 50,000 last year, but the bank sent him a balance sheet of Rs 9 lakh this year. Sukhwinder also owed Rs 2 lakh to his commission agent. He was worried about marriage of his daughter and yield of the 1509 variety of paddy failed to give the desired result. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-call-to-observe-black-diwali-against-draconian-laws-168636
10-11-2020||---||Covid aftermath: Hygiene habits will go a long way||Amritsar, November 9As normalcy is returning gradually after seven months of the Covid-19 outbreak, hygiene habits developed and practised by people to battle the pandemic would go a long way. As it’s a festive season and rush was expected in markets, residents said they were not taking any chances and following the health guidelines issued by the government.Five deaths, 13 new +ve cases in Amritsar districtThe district also reported 13 new positive cases with swelling the total infections count to 12,098. The new cases include 11 influenza-like illness cases and two contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 29 patients, the count has reached 11,345. At present, the city has a total of 284 active cases.Satnam Singh, a college student, said, “Whenever I go out, I keep reminding myself that I will not touch any railing or door knob unnecessarily.” He said earlier, these contact points never bothered him, but the Covid-19 has changed the entire scenario.Residents said wearing masks, washing/sanitising hands regularly and not going into crowd places would become a part of their lives.Locals said though the government had given relaxations, and allowed hotels, cinemas and shopping complexes to operate, but they were still apprehensive of stepping out.Parveen Arora, who works at a multi-national company, said, “I do go out for work, but I make an excuse if my friends or relatives call me for a get together. One must refrain from such activities.”Even the tendency to dine out, especially with small children has seen a decline due to the contagion. Though restaurants stay open till late night, but rush, which used to be visible outside popular food joints was no more visible.Jyotika Sood, a student, said, “The last six months has been a kind of training in which we have learnt about how to tackle the Covid-19. After the pandemic is tackled, this preparation will come handy to fight other types of diseases.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-aftermath-hygiene-habits-will-go-a-long-way-168637
10-11-2020||---||Accomplices of dismissed SI still at large||Amritsar, November 9Even after the arrest of dismissed Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur in double suicide case, her accomplices are still out of reach of the police. She was brought on the police remand by the Mohkampura police and later she was sent to the judicial custody. Two separate cases of abetment to suicide were registered against her in Mohkampura police station and Jandiala police station.Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller and resident of Navapind village located on Mehta road here was found hanging in a hotel room on Batala road on October 10, while his wife Sukhbir Kaur, also ended her life in the village in the same night.It took the intervention of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for arresting Sandeep Kaur, who was arrested even after elapsing of around two weeks of the incident.Though the rural police have booked several persons for sheltering her, she was arrested from a residential complex in Sri Hargobindpur in Gurdaspur on October 21.She was booked on the basis of suicide note recovered from the hotel room where Vikramjit ended his life. He also made video and audio messages blaming the Sub-Inspector for his death. He had accused her of extorting huge amount of money after blackmailing and harassing her. He had alleged that she was being sheltered by a ruling party MLA.The rural police had also booked a police constable Gagandeep Singh, alias Gurbir Singh, attached with CRC branch of the city police, besides Sandeep’s two relatives, Kulwinder Singh and Sukhjit Singh, for sheltering her while absconding from her service.Gagandeep was absent from his service ever the registration of case against him, following which he was placed under suspension.The city police had also nominated Navneet Sandhu and Deep Sandhu, both reportedly cops, who had extorted money on different occasions from him. Deep Sandhu used to identify himself as a DSP-rank official to the victim.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said raids were on to nab her accomplices who were still evading arrest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/accomplices-of-dismissed-si-still-at-large-168638
10-11-2020||---||No festivities for them: Plunged demand leaves woollen exporters on the edge||Amritsar, November 9While businesses continue their road to recovery, the outset of second wave of pandemic overseas, now fraught with terror risk as well, has grabbed the export market of woollen items by the nape here as the demand plunged drastically.Gautam Jain, an exporter, said: “Export of products like shawls, stoles, muffler and scarf plummeted drastically. As an impact, manufacturing was also brought down.” He added that the second lockdown prompted the European buyers to stop the payment of already procured material which was a back-to-back blow to the exporters here.The biggest blow came from the markets of Germany, France and the UK. Europe-based multi-national companies with scores of stores across the continent also stopped buying woollen items. Similarly, importers from Nepal and Bangladesh also did not place orders as the flow of tourists remained nil due to border closures. Meanwhile, rice exporters are crying over non-operation of freight trains causing glitches in export. Piara Lal Seth, president of Shawl Club of India (SCI), said the country export about Rs1000 crore of shawls, muffler, scarf and stoles. Of these, the share of the city stands at Rs450 crore.The border district is exporting over Rs2200 crore merchandise, including basmati rice, shawls, chess, pharmaceuticals and textiles. Among the goods being procured, basmati rice has the lion’s share. Sources in the Foreign Trade office shared on anonymity that basmati rice worth Rs1500 crore is exported every year. Arab countries are the major consumers of the local basmati, well-known for its pleasant-to-senses aroma.Chess and plant extracts for medicine are marketed abroad, especially to the developed and European countries. The trade has managed to survive somehow. Surjit Singh Ahuja, a chess exporter, said, “There was no impact on sale of chess to Europe as it falls under the amusement category. Since people remained at home during the lockdown, they are more inclined towards things like chess. However, the air freight rates have doubled after the lifting of the lockdown.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-festivities-for-them-plunged-demand-leaves-woollen-exporters-on-the-edge-168639
10-11-2020||
||Bar elections: Oppn cries foul, demands poll records||Amritsar, November 9 A faction of lawyers led by PK Saini has challenged the recent elections to the Amritsar Bar Association (ABA) in which Vipan Kumar Dhand was declared president of the association. The elections to various posts of the ABA were held on November 6.  Saini, who had lost to Dhand, in a written submission to the Returning Officer (RO), has demanded signed copies of the votes polled at different booths along with the copies of videography.  The written submission made by the Saini group has alleged that bogus votes were polled during the elections. It says that out of the total around 1,800 members, 1,500 votes were polled, which is a huge turnout.  The Saini group has alleged that identity cards of the members were not checked either at the entry to the polling booths or during the issuance of ballot papers. Even ink marks were not applied on the fingers of voters at the time of polling, he alleged. Saini said they have asked for signed copies of the polling records for scrutiny. He said there were sufficient reasons to believe that voters were impersonated.  He said the elections could be held null and void in case of any discrepancy. He added that they have requested the Returning Officer not to destroy any record or part of it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bar-elections-oppn-cries-foul-demands-poll-records-168640
10-11-2020||Our Correspondent||SAD prez slams CM over rise of outlaws||Tarn Taran, November 9SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal while attacking the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government said that there was ‘jungle raj’ in the state, where gangsters rule the roost and no one was safe.Sukhbir was here today to express his grief with the family of veteran Akali leader Major Singh Uboke, former Cabinet minister, who expired on November 3 at the age of 93 years at his residence here. Badal while talking to newsmen called Uboke, the most respected leader in the state and assured the family of all help in case of need.He said that the state had gone headless as the Chief Minister never come to the people to redress their grievances. He said that the promises made with the people at the time of the elections had not been fulfilled, there were regular incidents of killings, lootings, snatchings, thefts and other crimes. He added that there was mafia in the wine, cable, contract working, transport and everywhere and it was this that common people were left at the mercy of the criminals who were having their close relations with the ruling leaders. He claimed that the SAD had its bright future in the state as it was the only oldest political party with high traditions.Bikarm Singh Majahia and other leaders of the area were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-prez-slams-cm-over-rise-of-outlaws-168641
10-11-2020||
||Tennis finals held, Soni awards prizes; announces Rs 2 lakh grant for association||Amritsar, November 9  The final match of lawn tennis competition was held at Punjab State Lawn Tennis Association, Company Bagh,  here on Sunday. Chief guest Om Prakash Soni, Medical Education and Research Minister, distributed prizes to the winners. Soni said it was a matter of great pride that the final matches of state-level competition were played at Amritsar. He said before the Partition there were lawn tennis associations in Lahore which later came to Amritsar and became Punjab State Lawn Tennis Association. He said many players from the association had also played at the national level. Congratulating the winners, Soni said the youth should focus on sports.  Soni also announced a grant of Rs 2 lakh to the association. He said face of the Company Garden would be changed and colourful flowers would be planted around the 84-acre park. He said the city was undergoing rapid development and the face of the city would be changed in the next few months. Speaking on the occasion Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said during the lockdown period the ongoing development works at Company Bagh had come to a standstill, which has now been resumed. The mayor said that all parks in the city were being renovated under the Smart City mission. Rintu congratulated the Punjab State Lawn Tennis Association and said that it was a great initiative to hold the final tournament in Amritsar. He announced to construct a sports park at the historic garden.  Charanjit Singh Chadha, secretary of the association; Sarabjit Singh Raju, president; Harpinder Singh Gill, senior vice-president, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tennis-finals-held-soni-awards-prizes-announces-rs-2-lakh-grant-for-association-168642
10-11-2020||---||12,000 firecrackers seized, Rajasansi resident booked||Amritsar, November 9The police have seized around 12,000 crackers from possession of a person.The accused has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, alias Bedi, of Rajasansi.According to the police, the accused had stored firecrackers without requisite permission or documents. Assistant Sub-Inspector Darshan Singh said patrolling team in Rajasansi area got a tip-off that the accused was selling crackers illegally.He said the raid was conducted following which as many as 12,310 crackers were found from his store. A case under Sections 188 and 336 of the IPC and Section 9-B of the Explosive Act has been registered against him.In another incident, Punjab Singh of Majitha was held with 55 boxes of crackers, which he had stashed in his shop. The police have registered a case against him. The accused was later released on bail. The Gate Hakima police have booked Khazan Singh of Anngarh area. The police have seized around 200 crackers from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-000-firecrackers-seized-rajasansi-resident-booked-168643
10-11-2020||---||Cops carry out flag march ahead of Diwali||Amritsar, November 9 In the wake of Diwali, the police have tightened security in rural areas. Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruv Dahiya carried out a flag march in Jandiala Guru on Monday.Commencing from Jandiala Guru police station, the flag march covered around 9-km stretch and passed through various markets.The police said the SHOs were directed to strengthen security in their areas in order to prevent any law and order situation during festive season. They said checkpoints would be installed at all sensitive points in rural areas.They said highway patrolling parties, PCR teams and rural rapid response team has been deputed.The police said ambulances and firefighters had been asked to remain alert as fire incidents increase during Diwali. The police have been asked to keep an eye on anti-social elements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-carry-out-flag-march-ahead-of-diwali-168644
10-11-2020||---||Cop injured in clash||Amritsar, November 9A constable was injured when he along with an Assistant Sub-Inspector tried to pacify two groups who were quarrelling in Gumtala area on Sunday.The injured cop has identified as constable Navjot Singh.Assistant Sub-Inspector Parmakjit Singh, In-charge, Gumtala police chowki, said they received information that some people were fighting at Gumtala village near Shashi karyana store.He said he and his men reached the spot and found Fakir Chand, Ninder Masih, Vicky, Roma, Robin and three unknown persons attacking each other with bricks and sticks.He said Navjot tried to stop and pacify them. However, they attacked the police team and Navjot got injured.The police have booked all the accused for assaulting and obstructing public servant from discharging his duty.The police said Fakir and Ninder were nabbed from the spot while others managed to escape from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-injured-in-clash-168647
10-11-2020||Amritsar||F&CC gives nod to Rs 57-cr works||Camp on crop residue mgmtTarn Taran: Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, organised a block-level agriculture camp on crop residue management under project on ‘Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation and Machinery for ‘In-situ Management of Crop Residue’ at Bhuchar Kalan on Monday. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Associate Director, KVK, in his address advised the farmers not to burn paddy straw as it would cause bad effect on environment. Dr Kumar stressed that weed problem was minimised in Happy seeder sown wheat crop. He also explained about various implements like Happy seeder, MB plough and mulcher which could be used to manage paddy straw properly. He said that paddy straw could be treated with urea for better utilisation in livestock feeding. Dr Anil Kumar, agriculture specialist, stressed that many micro-nutrients and organic matter get lost by paddy straw burning. OCGobindgarh Fort opens todayAmritsar: Gobindgarh fort will be thrown open to public on November 10 (Tuesday) after a gap of seven months. Earlier, restrictions were imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. The fort’s management said sanitisers, masks and social distancing had been made mandatory for visitors. TNSOne arrested with pistolAmritsar: The Chatiwind police have arrested a person for allegedly possessing a country-made pistol. The accused has been identified as Jagroop Singh alias Ganna, of Bhindi Aulakh village. According to the police, the accused was nabbed from Guruwali village. During search, cops recovered a pistol (.315 bore) with two bullets. A case under the Arms Act has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fcc-gives-nod-to-rs-57-cr-works-168651
10-11-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht ex-jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh, panel chief spar over report||A verbal altercation took place between Bhai Ranjit Singh, former Akal Takht Jathedar and Ishar Singh, who headed the Akal Takht-constituted panel that investigated the missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.A day after Bhai Ranjit Singh led a march towards the Golden Temple and staged a sit-in with his supporters at the entrance plaza of the Golden Temple, Ishar Singh snubbed him for misquoting the facts of the report. Bhai Ranjit Singh alleged that while Ishar Singh and two other panel members had signed each and every page of the ‘original’ probe report, the one that was made public by the SGPC on its website never possessed the same.In response, Ishar Singh, through a video clip that went viral on social media, clarified that there were three sets of the probe report. “The one possessed by me carried the signature of all probe panel members on each and every page, whereas the other two sets that were handed over to the Akal Takht carried the signatures only on the last page. Bhai Ranjit Singh also wrongly alleged that I was a classmate of Giani Harpreet Singh whereas I am quite elder to him. Nowhere in the report it was mentioned that there was any political interference of Badals,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-ex-jathedar-bhai-ranjit-singh-panel-chief-spar-over-report-168427
10-11-2020||Amritsar||Subdued celebrations on first anniv of Kartarpur corridor||Exactly a year down the line, the dedicated corridor to Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib wore a deserted look on its maiden anniversary. However, some Sikh outfits led by former Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Joginder Singh Vedanti commemorated the occasion on the Indian side of the corridor at Dera Baba Nanak today.The occasion was ‘officially’ commemorated by the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) across the border in Narowal district.Giani Harpreet Singh, Akal Takht JathedarDemand for reopening corridorWhen religious places across India have officially opened, there is no point in keeping the operations at the Kartarpur corridor suspended.Terming the corridor a symbol of faith, PSGPC president Satwant Singh showed gratitude towards the Sikh outfits which assembled on the Indian side to mark the occasion.For the SGPC, the day passed on like any other. No plan was scheduled to observe the occasion owing it to Union Government’s denial to open the visa-free passage on ‘health grounds’ from its side. Nonetheless, at Dera Baba Nanak, there was clamour to reopen the corridor.The corridor was closed by India on March 15 as part of measures to curb the Covid-19 spread. In June, it was briefly opened on the occasion of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s death anniversary, but India refused to open the corridor on its side.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the corridor was the epitome of peace in Asia and could play a vital role in mending the sour relationship between the two neighbouring countries. “When religious places across India have officially been opened, there is no point in keeping the operations at the corridor suspended. India should review its decision and reopen the access from the Indian side too,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/subdued-celebrations-on-first-anniv-of-kartarpur-corridor-168434
