11-07-2020||Amritsar||CISCE Class X, XII results out; no merit list this year||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) declared the results of Class X (ICSE) and Class XII (ISC) here on Friday. Students of Holy Heart Presidency School were top scorers in both Classes X and XII examinations. Nimish Sehgal of the school has topped the district with 98.6 per cent in the Class X examinations. In Class XII, Alisha of the same school bagged top position with 96 per cent marks in the non-medical stream.Among other toppers of Class X are Divshailjot Kaur, Himanshi and Pavni Arora from Sacred Heart School, who scored 98.4 per cent marks. Among Class XII toppers, Simran Kaur from same school scored 95.75 per cent marks in the commerce stream and Prachi scored 95.5 per cent marks in the medical stream.Three students from Guru Harkrishan Public School, Friends Avenue and Airport Road secured 90 per cent and above marks. Amandeep Kaur of Class X secured the first rank in the school by scoring 94 per cent marks, followed by MehakPreet Kaur (92 per cent) and Ramneet Kaur (90 per cent).The council declared the results after cancelling its pending exams that were otherwise scheduled to be held in July.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cisce-class-x-xii-results-out-no-merit-list-this-year-111377
11-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Saint Francis girl breaks 37-yr-old record||Meanwhile, Harmanpreet Singh, managing director of the local Punjab Children Academy, said the institution had achieved 100% results with the top scorer achieving 96.8% marks and 16 other students scoring over 90%. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/saint-francis-girl-breaks-37-yr-old-record-111378
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Covid-19 claims two more lives, 16 fresh cases in Amritsar||The district reported two more deaths on Friday, taking the total number of casualties due to Covid-19 to 52. One of the deceased was identified as 48-year-old Bobby, a resident of Lahorian Wali Gali, who was getting treatment for the infection at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The victim was also suffering from liver cirrhosis and hypertension.The other deceased, identified as Dharamveer (72) , a resident of Vijay Nagar area, was also admitted to the same hospital. He was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. The border district also reported 16 new positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,076. Of the new positive cases, 14 showed symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and two were contacts of Covid patients.As per the break-up of ILI cases provided by the Health Department, one each case was reported from Gurbax Nagar, Jandiala Guru, Bhalla Colony, Sugar Mill, Chownk Lahoriyan Wali Gali (all three in Chheharta area), Chamiyari (Ajnala), Bhagtanwala, Bharariwal, Jotisar Colony, Green City (both localities in Jandiala), Majitha Road and Ganda Singh colony.Two contacts of positive cases were reported from Preet Nagar locality on the Batala road. So far, a total of 874 patients were discharged and the number of active cases in the district stood at 150.With 52 deaths, the district has a mortality rate of 4.71 per cent against the state’s average rate of 2.6 per cent.Meanwhile, Tarn Taran district reported one fresh case of Covid on Friday. The patient was an unmarried girl from Uppal village in the Khadoor Sahib area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-claims-two-more-lives-16-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-111379
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Gangster brought on production warrant||The city police on Friday brought a notorious gangster, Arun Chhurimar, on production warrant from Patiala jail. He was brought by the police for his alleged involvement in two murders that rocked the holy city in 2016.Chhurimar was part of the Bobby Malhotra gang who had gunned down Haria, head of the rival gang, in front of Division B police station in May 2016 in broad daylight. Two others were injured in the attack. Before this, they had kidnapped and killed Karanjit Singh, an accomplice of the Haria gang, on March 29. His bullet-ridden body was found from Tarn Taran. He was also wanted in the killing of sitting Congress councillor Gurdeep Pehalwan in June 2018.Evading arrest in many criminal cases registered in the state, he had escaped to Gujarat. He, along with three others, was nabbed by the Gujarat police in February this year.Chhurimar had around a dozen cases, including those of murder, attempt to murder and robberies, registered against him. In May 2018, his gang had robbed a jeweler, Partap Maratha, in the Guru Bazaar area after shooting his employee Mukesh Kumar.Similarly, he was also involved in the mid-September 2018 robbery case in which a jeweler, Prem Kumar, was robbed of gold ornaments and diamond jewellery worth Rs 2 to 3 crore. He, along with two others, was nabbed with 1.25 kg of heroin in July 2014.Parneet Singh, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said he was wanted in these two cases. He was lodged in Patiala jail from where he was brought on production warrant by the local police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-brought-on-production-warrant-111381
11-07-2020||Amritsar||MC demolishes illegal portions of 2 buildings in Amritsar||The Municipal Town Planning wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) on Friday demolished illegal portions of two buildings — at Green Avenue and near the Golden Temple — here.Teams, led by Municipal Town Planner (MTP) Narinder Sharma, reached Green Avenue, where the owner of a residential building constructed one more floor for which they had not taken the approval. According to information, the building owner had got the approval for the construction of only two and a half floors of residential building. But defying the rules, he illegally constructed a four-storey building and also made basement. The building owner reportedly violated houseline in front of the building.A local resident had filed a complaint against the violation of building bylaws in December 2018, but the MC only sent a notice. Now, MTP Narinder Sharma demolished the top floor of the building which was constructed illegally.Meanwhile, in a major action around the Golden Temple, the MTP wing team demolished recently constructed top floor on an illegal hotel building near Fountain Chowk. The owner of an illegal hotel building, who had already constructed four-storey building, constructed another floor during the lockdown. The building was reportedly sealed by the MC.Municipal Town Planner Narinder Sharma said, “The building owners violated the bylaws and defied the rules. I joined the local office a few months ago. I will not tolerate any violation. We will check the documents of illegal hotel buildings and take action against other violators.”It is worth mention here that officials of the Municipal Town Planning wing had submitted a list of 150 illegal buildings to MC Commissioner Komal Mittal last week. She instructed to take action against illegal portions/buildings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-demolishes-illegal-portions-of-2-buildings-in-amritsar-111383
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Bow wow! Absence of neutering gives rise to stray dog menace||No doubt, stray dogs have long been a menace for many. Ever wondered what could be the root cause of the problem? Well, the first thing that springs to mind is the lack of dog sterilisation and the absence of sterilisation infrastructure is next in the line. Neutering can draw flak from dog lovers, but the problem is there are 40,000 of them roaming various roads and streets, posing a threat to public. This is a case in the city that needs immediate attention.There has been a massive increase in the number of stray dogs in the recent times. The Municipal Corporation (MC) made four attempts to initiate the sterilisation drive in the last four years but could never succeed due to the lack of proper infrastructure. "The authorities concerned have failed to control the dog menace in the city. The MC should speed up the sterilisation drive," says Sandip Singh, a resident.The dwellers of the walled city area claimed that streets are run over by aggressive dogs that would follow and bark at passersby every now and then. Not only walled city people, the residents in outer areas too are staring at the same problem. The dog bite cases are also becoming more frequent and residents often complained to the MC in this regard. However, the MC seems helpless on the complaints as they don't have any solution to control the canines."Several dogs can be seen on the roads and in the streets posing a threat and even risking accidents as they hinder the traffic. It is not that authorities have not made an effort to curb the problem, but nothing as such has changed at the ground level", says Shivani, a resident of the Kashmir Avenue.Nevertheless, there is a beacon of hope for the residents for a special animal birth control center building is under construction at Naraingarh.Dr Yogesh Arora said, "As many as 50 dogs are being sterilised in a week with the help of an NGO. Animal Welfare Trust provided space for the sterilisation. We will complete the pilot project till November by neutering 2,000 dogs. Meanwhile, the building for animal birth control center would be completed and the project would be operational properly".Two years back in December 2018, taking note of the stray dog menace, the MC had given a signal for sterilisation in its general house meeting. Health Wing of MC had initiated the pilot project for sterilization of 2,000 canines but couldn't succeed due to insufficient infrastructure. The MC failed to provide the operation theater, cages and a building for aftercare to firm hired for sterilisation. Such campaigns have been started in the past but have failed miserably owing to shortage of funds and a proper structure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bow-wow-absence-of-neutering-gives-rise-to-stray-dog-menace-111384
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Locals turn to dining at home||Amritsar, colloquially known as Ambarsar, is definitely known all over the world for its faith. However, there's one more sublime factor of the city that attracts people here like bees to a flower. And that would be its lip-smacking food, and cuisine — especially street food — that leaves one drooling. The 'papar-warrian' and 'amritsari kulche' are massive favourites with the populace. You can find the market places, overcrowded at times, filled with chowhounds noshing to their heart's content.Unfortunately, post-Covid outbreak - even as the government allowed restaurants, hotels and dhabas to operate - the locals are still fearful of eating outside and have turned to dining at home, thus dishing out a new normal for themselves. Even the hardcore party animals seem to have found taste buds for the home-cooked food. The deserted sight of market places, where one earlier had a hard time finding a vacant parking spot in the evening, seems surreal though.Surinder Singh, a businessman, said, "Dining out once in a week was the unsaid rule at our home. Now, we have not even ordered a pizza in the last three months." He added that people are afraid of getting infected and prefer home-cooked hygienic food these days.For many families, eating out on the weekend was a routine thing to do, but basking in fear many have not gone out even once in last three months. They state that partying can wait as threat is still looming large.A few of the residents revealed that not only they have eaten homely food but they have also tried their hand at cooking to beat the boredom. "I think I have turned a chef during last three days! With nothing much to do, I tried my luck in the kitchen and it turned out good," quipped Sandeep Singh, a college student.Apart from having a number of well-known names in the food business, the city also has a well established street food culture. But then again, the threat of the virus has greatly impacted this sector. The decrease in tourism has further worsened the scenario.Ashish Kumar, a dhaba owner, said, "With educational institutions closed, the youngsters are not coming to eat. Earlier, they were one of biggest factors in running our business smoothly." He added that even as they have put in place safety measures, people have become more health conscious and not taking any chances.Speaking out I have stopped eating anything from the market. I do not even buy a water bottle as it needs to be sanitised. And it has not given me any trouble so far. We are not sure that the chair or the table we are using in a restaurant or a hotel is contaminated or not. —Sukhwinder KaurIf one has to eat out, one should choose an eatery very carefully. We can never know if the place is contaminated and if the person serving is healthy. Recently, I had to eat out a few times due to business compulsions and I feel eateries too are trying to adapt to the new normal. — Charanjit SinghThe home-cooked food has become the first preference for all these days and it is a good thing. We have seen samples of high-end restaurants fail on quality parameters during the recent times. — Harman HandaI used to party a lot and every other day our band of friends used to plan for new eateries. Now, I have not even met most of my friends for a long time. I do miss going out and my friends, but I think it can wait a little longer. — Sukhjinder Kaur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/locals-turn-to-dining-at-home-111386
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Gurjit Singh Aujla urges CM to shift fake Covid reports probe back to Vigilance||A day after the probe into the fake Covid reports scam was shifted to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau, Amritsar’s MP Gurjit Singh Aujla on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to either transfer the probe back to the Vigilance Bureau or mark a judicial probe into the case by a sitting Punjab and Haryana High Court judge.What MP wrote in letter to CMIn a letter to the CM, MP Aujla said when the Vigilance Bureau was about to bring conclusive results in the case, the probe was shifted to the local police, which apparently happened for the first time in the history of the Punjab Police.He said this had led to a standoff between the patients’ families and the medical staff of the EMC hospital and the situation would turn ugly if the government did not reverse the decision.In a letter to the CM, he said when the Vigilance Bureau was about to bring conclusive results in this case, the probe was shifted to the local police, which apparently happened for the first time in the history of the Punjab Police. He said this had led to a standoff between the patients’ families and the medical staff of the EMC hospital and the situation would turn ugly if the government did not reverse the decision.Aujla urged the CM to transfer the probe back to the Vigilance Bureau or order a judicial probe under the supervision of a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana High Court to reach the bottom of the matter.In an interesting turn of events, the Punjab Government has shifted the fake Covid reports scam to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau. Many eyebrows were raised over the sudden development even as the accused had applied for bail in the local courts. The victims in the case had expressed their disappointment over the development.On June 24, the Vigilance Bureau had booked five doctors and a hospital owner on charges of murder bid, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption. They were accused of fleecing patients by issuing “wrong” Covid-positive reports. The VB found at least seven persons, including a pregnant woman doctor, who were issued wrong reports that they were infected with the Covid-19 disease. It also hinted at the involvement of government officials and health staff in the racket.Those booked were identified as Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Ridhum Tuli, Dr Sanjay Piplani, Dr Robin Tuli (all from Tuli Diagnostic Centre), Pawan Arora (owner of EMC Hospital) and Dr Pankaj Soni of EMC Hospital.Vicky Dutta, one of the complainants in the case, said before approaching the VB, they had met local police officials who had marked a probe to the Civil Surgeon’s office while pointing out that as per government guidelines, they could not directly act against the doctors until the Health Department asked them to do so. “If the local police did not do anything at that time, what they would do now,” he said.A political activist, Mandeep Singh Manna, alleged that the step was taken to give a clean chit to big fishes involved in the racket. “The Vigilance Bureau is an independent agency and the victims were satisfied with the probe conducted so far. There was no point shifting the probe at this juncture. This clearly indicates that the accused managed to use their influence in shifting the probe,” Manna added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurjit-singh-aujla-urges-cm-to-shift-fake-covid-reports-probe-back-to-vigilance-111389
11-07-2020||Amritsar||GRP nab two in murder bid case, recover pistol||The Government Railway Police (GRP) have nabbed two persons, identified as Ankush and Manak, both residents of the Baltian area in Chheharta, in connection with an attempt to murder case.Three persons were injured in the firing allegedly done by the suspects in mid-May. The injured were identified as Lakhbir Singh, Beer Singh and Sajan, all residents of the same locality.Sukhwinder Singh Malhi, SHO, GRP police station, said, on May 16, complainant Lakhbir Singh’s nephew (Bir Singh’s son) had a dispute with some boys while playing cricket. He said in the evening Manak called him and threatened to teach him a lesson. He said Lakhbir Singh tried to strike a compromise between them.He said he was going to meet them when he found Ankush, Lakhwinder Singh, Manak and his father standing near Chheharta railway station. He said when he tried to talk to them, the accused started abusive language. In the meantime Bir Singh and Sajan also reached the spot and tried to intervene.He said during this Ankush took out his pistol and fired at Lakhbir Singh, which hit his leg. Then Lakhwinder Singh shot at Bir Singh who was also injured while another gun shot was fired by Ankush at Sajan. They later fled away the scene.Following Lakhbir’s complaint, the police registered a case under Sections 307, 148, 149 of the IPC, and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act against Ankush, Manak, Lakhwinder and Kishore.Malhi said Ankush and Manak were arrested Thursday and the police recovered a country-made pistol and empty shells from their possession. He said source of the weapon was being ascertained. He said both had two cases each registered against them in past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grp-nab-two-in-murder-bid-case-recover-pistol-111391
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Pingalwara Trust shifts annual social outreach activities online||The All India Pingalwara Charitable Trust for the first time will be marking the 28th death anniversary activities in memory of its founder Bhagat Puran Singh on digital platforms. With the ongoing Covid-19 situation, the charitable organisation will host the multiple social outreach activities this year mostly on its social media handles. Informing about the same, Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, All India Pingalwara Charitable Society, said, “Bhagat Puran Singh’s death anniversary falls on August 5 and every year Pingalwara will carry out philanthropic programmes”.“Every year we mark the day by hosting different social welfare activities, organising medical camps. But this year, we have to keep in mind the social distancing and safety guidelines. So, we have shifted our activities and interactions online. From July 10 to July 19, documentary films and shorts based on the life of Bhagat Puran Singh and his works, Pingalwara’s social outreach programmes will be screened on our multiple social media handles, including Facebook, Instagram and other platforms. These films will be screened at 4 pm everyday and include acclaimed film Eh Janam Tumhare Lekhe, a biographical film starring actor Pawan Malhotra on Bhagat ji’s life. Also documentaries like Shubh Karman and short films on Pingalwara’s school and organic farms will also be screened,” she said.These documentaries will also be telecast in Canada and UK. She further informed that apart from these documentaries, Pingalwara will also host online interactions with scholars and prominent personalities from Punjab associated with Pingalwara. “We also have few rare video clips featuring memoirs from Bhagat Puran Singh’s life that have never been seen before. We will also be showing them to our members and patrons through social media platforms,” said Dr Inderjit Kaur. The Pingalwara will also host blood donation camp in his memory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pingalwara-trust-shifts-annual-social-outreach-activities-online-111392
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Man succumbs to injuries, one booked||The police have booked Mukesh Kumar, a resident of East Mohan Nagar here, on a charge of murder. He had allegedly hit Manoj Kumar of same locality with bat leading to serious head injury. He later succumbed in a hospital.Sangeeta, wife of the deceased, told the police that four days ago her daughter who was playing outside in the park came crying and told that Mukesh’s brother Pardeep had beaten her.She along with her husband Manoj Kumar went to their house for complaining. She said during argument, the accused started using abusive language. She said the accused hit him with a cricket bat. Manoj fell down and got unconscious. He was immediately rushed to a hospital. The police have registered a case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-succumbs-to-injuries-one-booked-111394
11-07-2020||Amritsar||MC Amritsar sends notice to 150 defaulters||Though, the Covid-19 lockdown has impacted the revenue collection of the Municipal Corporation posing financial challenges for the civic body, Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal asked the staff of property tax department to initiate a survey in the city to identify the tax defaulters. Following the directions, the property tax wing officers had started the survey last Monday and issued notices to around 150 tax defaulters.The staff of property tax wing was busy on distribution of ration kits to the residents during lockdown. The government aid is still going on and staff visits the field to distribute kits.Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer of property tax, said, “Economic activities were hampered during the lockdown period. So we didn’t ask anyone to pay the tax. The collection of property tax drastically declined in this period. Our staff was also distributing ration. Now the situation is improving each passing day with unlocking the restrictions. So we started survey in the field”.The MC has sent property tax recovery notices to the defaulters. In case, a defaulter fails to respond his building will be sealed. Last year more than 150 buildings were sealed by the property tax staff.Considering the hardships faced by residents, the government has extended the deadline to pay the outstanding property tax, without penalty, till July 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-amritsar-sends-notice-to-150-defaulters-111396
11-07-2020||Amritsar||Missing child found in train||Muslims donate wheat for langarAmritsar: Citing an example of Sikh-Muslim brotherhood, the Muslim community of Malerkotla on Friday doanted 330 quintals of wheat to the Guru Ram Das Langar Hall authorities of Golden Temple here. The Muslim delegation ‘Sikh-Muslim Alliance’, led by Nasir Akhtar, paid obeisance at the shrine and also met the officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. They also partook of langar. Members of the delegation were honoured by Ajaib Singh Abhayasi, member, Dharam Prachar Committee; Mukhtar Singh and additional manager Rajinder Singh Ruby. Akhtar said the wheat was donated by all muslims in Malerkotla. TNSFish Farmers Day celebratedTarn Taran: National Fish Farmers Day was celebrated by the Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Dhotia village on Friday. Twenty farmers of the village attended the celebrations. Interacting with the farmers through video-conferencing, HK Varma, director of extension, GADVASU, said the day was celebrated to commemorate the invention of induced breeding technology on this day in 1957 by scientists KH Alikunhi and HL Chaudhury. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-child-found-in-train-111398
11-07-2020||---||Probe missing ‘saroops’, Sekhwan urges SGPC||Amritsar, July 10After joining the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa group, ‘taksali’ leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan today approached Akal Takht and the SGPC seeking a fair probe into 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib.Sekhwan, who is also one of the SGPC members, was accompanied by his colleagues Kiranjot Kaur, Amrik Singh Shahpur, Mohinder Singh Hussainpur and Gurpreet Singh Garcha. The delegation demanded that the inquiry should be conducted by a Sikh intellectuals’ panel. “How can we expect justice from a panel which consists of those SGPC members during whose tenure the lapse had occurred?” he asked.The issue came to the fore when SGPC’s assistant superviser (publication) Kanwaljit Singh, who was denied his service benefits upon retirement, claimed that at least 80 sets of the holy scripture were burnt in a fire on May 19, 2016, due to negligence at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, where the Sikh holy books are stored. On the other hand, SGPC officials had said that only 14 saroops were damaged in the fire incident, and for rest of the saroops, Kanwaljit Singh was responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-missing-saroops-sekhwan-urges-sgpc-111239
