11-08-2020||---||Farmers want complete loan waiver for agri sector||Amritsar, August 10Activists of different farmers’ associations staged a protest against the government under the banner of the Kul Hind Kisan Sangarsh Talmel Dal and submitted memorandums to MLAs and MPs.They also took out a motorcycle rally in the city to highlight their issues. The farmers were protesting against the three ordinances issued recently by the Union Government and the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, rising prices of diesel and other issues.The farmers’ organisations also demanded a complete loan waiver for the agriculture sector reasoning as they were suffering most due to non-institutional loans.Farmers’ leader Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala, president, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha Punjab, said, “The Punjab Vidhan Sabha must pass a resolution in the Assembly opposing the three ordinances and other new laws which would adversely affect the agriculture sector.”He said Punjab being a predominantly agriculture state, its MLAs and MPs despite their political affiliations and party stands must oppose the new ordinances as these would destroy the rural economy which would directly have an impact on the state’s financial condition.The farmer leaders lamented that MLAs and MPs of the ruling party and Opposition were not taking seriously the issues of the farming community as instead of interacting with their delegations and accepting their memorandums, they had deputed their assistants for the job.“The elected representatives should run away from the general public and instead should take up their demands with those concerned,” said a farmer leader, adding that they were out to protest in the hot weather but political leaders were not even ready to talk to them. The farmers’ organisations also threatened to show black flags to elected representatives on their visits to rural areas and gherao their houses if they failed to stand with them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-want-complete-loan-waiver-for-agri-sector-124843
11-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga
||Not so smart! Garbage mess in Amritsar city irks locals||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 10 Residents of the walled city are annoyed with the mounds of garbage lying unattended in the city. They blame tardy lifting of garbage for it. Pawan Kumar Pamma, a shopkeeper at Katra Bhai Sant Singh Chowk, said garbage made their life hell as the refuse emanates a foul smell. He said shoppers even avoid visiting the area. He added that the permanent spot of collecting the garbage at the intersection turned it into an unhygienic place. Heaps of garbage can be seen on almost all arterial roads of the walled city. Even trolleys engaged in lifting the garbage are full of garbage. It also causes traffic jams as the traffic picks up in the noon and big trolleys block the narrow roads. After learning about the prevailing unhygienic situation in narrow and winding streets of the city, former Health Minister Lakshmi Kanta Chawla also shot off a communiqué to the MC Commissioner in this regard. She stated that there was a massive rise in the number of flies and mosquitoes in the city. It seemed that officials of the civic body forgot to carry out fumigation and ensure other arrangements ahead of the monsoon season. Dr Yogesh Arora, Municipal Health Officer, said the walled city area with almost 11 wards (as there are 10 wards and parts of two wards) was the most densely populated area of the city. So 26 trolleys and 10 e-rickshaws were engaged in lifting the garbage. He added that since there was no door-to-door garbage lifting, its dwellers had to dump the refuse on the road side. This not only presents a bad picture, but also creates an unhygienic environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-so-smart-garbage-mess-in-amritsar-city-irks-locals-124844
11-08-2020||---||Industrial waste water raises a stink, troubles residents||Amritsar, August 10Residents of Vallah Mehta localities of road near Sri Guru Ram Das University of Health Sciences are an inconvenienced lot as the waste water mixed with industrial discharge emanates foul smell during the hot and humid weather.Residents complained that the water from the industrial units in the nearby Industrial Focal Point creates a pool near their residence, which is a trouble for them all around the year. “The foul smell which comes out of the rotten industrial and organic waste prevails over the area,” said a resident, Balkar Singh, adding that the residents have filed many complaints but the problem has not been solved.The residents stated that a system to properly drain any liquid waste, including that of industrial units, residences and even rainwater should be made so that the problem could be solved. Some of the residents complained that the government approved residential colonies on the road were suffering as most of the plots in the localities were lying vacant and plot owners were not ready to build their houses due to the problem.“Everyone wants to live in a well-developed locality as it imparts a sense of security. But due to the waste water pool, many plot owners are reluctant to shift here as a result of which population density is very low,” said another resident Sukhmeet Singh, adding that the government must find a solution to problem, which includes keeping a check on heavy discharge from industrial units.With the road widening project in the pipeline, the residents stated that they expect that the prices of real estate in the area would rise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industrial-waste-water-raises-a-stink-troubles-residents-124845
11-08-2020||
||Guru Tegh Bahadur wanted people to stand against injustice, says expert||Amritsar, August 10  The Department of History and Centre of Studies in Sri Guru Granth Sahib, Guru Nanak Dev University, had started an online international lecture series dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur in July 2020. The first lecture in the series was delivered by Prof Balwant Singh Dhillon, former director, Centre on the Studies in Guru Granth Sahib on July 4. The second lecture in the series was held on August 8. It was delivered by Dr Daljit Singh, in charge of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur National Integration Chair and Head, Department of Punjab Historical Studies, Punjabi University, Patiala.  Dr Daljit Singh delivered his lecture on the topic ‘Hind di Chaddar Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji’. His main argument was that Guru Tegh Bahadur wanted people not to be afraid of anyone and stand up against injustice. “He wanted religious freedom for all. According to him both, one who was afraid of others and the one who was intimidated by others was a tyrant. So, he not only wanted people to stand against tyranny, but also wanted them not to intimidate others. To protect his faith as well as the faith of others, he not only sacrificed his life but also showed the path to others,” said Dr Daljit Singh.  The lecture series is part of GNDU’s many initiatives to mark the 400th Parkash Parb of Guru Tegh Bahadur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-tegh-bahadur-wanted-people-to-stand-against-injustice-says-expert-124846
11-08-2020||
||NSUI president submits memo to GNDU VC, seeks fee waiver||Amritsar, August 10 Demanding an immediate revocation of fee hike announced by university authorities, NSUI, GNDU president Arshdeep Sandhu submitted a memorandum to GNDU VC here today in this regard. Sandhu, along with NSUI girls’ wing in-charge Ramsha Kalhan and student leader Puneetpal Sandhu, submitted a list of demands, including provision of fee waiver for EWS/SC/BC students this year in the wake of the pandemic. The memorandum was received by registrar KS Kahlon.  Akshay Sharma, NSUI, Punjab, President, too raised the demand as NSUI, Punjab, launched a state-wide drive to urge universities to rollback anti-student decisions and not penalise anyone for want of their fee till offline mode resumes, in the wake of these unprecedented stressful times. “Students have been hit the worst during pandemic with their education hampered to great extent,” Akshay, adding that the authorities need to be innovative and sensitive towards student needs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nsui-president-submits-memo-to-gndu-vc-seeks-fee-waiver-124847
11-08-2020||
||Gangster Yama wanted in over 2 dozen cases||Amritsar, August 10 Gangster Ranjodh Singh, alias Sunny Yama, who was nabbed by the state special operation cell (SSOC) of the Punjab Police, is wanted in around two dozen cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder. In several cases, Yama was out on bail while in some, he was absconding. A resident of Fairland Colony at Fatehgarh Churian road here, he was nabbed by the SSOC on Sunday. On search of his car, the police found a .30 bore pistol and two 9 mm pistols. Over 100 unused cartridges of different calibre were also seized. His interrogation led to the seizure of another .32 bore pistol. Police officials privy to investigation in the case revealed that Yama was a son of a retired SI and was being sheltered by a local ruling party leader. Sources said the accused was planning to commit a major crime incident in the holy city. A case under Section 120 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against Yama. The police were analysing his call records to ascertain the source of illegal weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-yama-wanted-in-over-2-dozen-cases-124848
11-08-2020||Amritsar||Hooch tragedy: Police remand of 6 extended||A local court on Monday extended the police remand of six accused nabbed in connection with the hooch tragedy that claimed over 100 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala. Those produced in the court were Rajeev Joshi, a trader from Ludhiana, and Ravinder Singh, Avtar Singh and Ashwani Kumar, all residents of Moga, and Satnam Singh and his brother Shamsher Singh Shera of Tarn Taran. They had supplied the methyl alcohol used for forming spurious liquor that was distributed in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala. Besides the six persons, the police had nabbed Balwinder Kaur, Gobinder Singh, Mithu Singh from Amritsar’s Muchhal village. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooch-tragedy-police-remand-of-6-extended-124849
11-08-2020||
||Road leading to Amritsar’s vegetable market flooded with rainwater||Amritsar, August 10 The kutcha road spread over 90-acre of wholesale vegetable and fruit market at the Vallah area is dotted with puddles of water and is in a dilapidated state.  Unhygienic condition prevails in the mandi as its vast swathes remain submerged under rainwater. The Market Committee managing the mandi does not seem to have equipment to meet the challenges posed by rain. This has made the place a breeding spot of mosquitoes and stray animals. Besides, dogs and other animals also roam around freely here. Gurwinder Singh, a vegetable grower from Jandiala village, said it was an uphill task to navigate these roads. Many a times, his cart gets stuck in the muck and he has to take the help of bystanders to take it out. He stressed that since heavy vehicles laden with fruits and fresh farm produce usually ply these roads, the need for a well-metalled road could not be stressed more.     Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, a wholesale trader, said even a light drizzle was enough to worsen the situation.  He said the government earned over Rs 10 crore annually as revenue from the Mandi but in return, they were denied even basic amenities, such as sewerage disposal, roads, street lights, and others.  Amardeep Singh Kaura, Secretary of the Market Committee, said the mandi required a new sewage system. “Unless the Army gives approval for the same, we are helpless”. The mandi falls within the prohibition zone of the Army dump so no construction can be carried out here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-leading-to-amritsars-vegetable-market-flooded-with-rainwater-124850
11-08-2020||---||SDM, DSP visit Khasa distillery||Amritsar, August 10A day after the Punjab Government and the DGP asked administrative and senior police officials of the districts to check the stock of the distilleries falling in their areas, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Shiv Raj Bal along with Attari DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota on Monday visited the Khasa distillery and checked the stock.They also sought the details of the employees working in the distillery. According to information, the Khasa distillery turned into just a bottling plant several years ago.According to information, the team checked the registers and record of liquor coming and going out of the distillery. They also took information about different products manufactured there.Following the hooch tragedy that claimed over 100 lives in three districts of Majha region (Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala), the Punjab Government has tightened the noose around bootleggers and arrested a large number of them, besides seizing illicit liquor and lahan. They have also seized extra neutral alcohol (ENA) which is primary raw material for liquor of different degrees.Investigations into the tragedy revealed that ENA was being pilfered from tankers at eating joints on main GT Roads. Besides, methyl alcohol was also being used for making spurious liquor which is highly poisonous. It has methylated alcohol that led to a high number of casualties in the three districts within four days. The Punjab Police launched a crackdown on bootleggers after this.In the past nine days, the Amritsar rural police have registered as many as 220 cases and arrested 87 bootleggers in this connection. It confiscated 2,388 litres of illicit liquor, nine running illegal stills and 344 litres of spirit, besides 10,126 kg of lahan during raids in different villages.According to information, the police have also launched drone surveillance of 11 places under the supervision of DSP (Narcotics) Kailash Chander.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sdm-dsp-visit-khasa-distillery-124851
11-08-2020||---||38-yr-old commits suicide, 4 booked||Amritsar, August 10A man, identified as Jatinder Singh (38), committed suicide at Shehzada village after his wife separated from him and started living with his friend in Verka here on Sunday. He hanged himself from the ceiling.On the complaint of his father, the police have booked his wife Ramandeep Kaur, friend Kanwaljit Singh and two other women Prabhjot Kaur of Pakharpura and Neetu of Verka on the charge of abetting suicide.The complainant, Hazara Singh, told the police that his son, Jatinder Singh, was married to Ramandeep Kaur around 20 years ago. They had three children from their marriage. He said Ramandeep developed illicit relations with Jatinder’s friend Kanwaljit Singh and he took them (Ramandeep and children) with him and started living in Verka.He said though they tried to persuade her, she did not listen to them. Ramandeep’s sister Prabhjot Kaur and another girl Neetu also started living with them. He alleged they used to threaten him. Perturbed over this, he ended his life by hanging himself from the roof.Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Baljinder Singh said investigation was under progress while raids were on to nab the suspects. A case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC was registered against them, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/38-yr-old-commits-suicide-4-booked-124852
11-08-2020||---||66-year-old fresh fatality, Amritsar district toll 97||Amritsar, August 10With the death of a 66-year-old due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the toll in the district has increased to 97 on Monday. The deceased has been identified as Pritam Singh, a resident of Airport Road. A patient of chronic kidney disease, he was admitted to Ivy Hospital.The district also reported 30 new positive cases. Of them, 14 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms and 16 are contacts of positive patients. As far as the contact cases are concerned, three from the Central Jail, two each from Majitha Road, Khandwala (Chheharta) and one each from Guru Amardas Avenue, Government Medical College, the Police Lines and CIA staff.One each ILI case was reported from Bhagtanwala, Lawrence Road, Maqboolpura, Nawakot, Rishi Vihar (Majitha Road), Peramid City locality, Circular Road, Majitha Road, Mahal village, Ludhar (Kathunangal), Rajasansi, Guru Ramdas Nagar, Devidasspura, Kapoor Nagar, Laxmi Avenue, Gali Jaswanda Singh Wali and Dream City.The total count of positive cases in the district has increased to 2,406 and the recovery count 1,891. The district has a total of 418 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/66-year-old-fresh-fatality-amritsar-district-toll-97-124853
11-08-2020||Amritsar||Man booked for raping minor||Clerk of Patti police bookedTarn Taran: Krishan Kumar, an assistant clerk posted at the Patti police station, has been booked under Sections 67 and 67-A of the IT Act and Section 294 of the IPC for allegedly sending abusive messages to a 35-year-old woman of Patti. The victim, in her complaint to SSP Dharuman Nimbale, has alleged that the suspect had been forcing her to establish physical relations with him. He also threatened her with getting a false case registered against her, the woman alleged. The suspect, who is absconding, has been placed under suspension, the police said. ocGNDU extends admission dateAmritsar: The Department of Lifelong Learning, GNDU, has extended the date of the admission to these courses on first come first serve basis till August 31. The department has been running skill-based diploma/certificate courses for matriculation and 10+2 boys and girls. The classes of the students shall be conducted online with effect from September 1. However, as and when the situation returns to normal, regular offline classes shall be conducted in the department. For online registration and admission, visit www.gndu.ac.in /lifelong/default.aspx site. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-raping-minor-124855
11-08-2020||Neha Saini||Covid revolutionises shopping as customers now click to buy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 10The Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way retailers and shoppers did business as the restrictions on movement meant fewer people turning up at shops to buy stuff. Fashion retailers have taken the biggest hit, and next in line are consumer item retailers. While the shift towards online shopping and retailing seems permanent, only the re-opening of all sectors might bring the charm back to markets.The biggest wholesale shopping hub in the walled city here has been buzzing with commercial activity ever since ‘unlocking’ of sectors of economy, the footfall has dropped by 30 per cent to 40 per cent, according to businessmen. The reluctance on the part of consumers to visit crowded markets, the new found ease of online retailing and shift towards digital transactions are some of the many reasons retailers are still struggling to attract shoppers.“The lockdown has drained our savings. After the Covid outbreak, the business has taken a hit as the city is reporting rise in Covid 19 cases every passing day, which is a major deterrent. Retailing has also suffered a blow from the surge in online shopping which people have now become accustomed to,” shared Meetpreet Singh, a fashion apparel retailer in the Putlighar area.Despite adapting to the new safety norms after re-opening, retailers of consumer goods, electronic goods and household items are not finding many customers. “We are working amid all precautions and also making our customers aware of the safety measures being adopted by us. We have seen a drop of 40 per cent in customers who have now started using e-commerce platforms,” says Bhuvan Arjun, an electronic goods retailer in Hall Bazaar.The surge in e-shopping has also pushed local retailers to use the digital space and offer services such as home delivery and cashless payments. Malls, too, have suffered because of the low footfall. Weekends provided some relief for business with two most visited shopping malls in the city attracting good crowd. But the weekend restrictions dealt a new blow.Pooja Arora, a retail industry expert from the city, says the impact of shoppers shifting to e-commerce websites will be felt for long. “There is still a possible health risk for people going out for shopping. The e-commerce platforms offer safe shopping from the comfort of your home and with value-added services. The shoppers have been spoilt for choice during the lockdown with growth in e-commerce websites, even the locally sourced ones.”Rise of local kiryana storesBefore the lockdown, local grocery stores had lost business due to the rise of big, corporate fuelled grocery chains that were offering one stop shop for household needs. But the lockdown changed everything. Local and small kiryana/ grocery stores were allowed to open during the lockdown and they quickly adapted to the new normal of home delivery of goods and digital payments.With customers finding their way back to these local stores even after the lockdown, the stores have emerged as the new supermarkets. “We set up a network of zero contact deliveries during the Covid-19 lockdown. We have been getting a good response and people have started reposing faith in us. Since we allow only a few people at a time, the safety of customers doesn’t get compromised,” says Satpal Narang, the owner of a grocery store in Chheharta.Even big supermarket chains such as D-Mart have launched mobile-based applications allowing customers to place orders of grocery online. Almost all major grocery stores in the city are providing service on atleast one digital platform, in addition to entertaining walk-in customers.Pop up fashion exhibitions save the dayIn the absence of shopping exhibitions that were an annual affair for city shoppers, pop-up online exhibitions are becoming a new trend. The concept of online pop-up exhibition brings an array of service providers and products directly to consumers via digital platforms. The products and brands displayed are offered along with heavy discounts and promise of home delivery. The contacts of brand owners and businesses are provided where orders can be placed within a few days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-revolutionises-shopping-as-customers-now-click-to-buy-124856
11-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers' dharna against Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar||Tarn Taran, August 10Farmers under the banner of All-India Farmers’ Coordinating Committee staged a dharna at Mehmudpur village on the Indo-Pak border here on Monday. They were asking for the fulfilment of their demands. They staged dharnas in front of the residences of Congress MLAs.They took out a motorcycle rally in the village and staged a dharna outside the residence of Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, MLA from Khemkaran. Addressing on the occasion, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Master Daljit Singh Dayalpura and Sucha Singh Ladhu, leaders of different organisations, condemned the Union Government for issuing Ordinances regarding the farming sector.The leaders said these Ordinances would destroy the farming community. On receiving a ‘warning letter’ from farmers’ organisations, Sukhpal Singh Bhullar said the state government was already ready to revoke the anti-farmer ordinance to save the farming community.Farmers of this area also marched up to the office of local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and submitted a ‘warning letter’ to his PA as the MLA was diagnosed with the Covid-19 disease and under treatment.Addressing on the occasion, Pargat Singh Jamarai and other leaders said the ordinances issued by the Union Government would not safeguard the farming community and workers. He said by implementing the Electricity Bill 2020, the Modi-led Union Government was going to take over the power department from the states and would bring it under its control. After subjugation, the power plants would be sold to private companies and farmers would not get free power.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-dharna-against-khemkaran-mla-sukhpal-singh-bhullar-124857
