11-11-2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: One dies, 18 test +ve in Amritsar district||Dist positive count 12,116Death toll 470Active cases 296Thieves strike at grocery storeTarn Taran: Miscreants struck at a general store in Kilha Kavi Santokh Singh on Monday night and stole goods worth Rs 35,000. Owner of the store, Pawan Kumar, said thieves decamped with mustard oil, desi ghee, inverter, battery, electronic scale and Rs 6,000. Assistant Sub-Inspector Manjit Singh, who is an Investigating Officer (IO), said a case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-one-dies-18-test-ve-in-amritsar-district-169059
11-11-2020||---||One arrested for opening fire in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 10A monetary dispute took an ugly turn when a group of people indulged in firing and tried to barge into a house at Gujjarpura area here on Sunday.The police arrested Gurvail Singh of Sanghna village and launched further investigations in this regard. A case has been registered under Sections 336, 427, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.The complainant Jagjit Singh said Gurvail Singh used to be his friend and he borrowed his car around a week ago. He said when he demanded his car back, the accused entered into an argument with him and used abusive language when he called him over the phone. He said he asked him to return his committees (money) before getting his car back. He said when he again demanded his car, the accused got enraged and came outside his house along with some unknown persons and opened fire at him. He said his brother’s car got damaged while shots were also fired at his house.The police recovered two empty shells of .32 bore pistol from the spot. Gurwinder Singh, in- charge, Gujjapura police chowki, said investigations were on to identify Gurvail’s accomplices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-for-opening-fire-in-amritsar-169045
11-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covid deflated his business, but his hope keeps him afloat||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, November 10Pappu Kumar, a balloon seller on Lawrence Road is happy that the lockdown days are over, but his trouble is not over yet as the sale is extremely low. Courtesy, no one wants their toddler to contract the infection.“My business picked up pace when I was booked to decorate the party venue with balloons for birthday parties. But apart from that, the sales are down,” he said, talking about his business these days.Pappu Kumar, a balloon seller on Lawrence RoadThe business during the early days of the winter season used to be good as people would come out of their homes after harsh summer season. There used to be celebratory mood everywhere as people would buy winter clothings from the market. As their children used to accompany them, my sales were also good. But with people taking all precautions to avoid contracting the virus, my business has taken a beating.Pappu pedals his cycle from his home every day to look for a banquet hall or a marriage palace in the hope of an ongoing party so that he is able to do a brisk business. Small children are on his guest list. In the evening, he parks his cycle outside an ATM at Lawrence Road and sells balloons to children coming for a stroll or to have an ice-cream along with their parents.“The hard days are already over. Now, the business is a bit slow but it is still going on,” he said, adding that he hopes that in the winter season, the business would be good owing to a lot of marriages during that time.“The business during the early days of the winter season used to be good as people would come out of their homes after harsh summer season. There used to be celebratory mood everywhere as people would buy winter clothings from the market. As their children used to accompany them, my sales were also good,” he said. But with people taking all precautions to avoid contracting the virus, my business has taken a beating, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-deflated-his-business-but-his-hope-keeps-him-afloat-168950
11-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Selling crackers without licence in Amritsar? Beware||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10The district administration is likely to issue 10 licences for the retail sale of firecrackers ahead of Diwali on Wednesday.The Amritsar Fireworks Association, chief, Harish Dhawan, said they would get only three days for the sale of firecrackers starting tomorrow. He asked how can they sell crackers procured from the National Capital Region (NCR) in such a short span when their stocks were lying full.He said over Rs80,000 was invested in setting up temporary kiosks as the Improvement Trust charged Rs34,267 and Rs30,000 for establishing it. In addition, fire extinguishers were procured and miscellaneous expenses would take the total investment on temporary cracker market in New Amritsar area to over Rs80,000 per head.Traders said crackers emanating minimum pollution were procured from Sivakasi (Tamil Nadu) this time. Officials of the Explosive Department carried out the inspection of all godowns. There are 32 licence holders in the city who deal in the manufacturing, storage and possession of crackers. These include two Union Government licenced firecracker manufacturing units and over 30 storages, with each of them having a capacity to maintain nearly 1,500-kg stock.The Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organisation (PESO), Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, Ministry of Commerce and Industries, allocates licences to those traders, who want to sale and store firecrackers above 600 kg.Two major firecracker manufacturing units in the district are situated at Ibban Kala village on the Chhabal road and another at Rajewal village on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road. These are allowed to manufacture phuljhadi (sparkle) and anaar (flower pot).In addition, there are 15 godowns for sale and stock at Rajewal village.Earlier, the administration had received 2,800 applications for setting up 10 retail counters of firecrackers for the festive season.What the rules sayTradersspeakHad we been given licences some days before, this would have offered enough time to buyers to procure crackers. Thus, it would have avoided gathering of a large number of people thereby ensuring implementation of social distancing norm. Varinder Singh, a cracker traderOur counterparts in Jalandhar and Ludhiana have already been permitted to open shops two days in advance. We were denied trade on a par in the region. Romi Singh, another trader OfficialspeakThe licences for the retail sale of firecrackers will be released only after going through the latest orders of the National Green Tribunal. Action would be taken against those who sell crackers without having relevant licence. Jagmohan Singh, DCP (Law & Order)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/selling-crackers-without-licence-in-amritsar-beware-168951
11-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Municipal Corporation Amritsar approves 1,592 building plans online||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10The municipal town planning (MTP) wing of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA), received 1,671 online applications for approval of building plans during the last three months.The MCA had initiated online approval of building plans on August 6 to bring transparency and save time of residents.Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town PlannerInitially, registered architects and our staff faced technical issues, but now, everything is running smoothly. Now, we do not entertain anyone who wants to apply the building plan manually. A number of architects are registered with us. They apply for approval with all required documents and designs. The system is transparent. With this initiative, people do not need to wander in offices.The MTP officials claimed that only 79 applications were pending while 1,592 requests had been processed.Similarly, no-objection certificate (NOC) of plots and buildings were also being issued online. The MCA received 494 online applications, out of which 429 had been cleared. The MC officials claimed that online portal was providing hassle-free services to residents.Narinder Sharma, Municipal Town Planner, said, “Initially, registered architects and our staff faced technical issues, but now everything is running smoothly. Now, we do not entertain anyone who wants to apply the building plan manually. A number of architects are registered with us. They apply for approval with all required documents and designs. The system is transparent. With this initiative, people do not need to wander in offices.”The state government had launched the Online Building Plan Approval System (OBPAS) for approval of layouts, land-use transfer, mobile towers and to obtain NOC of plots in August. The services were available on https://enaksha.lgpunjab.gov.in/portal.The portal includes facilities, including computer verification of CAD drawing files, online payment facility, sending of files, sharing online status with applicants through e-mail and SMS and computer generated certificate with digital signature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/municipal-corporation-amritsar-approves-1-592-building-plans-online-168954
11-11-2020||---||‘Implement Swaminathan Commission Report’||Amritsar, November 10The farmers’ agitation on the issue of three farm laws promulgated by the Union Government at Butari railway station near Beas entered the 41st day on Tuesday.Leaders expressed their anguish against the Centre for turning a deaf ear to the concerns of the farming community on the new laws and stated that a massive protest would be held at New Delhi in November 26.They stated that local farmers, in large numbers, would attend the protest in Delhi to voice their concerns. The farm leaders also demanded implementation of the Swaminathan Commission Report for fixing the minimum support price of different crops.Farmer leader Satnam Singh Ajnala said their fight was to get guaranteed remunerative prices of crops which could be ensured with the implementation of the Swaminathan Commission’s report. He said farmers also needed subsidy on diesel as it is widely used for agricultural equipment.The farmer leaders stated that the protest would continue till three laws are scrapped. They said the government was concerned with the interests of the corporate houses than with the livelihood of majority of the population which is directly or indirectly still dependent on agriculture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/implement-swaminathan-commission-report-168956
11-11-2020||---||Amritsar residents come out in support of green Diwali||Amritsar, November 10Vigilant residents in the city have favoured green Diwali and called upon people to shun crackers for the sake of environment.Former health minister Lakshmi Kanta Chawla said even as the state government permitted the bursting of firecrackers but people must shun or curtail this habit. She said it would bring down the pollution and provide clean air to Covid patients.She suggested that people could invest the money saved from firecrackers on buying sweets for those who do not have enough savings to buy it themselves.Kulwant Singh Ankhi, former principal, said: “Green firecrackers must replace the traditional ones which emanate lethal gases such as barium nitrate, aluminium, ash, red lead, copper oxide and lithium. The new crackers promise to reduce emission by cutting down on the use of harmful chemicals to reduce particulate matter emissions by at least 30 per cent upon bursting.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-come-out-in-support-of-green-diwali-168957
11-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Encroachments lead to jams during rush hours in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 10Tall claims of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) to provide hassle-free movement to commuters during the festive season have fallen flat.Reason: Shopkeepers and traders were busy displaying their products by encroaching upon the footpaths and roads in the city. Narrow streets in the walled city get more congested after haphazard parking and encroachments by shopkeepers.The footpaths at Hall Bazaar, Mashi Mandi, Rambagh, Katra Ahluwalia and Katra Jaimal Singh face similar issue. Despite anti-encroachment drive of the MC held in the last couple of days, the situation on the ground remains the same.Not just street vendors, even shopkeepers could be seen displaying their goods on the roadside to catch attention of visitors, which often leads to massive traffic jams in the city. As a result, commuters get stuck for hours during the rush hours.“The MC should take stern action against violators. When civic body teams visit markets, shopkeepers remove their products, but as soon as they leave the area, traders again display their goods. Heavy penalty and legal action can give some respite from encroachments,” said Kuljit Singh, a resident.JP Singh, a resident of New Amritsar, said, “Shopkeepers should not encroach upon the markets as residents avoid visiting crowded places. They should ensure congestion- free markets so that more customers visit them.” Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said they were regularly removing encroachments and violators would not go scot-free. He urged shopkeepers not to display their goods on corridors or footpaths.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachments-lead-to-jams-during-rush-hours-in-amritsar-168959
11-11-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Devoid of adequate width, this stretch is choking commuters||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, November 10Driving on the 26 km stretch originating from Gurdaspur and ending at Mukerian, where it joins the four-laneJammu-Pathankot-Jalandhar national highway, is a no less than riding on way to the gates of hell because more accidents occur on the road as compared to any other in the district.To complicate matters, the authorities are unable to decide if it is a fit case to be converted into a four-lane highway or not. For the last several decades, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been mulling over the throroughfare, to take it from the state PWD and converting it into a national highway. Unfortunately, the design has never travelled beyond the blueprint.In 2007, then Gurdaspur MP Vinod Khanna managed to get funds from NABARD to construct a kilometer long bridge on stretch over the river Beas. Suddenly, it became the one of most sought after roads, particularly for sugarcane farmers, as it considerably reduced the distance between Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur by three hours. Earlier, in its absence, commuters had to take the circuitous Gurdaspur-Batala-Hoshiarpur route or had to cross the Beas on rickety boats.Truckers going to J&K from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi also preferred to take this road instead of the Mukerian-Pathankot highway. However, the heavy traffic birthed cracks and potholes leading to accidents. Since 2012, it’s the condition started deteriorating. Truckers refrained and instead started taking long detours to reach their respective destinations. Even army men travelling to Tibri Cantonment, 6 km from Gurdaspur, were wary.In 2017, when the Kartarpur Corridor was conceptualised, officials calculated that on an average, 10,000 devotees would visit Dera Baba Nanak everyday and more than half would use this road. It was at the time NHAI again evinced interest and decided to make it a four-laned course. However, their officials decided to keep the corridor open to see the rush the road could take and then take appropriate steps accordingly. However, once the Kartarpur Corridor opened, not many people were willing to go to Kartarpur for an assortment of reasons. Keeping this in view, the four-laned project was relegated to the sidelines.The PWD, which is responsible for its upkeep, acts only when some VIP uses the road. In 2018, when CM Capt Amarinder Singh was to visit Gurdaspur, PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla sanctioned a grant of Rs7.33 crore for re-carpeting. “The need of the hour is to get the passage widened. The traffic density is increasing with every passing day,” said Manmohan Singh, PWD Executive Engineer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/devoid-of-adequate-width-this-stretch-is-choking-commuters-168961
11-11-2020||---||Railway police personnel booked for drug peddling||Amritsar, November 10The CIA staff of the Amritsar police have booked a Head Constable posted with the Government Railway Police (GRP) and nabbed two persons for allegedly possessing 1-kg smack.The accused have been identified as Kuljit Singh of GRP, Vinod Kumar, a resident of Maqboolpura, and Raj Kumar Tita of Gawalmandi area.Assistant Commissioner of Police Harminder Singh said the CIA staff nabbed Kumar at a checkpoint in Dhapai area. During search, cops recovered 1 kg of smack from him. Preliminary interrogation revealed that the accused had purchased the contraband from Tita. “A raid was conducted to nab Tita. The police found that Tita had bought the contraband from Kuljit,” said the Assistant Commissioner of Police.Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, In-charge, CIA staff, said raids were being conducted to arrest Kuljit. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the trio and investigations were underway to expose the entire nexus, said Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railway-police-personnel-booked-for-drug-peddling-168962
11-11-2020||---||Over 14,000 sedative pills seized, two held||Amritsar, November 10The rural police have seized over 14,000 sedative pills and arrested two persons in separate incidents.The Kathunangal police arrested Avtar Singh of Pakharpura village, while his accomplice Gursahib Singh of Sahnewali village, managed to flee. Kirandeep Singh, SHO Kathunangal police station and investigating officer, said Sub-Inspector Harmit Singh, who was at a checkpoint on GT Road near Begewal village, got a tip-off that both accused were involved in selling intoxicants.He said Avtar Singh, who was travelling on a bike, was intercepted at the checkpoint. During search, the police recovered 10,200 intoxicating tablets from him. He could not produce the sale or purchase documents of the pills. He said his accomplice Gursahib Singh fled from the scene and raids were on to nab him.Similarly, the Chatiwind police arrested Ranjit Singh of Joure village in Tarn Taran from the Varpal village bus stop. According to the police, he was driving a bike and tried to speed away on seeing the police. Nevertheless, his scooter slipped and he was held by the cops. The police confiscated 4,000 intoxicating tablets from him. He did not have any documents regarding the seized pills.The rural police said two separate FIRs under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered regarding the two seizures. He said further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-14-000-sedative-pills-seized-two-held-168963
11-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||By making & selling kites, Naman Sood is preparing to soar again||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, NOVEMBER 10Naman Sood lost the job of a manager at a restaurant in Ludhiana during the lockdown. He was not alone — 10 other staff members were also shown the door, much to their disappointment.Naman Sood, A former restaurant managerBack at restaurant, I used to handle around 40 customers daily. It started last month but I haven't received a call from my employer despite the fact that I have been with them for over three years. But seemingly, it doesn't matter anymore — as of now. Rendered unemployed, he was aware that the hard-hitting times would floor him if an alternative isn’t found soon. As time dragged on; more was slipping from his hands, he thought it was best to restart the business of making kites. A skill he had learnt from his father in childhood. His father ran a shop at Shakti Nagar area in the walled city. The 31-year-old, following in his father’s footsteps, rented a shop at Rs3,000 per month on the Dhapai road and invested all savings on buying raw material to make kites. And this bailed him out of choppy waters.“The season of kite flying starts with winter setting in; and touches the peak in no time,” he says, before outlining his future plans, “the rest of the year I could make and stock kites.”After going ahead with the business, he also started now buying ‘made in Jaipur’ kites, which are popular for low cost and fine quality. “I don’t think I will need to buy from the next season,” since it could curtail his investment.Back at restaurant, he used to handle around 40 customers daily. It started last month but he did not receive a call from his employer despite the fact he had been with them for over three years. But seemingly, it doesn’t matter anymore – as of now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/by-making-selling-kites-naman-sood-is-preparing-to-soar-again-168964
