11-10-2020||---||Hathras case: Partial bandh observed in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 10A partial bandh was observed in the city as major markets remained closed on the strike call given by Valmiki organisations.These organisations are seeking justice for the family of “Manisha” Valmiki, who was gangraped and murdered in Hathras.Routine life was thrown out of gear as all commercial markets, establishments, including shops downed their shutters acceding to the bandh call to impress upon the government to deliver justice.Activists of some organisations enforced bandh in various parts of the city. The strike passed off peacefully with no untoward incident being reported. Commercial hubs of the city, including wholesale textile markets such as Katra Ahluwalia, Shastri market, Tahli Wala Bazaar, Pratap Bazaar and nearby streets, were closed.Similarly, stationery items market, Mai Sewa Wala Bazaar, gold and silver ornaments’ market Guru Bazaar, Bhandiyan Wala Bazaar, Chaurasti Attari and BattiHatta were also closed. Grain markets such as Daal Mandi, Mishri Bazaar, Swank Mandi, Wadi Dhab, Dhab Wasti Ram, Lachchmansar Chowk and surrounding areas were also found to be completely shut due to the bandh.Meanwhile, a large number of markets re-opened in the evening.Activists of the Vishav Valmiki Dharam Samaj Sangathan held a sit-in and hunger strike at Bhandari Raiwlay overbridge. Addressing them, Ravinder Hans, Convener of Phule Ambedkar Joint Action Committee, asked the Yogi Adityanath government of UP to ensure justice to the family.In a separate protest, members of the Accredited social health activist (ASHA) Workers Facilitators Union, Majitha Block, along with activists of the Central Industrial Trade Union (CITU) held a protesting march in the Putlighar area.Bandh evokes mixed response in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The Punjab Bandh call given by the Dalit organisations against the Hathras (Uttar Pradesh) episode, in which a Dalit girl was brutally assaulted and gang-raped, evoked a mixed response here on Saturday. Shopkeepers and other commercial establishments downed their shutters for a few hours. The workers of the Dalit organisations, led by Manjit Singh Mintoo, organised a march in the bazaars of the town. The protesting workers blocked road at the local Chaunk Bohri and burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath. The protesters condemned the atrocities against the Dalit sections, especially women, in the country and stressed on the need for a nationwide struggle with the assistance of minorities communities. The bandh evoked mixed response in other parts of the district as well. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hathras-case-partial-bandh-observed-in-amritsar-153874
11-10-2020||---||Shunted out Covid care staff protest, demand regular jobs||Amritsar, October 10The volunteers engaged by the state government to manage Covid care centres whose services were ended recently staged a protest demanding that they should be provided regular jobs. The government had recently ended the services of around 110 volunteers, staff nurses, attendants and other paramedics working at Covid care centre set up at Meritorious School.Four die, 69 test positive in AmritsarAmritsar: The district health authorities have reported four deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday with which the toll reached 411. With 69 new positive cases, the total count of positive patients has also increased to 11,090. The new cases include 38 influenza like illness cases and 31 contacts of positive patients. The district authorities have also reported recovery of 121 more patients with which the recovery count has increased to 9,853. At present, the district has a total of 826 active cases. TNSThe employees who had been working for around five months at the centre were relieved by the authorities as part of the state government’s policy to wind up the centres in view of the decreased workload. The protesters alleged that they had worked for the positive patients when nobody was ready to go near them.“Instead of rewarding us for our services the government has rendered us jobless. While working for Covid-19 patients we could not even go home and stayed at hostels. We hoped that the government would honour corona warriors,” said an employee Priya.The employees complained that while their services have been ended, the government is planning to employee paramedics in health institutions. They demanded that they should be adjusted against vacant posts so that they could remain employed. The agitating workers also submitted a memorandum of their demands to the DC office requesting the state government to consider their case for regular employment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shunted-out-covid-care-staff-protest-demand-regular-jobs-153876
11-10-2020|| ---||Anita Mehra is principal of DAV Public School||Amritsar, October 10 Anita Mehra has joined as the new principal of the DAV Public School, Lawrence Road.  Her educational career spans over 31 years, with 27 years dedicated to DAV. Before joining as the principal at DAV Public School in 2020, she worked as a teacher at Police DAV Public School from 1993-2000 and from 2001-2014 at DAV Public School,  Amritsar.  In 2014 she was promoted as principal at DRB DAV Centenary Public School. A welcome ceremony was held at the school in her honour. Simmi Kalia, teacher In charge handed over the baton to her in the presence of the Regional Officer Punjab Zone –  A, Dr Neelam Kamra.  Anita Mehra stated that she was honoured to serve DAV Public School, Amritsar, as the principal and pledged to build upon the foundations of excellence laid before her to provide the best comprehensive experience and aim for the best.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anita-mehra-is-principal-of-dav-public-school-153878
11-10-2020||Neha Saini||Guru Nanak Sacred Forest at GNDU will be a self-sustaining ecosystem: Expert||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10As each passing day raises alarm bells for the planet’s health, the concept of creating tiny urban forests seems to be picking up, thanks to the Japanese Miyawaki Technique of creating dense, small forests within small spaces. GNDU, city’s most green belt, too has dedicated two acres of land for creating a sacred forest that will, according to the horticulture consultant and environmentalist JS Bilga, become a solution to increasing air pollution around the GT Road.“The project to create the Guru Nanak Sacred Forest inside the campus was an initiative taken by VC Jaspal Sandhu, who was concerned about the increasing air pollution around the GT Road. The BRTS project had sacrificed green cover along the GT Road and surrounding areas. With the sacred forest, we are trying to create a healthy green cover to saturate and regulate the air pollution levels,” said Bilga, who is heading the project. The Sacred Forest project was launched last year to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. The forest space is being created not exactly on the similar pattern of Miyawaki technique.“Miyawaki technique limits to creating green belt in small urban spaces, where trees grow in height and not breadth. We are trying to create forest based on traditional methods here, planting indigenous species that create a self-sustaining eco-system around them. Like the banyan tree that can spread up to one acre of land or the peepal tree that supports the life of shrubs and insect species around it. The forest will also have water bodies and birds and insect species to complete the forest ecosystem,” said Bilga.He has been working as a consultant with Baba Sewa Singh, a Padam Shree environment activist, who is providing support to create the Sacred Forest. His foundation has planted 2,450 trees of native varieties for the forest and will contribute more. The District Forest Department too has announced its support to the development of the forest inside the GNDU campus.The forest will have a combination of shady trees, fruit trees, flower trees and medicinal plants. Bilga said the forest would have native varieties of trees, including trivaini (bohar, peepal and neem), sandalwood, jand, tahli, desi kicker, shahitut, arjun, gullar, dharek, mango, jamun. “The idea is not just to create a green space, but also to preserve and nurture our green wealth and heritage. The forest will be one-of-its-kind in the region,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-sacred-forest-at-gndu-will-be-a-self-sustaining-ecosystem-expert-153879
11-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Two held with 155-gm heroin||The district police on Friday arrested two persons and seized 155 grams of heroin from their possession. A police party of the anti-narcotics cell, led by ASI Baljinder Singh, arrested Baljinder Singh of Ludhiana from Jhander village on the Tarn Taran-Goindwal Sahib road and seized 135-gm heroin from his possession. The accused has been booked under the NDPS Act. A team of the Valtoha police arrested Salwinder Singh of Wara Telian village with 20 gm of heroin. The accused purchased the heroin from Rana, a resident of Patti, who is at large. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-155-gm-heroin-153881
11-10-2020||Amritsar||Cyber fraud: Residents of Jharkhand, West Bengal booked||The Tarsikka police have booked two persons from Jharkhand and West Bengal for fraudulently transferring over Rs 5 lakh from the bank account of a local resident Randeep Singh of Chatiwind Lehal village.The case was registered following a probe by the cyber wing of police.Randeep Singh filed a complaint with the police on August 24 alleging that the accused fraudulently transferred Rs 5.27 lakh from his account. The case was transferred to the cyber wing of rural police.Following the probe, the police booked Junaid Ansari of Jharkhand and Motahan Hussain of West Bangal. Harpal Singh, Investigating Officer, said that a case under Sections 420, 120-B of the IPC and Sections 66 (C) and 66 (D) of the Information Technology Act was registered against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cyber-fraud-residents-of-jharkhand-west-bengal-booked-153882
11-10-2020||Amritsar||Sarchand Singh appears before Akal Takht||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarchand-singh-appears-before-akal-takht-153883
11-10-2020||Amritsar||Hospital to get healthcare aid||On the eve of the International Day of the Girl Child, Hyatt Regency Amritsar volunteered to set up and aid Bhai Mohkam Singh Satellite Hospital with a geyser for labor room, beds for the patient ward and an automatic hand sanitiser machine that enables contactless hand sanitisation process for the patients and doctors keeping in mind the pandemic.   Kamaljit Singh, general manager, Hyatt Regency, said, “ As a community we need to stand by each other in whichever way possible. Thus the International Day of the Girl Child enables us to share the load with Bhai Mohkam Singh Satellite Hospital and aid them with utmost necessary commodities that ensure a safe and comfortable stay for the soon to be mothers”. Dr Ritika Sohal, Medical Officer at Bhai Mohkam Singh Satellite Hospital welcomed the the  voluntary support. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hospital-to-get-healthcare-aid-153884
11-10-2020||---||Website preserves World War Sikh soldiers’ history||Amritsar, October 10Dedicated to the contribution of Sikh soldiers who laid their lives in two World Wars, a website was launched by the members of the Shaheed Welfare Society. The website will provide vital information through videos, photographs and articles to people online regarding the martyrs’ role WWI and WWII and their contribution to the democratic values in Europe and other countries during the time.In a ceremony organised at Sultanwind village, Gurinder Singh Mahal and Harjap Singh, who is also member of the SGPC, joined several eminent historians including Bhupinder Singh Holland to launch the website. Holland is an eminent historian and author, who has written books on the history of Sikh Soldiers during WWI and WWII. He, along with Dutch historian Dr Dominic, has contributed research material for the website.Holland, who joined the launching ceremony online from Netherlands said the purpose of the website, www.vishavyudhsultanwind.org, to provide consolidated information platform to people on the role of the Sikhs in World Wars.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/website-preserves-world-war-sikh-soldiers-history-153885
11-10-2020||---||Restore Bhangi Misl Baradari, say activists||Amritsar, October 10Activists working for the preservation of heritage buildings met District Tourism Officer and demanded the restoration of Baradari of Karam Singh Chhina at Ajnala. The Baradari is located at Chhina Karam Singh village on Ajnala-Chogawan RoadMichael Rahul, an activist stated that the nearly 250-year-old precious heritage Baradari of Bhangi Misl in Ajnala of District Amritsar Sahib was on the verge of extinction. “Earlier, we wrote to the Chief Minister of Punjab to save this Baradari, but no avail. Now, we have submitted a letter to Gursharan Singh, District Tourism Officer, Amritsar. We demanded restoration of great heritage of warriors of Bhangi Misl”.District Tourism officer assured to activists to make the effort to save this Baradari. “This heritage building is very beautiful and a rare example of Sikh architecture. It can be preserved and developed as a heritage site. There is great potential of tourism in the district but government should make the effort to preserve it and develop it as tourist destination”, added MichaelKaram Singh Chhina was one of the famous Bhangi Misl Commanders, who conquered Lahore. The village Chhina Karma Singh has been named after him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/restore-bhangi-misl-baradari-say-activists-153886
11-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Rebooting workout: Exercise, sanitise, mind the gap, repeat!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 10The good news for fitness freaks was announced as early as August 5 when the government allowed gymnasiums to operate. However, the scenes witnessed are no more the same as before the pandemic. Thermal screening, limited entries and regular sanitisation of equipment are some of the mandates being strictly covered not only by the owners but also the members enrolled.Ever since the government allowed opening of gyms, we are taking every precautionary measure as per the guidelines to ensure safety and security of our clients. We have even lowered the number of clients in each batch. Earlier, around 35-40 people could workout at a time. Now, it is half the strength for a 60-70 minute shift for a batch. The exercise regime of each member has also been tweaked so that necessary physical distance is automatically maintained. Even the number of equipment was also reduced.- A gym owner"It seems odd but we know it is for our safety and now we have to live with this," says Gurpreet Singh, a regular at Fitness Hangover, a gym located on GT Road in Chheharta area here. "During the lockdown, we dearly missed gyming even as we continued to exercise at home to remain fit," he is relieved.Manjinder Singh Gill, owner of the gym, says, "Ever since the government allowed opening of gyms, we are taking every precautionary measures as per guidelines to ensure safety and security of our clients."To tighten the screws more, he has lowered the number of clients in each batch. Earlier, around 35-40 people could gym at a time. "Now, it is half the strength for a 60-70 minute shift for a batch," he tells, adding that the exercise regime of each member has also been tweaked so that necessary physical distance is automatically maintained. Even the number of equipments was also reduced for the similar reason.Moreover, every client has also been advised to bring their own water bottle and a small towel. "We don't allow entry to a client with towel nowadays," he quips.Sanjiv Kumar, head trainer, emphasises that the body temperature of every customer is checked besides thorough sanitisation through fogging. “The machines are sanitised after every single use," he says, before drawing an example, "if a customer uses treadmill for 15 minutes, our workers keep a check and sanitise it before the other client uses it." Unsurprisingly, not many were interested in returning to gym even as restrictions were lifted by the government. So, what was his move? “In order to motivate people, we have reduced our annual and monthly packages," Manjinder says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rebooting-workout-exercise-sanitise-mind-the-gap-repeat-153891
11-10-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar couple, man kill self; blame police in suicide notes||Three persons, including a couple, took their lives here today. Interestingly, the victims in their suicide notes blamed police officials for taking the extreme step.The deceased have been identified as Rajinder Kumar, his wife Sunita Mannan, both residents of the Sundar Nagar area, and Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky. Kumar and his wife were upset over alleged police inaction in arresting their son-in-law Nitin Dutta, who allegedly killed their daughter Sarika Mannan in 2015. In a suicide note, the couple alleged the police had failed to nab Dutta over the past five years. Besides, the note read the latter’s parents, who were arrested on the charge of dowry death, had come out on bail after serving three-and-a-half years in prison.The Mohkampura police had done a “shoddy” probe into the matter, read the note, adding that Nitin’s family knew about his whereabouts, but the police weren’t questioning them.The deceased’s son, Sandeep Kumar, has demanded the arrest of Dutta, his parents and other suspects involved in the crime. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said it was wrong to blame the police, as following their probe, Nitin’s parents were sentenced to seven years of imprisonment by the court. Nitin was declared a proclaimed offender in the case and efforts were on to nab him, he added.In another incident, Vicky of Nawapind village on the Mehta road took his life in a hotel room located on the Batala road here. A suicide note recovered from the scene held a woman sub-inspector responsible for driving him to suicide.The note read he was perturbed as the cop was blackmailing him. Besides, she had taken Rs 18 lakh from him in the past. The family of the deceased alleged SI Sandeep Kaur had been harassing him for some time. The police said a case of abetment to suicide had been filed against the SI. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-couple-man-kill-self-blame-police-in-suicide-notes-153968
