11-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Commuters still reluctant to return to public transport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10Even though the restrictions on public transport were removed around two months ago, public and private bus operators are yet to recover from the Covid blow as the number of passengers being allowed in a bus is still very low.The buses being operated by the Punjab Roadways have registered extremely low passengers. The other operators in the public and private sector are also facing similar problems.The government, after initial relaxations in the lockdown, had allowed the buses to operate at 50 per cent capacity. However, with time, even these restrictions were removed.The bus operators said people are still afraid of travelling in buses. “The fear of contracting the virus is still visible. We are running with one third occupancy on most of the local routes. The situation is even worst in Himachal. The HP Government has imposed several restrictions. They don’t allow more than 25 passengers in a 52-seater bus. The passengers also avoiding to buses,” said Gurpreet Singh, a bus conductor.The private operators too have limited their operations keeping in view of less number of passengers. It has also been seen that bus operators and passengers are also not following the safety guidelines as recommended by the government. The bus staff and passengers do not wear masks as required.As per the government directives, wearing face mask is compulsory and flouting the orders could result in Rs 1,000 fine. Most of the passengers are reluctant to wear masks. Even the bus employees who were seen wearing face masks till August have are now showing a laidback attitude about following the protocol. “Most of the time drivers wear mask to avoid the challan,” said another roadways employee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/commuters-still-reluctant-to-return-to-public-transport-182738
11-12-2020||---||29 shops sealed in Nehru Shopping complex||Amritsar, December 10In a major action against the defaulters who had not paid their rent for the last few years, the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) sealed a total of 29 shops in Nehru Shopping Complex on Lawrence Road here on Thursday. The sealed shops include one allotted to a woman leader of the SAD who was running the office of SAD (women wing) from the shop.Officials of the AIT stated that many of the shopkeepers who had been allotted these shops had not paid their rents for the last around eight years. The accumulative rent due against each of the defaulter (shopkeeper) ran into crores as each shop has pending dues ranging from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh.The shops in Nehru Shopping Complex, one of the first commercial markets developed by the Improvement Trust, are given on lease on the basis of political considerations. It is no secret that the persons who are allotted these shops by the AIT stop paying the rent after a few months of the allotment and as the matter reaches court, they continue to have a free run till an action similar to the one taken today happens.Shamsher Singh, a JE with the AIT who led the operation, said they had prepared a list of 34 defaulters. He said while the shops under the possession of defaulters had been sealed, those who owed small payments had given affidavits and assured to clear the dues in one month. He said the entire operation remained peaceful as they had gone to the place along with all the records.AIT Chairman Dinesh Bassi said, “The shops have been sealed. After recovering the dues from the defaulters, the trust would allot these to shopkeepers on a merit basis.” He said the wrongs which had been committed during the regimes of the previous governments had been corrected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/29-shops-sealed-in-nehru-shopping-complex-182739
11-12-2020||---||DSP’s car recovered near Bhagtanwala market||Amritsar, December 10 Two days after the sensational snatching of a car at gunpoint from Deputy Superintendent of Police Sikander Singh, the police on Thursday recovered the car from near the Bhagtanwala grain market.The police authorities also released CCTV grabs of the three suspects of carjacking. At present, DSP Sikander Singh is posted with the Special Task Force.The incident has raised a question mark over the law and order situation in the city. He was going to a private clinic in the Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area near Putlighar at around 7am when unidentified persons snatched the car at gunpoint.DSP Sikander Singh was suffering from pain in the leg and having physiotherapy at the clinic. He came alone in his car (PB-02-CG-5026). The accused intercepted him near the clinic and threatened to shoot him while pointing a gun. They asked him to come out of the car. As he came out, they sped away in his car. He also had his pistol, uniform and other important documents in the car.Following the incident, the police sounded an alert and entry and exit points were sealed. After examining CCTV footage, the police suspected that the accused had not gone out of the city and that they might have hid the car in the city. The police also took technical help to crack the case.A Special Task Force was also investigating the robbery at their level.Assistant Commissioner of Police Dev Dutt Sharma said further investigation was on to identify and nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dsps-car-recovered-near-bhagtanwala-market-182741
11-12-2020||Amritsar||3 die of virus, 69 new cases in Amritsar distrct||GND varsity inks pact with CSEAmritsar: The Centre for Sustainable Habitat (CSH) of Guru Nanak Dev University signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Centre of Science and Environment (CSE), New Delhi, to share knowledge and conduct need-based collaborative research and capacity building to address various issues and challenges occurring in environment of cities and villages. Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, V-C, GNDU, said, “The CSE will act as a knowledge partner of the CSH to help mainstream sustainability concerns in the built environment to attain sustainable development goals. A state-of-the-art research lab will be established in the university to carry on the inter-disciplinary research work.” TNSTwo held with 5 kg of opiumTarn Taran: A team of the CIA staff, Patti, led by Sub-Inspector Sukhraj Singh, arrested two persons of Rajasthan with 5 kg of opium. The police said the suspects had been identified as Dheeraj Singh, alias Sonu, of Matonda village, (District Booti) and Mandeep Singh of Ratta Bardaa (Booti). According to the police, the suspects were in a Safari car No RJ-07, UB-6258 near Gohalwar village on Tarn Taran-Amritsar road today when the intoxicating material was recovered from their possession. The police have filed a case under Sections 18, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. ocLabourers hold demonstrationTarn Taran: On the occasion of International Human Rights Day, labourers, including women, under the banner of the Dalit Dastan Virodhi Andolan held a demonstration in front of the DAC here on Thursday. The aim was to highlight inequality and discrimination being faced by weaker sections of society. While addressing on the occasion, speakers stressed on the need to review minimum wages of daily wagers, withdraw the orders to take back the letter regarding increasing labour wages, provide drinking water, provision of toilets at the brick kilns and fix Rs 361.39 daily for MGNREGA workers. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-die-of-virus-69-new-cases-in-amritsar-distrct-182742
11-12-2020||---||40 get loan for self-employment||Amritsar, December 10The District Bureau of Employment and Enterprising (DBEE) is carrying out a series of employment fairs. Covering rural blocks, including Jandiala Guru, in the initial phase, these fairs will act as a linkage platform for all government-run employment schemes.One such job fair held at Jandiala Guru on Thursday had 150 applicants seeking the approval of several self-employment schemes by the Central and state governments. Forty applicants were facilitated for on-the-spot loan approval of up to Rs 4 lakh under welfare schemes like Mudra, Stand India and others.Vikramjit, deputy director, DBEE, said the purpose of these job fairs was to bridge the gap between benefactors and public/private agencies for push towards self-reliance. “We have been carrying out a series of job fairs to facilitate skilled and non-skilled category of employment seekers towards self-reliance. We have set a target to provide self-employment to 7,800 applicants till December 31. Of them, we have already facilitated 3,750 people. The initiative has been launched all across Punjab and the government will disburse Rs 2,000 crore as credit for self-employment goals,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/40-get-loan-for-self-employment-182743
11-12-2020||---||ASI suicide: SHO shifted to Police Lines||Amritsar, December 10 Days after an Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Gurnam Singh committed suicide following harassment at the hands of his senior colleagues, the SHO, Chheharta police station, has been shifted to the Police Lines here.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill has transferred over 150 policemen in an attempt to curb the rising crime so far. Though police officials claim that it is a routine transfer, sources say senior officials are not happy with how the case was handled that forced the ASI to take the extreme step.ASI Gurnam Singh had nabbed ASI Manjit Singh, in-charge, Lawrence Road police chowki, with a woman allegedly in a compromising position. He had raided the residence of the suspect following a complaint by residents of Dhakka colony.Besides Manjit Singh, others who were booked in the case were Amrit Lal, Aarti, Meenu, Rajni, Puja and Bablu. Four members of the family were arrested who were sent to judicial remand now. However, Manjit Singh was still on the run. His mobile was switched off and he had gone underground.Police authorities said raids were on to nab Manjit Singh.ASI Gurnam Singh ended his life by consuming some poisonous substance on Saturday. He was allegedly put up in the lock-up of the Khandwala police chowki by his seniors after he arrested ASI Manjit Singh with the woman and later took him to the police chowki.The police have already placed SI Sarvan Singh of the Khandwala police chowki under suspension and investigation was on to ascertain his role. A probe was being carried out by a team headed by ADCP Sandeep Malik. Rajwinder Kaur was also a member of the SIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-suicide-sho-shifted-to-police-lines-182745
11-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Farmers' skill-set comes to the fore||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10Decades of training in organising langars and use of tractor-trailers for travelling to religious places, including Anandpur Sahib has came in handy for the farming community to sustain the ongoing agitation against the three farm laws in Delhi.Protesting farmers left for Delhi on tractor-trailers instead of their cars. “Tractor-trailers are economical and more suitable for long journeys. We are using trailers to ferry ration, sleep and keep our belongings safe,” said Sukhbir Singh, a farmer.Those from villages often embark on a week-long trip to religious places at far-flung places on tractor-trailers. Additionally, every village organises langar on ‘Sangrand’ and on Gurpurabs.In the last few years, the community had been facing criticism from certain factions for organising langars. Critics suggested that resources could be used for more productive purposes. However, in the ongoing agitation, the experience in cooking has helped the farming community.Harwinder Singh, another farmer, said, in Punjab cooking is usually the domain of women, but men do not hesitate when it comes to langar. “You can see male sevadars preparing dishes at every langar,” he said.Apart from trailers, some farmers also reached the protest venue on their cars. However, they depend on their counterparts when it comes to sleeping at night.“Sleeping in car is difficult as you cannot lie down. We sleep in trailers and remain fresh,” said Inderpreet Singh, a farmer protesting in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-skill-set-comes-to-the-fore-182747
11-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Ex-serviceman-turned farmer to return award||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 10Perturbed over the indifferent attitude of the PM Narendra Modi-led NDA government towards farmers who had been protesting in Delhi against the three agri laws, national award winning farmer, Major Manmohan Singh Verka (retd), threatened to return his award.Verka had been conferred three awards in horticulture. He is the only person from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand to get three awards. An ex-serviceman-turned-farmer, Verka said, he along with several other national award winners would soon return the award to the Union Agriculture Minister.“It is very disturbing that the farming community has to hit the roads for their survival while the Centre has adopted an adamant attitude towards their demand of scrapping the three agri laws,” he said. Verka said the government should immediately announce withdrawal of these newly enacted laws, which would help the corporate houses.“I talked to the national award winning farmers in the region. We have decided to return the awards,” he said.After a service of 21 years in the Indian Army, Verka took premature retirement in 1990, but started full-time farming only in 1998.Right from the beginning, he was been inclined towards horticulture. He grew orchard on 25 acres and since then there has been no looking back for him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-serviceman-turned-farmer-to-return-award-182785
