12-05-2020||GS Paul||Nowhere to go, they sleep under open sky||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 11Amid lockdown, more than 100 people, including migrant labourers and a few tourists from various parts of UP, MP, Bihar, West Bengal and Punjab, had no other option but to stay under the open sky in the Guru Bazaar area, a few yards away from the Golden Temple.For the past one-and-a-half months, they have been spending nights at the entrance of closed shops under the projection. For food, earlier they used to go to the shrine’s kitchen. But now, with restrictions on the access to the shrine, they are dependant on NGOs, who regularly visit them to provide food.A majority of them appeared to be destitute, who used to sleep on the Golden Temple’s entrance plaza. The police might have dragged them out. With nowhere else to go, they also assembled at Guru Bazaar streets.An SGPC official preferring anonymity said they could not be accommodated at the inns, as these have been spared for Covid-19 suspected patients, who have to undergo quarantine process or for accommodating doctors, nurses and allied staff deputed to take care of patients. Yet, they could be accommodated at Raen Basera. Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill had assured to take up the matter with the administration, but in vain.Nonetheless, substantial number were also those who came to the Holy City to do petty jobs, besides tourists, who could not get accommodation in guest houses or hotels, as they were short of money. They said in the absence of any transport, they were unable to go back home and forced to sleep in the open.Sri Ram from Indore (MP), who showed the gate pass of Jallianwala Bagh, said he had come to Amritsar as he was engaged in the renovation and restoration work at this historic site.“After the lockdown, the work, too, has been suspended till June 15. The contractor terminated my services. I, along with my several other colleagues from UP and Bihar, are stuck here,” he said.Ajay and five other labourers who said they came from Mathura, while Anil Kumar Pandey from Banaras, claimed that they came as visitors. “The guest house owner refused to accommodate us for want of money. So, we came here in the open. Even ‘sulabh shauchalayas (public toilets) have been locked. We answer nature’s call in the open,” they said.Similarly, Ajay and Neeraj from Ludhiana said they used to work as waiters in parties, but after the lockdown, the events have been cancelled and their contractor deserted them. “We used to live in shared accommodation here, but the owner got it vacated,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nowhere-to-go-they-sleep-under-open-sky-83675
12-05-2020||---||Pharmacists, nurses demand regular jobs, threaten boycott||Amritsar, May 11Both pharmacists working at rural dispensaries and nurses working at the Government Medical College staged protests here on Monday and demanded regular jobs amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. They said they had been working as frontline workers and should be treated with dignity.Protesting under the banner of Rural Pharmacy Officers Association, the pharmacists said they had been rendering their services at meagre salaries for the past 14 years. Kamaljit Chohan, the vice-president of the Pharmacy Officers Association, said: “All pharmacists are working as part of rapid response teams. We aren’t sure if we are eligible for the Rs 50-lakh insurance in case we die while performing our duty as we work under the Zila Parishad and not the Health Department.” He said if the state government fails to regularise their services in 10 days, they would boycott all Covid-related duties.The nurses, too, said they had been on a monthly salary of Rs 10,300 for the past 10 years and in the times of crisis, a majority of them had been deployed at wards, where Covid patients had been admitted. Dilraj Kaur, a nurse, said: “The government states that it has given us the Rs50-lakh insurance scheme, but we will get that amount only if we die performing our duty. We want to be treated with dignity when alive.” The employees, who also included Class IV workers, ancillary staff and others, demanded that they all should be given regular jobs. The nurses also demanded that the employees regularised recently and those still working on probation be paid full salaries. They said they would boycott all emergency duties if the government fails to accept their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pharmacists-nurses-demand-regular-jobs-threaten-boycott-83676
12-05-2020||---||7 booked for harbouring smugglers||Amritsar, May 11Three days after the arrest of notorious cross-border smuggler, Ranjit Singh Cheeta,the police have tightened the noose around absconding smugglers.The Gharinda police have booked seven members of alleged drug peddlers’ families for harbouring smugglers.The suspects are Sukhdev Singh, Manjit Kaur, Kanwaljit Kaur, Simranjit Kaur, Rajbir Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur, all residents of Moude village, and Joginder Singh of Dalleke village, situated near the Indo-Pak border.Attari DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota said the suspects were relatives of Ajaypal Singh, Saraj Singh and Shamsher Singh, who were booked for smuggling of drugs and weapons from across the international border with the help of drones. According to information, Sukhdev is the father of Ajaypal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-booked-for-harbouring-smugglers-83677
12-05-2020||---||9 new cases, Amritsar count 296 now||Amritsar, May 11With nine new cases, the total count of Covid-19 patients in the district has reached 296. The district health authorities had received eight positive reports late on Sunday night.Of the 160 reports received on Monday, only one patient, a returnee of Nanded, tested positive. With this, all returnees from Maharashtra, around 600, have been tested so far and at least 272 of them have tested positive.A district health official said eight other cases who have tested positive had reported directly at the Government Medical College for having symptoms similar to coronavirus, after which they were tested and found positive.Meanwhile, in a new set of home-quarantine instructions for those coming from outside the state, they would be quarantined at their homes for 14 days even if they do not show any symptoms.The Health Department advised all home-quarantined people to stay in an airy room preferably with a separate washroom and toilet. In case another family member also stays in the same room, proper distancing is required to be maintained.The home-quarantined persons have also been asked to stay away from the elderly, pregnant women and children. They are also required not to share food, utensils, towel, bed and other items with family members. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said all items used by quarantined persons should be touched after wearing proper gloves and should be sanitised regularly. He said only a healthy person who does not have any other disease should take care of such persons.Another positive case in Tarn Taran districtTarn Taran: A fresh Covid-19 positive case was reported from the district, taking tally to 162. Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the reports of 90 samples were received on Monday, of which 89 test reports were negative. As many as 500 persons kept at the six different quarantine centres in the district have been sent home so far, as their reports were negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-new-cases-amritsar-count-296-now-83678
12-05-2020||---||1698: Helpline to report domestic abuse cases||Amritsar, May 11Amid reports of a surge in domestic violence cases, a concern flagged by the WHO, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has started a round-the-clock helpline number, 1698, to lodge such complaints.The DLSA has collaborated with the District Education Department and Mount Litera Zee School to launch a programme to provide legal aid in such cases on the doorstep of the victims.“We have extended the area of our working with this programme, especially when the lockdown is in place. Earlier, people were supposed to seek legal advice from us, but now we are reaching out to them and offering assistance and representation in cases of domestic abuse. We have constituted a panel of officials and volunteers that will provide legal aid on the doorstep of the victims,” said Sumit Makkar, Chief Judicial Magistrate, DLSA.He said the victims could also use the Covid-19 response helpline, 112.“We recently provided legal assistance and rehabilitation to an elderly woman, who was thrown out of her home by her sons. Such complaints were common even before the lockdown, but the intensity has now increased," said Makkar.The programme further partners with Women Entrepreneurs For Transformation, a non-profit body, that has started ‘The Red Dot ‘ initiative under which one can identify the victim of domestic violence by a red dot on their palm and the NGO will reach out and help them.Makkar said the DLSA had been providing legal aid to 200 persons every month before the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1698-helpline-to-report-domestic-abuse-cases-83679
12-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||‘Tech has made my work easier’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 10It has been over a month since the curfew was imposed in the state to control the spread of Covid-19. Educational institutes, especially government schools, are facing a number of challenges while making new admissions and taking online classes for students.Though challenging, it has also provided an opportunity to them on how to use the technology to their benefit, feels Rekha Mahajan, Deputy District Education Officer (DEO).As schools and offices are closed, she has been taking online meetings with teachers, head teachers, cluster head teachers, mid-day meal workers and even anganwari workers to keep them motivated and pass on instructions to meet the current challenges.“I have been busy more than my usual routine before the nationwide lockdown,” she said, adding that the biggest challenge is to keep the education system running by involving every teacher and stakeholders at the ground level."The lockdown period has given me time to study the performance of every school under my jurisdiction. I have as many as 829 schools under me that are divided into clusters and blocks. I studied the data of every school, including the strength of children and teachers. I found many schools under performing and talked to the teachers and principals on video conference and discussed the ways to improve the performance,” she said."I also participate in video conferencing by seniors at the state level and pass on the instructions to the teachers and principals. We are also focusing on online admission. We are trying to ensure every child in the 6-14 age group comes to the school as per the Right to Education Act,” she said.She feels that the curfew restrictions gave them an opportunity to learn how to use the technology to their benefits. “The period also helped us in discovering new talents among the teachers and students which otherwise could not be found in the limited and routine school times,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tech-has-made-my-work-easier-83680
12-05-2020||---||Amritsar streets bustle again||Amritsar, May 11For the first time since the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, movement of people was seen on roads on Monday as the district administration permitted wholesale traders, godowns warehouses and transporters to open their shops for restricted hours.Rickshaw-pullers were seen carrying merchandise. Rahul Mahajan, a wholesale textile merchant, said many shopkeepers could not deliver orders and have left material packed in their shops. There are fear that the products might be damaged by termite and rats, he said.The district administration has prohibited the wholesale shops to entertain customers, as this may lead to congestion. The shops can be opened from 6 am to 10 am and those who do not have curfew passes have been advised to down shutters at 9:30 am to return their houses without difficulty.Piara Lal Seth, the president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said the relaxations had been given following their request and also the intervention of Cabinet Minister OP Soni. He reasoned that all rural areas had been opened but the supply chain of various products remained snapped due to the curfew in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-streets-bustle-again-83681
12-05-2020||Amritsar||6-yr-old donates pocket money to feed strays, birds||A six-year-old boy, Manhar Mahajan, has donated his pocket money for the ‘Harmony Among Humanity’ project, which is initiated to provide food and water to strays and birds during the lockdown. His mother Neha Mahajan has also been supporting the project.“Harmony Among Humanity is a programme where we volunteer to provide food and water to strays and birds. We have set up feeders and water containers in several areas for animals. We are also carrying out a drive for plantation of potted plants to encourage green havens for birds. Manhar donated his pocket money to help us buy 100 pots for plantation. He donated his pocket money as a gift for me on Mother’s Day,” said Neha, who is a social activist. Spending Rs700 on his good deed, Manhar also pledged to plant trees as a gift to Mother Nature on Mother’s Day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-yr-old-donates-pocket-money-to-feed-strays-birds-83682
12-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Special train ferrying 1,200 migrants leaves for Gonda||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 11A special train ferrying 1,200 passengers left for Gonda district from Amritsar railway station here on Monday. It was the fourth train for migrants from the Holy City.Migrant passengers came from adjoining districts also. They were screened before boarding the trains, which were sanitised.Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said four screening centres were set up to felicitate their proper health check-up.The Railways distributed masks and sanitisers to migrants boarding trains and ensured social distancing between them by limiting their numbers in coaches.Passengers did not pay for tickets, meals and water during the journey. The state government bore all the cost, while the Railways offered 85 per cent subsidy.After boarding coaches, migrants expressed gratitude. They clapped and waved at the civil and police administrative officials.Meanwhile, a group of migrants who missed the train yesterday blamed the lapse on the part of the administration, as they allegedly received the information late.Two special trains departed for Barauni in Bihar and another for Unnao on Sunday.Brij Lal, a migrant who stays on the outskirts of the city, said he received a message at 12:19 pm on Sunday asking him to appear at the Gol Bagh screening centre at 12 pm on his cell phone. He said it takes more than 40 minutes to the reach the railway station and that he had to cycle all the way. He said he was to board the train for Unnao, which departed at 6 pm.Other migrants, including Rajinder and Rakesh, said over 50 of them received late messages issued by the district administration. They said if they do not receive the permission to board a train soon now, they would be compelled to travel back.Tehsildar JP Salwan said migrants were invited to appear before the screening centres through messages over their cell phones to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing. He said if there was any complaint, the person concerned must approach the right channel to sort out his/her problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-train-ferrying-1-200-migrants-leaves-for-gonda-83683
12-05-2020||Amritsar||AITUC seeks full pay for labourers||Workers observe Demand DayTarn Taran: On a call given by the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), government employees and members of the working class protested at various places in the district and observed the Demand Day. Addressing the workers in Chabal, 16 km from here, Prithipal Singh Mari Megha, a state leader of the organisation, condemned the alleged wrong policies of the Centre and the state government that have “made the normal life of the common man miserable”. He said the governments, in the name of protecting people from Covid-19, had been taking “anti-people decisions”. Meanwhile, employees of various state government departments, too, lodged a protest at the local District Administrative Complex (DAC) and presented a memorandum to officials. Gurpreet Gandiwind, Balkar Valtoha and other leaders of employees’ organisations presented various demands. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aituc-seeks-full-pay-for-labourers-83684
12-05-2020||Aruna Chaudhary||‘Staying optimistic need of the hour’||I stay in touch with my constituents through social media platforms and phone calls. The average time I spend on my phone is eight hours, nearly double than what I used to spend during the pre-lockdown days.Covid has done one positive thing for me. It has brought me closer to my family. Cooking and playing with my two grandsons has become my latest passion. These days, I prepare a new dish every day. The kitchen has become the heart of my home.Painting was an obsession before I became an MLA for the first time in 2002. Later, the exigencies of political life forced me to change my priorities.Times have indeed changed. And with it, we, too, have to change as we prepare ourselves for a new world order.Society at large will undergo a metamorphosis, hopefully for the better. Human relations will improve. People will realise how little they need. They will understand the value of family, family time, being with their children, parents and so on and so forth. People who provide essential services, whom we always took for granted, will get their rightful place. More importance will be given to personal hygiene.The other day, I was talking to a group of students. I told them to temper fear with reason, panic with patience and uncertainty with education. We have an opportunity to learn a great deal about health, hygiene and limit the spread of innumerable transmissible diseases in our society. Let us meet this challenge together in the best spirit of compassion for others, patience, and above all, an unfailing effort to seeking truth, facts and knowledge as opposed to conjecturing a speculation.(As told to Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staying-optimistic-need-of-the-hour-83686
12-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Govt should come up with support package for warp-knitting industry’||Ajay Mehra, managing director of Varinda Knitters Private Ltd, established about 20 years ago, has been manufacturing net and lace fabrics, which are used in fashion fabric garments, dupattas and lehengas. It is multi-use fabric, which is used in a range of products, including upholstery of cars, home, textiles, travelling accessories, men and women wears. He has been supplying the fabrics to various places, including Kolkata, Delhi, Mumbai and Surat and garment exporting units. Ajay, who is also the president of the Amritsar Warp Knitting Association, discusses the impact of the lockdown on the warp-knitting industry in an interview with Neeraj Bagga. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your warp-knitting business?The demand has vanished with markets being closed due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. The state government has allowed the functioning of the unit with a rider to maintain social distancing and making lodging arrangements for labourers on the premises. In a labour-intensive industry, it is not possible to abide by such regulations. So, I decided not to resume the manufacturing work as it may jeopardise the health of workers. All payments are struck and under the given circumstances, we are apprehensive of getting back. The entire sale rests on credit and raw material comes from Maharashtra and Gujarat where companies sell yarn on cash or ask 18 per cent above its rate. Stocks of raw and finished material are lying in factory godowns.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?It will take a long time to revive the business. It is not possible by lifting the curfew in a district or some packets. Since manufacturing and trading depend on inter-state movement, the nationwide lockdown must be lifted. There were many expansion and technology upgrade plans, but they have been put on hold for now. Our first priority will be to collect the funds scattered in the market and request the Ministry of Textile to reimburse the 10 per cent subsidy. Around five years ago, knitting machines were imported from Germany under the ministry’s Technology Upgradation Fund (TUF).How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?All employees have been paid their March salary. But, they are yet to be paid for April. We are figuring out how to pay the salaries. A large number of semi-skilled and unskilled labourers are involved in the manufacturing work. They include both migrants and locals.What is the share of online trading in your profession?There is no share of online trading. In fabric, a buyer wishes to have a look at the product before purchasing it. So, samples are dispatched to the prospective customers and final orders come subsequently.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is more a challenge. Survival has become important as the lockdown offers a tough time to the business. Some people think that investors may pull out of China and India may be lucky to host them. However, it seems be a remote possibility as the Chinese government provides vast support to its industry and over the years, massive infrastructure has been built, which is hard to beat.What are your expectations from the government?We pay taxes, but there is no support from the government. It can collect higher taxes, but it should at least ensure pension after retirement. The government should pay salaries out of the ESI and EPF funds. It should come up with a package for the MSME units in general and the warp knitters in particular. Loan installments to be paid by the MSME units should be deferred for the next three months without any interest. At present, the government is only prolonging the pay-back time of loans and cash credit limits extended to industries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-should-come-up-with-support-package-for-warp-knitting-industry-83687
12-05-2020||Dr Gupta||His efforts a great help to administration||His efforts helped the administration combat the coronavirus as the district, which was earlier in the green zone, has now entered the red zone as the number of Covid-19 patients has suddenly increased. The count of positive cases has crossed the 160-mark. The patients have been kept in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital and Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty Hospital in Tarn Taran under the supervision of SMO Dr IM Gupta.GurbaxpuriTarn Taran, May 11Dr Inder Mohan Gupta, SMO, Civil Hospital, has been performing a challenging duty at this time of the Covid-19 crisis. On the instructions of the district administration, Dr Gupta, who is also an orthopedic surgeon, established 115 isolation beds for admitting Covid-19 patients to newly built three-storey Mother and Child Hospital on the Civil Hospital premises.Dr Gupta’s timely efforts helped the administration combat the coronavirus as the district, which was earlier in the green zone, has now entered the red zone as the number of Covid-19 patients has suddenly increased. The count of positive cases has crossed the 160-mark. The patients have been kept in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital and Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty Hospital in Tarn Taran under the supervision of SMO Dr IM Gupta.Keeping fear at bay, Dr. Gupta has been keeping a close watch on all patients admitted to the Civil Hospital with the help of his colleagues.Dr Gupta gets ready at 6 am and works for the patients till late night. He remains available round the clock to handle any emergency situation.He avoids visiting his family members, who put up in Amritsar, 25 km away from Tarn Taran. His wife Dr Leena Mahajan is a senior anesthesiologist at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar. She also looks after Covid-19 patients, who are on ventilator and in ICU. The doctor couple has been setting an example by working with utmost care at this time of crisis.Dr Gupta said, “The pandemic has changed our approach. Till date, we were fixing bones, but now we have been working to break the chain of Covid-19.”Boosting the moral of his colleagues and health personnel and making preventive gear available for them are his top priorities. He proudly praises his staff who have been working tirelessly in isolation wards. “We must do our work sincerely and nature will take care of everything,” he said. Meditation, selfless service to humanity and prayers for the well-being of all keep him focused as he keeps a close eye on various guidelines and protocols required to tackle the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-efforts-a-great-help-to-administration-83688
