12-08-2020||The Partition Museum||Renowned artists to participate in Amritsar Partition Museum’s online exhibition||The Partition Museum with the support of Art Alive Gallery will bring a selection of works by 15 eminent as well as upcoming artists, including Krishen Khanna, Anjolie Ela Menon, Jogen Chowdhury, Jatin Das, Paresh Maity, Arpana Caur, Jayasri Burman, Atul Bhalla, Viren Tanwar, Manisha Gera Baswani, Seema Kohli, Ayesha Singh, Purvai Rai, Ekta Singha and Divya Singh.The exhibition, Memories Unlocked: Partition, Migration, Identity will showcase works revolving around the themes of loss, identity and migration, both contemporary and historical. It will provide a perfect opportunity for art connoisseurs to buy works at affordable prices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/renowned-artists-to-participate-in-amritsar-partition-museums-online-exhibition-125439
12-08-2020||---||Record 113 cases in a day, Amritsar tally 2,521||Amritsar, August 11In yet another single day spike, the health authorities reported 113 positive cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday.The district has also reported the death of a 67-year-old man due to the virus. The deceased has been identified as Suraj Narayan, a resident of Ghanupur Kale village. The health authorities stated said the patient admitted to Government Medical College had co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension.Of the new cases reported on Tuesday, 57 are influenza like illness cases and 56 are contacts of positive patients.The ILI cases, one each have been reported from Ranjitpura (Chheharta), Guru Ramdass Colony, Sandhu Avenue (Chheharta), New Green Field (Majitha Road), Islamabad, Nehru Colony (Majitha Road), Karampura, B-Block (Ranjit Avenue), Gumtala, Friends Colony (Majitha Road), Nawa Kot, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Rishi Vihar (Majitha Road), Fatehgarh Churrian Road, Tagore Avenue, Gujjar Wala Bazaar, Mohini Chowk, Preet Avenue, Kot Khalsa, Amarkot Colony, Krishna Nagar, Gujarwali Pind, Ajnala, Chamiyari, Sultan Mahal, Nangal Guru, Chheharta), Green Field (Majitha Road), Mustafabad, Namak Mandi, Garden Enclave, Kot Atma Ram, Dashmesh Avenue, Kot Mit Singh, Lahori Gate, New Jaspal Nagar, Hall Bazaar, Baba Sahib Chowk, Gunnowal, White Enclave, Majitha Road, Medical Enclave, Othian village, Katra Baghian, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Gate Hakeema and Ranjit Avenue, besides two cases each from Sultanwind Road, Kotla village, Putlighar and New Garden Colony.The 56 contact cases include, nine from Gurnam Nagar (Sultanwind Road), six contacts of Police Department, three each from Maqbool Road, Varindavan Garden, Mudhal village (Verka), Chhoti Dhaab, Gilwali Gate, Rajasansi, Preet Nagar, Harkrishan Avenu (Ajnala), two cases each from Jandiala Guru, Kabir Park, Loharka Road, Gate Bhagtanwala, Katra Dullo, Gopal Nagar and one contact each from Gehri Mandi, BSF battalion Khasa, Aggarwal Nursing Home, Kot Atma Ram and Central Jail.With a total of 2,521 patients testing positive for coronavirus till date, the district has also witnessed 1,940 recoveries so far. At present, the district has a total of 481 active cases. The district has reported 98 deaths due to the disease so far.2 fatalities in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The district reported two deaths due to the Covid-19 disease on Tuesday, taking the toll to 17. Sources in the Health Department said the victims had been identified as Manjit Singh (35) of Patti and Paramjit Singh (70) of Harike Pattan. The sources said there were a total of 151 active cases under treatment in the district, out of these 35 were under treatment on hospitals of other districts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/record-113-cases-in-a-day-amritsar-tally-2-521-125419
12-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Open sale of ‘lethal’ liquor goes on, but who cares?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11The government has failed to take note of illicit liquor mixed with banned medicines being sold in the market, which ensures slow but certain death of addicts, according to experts. Methanol (methyl alcohol), which causes instant death and blindness according to experts, has gained wide attention after over 100 people lost their lives due to consuming methanol-based alcohol recently. Usually, unscrupulous elements prepare this variety of liquor at their home and then sell it among consumers in plastic pouches for Rs 20 per pouch.Cheap prices of this form of illicit liquor entice addicts, who are short of funds. Once hooked to this type of liquor, addicts gradually lose appetite. Despite it being so lethal in consumption, the successive governments have never focused on eradicating it from society.Earlier, unscrupulous elements used to add dexavon and proxyvon in the illicit liquor, which are banned now and these drugs have been replaced with tramadol to increase intoxication.Tony, a resident of the walled city, said some youngsters of his area, including two cousins, addicted to drinking alcohol laced with banned capsules and tablets, lost their lives.“They preferred its peg to liquor available on vends, as it is cheaper and gives more kick. Gradually, all of them slimmed down. Within a couple of years they physically reduced to half of what they used to be. Not only their weight halved, but their arms, legs, face and chest shrunk. Literally, they turned into a miniature version of their previous physique. Eventually, they died,” he said.Similarly, Sunil, a resident of Nawa Kot, said: “My neighbour is also addicted to the same form of liquor for the past over one year. His entire body has shrunken.”A close observant of the impact of this form of liquor consumption, he shared that once addicted, its consumers can no longer digest the food. They feel a kind of burning sensation as soon as a morsel of cooked meal goes down in their stomach. So, they abhor eating and prefer only drinking alcohol with prohibited drugs in it.Dr PD Garg, in-charge of state’s first Swami Vivekananda Drug Rehabilitation Centre, accepted that addicts consume illicit liquor packed with banned drugs to enhance the punch. He said its addicts lose appetite after some time of its consumption, which causes severe damage to their body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-sale-of-lethal-liquor-goes-on-but-who-cares-125420
12-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||No customers, highway eateries, dhabas miss taste of life||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11Though most of the businesses have revived during the Covid unlock phase, the highway shops and dhabas are yet to get over the pandemic effect. In the wake of restrictions over interstate movement, the footfall in these dhabas is less than 15 per cent in most of the roadside dhabas. Some of the major highway restaurants in the region have not reopened so far. Even if they have, they wear a deserted look. The dhaba owners even laid off workers due to poor business.Sukhbir Singh Shambu, owner of Gurdaspurian da Dhaba on the Amritsar-Jalandhar highway, said, “We had three cooks and 12 workers to serve an average of 500 persons every day. After the lockdown, the business has almost evaporated. We are not willing to reopen as there is not much movement on the road. Even load carriers have not properly resumed their work.”“I reopened the dhaba a few weeks back. It was the only way to run the households of cooks and workers. Now, I have only one cook and three workers. Hardly 50 persons visit us for food. Most of them are truck drivers. The earnings are not even sufficient for the salaries of the workers,” added Shambu.Most of the dhaba owners have lost hope of the revival of business this year. Not even small dhabas, even the major branded theme restaurants witnessed low footfall and are not able to resume the function.Sada Pind, a theme restaurant on the bypass road, could not resume its operation till date. Haveli, one of the major brands of highway dhabas, resumed its only restaurant at Manawala in Amritsar but the theme area and activities are still closed.Dalvir Singh, production manager, Haveli, said, “We have reopened the only restaurant just with one- third occupancy. But the footfall is only 15 per cent. It will take time to revive. We have more than 225 workers and no one was laid off. The staff is on leave and management is paying them salary with a cut. We are trying to help them in this hour of crisis. The business would only resume with tourists. They are not visiting the Golden Temple. Similarly, the functions at Dera Beas are lying suspended.”With the suspension of traffic at international border and retreat at Attari, the dhabas and restaurants on the Amritsar-Attari road are still lying shut and most of them have no plan to reopen the services till the cross border movement is resumed.Aman Jaspal, owner of Sarhad, the food and culture park, said, “Tourists, who visit the Indo-Pak border to see the retreat ceremony, were the main customers at Sarhad. We are planning to reopen the restaurant but customers will not arrive till the tourism gains pace in Amritsar. Our restaurant is closed but we are paying salaries to the workers as it is the time to support them. The administration changes its decisions every week. So it is quite tough to suspend and resume the services again and again.”The dhaba and restaurant owners are also worried about the changing perception of people about the dining out at restaurants. In case any worker tests positive at any restaurant and it is sealed, it would hit the image of the restaurant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-customers-highway-eateries-dhabas-miss-taste-of-life-125421
12-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Chock-a-block: Stretch from Chatiwind to Sultanwind Gate a nightmare for commuters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11Uninterrupted flow of vehicles, heavy footfall, widespread encroachments and random parkings. All hell has broken loose for long at the stretch extending from the Chatiwind Gate to Sultanwind Gate.The course is a vital one as it houses popular Gurudwara Shaheed Ganj Sahib, Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable hospital, educational institutes apart from government offices and a police station. As large number of devotees frequent the shrine — the number is doubled on weekends — they park their vehicles in the space provided by the SGPC. Till then there’s no problem. However, once it is full the devotees take to the roadside, duly doing their part in creating a mess.Harpinder Singh Walia, a daily visitor of the shrine, said: “Traffic chaos on the road in general and outside the shrine in particular is acute and needs to be addressed accordingly.”The road receives an unending flow of vehicles throughout the day. Since it is a two-lane separated by a divider, the stream of traffic hardly takes a break. Heavy vehicles like buses, trucks, tippers and trolleys are always on the move.“The stretch also leads to the Bhagtanwala grain market. So, rush of tractor-trolleys laden with grains during the harvesting season is a common sight,” said Harbhajan Singh, a shopkeeper. He added: “A large number of handcarts are parked on both roadsides, choking it mercilessly. And the number swells on the weekend.”It is pertinent to mention that the Municipal Corporation in its 2009-2010 budget had proposed construction of subways at key intersections in the city with an investment of Rs 20 crore. However, even a single subway is yet to be seen in the city. The residents of the area have demanded setting up one here, at least, to provide safe passage for the devotees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chock-a-block-stretch-from-chatiwind-to-sultanwind-gate-a-nightmare-for-commuters-125422
12-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Lockdown also a reason behind over 110 deaths||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 11The Covid-induced lockdown is also being counted as one of the major reasons behind the recent hooch tragedy. As the lockdown impacted the supply and demand of liquor, wages, etc, poor workers or daily wagers had no option but to buy the cheapest available liquor elsewhere.A majority of those who lost their lives due to spurious liquor were daily wagers.Prof Dr Rajesh Kumar, head of the School of Social Sciences, said about the four-month-long lockdown gave an ample opportunity to spurious liquor mafia to sell spurious liquor and make money. There was a huge supply and demand gap in the market.Videos circulated on social media during the lockdown period had suggested that well-off people had enough stocks. However, daily wagers either lost their livelihoods or faced a big cut in their wages. So, they bought cheaper liquor allegedly sold in corners of streets.For instance, one of the victims, Manjit Singh (45) of Sangha village, was a rickshaw-puller and sole breadwinner of the family. After his death due to spurious liquor, the life of his handicapped wife and a mentally challenged son has been shattered and now they need financial help from the government for their survival.Another victim, Jaspal Singh (32), was also a rickshaw-puller. His death has devastated his family.Kuldeep Singh was a daily wager who used to work in farms and construction sites depending on the availability of work. It was after six years of his marriage that the couple was expecting a child but he is no more to see the newborn.Similar are the tales of many other victims of the hooch tragedy. Most of them had preferred to buy cheap illicit liquor from parallel markets instead of proper vends as they were not able to meet their domestic expenses leave alone buying expensive liquor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-also-a-reason-behind-over-110-deaths-125423
12-08-2020||---||PAS: DEO comes out with draft to conduct mock tests||Amritsar, August 11District Education Office Vijay Inder Singla has prepared a rough draft to conduct mock tests in the last week of August. These tests will be conducted online and the DEO is also conducting regular online training workshops for teachers to equip them to ease the transition towards technological as well as evaluation-based performance.“Punjab Achievement Survey”, based on the similar concept of National Achievement Survey, will be conducted in phases in each district. The mock tests conducted online for students will comprise multiple choice questions to evaluate their learning outcome.DEO Satinder Bir Singh said the department was going to implement the concept permanently. He said, “Under the PAS, the mock tests will be conducted every month and there will be no separate syllabus for the tests. The questions will be based on basic learning concepts and the ones being taught to students already. The tests will be conducted for each class and we are preparing a draft to ensure implementation of the tests smoothly.”He said the evaluation of the tests would help them in targeted teaching for those students who would score below average. “It’s a performance-enhancing exercise adopted across government schools, that will help students and teachers understand the weak points and improve them. “Under the PAS, the district education offices will prepare a comprehensive programme of organising online quizzes and mock tests from August-September. A training programme of the district mentors, block mentors, PPDCs, BMTs, CMTs, etc, has been started. The move is aimed at sensitising the officials of the District Education Department and teachers concerned about the several initiatives launched by the Punjab Education Department, including Padho Punjab campaign and Ghar Baithe Sikhiya.Know Punjab Achievement SurveyPunjab Achievement Survey (PAS) is a representative sample of schools from all districts aimed at understanding the health of the education system in government and government aided schools. The students from primary to Class XII would participate. It will be based on the parameters of National Achievement Survey and the learning outcome of the students would be assessed on the basis of Multiple Choice Questions (MCQs) as per the prescribed syllabus of selective subjects, including English, science, maths and social studies of different classes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pas-deo-comes-out-with-draft-to-conduct-mock-tests-125424
12-08-2020||---||30-yr-old commits suicide, SAD activists allege police torture||Amritsar, August 11A man committed suicide reportedly after being interrogated by the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) of the police here this afternoon. The deceased has been identified Sandip Bhatia (30) of Gali Murabe Wali. He works as a wedding photographer.Family members and activists of the SAD, led by Talbir Singh Gill, staged a protest outside the B Division police station by putting the body outside the police station late evening. Talbir Singh Gill, in-charge of the south constituency of the SAD, alleged that police officers had tortured and humiliated him without any reason, so he committed suicide.“The victim’s elder brother was involved in some firing case in New Amritsar area. CIA officials rounded up Bhatia and his father and interrogated them. They were being tortured and humiliated for the last two days. I have called the Police Commissioner and CIA officials several times and informed that the victim and his father are innocent. But the police tortured them. After being released from the police station, he reached home and hanged himself,” said Gill.The SAD leader demanded action against the police officers concerned. Senior police officers assured them of a fair investigation into the case and action against the guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-yr-old-commits-suicide-sad-activists-allege-police-torture-125425
12-08-2020||Amritsar||Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib on August 19||The SGPC has decided to observe the Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib symbolically on August 19. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira and Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill held a meeting with officials of the SGPC at its office on Tuesday.Rajinder Singh Mehta, senior vice-president of the SGPC, said that unlike every year when a grand nagar kirtan was taken out, this time the occasion would be held in a subdued manner.“The nagar kiran would be decorated and taken out symbolically with a few devotees and the guidelines of the Health Department would be followed. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parkash-purb-of-guru-granth-sahib-on-august-19-125426
12-08-2020||---||Over 900 GNDU students launch online campaign to seek fee waiver||Amritsar, August 11Students of various streams at GNDU have been holding protests in support of their demand to waive fee in wake of Covid-19 pandemic. There have been several protests outside the varsity for consecutive days now and today a faction of students have also launched online protest to raise the issue. A group of students on Tuesday met university officials and said due to pandemic restriction limited number of students can protest physically.  “We have started our online campaign "GNDU_Fees_Issue", where many other students, who had returned to their native places before lockdown, are supporting the campaign. Our concern is that we should be only charged tuition fee. Our protests started when GNDU issued an official letter that August 25 would be the last date to deposit fees for all semesters. Lots of students from Bihar, Delhi and other areas reached out to us to address the issue. Why they should be charged for services they are not availing due to pandemic? Our total fees, include laboratory charges, exam fees, infrastructure fees, but the classes are online. Furthermore, many students don't have a stable income source due to Covid-19 pandemic which makes it more difficult to pay the fees,” said Aditya Takiar, a GNDU student and one of the protesters. He said more than 900 students had joined their online protests through social media platform and recorded their suggestions. Through an online Google form, their digital signatures were taken and their problems and suggestions were recorded. Since Covid-19 restrictions deter students to gather openly for protests, they have filed online petitions and are initiating twitter trends to get their protest register. “More than 1,000 students have connected with us through our online protests. We hope that the authorities take note and give us some respite. We are ready to pay the fee but some relief must be given and also, we should be allowed to pay the fee in instalments,” he said.Meanwhile, university authorities have assured the students to take up the matter in a meeting scheduled to be held soon on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-900-gndu-students-launch-online-campaign-to-seek-fee-waiver-125428
12-08-2020||---||DC reviews I-Day function arrangements||Amritsar, August 11Owing to the Covid-19 restrictions, the Independence Day celebrations will be for a brief period.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira announced here on Tuesday after reviewing the arrangements for the Independence Day function at the Guru Nanak stadium. He was accompanied by Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill.To organise the celebrations smoothly, the stage was being beautified, the ground cleaned and the sanitary condition monitored.The Deputy Commissioner said uninterrupted power supply would be ensured. He checked every arrangement like potable water supply, the welcome gate, the public address system, the recovery van, refreshment, barricading, seating arrangements, etc. Police contingents carried out the rehearsal. Cabinet minister OP Soni, who will be the chief guest this year, will unfurl the national flag from the podium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-reviews-i-day-function-arrangements-125430
12-08-2020||As frontline warriors||No stopping ASI Ashwani Kumar||“I was having fever and bodyache for past three days before orders came to get tested conducted on all SHOs and chowki In-charges. I did not bother about fever and kept working in the field even after medication mistaking them as symptoms of viral fever,” Ashwani says.He was posted at the Court Complex chowki under whose jurisdiction came Deputy Commissioner, Sub-Divisional Magistrate offices that witness protests by different groups every now and then. Come June 25, he had tested positive.“This came as a shock to family. Immediately, I asked them to maintain a safe distance from me,” he tells. The tests were also conducted on the family members and they were advised home quarantine. “I was packing up for admission at a private hospital for treatment. My family was worried and grieving after they came to know that I was leaving for hospital,” the ASI adds.It was not long when Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Police Commissioner, rang him up to inquire about his health. Then, things took a wicked turn -- the private hospital he was heading for, had stopped admissions following a controversy. Following this, the Police Commissioner had arranged an ambulance for him to get admitted in a Meritorious School where isolation centre for cops had been active.“The day I got there I decided not to allow the fear of virus take control over my mind and keep the positivity levels up and running. I also found some of my colleagues receiving treatment at the isolation centre,” he says.As soon as his close friends came to know about the news they visited him. “I expreimented with some Ayurvedic immunity booster provided by a friend dealing in Ayurvedic medicines, while Prof Sunil Sachdeva, former vice principal of DAV college, would visit me daily even though I requested him not to come, but he wanted to assure I was in the right frame of mind,” he narrates, before adding, “This is the time when you come to know who your real friends are.”In addition to this, he and his colleagues started doing Yoga and breathing exercises that pumped their oxygen level and strengthened will power to fight the virus.“After winning the battle, I joined my duties by the end of July,” the ASI says.He will now be donating plasma for recovery of other patients. “When doctors informed me that I can help others by donating plasma , I did not think twice. After necessary tests and formalities I would be up to the task in a day or two,” he signed off.As told to PK Jaiswar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-stopping-asi-ashwani-kumar-125436
12-08-2020||Amritsar||Man robbed of car at gunpoint||Lineman attacked, case registeredTarn Taran: Harpreet Singh, an assistant lineman of Powercom, was attacked here on Monday. The police have registered a case under Sections 353, 186 and 332 of the IPC. The case had been registered on the written complaint of the SDO (Powercom) of the local subdivision. The SDO said assistant lineman Harpreet Singh was going to take the reading of electric meters when two motorcycle-born appeared on the spot and attacked him. They created an obstacle in the official duty of the employee, said the SDO. ocPorters meet RS MP DulloAmritsar: A delegation of the Ghat Ginti Lok Bhalai Sanstha met Rajya Sabha MP and former state minister Shamsher Singh Dullo and demanded regularisation of the services of the coolies working under the contract system at Attari. Dullo assured the delegation that he would take up their issue in the Rajya Sabha. Satnam Singh Gill, president, Minorities Welfare Organisation, said they met Dullo during his visit to Muchhal village on Tuesday. TNSGandiwind Farmer electrocutedTarn Taran: Mangal Singh (35), a farmer of Gandiwind Dhattal village, was electrocuted at his native village on Tuesday. The farmer was working in his fields and went to tube well to drink water. As soon as the farmer touched the tube well he received electric shock. The victim was brought to the doctor where he was declared dead. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint-125438
