12-01-2021||---||‘Why are pharmacists out of Covid-19 vaccine list?’||Amritsar, January 11The Punjab Chemists Association (PCA), representing over 24,500 chemists, distributors, retailers and wholesalers sought inclusion of pharmacists, medicinal traders, support staff and their families in the preference list of Covid-19 vaccination programme.The state government conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine at three places in the city to streamline its staff to handle the rush of vaccination on January 8. During the programme, Civil Surgeon RS Sethi said the vaccination jab would be on a priority basis.Medicine dealers are in the essential services sector and have been the most vulnerable to infection, as they also run the risk of exposure to virus while dispensing medicines.Surinder Duggal, president of the PCA, said, “As a medical professional, chemists discharged yeoman service during the lockdown and even after it. So, it is extremely important to safeguard them in every possible way.”Duggal said some of the chemists had succumbed to the virus while performing their duties. Even then they did not give up their duties and remained determined to serve the public.The Centre gave approval to two indigenous vaccines to safeguard population against Covid. That paved the way for the conduct of dry run in the region.31 fresh cases reported in districtThe district health authorities reported 31 new coronavirus positive cases taking the tally to 14,721 on Monday. Of these, 21 were found to be influenza-like illness cases and 10 were contacts of positive cases. The number of active cases in the district came down to 180. No casualty was reported freezing the total number of deceased in the district to 564.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/why-are-pharmacists-out-of-covid-19-vaccine-list-197068
12-01-2021||---||Groom’s father shot dead by armed assailants in Jandiala||Amritsar, January 11Celebrations turned tragic at Chohan village when three armed persons shot dead groom’s father outside a marriage palace in Jandiala Guru on January 10 evening.The deceased has been identified as Salwinder Singh (50), a resident of Khamano, Fatehgarh Sahib.Salwinder was in the car when unidentified persons pulled him out and shot him. He was immediately rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him dead.Ranjit Kaur, wife of the deceased, stated to the police that her son, Jagjit Singh, had an affair with Rupinder Kaur of Dashmesh Nagar village.She said Rupinder wanted to marry Jagjit, but former’s family members were against the marriage. As a result, Rupinder started living with her sister Rupi at Taragarh Talawan village in Jandiala Guru.She said on January 8, Rupinder’s aunt Binder Kaur of Bhorsi Rajputa village and Rupi called them and said they will marry Rupinder with Jagjit at a gurdwara in Jandiala Guru on January 10. However, the girl’s parents and her brothers were not ready for the marriage.The complainant said after solemnising the marriage, they stopped outside a marriage palace to click pictures and Salwinder sat on a driver seat of the car. She said three unknown persons came on a motorcycle and stopped ahead of their vehicle. Two of them pulled my husband out of the car and shot him, she said.Simranjit Kaur, an eyewitness and daughter of the deceased, said she was sitting on a rear seat of the car when the accused pulled her father out of the vehicle and killed him.Salwinder was rushed to Manawala hospital from where he was referred to the Amritsar Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.Jandiala Guru Deputy Superintendent of Police Sukhwinderpal Singh said as per initial probe, they suspect it to be a robbery attempt. “Immediately after the incident, another incident of carjacking was reported in the area. The accused fled towards Tarn Taran after carjacking. Further investigations were under progress and we are looking into every possible angle,” he said.The police have registered a murder case and started investigation in the matter.Carjacking reported in same areaAccording to information, just half an hour later of this murder incident, three men snatched a car from a Head Constable Jaspal Singh, a resident of PAP, Jalanadhar. Jaspal was going to meet his daughter who is married at Bandala village here. He stated that he was carrying Rs1 lakh, which he was going to deliver to his daughter, whose in-laws were constructing a house. He said when he stopped to answer the call of nature near Mallian village, three youth, armed with pistols, came on a bike and snatched his I-20 car (PB-08-EA-0326) after pointing a pistol at him. Jaspal said Rs1 lakh and his mobile phone were in the car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grooms-father-shot-dead-by-armed-assailants-in-jandiala-197069
12-01-2021||---||Syal festival goes digital, off to a memorable start||Amritsar, January 11It is on again. The Majha House inaugurated its annual literary festival this weekend with three engaging interactions. Popularly known as ‘Syal festival’, however, some sheen is off the festival this year – it will be conducted digitally – due to the pandemic. Curated by Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, she said the festival would continue every weekend throughout January.It will bring together famed writers and thinkers for thoughtful discussions over the period, as done in the past.This time the inaugural session of the festival had Parliamentarian and author Shashi Tharoor in conversation with Rakshanda Jalil, a writer, translator and critic. Talking about his recent book titled ‘The Battle of Belonging’, he went into depth about what makes us Indian, he said he regretted that there was such a competition among the citizens to prove their belongingness. “Everybody was bent upon trying to prove themselves a Hindu or a Sikh, but no one talks of being an Indian. There is a lot of difference between Hinduism and Hindutva,” Tharoor underlined.The second event was a discussion about another book, ‘The Lost Homestead’, written by Marina Wheeler. A lawyer based in the UK, Wheeler is the former wife of UK PM Boris Johnson. Speaking with author Anchal Malhotra, Wheeler said the book was description of her mother’s journey after the Partition. “My mother had to leave Pakistan and later settled overseas. While researching for the book, I got an opportunity to visit Punjab several times in India and Pakistan, which was intriguing and a revelation,” she said.The third event of the festival comprised talks on a book named ‘Radiance of a Thousand Suns’ by writer Manreet Sodhi Someshwar. This is themed on a long journey from the Partition of 1947 to the riots of 1984 to the attack of September 2011. The character of the book, Nooran, goes through these convulses and Manreet has tried to describe her mental anguish. Talking about her book, she said women were being subjected to harassment everywhere.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/syal-festival-goes-digital-off-to-a-memorable-start-197070
12-01-2021||---||Vendors stare at losses as train services remain suspended||Amritsar, January 11Losses of vendors at the Amritsar railway station continue to mount due to non-functioning of train services for the past nearly 10 months.They demanded compensation as their expenditure remained unchanged all these months while they did not earn much all this while.Earlier, it was due to Covid-19 induced lockdown and later, travel restrictions were imposed to ensure social distancing and then the farmers’ railway blockade took place which hit their income badly.Railways continue to cancel, divert, short originate and terminate trains as the rail blockade by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC), on the city’s outskirts, entered 110th day on Monday.This has aggravated the financial losses to vendors carrying out their businesses at the railway station. The daily footfall at the railway station had become almost negligible from around 50,000 before the lockdown period.Only the food plaza has been functioning for the past one week to cater to passengers travelling daily in four trains. The local railway station, which falls under category ‘A’, has 12 stalls and eight trolleys which have been lying closed since the introduction of the lockdown in March.Similarly, the number of trains also came down from 130 to four per day. Vendors said as it is they were incurring huge losses on account of lockdown, yet there was no plan to help them overcome the economic crises.They rued each of them paid a monthly rent between Rs 15,000 to a maximum of Rs 20,000 to the railways. Apart from this, power tariff and other expenses make trade an uphill task for them. They added that their fixed expenses stand unchanged. So, the government must rollback monthly rent, power tariff and other fixed charges as they did not earn anything during the past 10 months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vendors-stare-at-losses-as-train-services-remain-suspended-197071
12-01-2021||Neha Saini||Now, GNDU pupils can opt for online or offline examinations||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 11By offering students a choice between online and offline exams, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has put to rest a month-long dispute. The university had started conducting offline exams for all courses in December 2020.Now, GNDU has asked students who want to appear for online exams can do so through the National Testing Agency (NTA). The university has asked students to register themselves for online mode.Dr Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, GNDU, said, “We have around 40 departments, which are conducting offline examinations since December 2020 successfully. In case, any student wishes to appear for exam online, he/she can register on our website via a link, which we will share and the exam will be held through the National Testing Agency. GNDU will not be a part of the process.”He added that exams conducted through online mode by the NTA will be under the agency’s discretion. “It will be a proctored exam conducted under strict surveillance. There will be no relaxations in syllabus and other aspects,” he said.The issue had cropped up as soon as GNDU announced to conduct offline exams till January 27. Numerous students flayed the decision of the university in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The university had announced to conduct offline exams by giving relaxations to students.“We have done everything possible to help students keeping in mind the hardships they faced due to online education or any other issue in the wake of the pandemic. The choice to sit for online mode has been given to students as per their request after working out all possible options,” said KS Kahlon, Registrar, GNDU.For online mode, appear through NTAThe university has asked students who want to appear for online exams can do so through the National Testing Agency (NTA). The university has asked students to register themselves for online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-gndu-pupils-can-opt-for-online-or-offline-examinations-197073
12-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Farmers rehearse for Jan 26 tractor march||Hundreds of farmers of the border areas conducted the rehearsal of the tractor march for the proposed tractor parade on January 26 in the border area villages here.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, led the march, which started from Jhabal village and passed through Meerpur, Majjupur, Panjwar, Bhojian, Kot Dharam Chand Kalan, Bhagel Singh Wala and concluded at Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib Thatha.Baljit Singh, a leader of the committee, said the convoy of the farmers to take part in the proposed 26 January tractor parade would depart from the area on January 20. He said more than 4,000 tractor- trailers were expected to move to Delhi. The enthusiasm of farmers to participate in the Delhi march has become a major concern for the intelligence agencies of both the Union and the state governments. The farmers’ leaders have demanded for the immediate revoking of farm laws. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-rehearse-for-jan-26-tractor-march-197075
12-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Missing deaf & dumb girl handed over to guardians||Tarn Taran, January 11The Bhikhiwind police handed over a deaf and dumb girl to her guardians on Monday. She was traced by the police about five days ago from Bhikhiwind township.Ranbir Singh, Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the district police, said the 17-year-old girl, who was an inmate at Pingal Wara, Amritsar, left for Panjwar village for her aunt’s place by bus. But instead of Panjwar village, she reached Bhikhiwind. In the evening, shopkeepers in Bhikhiwind, who had been keeping a watch over her movement, informed the police about her. The police kept her under the watch of the lady police. In the meanwhile, her aunt approached the police and after verifying all proofs, she was handed over to her guardians on Monday. The girl was from Zira, but was adopted by her aunt (mother’s sister) to take care of her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-deaf-dumb-girl-handed-over-to-guardians-197076
12-01-2021||Tarn Taran||2 arrested with illegal weapon||Youth arrested under POCSO actTarn Taran: The Bhikhiwind police arrested Ranjit Singh Rana (22) of Sursing village for sexually abusing a 7-year-old boy of his neighbour. The accused had threatened the victim against disclosing it to anybody. The victim had come to the market to purchase kites, when the accused luring him with sweets and took him to an abandoned place. The victim’s father came to the spot in search of his son, when the accused was sexually assaulting the minor boy. SHO Sarabjit Singh said the accused was booked under Sections 377 and 506 of the IPC and 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012. The victim was medically examined. He said the accused had sexually assaulted him previously too and had threatened him to be eliminated in case he disclosed it anybody. OCRailways diverts eight trainsAmritsar: The Railways has diverted eight run of trains on January 12 and cancelled two trains as the activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) continue to block the Amritsar-Delhi rail line. The 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express, 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express Special, the 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express Special, the 04649 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express, the 04651 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express, 04649 Jaynagar-Amritsar express, 02054 Amritsar-Haridwar Express and 02053 Haridwar-Amritsar Express will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar on January 12. The cancelled trains are the 05211 Darbhanga-Amritsar for January 12 and the 05212 Amritsar-Darbhanga Special for January 14. TNSOne held with 20-kg poppy huskTarn Taran: The police on Sunday arrested Sukhdev Singh Pappu of Rasulpur village with 20 kg of poppy husk from near his village. Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh, who was heading the patrolling party, said the police on suspicion searched the bag of the accused and recovered 20-kg poppy husk from it. The accused was booked under Sections 15 (B), 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act by the local Sadar police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-arrested-with-illegal-weapon-197080
