12-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Hired sanitation workers go extra mile to ensure cleanliness in city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 11Though sanitation workers associated with the civic body and other organisations are being honoured and people recognise their services in and around the city, private sweepers, including Dev Kumar, who have been hired by residents on their own, have been working without any motivation or support.A large number of sanitation workers have been employed by residents. They don't get any regular salary or job benefits. Dev, a resident of Chatiwind area, works in New Amritsar locality. He cleans two streets with a broom and collects Rs100 from each house at the end of the month. Dev and his wife earn Rs2,000 per month. With the Covid outbreak, residents are now more concerned about sanitation, which has increased the working hours of Dev."Earlier, we used to clean streets from 8 am and to 12 pm. Now, we have to work till 2 pm as residents want proper cleanliness. I am aware of Covid and have been taking some precautions," said Dev.Dev and other private sanitation workers have not been getting any support from the government or NGOs at this time of crisis."I got only a mask from the president of the local mohalla committee. Sanitation workers, who have been associated with the civic body or the Amritsar Improvement Trust, may get some benefits while working under high risk. But, we have to work without any support," he said."A large number of sanitation workers are being employed by Mohalla Sudhar Committees and small street-level groups. No one is recognising their work as they are not organised," said Advocate Vishav, an activist who works for the rights of sanitation workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hired-sanitation-workers-go-extra-mile-to-ensure-cleanliness-in-city-69854
12-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||SS Randhawa likes to keep rumours at bay||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 11Adopting the work from home method, Co-operation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has ensured that state’s milk and sugar plants, which are the backbone of Punjab’s survival in these testing times, work like well-oiled machines and people don’t get deprived of the supply of essential commodities.With Covid scare growing every day, Randhawa said various conspiracy theories were floating around.“From questioning reality to look for a conspiracy theory is a natural phenomenon when you spend the whole day sitting alone with your thoughts centered on the dreaded disease. Hence, to escape this, I have decided to read only a few selected sources and speak about the disease with only a few informed people. I have been self-isolating myself from opinions and I am avoiding chit-chat over coronavirus on social media platforms because that is necessary for mental stability,” said the minister.On being asked about spending these days apart from controlling the strings in milk and sugar plants, he said: “I remain firmly ensconced at my Sector-39, Chandigarh, residence. I read a trusted newspaper in the morning for an hour. Earlier, I used to miss it when the lockdown was not clamped. To gather data on Covid, I watch national TV channels around 6 pm.”Like his other Cabinet colleagues, Randhawa has quarantined himself on the orders of the Chief Minister. He said he also finds enough time to shed off flab from his physique.“Earlier, exigencies of political life made it virtually impossible for me to pay attention to my health. I had gained some weight after the 2017 Assembly elections. Now, the time is to get rid of extra weight. My treadmill is coming in handy,” he said.“Indubitably, Covid and the consequent lockdown have ensured that I remain busy. Staying busy is a way for an individual to grow. Not only you learn things and improve whatever you are doing, but you also learn other skills so that everything does not fall apart. Staying busy teaches how to manage your time, how to stay organised and how to work efficiently,” he opined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ss-randhawa-likes-to-keep-rumours-at-bay-69853
12-04-2020||---||74 arrested for violating curfew||Amritsar, April 11As many as 74 persons were arrested by the police in rural as well as city areas for allegedly violating the curfew restrictions imposed for stopping spread of deadly novel coronavirus in the past two days.The police also impounded 34 vehicles in this connection.Even after elapsing of over two weeks, people continue to come on roads thereby forcing the cops to take stringent action against them by impounding vehicles and registering cases against them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/74-arrested-for-violating-curfew-69851
12-04-2020||---||Traders, hoteliers stare at losses||Amritsar, April 11As people continue to remain indoors and commercial establishments are shut due to the curfew imposed to contain the spread of Covid, traders and hoteliers have been staring at losses.Piara Lal Seth, president, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said the Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises sector, which was considered as the backbone of the industry, had completely been ignored while providing any relief package.He demanded that each micro unit should be given Rs1 lakh and small units must get Rs2 lakh. He advocated Rs3 lakh for medium enterprises to save them from losses.He added that traders must be provided relief in the GST and the income tax.He said, “So far, the focus of the government or rich individuals has been on impoverished people. The Union Government has issued Rs1.70 lakh crore, which will be distributed among MGNREGA workers and other impoverished families. This section is getting aids in the form of eatables and grain. But, middle class families and employees remained out of the focus of the government.”“Earlier, the government had denied the middle class benefits by not letting the rates of fossil fuel down according to the fall in the price of crude in the international market,” he said.Sameer Jain, an entrepreneur, said the business of pharmaceuticals, grocers and those dealing in eatables has flourished.However, local units that manufacture textile, shawls and others have incurred losses as they could not sell their products in this season, he said.Hoteliers said like the rest of the establishments, their hotels and restaurants had been lying closed, but the expenditure, including salaries to employees, power tariff and other maintenance costs, remains unchanged.They added that this has caused heavy burden.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-hoteliers-stare-at-losses-69848
12-04-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Warder’s arrest raises serious questions on security at jails||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 11 Cases of sneaking of mobile phone into the Central jail have been the bane of the functioning of the jail authorities. With the coming to light of an incident in which a jail official sold a mobile phone to an inmate, serious questions have been raised over the security arrangements. The jail authorities recently nabbed a jail warder, as Harpreet Singh, who is a resident of the Vairowal area. Investigations revealed that he had recovered a mobile phone from a jail inmate, Gursewak Singh, and took Rs 8,000 from him to hush up the matter. He later sold the same to another jail inmate, named Sharif Mohammad for Rs 7,000.  Though the Punjab government has stationed paramilitary force at the jail premises to keep a close check on the crime, the number of such cases is still on the rise. A jail official said every possible step was being taken to stop the sneaking of prohibited material inside jail. He said those found at the wrong side of law would be taken to task. “When we came to know of Harpreet’s offences, we did not think twice and immediately lodged a complaint with the police,” said the official. Arshdeep Singh Gill, Jail Superintendent, said: “We will take strict action against anyone found in the illegal act of sneaking prohibited material.” Steps were taken to keep an eye on black sheep, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/warders-arrest-raises-serious-questions-on-security-at-jails-69847
12-04-2020||Amritsar||Harvest machine operators get curfew passes||As wheat harvesting is expected to start next week, the Agriculture Department has issued curfew passes to 568 combine harvester operators and 700 reaper machine operators in the district. Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Harinderjit Singh said as many combine harvesters have also been issued passes to operate in neighbouring states, including Rajasthan, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the machines would be disinfected on their entry to Punjab. He said reaper machines would be allowed to operate only after May 1. The combine operators and workers were being made aware of precautions that were required to be taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harvest-machine-operators-get-curfew-passes-69846
12-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja 
||When kin stay away, Jahangir villagers offer help to cremate Covid-19 victims||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, April 11 A group of people led by Jaswinder Singh from Jahangir village has come forward to perform the last rites of deceased Covid patients in case their family refuses to do so.  There were some reports in the city and other parts of Punjab, where family members have denied attending the cremation of coronavirus positive patients after death.  The activists of Jahangir village, including Parnam Singh Khalsa, Jaswinder Singh and Jaspinder Singh, said they were willing to perform the cremation of coronavirus patients, if the family refuses to do so. “Not only for Amritsar, we are ready to visit other areas of Punjab as well. The incidents of not attending cremation of Covid victims are worrisome. It should not happen in Punjab, as we have a great tradition. We have asked the administration to call us in performing any such cremation, where family members are denying,” he said. The team members also displayed their contact numbers on social media accounts. Parnam Singh Khalsa said: “We pray for the wellbeing of all. But in case of death, we have to provide them respectful last rites. Not only cremation, if people of any village refuse entry to such victims at cremation grounds, we will offer the cremation ground of our village.” The activists also called people to think scientifically before denying cremation. “Coronavirus does not spread with by attending the cremation of a patient. The government should raise awareness about it,” Jaswinder Singh Jahangir said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-kin-stay-away-jahangir-villagers-offer-help-to-cremate-covid-19-victims-69845
12-04-2020||
||Teams to visit 11,000 houses for screening in three days||Amritsar, April 11 The district administration will start a door-to-door screening for detection of coronavirus patients in many parts of the city from tomorrow. The screening will be conducted in the Kangra Colony, Antaryami Colony, Amarkot, Sunder Nagar and Golden Avenue areas here. The administration has planned to visit all 11,000 homes in these areas within the next three days. A total of 50 teams have been constituted for the purpose and the Red Cross Society has equipped the teams with PPE kits, masks, gloves and sanitisers. The rapid response teams would immediately take the suspected cases for testing to government hospitals. The district administration has warned general public against stepping out of their houses as the lockdown date has been extended till May 1. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said curfew passes issued to all essential service providers would be valid till the end of the deadline. “The other passes issued for specific date and for specific purposes would be valid only for the day and the purpose and cannot be used in routine,” said Dhillon, adding that wearing mask (it could be a cloth mask) was mandatory for all those who had curfew passes. Dhillon said action had been initiated against miscreants who were violating curfew. “Some people have been arrested and strict action would be taken in against violators in future too,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner said shop owners, who had been allowed to deliver items on the doorstep, would have to ensure that there was a gathering of not more than four to five persons at their shops. “It is the duty of the shopkeepers to ensure that social distancing is adhered to and if they are not able to do so they are advised to close their shops else the administration would have to take action against them,” he said. He said to ensure no gatherings at the grain markets in the district, 56 temporary procurement centres had been earmarked. The district administration had also decided to allow the entry of special stickers with holograms inside these markets. The stickers would be issued to arhtiyas on the basis of their last year’s procurement. Each sticker would enable a trolley to transport up to 50 quintals of grain.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teams-to-visit-11-000-houses-for-screening-in-three-days-69844
12-04-2020||Amritsar||‘Journalist’ held for extortion||The Gate Hakima police have arrested a ‘journalist’, running a web channel, on the charges of blackmailing and extorting money from a Municipal Corporation councillor. Complainant Tehar Shah told the police that he was a councillor from Ward Number 68 of Amritsar MC. He said he along with his supporters was providing ration and essential goods to poor people in his ward.  He said the accused runs a web channel. He captured the video and pictures of poor people and started blackmailing him while alleging that he was selling the ration. He said though he tried to convince him that this was not the case, the journalist threatened to post his pictures and video. He alleged the accused took Rs5,000 from him for not doing so. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/journalist-held-for-extortion-69843
12-04-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Red Cross volunteers sanitise cops on duty||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 11  Sparing a thought for the policemen deputed on roads to ensure the proper implementation of curfew restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, volunteers of the Indian Red Cross Society are sanitising policemen to save them from contracting the deadly virus. The policemen deputed at various checkpoints, chowks and roads run the risk of getting the infection as cases of community spread are allegedly being reported in the holy city. Apart from maintaining law and order, the policemen are also working as relief providers in these times of crisis when everything is shut down due to curfew restrictions. They are providing relief materials in slum areas and to needy people. In the process, they have to meet a number of people while maintaining social distancing. When contacted, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on Saturday said like doctors and other health staff members, the policemen were also fighting to check the spread of the coronavirus as frontline warriors. They were visiting slums and crowded areas in the holy city for providing relief material to needy and poor persons. These areas were among the most vulnerable areas where they could get the infection. It was appreciating if somebody spared a thought for them. Randhir Thakur of the Indian Red Cross Society said volunteers of the Bhai Kanhaiya Ambulance was conducting disinfectant sprays in various parts of the city. They were also sanitizing policemen using smaller spray pumps. Dilpreet Singh, a volunteer of Bhai Kanhiya Ambulance, said policemen remained on roads round the clock to enforce the curfew restrictions. “They are fighting so that the deadly coronavirus does not spread its tentacles in the holy city. But in the process, they are at a greater risk of contracting the infection, so we are disinfecting them and the checkpoints also,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/red-cross-volunteers-sanitise-cops-on-duty-69842
12-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Covid victims face ‘social stigma’||Tribune News serviceAmritsar, April 11Covid victims, especially their family members, are facing social stigma. If the recent case of Jandiala Guru youth is anything to go by, people are refusing to even help them. The youth who returned from UK was found Covid positive a couple of days ago following which his family was taken into isolation and the area was quarantined.The youth’s family members were taken to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for testing. Fortunately, the medical examination reports for Covid-19 of all 13 family members came negative. They heaved a sigh of relief, but were sad to learn that nobody was coming forward for their help. “We thought as if we have been released from prison. However, everybody refused to drop us at our home. Even health authorities denied any help. We are feeling socially ostracised,” they said.Gurinderbir Sidhu, DSP Jandiala, said: “I received a call around 11pm on Saturday. The family members told that the ambulance staff denied to take them back to their homes, while relatives and public representatives also refused any help. We had even contacted the village sarpanch for help, but in vain. I immediately sent ASI Major Singh and a constable Karanjit Singh to bring them home. He said the reports of all 13 members came negative. Of them, eight family members were brought by the Jandiala police late last evening.Earlier, similar things happened during the cremation of retired SE of Municipal Corporation Jaswinder Singh, whose reports came positive posthumously as the representatives of administration got him cremated. Similar was the case with Padam Shri and former Hazoori Raagi of Golden Temple Nirmal Singh as people locked the cremation ground at Verka village for his cremation.DC Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon urged people to be cautious but not panic from novel corornavirus. He said: “People should not discriminate and try to help society and not create a divide by prejudicing in this time of crisis. We should not let this stigma creep in our society and keep fighting against the disease unitedly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-victims-face-social-stigma-69841
