12-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Kin of Covid-19 victim run from pillar to post for body||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 11The family of a 45-year-old man from the Lahori gate area, who died of Covid-19, is running from pillar to post to get the body for cremation.Ashok Kumar, a tea seller, had tested positive for the infection posthumously on Wednesday. The local administration, however, did not officially notify the death till Thursday evening.“Earlier, we were told that the body will be handed over to us only after collecting the swab samples of the entire family. Later, we went to the mortuary of Government Medical College and there we were told to bring a police party from our area. When we went to the police station, they stated that it is not their work unless they are ordered by their seniors,” said deceased’s son Manish Kumar.Later, the family was told that the body would be handed over only after receiving the test reports of other family members, said Manish.Manish said his father had respiratory problems, following which they took him to a local private hospital. “It was already late in the evening and the private hospital refused to admit him. We requested the hospital to at least provide oxygen support to him, but we did not get any help. Then we went to the Civil Hospital from where we were referred to Government Medical College. When we reached GMC, my father expired within hours,” said Manish, adding that timely medical help might have saved his father.Manish said he along with his brother had gone to keep the body at the mortuary. “Bodies were lying on the floor. There were no ice cubes or freezers available. My father passed away 36 hours ago and by now the body may have started decomposing,” feared Manish. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore did not answer despite repeated phone calls and messages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-of-covid-19-victim-run-from-pillar-to-post-for-body-98074
12-06-2020||
||Defunct traffic lights pose threat to lives of residents||Amritsar, June 11 With the easing of restrictions, traffic has started returning to roads but the administration has yet to make traffic lights at various chowks in the city operational. For over two months, city roads wore a deserted look after the curfew was imposed in the state to contain the spread of Covid-19. While the curfew was lifted on May 18, the lockdown was continued. Plying of vehicles has been allowed. The erratic traffic on chowks has put lives of commuters to risk, said Parkash Singh, a local resident. “In absence of traffic signals, vehicles coming from all sides can result in collision,” he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh said the matter would be taken up with the authorities concerned. “Traffic signals are operational at certain intersections in the city,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/defunct-traffic-lights-pose-threat-to-lives-of-residents-98075
12-06-2020||
||RTI activist holds protest over illegal constructions||Amritsar, June 11 RTI activist and leader of the Lok Insaaf Party Suresh Sharma staged a protest over illegal constructions at the Municipal Corporation office in Ranjit Avenue here on Thursday. He had lodged a complaint with MC Commissioner Komal Mittal a few days ago. Suresh Sharma said no action had been taken on his complaint. He had made a complaint of an under-construction hotel building on Queen’s Road and a commercial building at Lawrence Road. He also pointed out encroachments on a street near Queen’s Road and compounding of illegal building at Basant Avenue.        “Illegal constructions are rampant in the city. During the lockdown, influential persons constructed hotels and illegal buildings in various areas of the city. These cannot be carried out without the connivance of MC officials. Instead of contributing towards the MC’s revenue by compounding illegal buildings, some of the officials are patronising the illegal construction,” added the activist. MC Additional Commissioner Sandip Rishi and officials of the Municipal Town Planning wing assured the activist that appropriate action would be taken in a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rti-activist-holds-protest-over-illegal-constructions-98076
12-06-2020||---||GNDU improves NIRF ranking for third year||Amritsar, June 11Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has improved its ranking in the National Institute Ranking Frame (NIRF) – 2020, released by Minister of Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Thursday.The university is ranked 51st among all Central, public and private universities in the country. Earlier, it stood at the 59th place. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu said the NIRF ranked the institutes on the basis of five parameters — teaching and learning resources, research and professional practice, graduation outcome, overall inclusivity and perception.This year, GNDU improved its performance in three out of the five criteria — research and professional practice, graduation outcome and perception.A good ranking in the NIRF enables the universities to get several prestigious grants from federal funding agencies.GNDU is also ranked among the top 9 per cent universities in the world and the top 10 state public universities in the country as recently assessed by a leading international evaluation agency — Centre for World University Ranking (CWUR).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-improves-nirf-ranking-for-third-year-98077
12-06-2020||---||3 more succumb to virus in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 11With three more deaths reported on Thursday, the count of fatalities due to Covid-19 has increased to 14 in the district. The deceased are Ashok Kumar, a 45-year-old tea seller of Lahori Gate, 62-year-old Amarjit Kaur from Nwa Kot and 63-year-old Satish Kumar of the Gate Hakeema area.The district also reported 15 positive cases. Of which, 11 are ILI (influenza) cases — one each from Lawrence Road, Kotla (near Ajnala), Maha Singh Gate, Gate Khazana, Bambay Wala Khoo, D block Ranjit Avenue, Sandhu Colony (Majitha Road), and two from Hathi Gate area. One contact of a positive case from Garden Enclave also tested positive.Besides, two BSF jawans from Ajnala also tested positive. A senior BSF official stated that companies from outstations were stationed here recently and jawans were being tested, out of which two tested positive.With the new 15 cases reported on Thursday, the total count of Covid-19 cases has increased to 542 in the district. While the number of cases is increasing exponentially, the lack of trust in government is also increasing.Residents in containment areas, especially Bombay Wala Khoo, are not ready to give swab samples for testing. The residents fear that if tested positive, they would be admitted to hospital or a quarantine centre for 14 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-more-succumb-to-virus-in-amritsar-98079
12-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Municipal Corporation stares at financial crisis with low recovery||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 11The lockdown, existing for over the last two months, has led to a heavy financial loss to the municipal corporation as various departments have failed to get any recovery of bills, taxes and fee during this period.The civic body has recovered only Rs 32.72 lakh property tax during the last two months. The amount was collected when the government gave a 10 per cent rebate for one-time settlement of property tax.During the last fiscal year, the MC had recovered 26.71 crore tax.Officials of the MC said they got a marginal recovery of water and sewerage bills. The MC did not get the trade licence renew fee and conservancy charges, which they were supposed to collect in April. "Now, the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) has given the approval to extend the period of exemption of late fee for submission of trade licence fee and conservancy charges for the 2020-21 period till September 30. There is no property of the MC sold during the lockdown. Moreover, the MC has not got the share of the GST so far," they said.The civic body needs 14 crore monthly to pay its employees. There are several routine expenses which are related to the core services. The MC has to maintain 400 tubewells for water supply, around 90,000 LED lights, 15 sewer disposal 18-km-long water supply and sewer lines, maintenance of streets and roads.The local leadership and office-bearers of the House are now demanding a special package from the government to address the financial crisis.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “It is a major challenge for the MC as we have recovered a little amount against bills, taxes and fee. The expenses have increased after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. We have to sanitise the city, keep the surroundings clean and take care of other sanitation issues. Around 20 crore is the basic requirement for the monthly affairs. The revenue has sharply decreased after the lockdown. We hope the state government will provide some financial aid to the civic bodies in this time of crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/municipal-corporation-stares-at-financial-crisis-with-low-recovery-98080
12-06-2020||---||24-yr-old girl commits suicide, youth booked||Amritsar, June 11Sapna Verma (24), a resident of Bhawani Nagar near Gopal Mandir, committed suicide by consuming some poisonous substance after her ‘lover’ allegedly refused to marry her after a year of courtship.The police have booked the youth, identified as Shivam Nanda (26), a resident of Green Avenue, after a suicide note was found from the victim’s room in which she held him responsible for taking the extreme step.Aman Verma, a goldsmith and father of the victim, told the police that Sapna was in relationship with the accused for last one year and she wanted to marry him. He said his daughter had informed the family of this development. He said on June 2, Aman Verma had talked to the accused on mobile and he refused to marry her.Feeling cheated, a perturbed Sapna threatened to end her life by consuming poison, but he tried to console her. He asked her not to take such a step.He said next day, he, along with his wife, was having tea when Sapna came and said she had consumed some poisonous substance. She was immediately rushed to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital from where she was admitted to a private hospital on Airport Road. He said when she was hospitalised, he checked her room and found a suicide note. He said his daughter died in the hospital on Wednesday evening.Following his statement and on the basis of the suicide note, the police booked Shivam Nanda on the charge of abetment to suicide (Section 306 of the IPC). “Shivam is son of a hotelier and belonged to a well-to-do family,” said investigating officer Kabal Singh. He said the girl died on Wednesday evening and the body was handed over to the family on Thursday after a postmortem. He said raids were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/24-yr-old-girl-commits-suicide-youth-booked-98081
12-06-2020||---||Historic well of Guru Arjan Dev dedicated to devotees||Amritsar, June 11The SGPC today dedicated the historic ‘athh nukra khu’ (eight-cornered well) located at Gurdwara Sahib Patshahi Panjvi at Othian (Batala) to devotees after getting it restored.This historic well is associated with the fifth guru of Sikhs, Guru Arjan Dev, who had got it dug following the demand of devotees.Senior vice-president, SGPC, Rajinder Singh Mehta said the renovation of the historic well was entrusted to Baba Sewa Singh of Khadoor Sahib wale.Nanakshahi brick was used to match it with the ancient contours. “This initiative was taken up to preserve the Sikh heritage," he said.SGPC chief secretary Roop Singh said a green belt would be erected on the gurdwara premises and traditional saplings would be planted. One acre had been demarcated for the purpose and five saplings were planted today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/historic-well-of-guru-arjan-dev-dedicated-to-devotees-98082
12-06-2020||---||ASI accused of assault, police order probe||Amritsar, June 11A woman on Thursday accused an ASI of attacking her husband and later creating high drama outside her house. The video went viral today following which the police have ordered a probe. A monetary dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident. The woman, Rajinder Kaur, a resident of Jujhar Avenue told the media. She said her family had lodged a complaint against ASI Hardev Singh to the Police Commissioner and investigation was on in this regard. She alleged ASI Hardev Singh attacked her husband and pressurised them to withdraw the complaint. Demanding that the security of their family be assured and the cop should be suspended and stringent punitive action be taken against him.In the video, the accused ASI was seen dancing in drunken position and even tried to snatch the mobile phone of the woman who was recording this. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the matter was under investigation. He said appropriate action would be taken in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-accused-of-assault-police-order-probe-98083
12-06-2020||---||She sets out to achieve her dream||Dinanagar, June 11As a little girl, Poorvi Tarnach loved the thought of playing ‘dressed-up.’ She is still living up to that idea. At 17, with still a couple of years to go before she actually takes the civil services exams, she has already started dressing-up for the 'big event'.The Class XII (Humanities) student of Sumitra Devi Arya School, Dinanagar, took full advantage of the lockdown and started her preparations with psychology and economics subjects. Her desire is “to revel on the big stage to make it big in life.”When the curfew came into effect, Poorvi was holidaying at her grandmother’s home in Jammu. “It is a well-documented fact that without ambition, one can start nothing. The prize will not be sent to you. You have to win it. My immediate aim is to clear my Class XII exams with flying colours and then enrol at Delhi University. It will be in Delhi itself that I will join a coaching institute for civil services,” she said.The shutdown also gave her a chance to learn some verses from the Quran and the Bhagwad Gita. “The Quran calms the soul. You will get rewarded for every letter you read. From heart ailments to psychological disorders, the Quran has a cure for them all,” she claims.Poorvi is the daughter of a Sujanpur-based a registered medical practitioner. Her mother is a home-maker.“These days, I have been studying psychology online. It is one of my favourite subjects. One can get over your their terrible fear of darkness or spiders or other such things after studying psychology. In fact, by learning about ‘cognitive behavioural therapy’, one gains a self-help tool to correct all sorts of negative thinking patterns. For example, one could use it to reduce anxiety. Studying psychology also trains one to look at problems from different perspectives which is vital for finding the most effective and beneficial solutions. It offers a great advantage when confronting life challenges and making decisions. You have a better chance of making choices in a thoughtful, considered manner that overcome many of the unwanted biases that we all have,” said Poorvi.Talking about her Class X results, Poorvi says she is not happy with the 94 per cent score she got in her matriculation examinations. “I could have done better. I was actually aiming for the 98 per cent mark. Unfortunately, in life some things do not go as you want them to go,” she added.Her principal, Upma Mahajan, says Poorvi is both intelligent and ambitious. “Intelligence without ambition is a bird without wings. This girl has everything going for her,” she quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-sets-out-to-achieve-her-dream-98085
12-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Immigration centre takes online route, still finds few takers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 11While the educational institutions are still closed and online study has not yet caught the fancy of students, the IELTS and immigration centers in the city are hit hard.Rajwinderpal Sharma, who runs Y-vace center near Guru Nanak Dev University, said, “Besides rent, we have to pay salaries to the staff. So it means that we need Rs 3 lakh every month.” We have paid full salaries to employees for the last two months but now it is becoming difficult, he added.“We would have to apply some cuts. The government has announced loan for entrepreneurs at 16 per cent per annum. The loan interest rate is higher than the personal loan interest rate,” he complained adding that mere announcements have been made.He said: “Losses are mounting up and businessmen cannot afford to take loans on heavy interest rates to pay salaries to staff. Practical solutions should have been explored in the present economic scenario. A large number of people have lost their jobs after imposition of the nationwide lockdown”.Apart from coaching and immigration consultancy, these centers have been providing employment to college pass-outs. “Those with good communication skills prefer to work at these centers until they find a more suitable job or get an admission in a prestigious institution for higher study,” said Rajwinderpal adding that all such students have now been rendered jobless.Talking about online education, he said, “We have started free online coaching from April 1. Anybody can assess the study material at our website and social media pages. But the truth is students are yet not taking online education seriously.”While the restrictions continue, the students too have postponed their plans to go abroad. “Presently anyone can apply to study in Canada online. But the students are more interested in moving abroad instead of enrolling in an online course,” said Rajwinderpal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/immigration-centre-takes-online-route-still-finds-few-takers-98086
12-06-2020||Amritsar||Jail inmates clash, four booked||Two members of gang bookedAmritsar: Following input that two accomplices of notorious gangster Jaggu Bhagwanpuria were in the area and planning some loot, the rural police have booked the duo and launched investigations. Those booked were identified as Nitin Nahar of Indira Colony, Jhabal road and Kartik of the Guruwali area. Senior police authorities said there was information that the duo belonged to Jaggu Bhagwanpuria gang and was involved in many criminal cases. They also had firearms with them. They were indulging in snatching and robberies. TNSTransfer of Tarn Taran police distAmritsar: Senior SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha on Thursday criticised the Punjab Government for transferring Tarn Taran police district to the Ferozepur Range. In a statement issued here, Valtoha said the government completely had ignored the administrative and geographical situation of the district that is in close proximity to the city (Amritsar). “The decision has been taken in hassle,” he said, adding that the government must withdraw the order. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jail-inmates-clash-four-booked-98087
