12-07-2020||---||13 more catch virus, total climbs to 1,089 in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 11With the district Health Department reporting 13 new Covid-19 positive cases here on Saturday, the total count of positive cases has increased to 1,089. Of the new cases, five are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases while the remaining eight are contacts of positive patients.Of the five ILI cases, one each was reported from Dayanand Nagar, Nagina Avenue, Katra Khajana, Sawan Nagar and Chitta Katra. Of the contact cases, four were reported from Uttam Avenue (Sultanwind Road) while one each was reported from Tailor Road, Gobind Nagar and Vijay Nagar. At present, the district has a total of 149 active cases.The district has witnessed a total of 888 recoveries from the disease so far.The district has reported the highest number of 52 deaths due to Covid-19 in the state. While a majority of casualties were aged persons with comorbidities, the high mortality rate is still a cause for concern. The district has reported the highest mortality rate of 4.77 per cent in the district against the national average of 2.62 per cent.The district has witnessed a spurt in the number of fresh cases and casualties during the last 30 days as the number of cases has increased manifold and the death toll has gone up nearly four and a half times. The death count on June 9 was just 11, which has now increased to 52.Van to collect Covid samplesDistrict Congress committee urban president Jatinder Sonia on Saturday inaugurated mobile Covid-19 testing van at Chitta Gumat locality in Ram Bagh. A team of doctors led by Dr Navdeep Singh, Civil Surgeon, took random samples of 30 persons from the area. Sonia appreciated the efforts being made by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to fight Covid.Karnataka returnee tests +veTarn Taran: The Covid-19 report of a Karnataka returnee, who is a native of Kullha village (Patti) has returned positive. The patient has been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital.The number of the cases admitted to the local isolation ward now stands at 11 as two Patti sub-jail inmates have been been sent back to the jail after their recovery.The report of the Karnataka returnee, a resident of Kullha village, had become to a thing of great concern as his sample was taken on July 3 there in Karnataka. His report was sent to the district administration . He travelled hundreds of kilometers to reach his village on Friday. He met his family members at his village since Friday. He had gone there to seek job. — OC GMC doctor, who alleged poor quality PPE kits, suspendedThe Department of Medical Education and Research has suspended Dr Shiv Charan of Government Medical College (GMC). Dr Shiv was the head of the Medicine Department. Notably, he had highlighted the poor quality of PPE kits purchased by the college. While the department had recently removed the principal and the vice-principal from their posts after the inquiry began recently, Dr Shiv was transferred to the Patiala GMC. As he managed to get his transfer orders stayed, citing his retirement age, his suspension has come as a shock to many at GMC. The faculty is now left guessing if he is being punished for calling a spade a spade as he had written to the Principal regarding the poor quality of PPE kits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-more-catch-virus-total-climbs-to-1-089-in-amritsar-district-111638
12-07-2020||---||Two booked for fraud, forgery||Amritsar, July 11The Islamabad police have booked two persons, including a woman, for allegedly opening a bank account and taking loan after forging documents.While the accused was identified as Tejinder Singh, the identity of woman was yet to be ascertained. The police have registered a case under Sections 419, 420, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC against them on the statement of Madhu, a resident of the Kot Khalsa area.The complainant alleged that she wanted to take a bank loan to repair her house and her neighbour, Narinder Kaur, used to deal in this connection. She promised to provide her loan from bank and therefore she took her voter identity card and Aadhaar card and gave it to Tajinder Singh.Madhu said when he failed to provide the bank loan, she took her original documents from him unaware of the fact that the suspect had xeroxed her original documents. She said few times ago employees of Canara Bank located on Lawrence Road came to her home while telling that her loan was passed.She said alarmed over it, she, along with her husband, visited the bank and told the officials that they neither have any bank account on their name in the bank nor they had applied for the loan. The bank authorities told that a bank account was opened on her name on the basis of the documents. However, the documents have picture of another lady.The police said investigations were under progress in the case after registering an FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-fraud-forgery-111639
12-07-2020||---||AIT debars firm from bidding for three months over delays||Amritsar, July 11At a meeting with officials of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), Chairman Dinesh Bassi said those bidding successfully for projects would have to finish the work within the set deadline.Bassi debarred Puneet Sharma and Company from participating in a tender for the next three months for not completing the assigned work on time. He told the officials that he had been receiving complaints from all Assembly constituencies, wherein the contractors had been accused of quoting low amounts to secure tenders, affecting the quality of work. “MLAs of various constituencies have complained about the issue. Now, any contractor who places lower bids will have to submit double security and complete the work within the fixed time”, said the Chairman.The Chairman also reviewed status of various ongoing development works, including construction of a sports stadium at Sakatari Bagh and development works in Verka Sant Nagar, Joda Phatak and Gumtala area.The Chairman said a review meeting would be held every Saturday. In case any fault is discovered, responsibility would be fixed, he said.MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia was also present at the meeting.REVIEW MEETING TO BE HELD EVERY SATURDAYThe Chairman reviewed status of various ongoing development works, including construction of a sports stadium at Sakatari Bagh and development works in Verka Sant Nagar, Joda Phatak and Gumtala area. The Chairman said a review meeting would be held every Saturday. In case any fault is discovered, responsibility would be fixed, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ait-debars-firm-from-bidding-for-three-months-over-delays-111640
12-07-2020||---||IELTS, tuition centres eager to resume business||Amritsar, July 11Owners of over hundred IELTS and tuition centres here have urged the government to allow them to resume business, saying their livelihood has been hit hard by the Covid-induced lockdown.Staging a protest here on Friday, they said they would hand over the keys of their offices to the Deputy Commissioner in the next week if the government failed to respond to their demands.Kanwar Bikram, who led the protest, said: “We have also apprised leaders of the ruling party of the problems being faced by us and requested them for help.” He said they earned their living from the centres which they started after failing to get a suitable job.“Now after becoming self-employed and even creating jobs for other youngsters like us, we have been forced to keep our business shut for the past three months,” said Bikram, adding that if buses could be allowed to operate, if too must be given permission to resume classes.Another IELTS centre operator Arshdeep Singh said: “We have been paying huge amount as rent as stopping payments would mean we have to vacate the buildings. Our investments in bettering infrastructure are going waste.” He said licensed centers should be allowed to resume operations.“We are ready to abide by all instructions issued by the government to contain Covid spread. We understand that safety is paramount but if restaurants and hotels can operate, why can’t the less-crowded IELTS centers,” he said.The centre owners said they were finding it difficult to pay rent and staff salaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ielts-tuition-centres-eager-to-resume-business-111641
12-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Locked in, people prefer usual homely clothing over swish ones||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 11“The sale of fancy fabrics and formal wear has almost vanished in the market and is giving a tough time to the wholesale and retail merchants,” laments Rajiv Aneja, a wholesale readymade garment merchant.Understandably, Aneja’s claim had always been on the horizon, it was just a matter of time before it materialised into reality. The coronavirus has shaped fears, derailed economy and has hardly left in the world where its mark cannot be seen. And clothing industry is no different.As the majority of populace has continued to stay indoors, the shift in lifestyle was also bound to happen with many opting for the usual homewearing garments and shunning the luxury, fancy apparels. “The demand for kurtas, pyjamas, shorts, capri, cargo apart from conventional t-shirts has risen remarkably after reopening of markets following the lockdown”, he observes.The demand has not only surged among men, kids but also women.“Otherwise they were the major buyers of fancy and luxury apparels,” Aneja says. “Since the government has put restrictions on the number of gathering in parties and with people avoiding to visit malls, eating joints and upscale locations, they no longer require swish attires. So, the sale of western dresses, suits, lehanga and saree have plummeted and their traders have no other option but to store them,” he adds.Meanwhile, a segment of readymade shopkeepers selling the casuals cornering the moolah, however, the wholesalers have been dealing on the low as supply from manufacturing hubs — like Ludhiana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Kolkata and Mumbai — has taken a hitTarlochan Singh Chhabra, president of Amritsar Wholesale Readymade Garments Association, says: “The demand of daily use apparels being worn in houses have risen sharply but the wholesalers are not receiving regular supply from the manufacturing hubs like Ludhiana, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Kolkata and Mumbai.”He added that the supply from Kolkata had come down. Whereas from hubs in Delhi and Ludhiana it fell down to 30 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/locked-in-people-prefer-usual-homely-clothing-over-swish-ones-111643
12-07-2020||Amritsar||CM slammed for ‘discriminating’ against Doaba, Majha regions||Industrialists and BJP leader Tarun Chugh slammed the Capt Amarinder Singh government for announcing an industrial park and an integrated manufacturing cluster in the Malwa region, depriving the two other regions — Doaba and Majha — of the share of the largesse.Kamal Dalmia, Chairman of the Focal Point Industries Association, said ignoring the border districts in the industrial plan displayed the lack of vision of the government towards Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Ferozepur, where unemployment rate remained the highest. So, the youth of these districts remain vulnerable to addiction which could weaken the society and nation as well.It is highly unfortunate that the government, during the pandemic, was playing with the emotions of people, particularly industrialists, who were already passing through a critical phase. —Tarun Chugh, national secretary, BJPThe government must take the lead in guided industrialisation to create more jobs and at the same time set up institutes to train youth in the skilled courses, he said.Terming the projects as politically motivated, Tarun Chugh, national secretary of the BJP, said, “It was highly unfortunate that the government, during the pandemic, was playing with the emotions of people, particularly industrialists, who were already passing through a critical phase.”Government’s insensitivity towards Doaba and Majha left the people of these regions disappointed, he said. The BJP leader said the announcement, which came after 42 months of the formation of the government, clearly indicated that this promise was also likely to remain unfulfilled till the government completed its term. “It is nothing but an eyewash,” Chugh said.He also questioned the rationale behind announcing two mega projects in one region. “If the government was serious about boosting the trade and industry in the state, why didn’t it announce any such project for Doaba or Majha. The people and particularly the industrialists of these regions also need some support for coming out of the financial crunch and to cope with the challenges they are facing due to the global slowdown in the time of deadly pandemic,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cm-slammed-for-discriminating-against-doaba-majha-regions-111644
12-07-2020||Amritsar||Cong misleading farmers: Chhina||BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina on Friday lashed out at the state government for allegedly misleading the farmers on recent ordinances on agriculture passed by the Centre. He said the new changes would bring revolution in the farming sector.  Chhina said the Congress was leading the farmers astray in the garb of ordinances announced in the interest of farming. “We need to amend the age old laws which prohibit the farmers to market their produce in the open to the highest bidder,” he said, adding,  “the MSP will remain intact but the Congress is resorting to falsehood that the MSP is being done away with.” failed to implement the Swaminathan Report.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-misleading-farmers-chhina-111645
12-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Cong MLA flays Punjab govt over non-release of pending funds||Tarn Taran, July 11At a meeting of the district committee of the Border Area Development Programme (BADP) here on Friday, Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill took a serious note of non-releasing of funds for works to be done under the scheme during 2019-2020.The meeting was chaired by the DC, Kulwant Singh, and other officials of the district administration and the BSF were present.At the meeting, an amount of Rs31.48 crore was approved for works to be done in Patti, Khemkaran, Bhikhwinbd and Gandiwind blocks in the next four years under the BADP scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-mla-flays-punjab-govt-over-non-release-of-pending-funds-111646
12-07-2020||---||Population Day: Doc sensitises city people to family planning||Amritsar, July 11 World Population Day was observed at the Community Health Centre, Harchowal, in Gurdaspur district on Saturday.  Dr Kishan Chand, civil surgeon Gurdaspur, and Dr Ranjit Singh, Senior Medical Officer who attended the event stated that the department had organised an awareness campaign from June 27 to July 10. Dr Ranjit Singh said all eligible couples in the area were sensitised about family planning and were informed of various contraceptive measures as sterilisation, NSV, condoms, copper-T, contraceptive pills and injections. He added that another population control would be observed till July 27, during which various means of family planning would be made available to the eligible couples. Dr Chand revealed that according to the 2011 census, the total population of Punjab is 2,77,43,338. He added that the health department and government are also running programmes to ensure better reproductive health, maternal health, neonatal and infant care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/population-day-doc-sensitises-city-people-to-family-planning-111647
12-07-2020||---||Release funds for Language Dept, demand writers||Amritsar, July 11 A body of writers has asked the government to release funds for the Language Department here. Owing to the lack of funds, the department is unable to republish classical literature books in the Punjabi language.  Office-bearers of the Punjabi Writers Co-operative Society have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa regarding the problems being faced by the department. They demanded that it should be kept up to date. Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, managing director of the society, said the objective of the department was to promote the Punjabi language and culture and initiate court proceedings in Punjabi. Despite the fact that the headquarters of the Bhasha Vibhag is in Patiala, the hometown of the Chief Minister, the department is struggling for its survival.” This department has a distinguished history. It came into existence on January 1, 1948. About 1,300 books have been published by the department. Earlier, the stores of the department were full of books, but now all were empty as no one had republished the books for the last few decades, claimed Gumtala. Gumtala claimed that the government had not recruited employees in the department since 1996. “Employees are retiring and going home one by one. There are many vacancies lying vacant. Even the post of director is also lying vacant. Now there is no head of the department. Then the second important post of Additional Director is also lying vacant. Two posts of joint director, three out of six posts of deputy director and 60 posts of research assistant are also lying vacant.  Besides, 40 posts of research officer are also lying vacant. There is no district officer in Faridkot, Ferozepur and Hoshiarpur districts. The vacancies need to be filled immediately to run the department smoothly,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/release-funds-for-language-dept-demand-writers-111648
12-07-2020||---||Police yet to receive probe orders, says CP||Amritsar, July 11Two days after the Punjab Government shifted the probe in the fake Covid reports scam to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau (VB), officials of the city police said they had not yet received orders to hold a probe.“We are yet to receive any orders in this regard. We came to know of the development through media,” said the Commissioner of Police, Sukhchain Singh Gill.The decision of the government has led to resentment among complainants. MP Gurjit Aujla has also urged the Chief Minister to shift the probe back to the VB.On June 24, the VB booked five doctors and a hospital owner on charges of murder bid, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corruption. They were accused of fleecing patients by issuing “wrong” Covid-positive reports. The Bureau found at least seven persons, including a pregnant woman doctor, guilty.It also hinted at possible involvement of government officials and officials of the Health Department in the case. Those booked were Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Ridhum Tuli, Dr Sanjay Piplani and Dr Robin Tuli, all from Tuli Diagnostic Centre, Pawan Arora, owner of EMC Hospital, and Dr Pankaj Soni of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-yet-to-receive-probe-orders-says-cp-111649
12-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Cow shot dead, two booked||youth booked for abducting girlTarn Taran: Sonu, a resident of Khara village here, has been booked under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC for abducting a teenage girl from nearby Mundapind village. The incident occurred on the midnight of May 31 and June 1, but the case had been registered on July 10. In their complaint to the police, the victim’s parents stated that the accused lured the victim on the pretext of marrying her. They said they searched the girl everywhere, but later decided to lodge a complaint with the police. OCUGC urged to postpone examsJalandhar: Dr Gurpinder Singh Samra, Principal, Lyallpur Khalsa College, Jalandhar, and president, College Principals’ Association, has urged the University Grants Commission (UGC) to reconsider its decision to conduct examinations for the final semester classes by the end of September 2020. Dr Samra expressed concern over the scenario of holding examinations at a time when the number of cases was still on the rise. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cow-shot-dead-two-booked-111651
12-07-2020||---||Bringing cultural sites to people's doorstep amid Covid pandemic||Amritsar, July 11Before being hit by the pandemic, the heritage tourism industry in Amritsar was one of the main economic lifelines, with thriving prospects. But the tourism sector took a beating amid the Covid outbreak. The popular sites of international heritage tourism in city include Golden Temple, Wagah Border, Heritage Street, Partition Museum, Gobindgarh Fort, Ram Tirth, Jallianwala Bagh, War memorial and Pul Kanjri. All of these places had been shut due to Covid-19 until fresh guidelines on its re-opening are issued. Till then, the new normal for the management of these places lie in exploring the digital space.Partition Museum, the only dedicated museum to the Partition of India in the world, has shifted its activities online. They have been posting virtual tours of its galleries on their social media space, hosting interactions with historians, poets, documentarians across the world on relevant subjects through live web sessions and posting eye witness accounts from their archives of the partition. The video and audio files are also being shared with Department of education under their school education programme to create awareness regarding the history of the Partition. Similarly, The Punjab State War Memorial and Museum also have been marking important days and anniversaries by sharing their archives and video tours online. The district Tourism Department runs programmes such as heritage walk.The conservation and restoration works at some of the sites, including Gobindgarh Fort, Hall Bazaar and Town Hall are being carried keeping in mind the safety guidelines. These projects are being carried with 50 per cent or more staff present on site.SPEAKING OUTWe are carrying out all conservation works with social distancing norms in place. These sites get huge footfall usually and the pace of work will depend on when these places reopen. For now, the new normal for us means following the safety guidelines without a doubt. —AR Mishra, Project manager, Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion BoardUntil the guidelines to reopen these sites of tourism come, we are only carrying out conservation projects with 50 per cent workers on some of these sites. The new normal would be very difficult to define for heritage tourism as the footfall will be restricted in the first few months. —Gursharan Singh, district Tourism OfficerAlthough we want to open for physical tourism as soon as possible, given the situation, we are exploring digital space to reach out to more people. Our galleries need to be sanitised more, we will have to limit our footfall. —Mallika Ahluwalia, CEO, Partition MuseumWe are updating video and audio files, pictures and text on our social media platforms to keep in touch with our audience. Our galleries are being sanitised regularly and virtual tours are being offered on our digital platform till we reopen for footfall. —Col HP Singh, director, Punjab State war Memorial and Museum||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bringing-cultural-sites-to-peoples-doorstep-amid-covid-pandemic-111654
12-07-2020||LOCKDOWN AND INDUSTRY||‘Bizmen must be prepared for tough times & save money for rainy day’||SAMEER Jain, who is the director of Gian Chand Kapur Chand Jain, said they are manufacturer as well as dealer of stationery, plastic household products and kitchen wares. His firm distributes goods to 30 companies, besides warehousing all these items and then distributing these among public. He said they suffered a big dent in sales amid lockdown as educational institutes continue to remain closed. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Jain, a postgraduate from Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and Technology, Ahmedabad, shares that reopening of educational institutes would help revive their business and many other industries and trades. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?We are into distribution, warehousing business for some of the leading brands in stationery and household products. We are also getting our products manufactured on our own brands from job workers and distributing throughout India. As schools have been closed since March 22, the stationery business is badly affected and the business of household items was also affected as people are buying only essential items. Only 30 per cent of the sales target has been achieved in the first quarter of FY20-21.Online selling platforms charge heavy commissions and other charges so it is not viable in my trade. I am in the process of starting my own online platform so that the company could directly reach to customers as salesmen were not able to reach them due to the lockdown imposed by the government. —Sameer Jain, Director of Gian Chand Kapur Chand JainDo you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Once the schools are re-opened and people start purchasing related goods, only then their trade is expected to revive.Have you paid salaries to workers during the lockdown period?Yes, we have paid salaries on time to employees even during the lockdown period.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Online selling platforms charge heavy commissions and other charges so it is not viable in my trade. I am in the process of starting my own online platform so that the company could directly reach to customers as salesmen were not able to reach them due to the lockdown.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Every businessman should remain prepared for adverse circumstances and it is imperative to keep reserve funds for the rainy day. There should be back-up of funds for every GST registered company (like EPF is for employees) where one part is to be paid by the company and the other is paid by the government, the fund should remain as reserve and may be redeemed by the company in case of need or emergency.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?As a businessman we deal with challenges every day and I accepted this as another challenge and to serve the nation. We shifted to distribution of Covid-19 items like masks and sanitiser pens.What are your expectations from the government?In an emergency, credit guarantee scheme should be introduced and the government should give interest-free loans so that businesses under crisis are not burdened. Export incentive schemes should be announced to promote export. A business-friendly environment for trade and industry must be created. New industrial and trading hubs with modern facilities must be set up. Income tax charged on MSMEs and GST registered companies must be brought on a par with corporate tax which is 22 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bizmen-must-be-prepared-for-tough-times-save-money-for-rainy-day-111655
12-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Overflowing sewage continues to pose health hazard to residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 11The onset of the monsoon might cheer some people, but residents of the walled city area are peeved over the issue of clogged drains in different parts of the city. A large portion of the drains in the old walled city is still uncovered, thereby posing a great health hazard.Residents complained that during monsoons, when rain lashes the city, the sewage slush spills over to the roads. Manoj Kumar, a shopkeeper in the Sirki Banda bazaar pointed out that though they have asked the municipal authorities to cover the drains, but hardly anything was done till now. This is not that open drains are everywhere in the walled city, drains were covered in many parts of the city.Dheeraj Kumar, a resident of Khooh Suniara pointed out that during rains, the filthy water spills over to the streets, thus emanating foul smell. "The municipal corporation authorities should do something about it. During times when Covid-19 pandemic has been spreading its tentacles in the walled city area, accumulation of this slush can further aggravate the problems," he said.The narrow drains pose a great challenge to safai karamachanies while cleaning them. They said the residents of area dispose all kinds of waste material into the open drains and also dispose all kinds of plastic bags into the drain. The situation goes back to square one even after cleaning the drains.Many times, the unchecked solid waste along with plastic bags enters into covered drains, thereby obstructing the flow of sewage, resulting in waterlogging on the main roads for hours during drains.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the problem existed where the streets were very narrow. However, he added that under the Smart City project, there were plans to correct the sewerage and water supply system in the walled city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/overflowing-sewage-continues-to-pose-health-hazard-to-residents-111656
12-07-2020||---||Summon former jathedar, says Congress farm body||Amritsar, July 11The All India Congress Committee (Kisan Congress) has approached Akal Takht to summon former Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh, under whose term pardon was granted to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim in a series of sacrilege cases.The dera chief and his allies have been nominated as the accused in the chargesheet filed by the Punjab Police in a case related to the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015.In a letter addressed to Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, AICC (Kisan Congress) national coordinator Pritpal Singh Baliawal said Giani Gurbachan Singh should be questioned on why and on whose instance the dera chief was pardoned.He also demanded scrutinising the role of the SGPC, which had spent “golak” money to the tune of Rs 95 lakh to release advertisements in leading dailies to justify the exoneration of the dera chief.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/summon-former-jathedar-says-congress-farm-body-111573
12-07-2020||---||Jailed for flouting visa norms, 150 Punjabis return from Malaysia||Amritsar, July 11A group of 150 residents of Punjab, most of whom had been languishing in camps in Malaysia after the completion of their jail sentences for illegal stay, today arrived at SriGuru Ram Das Jee International Airport.On board a chartered flight, they landed at the airport in the afternoon. This was the first batch of residents with more expected to reach India soon as the Malaysian government has agreed to repatriate 350 people after Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal took up the issue with the Malaysian High Commissioner as well as the External Affairs Minister.The residents claim they had been duped by travel agents who had taken them to Malaysia on the pretext of giving them employment. They had to fend for themselves and in the process, they overstayed in Malaysia after the expiry of their visas.Earlier, Malaysian Helping Hands, an NGO headed by Paul Dholli, had brought the issue into the notice of the Youth Akali Dal through its Punjab representative Rajwant Kaur. The families of the affected youth had met Harsimrat and YAD secretary general Sarabjot Singh Sabi.‘Duped by agents’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jailed-for-flouting-visa-norms-150-punjabis-return-from-malaysia-111569
