12-10-2020||---||Protesting farmers refuse to relent, say scrap new laws||Amritsar, October 11Activists of several farm unions are in no mood to relent as is evident from the continuous protests at various places in the district. Their dharna at railway tracks at Devidas Pura village entered 18th day today, while the ones at Butari station and outside the residence of BJP leader Shwait Malik entered 11th day.Union leaders stress that they would accept nothing less than complete withdrawal of the three farm laws enacted by the Union Government. Meanwhile, farmers today staged protests outside a petrol pump and toll plaza near Janidala and Kathunangal.‘Won’t clear rly tracks’They burnt an effigy of the government at Buttari railway station and raised slogans. They reiterated that they would not allow the government to destroy the farming community to benefit corporate houses.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura of vegetable growers association said: “The non-agrarian communities should also join the protest as being consumers of farm products they too would suffer if the corporate houses managed to monopolise the trade.”Satnam Singh Ajnala of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said: “The protests will continue till our demand is not accepted.” Mandi Board employee resigns in protestTarn Taran: Lakhbir Singh Gill (pic), an employee of the local market committee, on Sunday resigned from his job in protest against the farm Acts passed by the Central Government. Gill, the 54-year-old market committee supervisor, is a first government employee in the state who has left his job in protest against the farm Acts. In his resignation letter to the department, Gill has mentioned that these Acts will not only make farmers landless but also deprive a large number of arhtiyas, palledars and clerks of their jobs. He alleged that thousands of employees working in the Mandi Board would also lose their jobs. Punjab, he says, currently earns around Rs 4,000 crore annually in the form of market fee and rural development fund for providing its yards for selling wheat, paddy, cotton crops in the APMC premises. Such taxes are paid by the buyers, not by the farmers. Gill has extended his support to the agitating farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protesting-farmers-refuse-to-relent-say-scrap-new-laws-154608
12-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Drug addict kills wife by slitting throat||Tarn Taran, October 11A drug addict, identified as Gursahib Singh, murdered his wife by slitting her throat at his farmhouse in Margindpur (Nikki Makhi) village, 40 km from here, on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Sandeep Kaur (33), who was married to the accused about 15 years ago.The police said the accused had sold his three and a half acres in the last years for buying drugs. He wanted to sell the remaining part of the land which was in the name of his wife and two kids. His wife used to stop him from taking drugs but he was not mending his ways. In the early hours of Sunday morning in a fit of anger the accused after locking his younger son in a room of the house attacked his wife with shape-edged weapon. He attacked on the face and neck and she died. The matter was brought to the notice of the police by the parents of the deceased.On the statement of Sandeep Kaur’s father Raj Singh, a resident of Bahadur Nagar (Valtoha), the police have registered a case. He alleged that Gursahib Singh was doing all this with the connivance of some other village residents who wanted to grab his property.Rajbir Singh, DSP, Bhikhiwind, said besides Gursahib Singh, the police have booked Lakhwinder Singh, Heera Singh and Gurmeet Singh of the same village under Sections 302, 120-B and 34 of the IPC, who are at large.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-addict-kills-wife-by-slitting-throat-154609
12-10-2020||---||Reaping rich harvest with mushrooms||Amritsar, October 11Daljit Singh, a farmer from Kasel village in Tarn Taran district, has become an inspiration for others by breaking away from the wheat-paddy cycle. He has set up a commercially successful mushroom farm. Besides, he has also found a way to use crop residue generated in his fields. Daljit is mixing crop residue with soil to cultivate mushrooms. He says he had started growing mushrooms in 1999 in a shed measuring 70 ft by 20 ft.Presently, he is growing mushrooms in 10 such sheds. He says small farmers can cultivate mushrooms to supplement their income as a shed requires very less area as compared to conventional crops. He says he had taken formal training from Khalsa College. He claims that presently, he is selling mushrooms worth Rs 13-14 lakh and earning a profit of around Rs 7-8 lakh.Daljit has also provided employment to at least eight persons at his mushroom farm. "The farmers keen on supplementing their income by doing a little extra, should start mushroom cultivation on a small scale. They can upgrade to higher levels after getting knowledge about the technicalities involved in growing mushrooms," he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reaping-rich-harvest-with-mushrooms-154610
12-10-2020||Amritsar||Four succumb to virus, 62 new cases reported in Amritsar||With the district reporting four more deaths due to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, the toll reached 415 today. The health authorities have also reported 62 new positive cases. The new cases include 33 influenza-like illness cases and 29 contacts of positive patients. The total count of positive cases in the district has reached 11,152.The deceased has been identified as Kawaljit Singh, a 39-year-old resident of New Jaspal Nagar on the Sultanwind Road, Manjinder Singh, a 50-year-old from Gali Masjid Wali in Baba Bohriwala Area, Mukhtar Singh, an 80-year-old resident of Katra Baggian and Mohinder Singh, a 77-year-old resident of Gali Darbar Sahib Wali in Mohalla Malaksar.With the recovery of 102 cases, the total recovery count has also increased to 9,955. At present, the district has a total of 782 active cases.The district witnessed a sudden dip in the number of positive cases recently. While the total number of cases reported in a day had touched around 400 in the previous month, the district has been reporting below 70 cases for the past two days and below 100 in the last four days.Though the district administration officials are terming it an achievement due to the strategic control, it seems that that the dip is actually due to the fact that a large number of people are not getting tested despite being sick. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-succumb-to-virus-62-new-cases-reported-in-amritsar-154611
12-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Two held with 26-gm heroin||MC stops illegal constructionAmritsar: Estate wing of the MC stopped an illegal construction at a public park in the Golden Avenue area on the GT Road here on Saturday. A team of the estate wing officials visited the park after receiving a complaint in this regard. The officials stated that some persons were constructing a religious structure in the park illegally. The MC employees asked them to stop the construction and remove the encroachment. “We have warned them to remove encroachment otherwise we will remove it and take legal action," said Suhant Bhatia. Apart from this, separate estate wing teams removed encroachments from the Heritage Street, Katra Ahluwalia and Sultanwind Gate. “Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal have adopted zero tolerance against encroachers. We have initiated anti-encroachment drive and it will continue in the future also,” said Bhatia. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-26-gm-heroin-154612
12-10-2020||---||Residents urged to back Swachh Amritsar Campaign||Amritsar, October 11Municipal Corporation officials claimed to address the sanitation issue within time after receiving complaint on the Swachhta App. Mayor Karamjit Singh and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal stated that every resident of Amritsar should support the ‘Swachh Amritsar Campaign’ by downloading the ‘Swachh App’ on their smartphones and use it. Komal Mittal said through this app, people can also register their complaints regarding cleanliness and MC will address the issue on a priority basis.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the Swachh Amritsar Campaign had been launched for the improvement in cleanliness survey rankings and they are continuously reaching out to people on a daily basis to keep Amritsar clean. In a similar vein, the Mayor and MC Commissioner visited ward numbers 22 and 25 of Mohkampura and appealed to the residents to ensure cleanliness. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the holy city of Amritsar was known all over the world and it was their duty to keep the holy city clean and tidy.He said instead of dumping garbage on streets and outside their home, people should throw it in the bins and hand it over to the sanitation workers when the vehicle of the MC arrives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-urged-to-back-swachh-amritsar-campaign-154613
12-10-2020||---||Three robbers held, 4 flee||Amritsar, October 11The Verka police on Sunday nabbed three robbers while four of their accomplices managed to slip away. The arrested accused had confessed around six robberies and snatchings in the recent past, claimed the police.Those arrested were identified as Gubakshish Singh, alias Gora, Shiva Singh and Ravi Singh, all residents of the Verka area. Major Singh Mangu of Vallah, Ashish of Tung Bala located on Majitha road, Sajan, alias Kallu, of Kirpal Colony and Harman of Verka were yet to be arrested.Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, said the accused were habitual offenders. They were planning some loot at a vacant plot near Verka cremation ground when patrolling police party nabbed them. The police recovered three sharp weapons and a snatched motorcycle from their possession.Nishan Singh said that raids were on to nab the absconders, while more recoveries are likely to be made from arrested accused during further course of interrogation. The accused were brought on police remand for interrogation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-robbers-held-4-flee-154615
12-10-2020||---||Intercepted, gangster’s aides open fire at cops||Amritsar, October 11A day after notorious gangster Bhupinder Singh alias Sonu Kangla was arrested for allegedly possessing sophisticated weapons, a police team was attacked by his accomplices in the Lopoke area here last evening.During interrogation, Kangla told the police that he had given a pistol to a drug peddler, Gurwinder Singh alias Mehakpreet Singh, around four months ago.Gaurav Toora, SP, said following a tip-off that Gurwinder and his accomplice were seen travelling in a car near Chak Allah Baksh village, the police set up a naka.When the police signalled them to stop, the accused opened fire at them. The cops retaliated, but they fled towards Pandori village.The SP said minutes later, the police team intercepted two cars coming from Pandori village, but the occupants again opened fire at them. This time, the accused fled towards Bachiwind village.The police booked Gurwinder and his unknown accomplices on the charges of attempt to murder and obstructing public servants from discharging their duties and under various sections of the Arms Act. Toora said raids were on to nab the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/intercepted-gangsters-aides-open-fire-at-cops-154616
12-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Three held for duping Cong ticket aspirant for Bihar poll||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 11The city police have arrested three persons for allegedly duping a Congress ticket aspirant from Bihar where assembly elections are round the corner. The accused posed as staff members from Rahul Gandhi’s office and took huge amounts of money for assured party ticket for the upcoming elections in the state. The FIR was registered following a complaint lodged by Varinder Singh Rathore, All India Congress Committee secretary and party in-charge for Bihar polls.Those arrested were identified as Gaurav Kumar, alias Gaurav of Shiv Mandir Wali Gali on Majitha Road now residing at Chhota Haripura, Rahul Sharma of Friends Colony, Majitha Road and Harjinder Singh, alias Vicky, of Tilak Nagar, Shivala Road here.A case under Sections 416 (Cheating by impersonation), 419 (Punishment for cheating by impersonation), 420 (Cheating), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against them.Rathore stated to the police that he got a call from Mukesh Kumar, an aspirant for the party ticket from Barbigha Bihar Assembly constituency who told that accused posing as Kanishka Singh from the office of Rahul Gandhi and sought huge amount for helping in securing the party ticket. He said Mukesh transferred the amount in the bank account in the name of Sital.Paramjit Singh, Investigating Officer, said that during probe the mobile phone and bank account was found to be operating in Amritsar. Gaurav Kumar was the mastermind in the racket. He was also a worker of the party. He said that the probe carried out so far found that the accused defrauded over Rs 16 lakh from Mukesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-for-duping-cong-ticket-aspirant-for-bihar-poll-154618
12-10-2020||IF your immunity is good and you are working on your fitness||Exercise, stay fit to fight the virus||“I worked out more than usual from September 16 to 19 and witnessed muscle tiredness. Initially, I assumed that it’s only a muscle issue due to excessive exercise. Meanwhile, along with fatigue, I got mild fever, too. I got suspicious and got myself tested on September 22,” said Kuljit Singh.”“The next day I got my report and tested positive for Covid-19. The doctor advised me to take complete rest in isolation. I self-isolated in one of the rooms of my house and took all precautionary measures advised by the doctor.”After September 24, I started feeling better, but stayed in isolation till September 29. As the paddy crop has matured, I have started working in fields. I am taking all precautionary measures and staying away from workers. There is nothing to panic about Covid-19. We should stay fit to fight the virus. —Kuljit Singh, Malanwali village resident“I had mild fever for the next three days. When I tracked my links with the infected persons, I found that one of my relatives visited my office on September 15. He had fever and other symptoms of Covid-19. I suspect that I may have contracted the virus from my relative.”“My family members also got themselves tested and all of them tested negative in the rapid antigen test. No one from the family had symptoms of the virus.”“I have read a lot about the treatment and self-medication. There were several social media posts regarding the medication of coronavirus. But I had ignored all and only took azithromycin once a day for three days. Moreover, I used to take steam to keep the respiratory system accurate. After September 24, I started feeling better but stayed in isolation till September 29. As the paddy crop has matured, I have started working in fields. I am taking all precautionary measures and staying away from workers. There is nothing to panic about Covid-19. We should stay fit to fight the virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/exercise-stay-fit-to-fight-the-virus-154620
12-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Real life Ghulle Shah refuses to fade away with time||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 11Sometimes, a character played by an actor is appreciated so much by the audience that it becomes his lifelong identity. One such character (and actor) in the Punjabi Entertainment Industry is Ghulle Shah. Back in those days, when a television show, a movie or a stage performance was never complete unless Ghulle Shah was on board, people did not even know that the artiste playing the character is Surinder Farishta. For people, he was Ghulle Shah and he still is.Not long ago, parents would ask children to leave mobile and start studying. Now, they ask them to take the mobile and study. I feel that education, to a great extent, will shift to online platforms. We all should try to live as close to nature as possible. The materials or money we accumulate over the years will not bring us happiness. Our focus should be on the right things. Nature has sent across a message and everybody should take it seriously. —Surinder Farishta, ActorBorn and brought up in the holy city, he has been actively performing on stage since his school days. Farishta left his college early to pursue his passion and became a household name in Punjab during the days of Doordarshan.While many artistes of his generation have faded with time, Surinder Farishta is still active. Presently, he is shooting for his new project, ‘Bhasoorian Nawwia Nawwia’. He revealed that his another project with a television channel is also in the pipeline.When asked about his time spent in the lockdown, he said he had been working on his scripts. “Besides I had been working for various advertisement campaigns of the government to create awareness about coronavirus and keep people in high spirits,” he said.An optimistic person, he believes that the world would be a changed and better place to live when the pandemic is over. “I think we all have learnt our lessons. The nature is more powerful than all of us and we must respect this fact.” He said those who have still not learned a lesson but do it.Talking about the Covid-19 induced change, the comedian quips, “Not long ago, parents would ask children to leave mobile and start studying. Now, they ask them to take the mobile and study.” He stated that he feels that education to a great extent would shift to online platforms.In an advice for the people, he said, “We all should try to live as close to nature as possible. The materials or money we accumulate over the years would not bring us happiness. Our focus should be on the right things.” He said nature had sent across a message and everybody should take it seriously.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/real-life-ghulle-shah-refuses-to-fade-away-with-time-154621
12-10-2020||OPEN HOUSE||Relief vital for economic recovery, but be careful||The Show must go on but with precautionsIt is an appropriate time for us to start living with the virus to revive our declining economy, of course observing all the rules like wearing of mask and distancing. In our city, NEET exam was held successfully last month, and at a centre, strength of the candidates was more than 900. Under such circumstances, why not marriage and other functions allowed with this much attendance. Our whole economy depends upon religious and social functions; just imagine how many trade and industrial units are involved with such functions. Keeping the formula of 50 per cent utilisation of seating capacity all banquet halls and resorts should be opened. During the test, all candidates are supposed to stay in the centre for same interval of time whereas during a marriage function invitees come and go in a span of three-four hours. In our city total business activities revolve around tourism. Show must go on as usual with precautions. If politicians can do their business by holding their dharnas and rallies inviting thousands of people to join them then why put restrictions on marriage and other functions?.Harsh N JoharState on the edge, set in curbs nowThe Punjab government had been flouting its own protocols in the past -- not restricting gatherings at the Golden Temple and other religious places. The decision to allow bigger gatherings, lifting weekend restrictions is fraught with dangers of spread. Keeping in view the approaching festival season, public interest has taken a back seat while announcing new guidelines. Since Punjab's Case Fatility Rate (CFR) is still highest in the country, the government should rollback the relaxations measures to safeguard lives and rather strengthen healthcare facilities to lower death rate which is double the national averageAnil Vinayakcautious approach need of the hourOf course it has provided much needed relief to the 'would-be' couples, the industry people and others connected with the trade. It has breathed life into the banquet owners for manoeuvre. The increase has come as a fresh whiff of air. The measure taken follows consistent drops in the daily recorded deaths as decline in daily new cases with 61,267 infections against an average of 90,000 at the national level has been observed. There is a sense of optimism but the State is still far from stopping the transmission. There should be no room for complacency as the virus has the potency to lead to another wave of infections as health officials have warned of the continued perils of large-scale social gatherings. Apparently, the relaxations have been given to ease the economic impact of the lockdown. If the government still stands along the way, it could fall and if it goes too fast it could go wrong. Hence, a cautious step is required. Therefore all the rules and precautions should be taken into consideration. Testing, measuring and publishing accurate data on cases and deaths is the best way to make people understand threat of the pandemic seriously lest it should grow under their feet and take them unawares when it climbs up suddenly without any warning.Tarsem S BumrahRelaxations are indeed A big reliefI am a ninth grader. Ever since the lockdown was imposed, I saw my father being very tensed about how to run the house. We all were going through same. After almost 100 days, my family has been relaxed as after the decision. Workers are also happy as they are getting money now and could run their house with ease. More or less, it is good but people should also abide by the precautionary measures. On the first Sunday after the lockdown, I went to the mall for shopping and had a sigh of relief that everything has opened except theatres and schools. I hope they also open soon.IzleenTime to shun the confinementIt’s a right move by the government. Protecting people by confining them to their homes is not justified under any circumstances. Let the people plod along in their respective professions and fight against the virus, too. Protection against the pandemic is the responsibility of one and all. Masses now understand that they have to move forward facing the challenge like any other challenge of life. Wedding palaces employ many people. So, depriving those of their livelihoods would eventually amount to poverty, unemployment and crime and it goes without saying that these things are as fatal as any virus in the world. People must be allowed to see their loved ones for the last time after their demise. People have already suffered enough in confinement. The government must not politicise this pandemic imposing redundant restrictions and pretending to be the well wishers of the masses.Anil SharmaIt will turn the wheels of economyThe recent relaxations were given because many became jobless due to the pandemic. Removal of restrictions will slowly start to turn the 'wheel of economy'. Many jobs are entwined, so the benefit of one will benefit the other. The marriage industry employs a large number of people like caterers, DJ, drivers and so on. Increasing the gathering in marriages will benefit all of them. This will also help in increasing the demand in the market which in turn help many other enterprises. But the thing is that the threat of virus is still there. So, all of the safety protocols as lay out by the WHO and the district administration must be strictly followed to ensure the safety.Jatinderpal SinghQUESTIONThough the state has been witnessing a decline in Covid cases, experts say the threat still looms large and precautions are necessary. However, the Centre has allowed cinema halls to reopen from October 15 with 50 per cent capacity. Do you think it's the right decision and in the best public interest?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 15).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relief-vital-for-economic-recovery-but-be-careful-154622
12-10-2020||---||Day after Amritsar man ends life, wife kills self||Amritsar, October 11A day after Nawapind village resident Vikramjit Singh, alias Vicky, ended his life in a hotel room on the Batala road here, his wife Sukhbir Kaur today hanged herself at the village. In a suicide note, Vicky had held a woman sub-inspector responsible for taking the extreme step. The police have initiated action under the Code of Criminal Procedure in this regard.Sukhbir Kaur hanged herself on the upper floor of the house late last night when the family and relatives were asleep. The incident came to light when a relative woke up around 3.15 am. Sukhbir was in deep shock after her husband’s death and had sought action against SI Sandeep Kaur.Jandiala police station SHO Harchand Singh said no suicide note was found at the scene, but action had been initiated under Section 174, CrPC, on the statement of Surinder Singh, father-in-law of the deceased.Vicky, in the suicide note, had accused the SI, who also belonged to the same village, of harassment and blackmail. He had claimed she had taken Rs 18 lakh from him on different occasions and had been threatening him through her friends. The police had booked the SI on charges of abetment to suicide.“We are taking legal opinion to proceed further. Sukhbir Kaur apparently committed suicide in grief. As the evidence in both cases was same, opinion is being sought from the district attorney on how to go about in this case,” said the SHO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-after-amritsar-man-ends-life-wife-kills-self-154345
