12-12-2020||Amritsar||In Tarn Taran, CCTVs, nakas to check cross-border smuggling||Now CCTV cameras will keep a watch on the illegal activities of cross-border smugglers, involved in sneaking arms and ammunition and narcotics from the Pakistan side into the border belt of Tarn Taran district. The step is being taken as part of strengthening the second line of defence in view of enhanced activities of anti-national forces across the Indo-Pakistan border.Under the Rs 10-lakh project, as many as 44 high definition cameras would be installed at 22 bridges which were main entry and exit points towards the international border in the Tarn Taran belt. These cameras would be helpful in checking the movements of nefarious elements even in the night.Besides, permanent nakas were also set up at these bridges in the last one month. Earlier, there were just seven permanent nakas on these bridges. Now every bridge has a permanent naka taking number to 22. These bridges are the only way to reach to the international border.“A company each of the Punjab Armed Police and the district police has been deputed at these checkpoints and we have asked for more companies from the headquarters to be deputed at these points,” said Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale. Talking to The Tribune, he said investigation in the past smuggling incidents revealed that these attempts mainly occurred in the night. Therefore, at present the policemen are deputed at these permanent checkpoints from 7pm to 7am. “Once we get more force from the headquarters, these permanent nakas would work round the clock,” he said.In addition, two mobile swat teams consisting of commandoes would also patrol the area round the clock. A swat team patrols the area from Sarai Amanat Khan to Khalra covering around 53 km of area while the second team will be patrolling in Valtoha, Khemkaran, Patti and Bhikhiwind belt.Earlier, Tarn Taran police had prepared a list of farmers having their lands across the barbed fence located near the Indo-Pakistan border and their antecedents were being ascertained. The police were also checking the credentials of labourers who go across the fence for farming.“A large number of farmers and labourers go across the fence for limited time to work in their agricultural land. Some of them collude with Pakistan-based smugglers to sneak in the contraband and arms as investigation in previous cases have revealed,” said Nimbale.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-tarn-taran-cctvs-nakas-to-check-cross-border-smuggling-183196
12-12-2020||Amritsar||Night curfew forces hotels to bank on new strategies||The night curfew extended by the government till January 1 has put a brake on the business prospects of the hospitality sector, which was gradually picking up post lockdown.The restriction on movement at night has forced hotel and restaurant owners to change their strategy and make best use of the afternoon hours. Capitalising on hi-tea events and early dinners, hotels, especially large chains and franchisees were now looking for survival marketing.Manisha Singh Gupta, assistant marketing manager, Holiday Inn, said, “There had been several shifts in the eating hours. Our sky restaurant ‘Aqua lounge’, which was earlier opened for dinner, is now functional from afternoon to early evening due to the night curfew. The shift is now towards evening events.”The concept of brunch was never really successful in the city despite being a food destination. So, the hotels started focusing on offering theme-based early dinners.Akshina, manager, Hyatt Regency, said, “Brunch is a not popular in the city and we have low footfall for munch as well. Dinner attracted the most footfall. But given the situation, we are providing several theme-based early dinner with live music and outdoor setting. Covid-19 will have a long-term impact on the business.”Standalone properties were faring better. Nikhil Khemka, owner, Clubhouse, said adaptibility was the key to survival, especially in Amritsar’s food business.“A standalone restaurant will not be able to make it if the management does not change or adapt to the post- lockdown scenario. We were primarily a party place and offered food service throughout the night. But post lockdown, we shifted our focus to banquet services and short parties with limited guests. The night curfew is definitely going to hit hard, but we are trying to make the most of it,” said Khemka.Another concern of the hotel owners is that the night curfew would hamper business during the New Year’s eve. “The business is maximum on the New Year’s eve and the night curfew means that we will have to cancel all the parties and plans we usually offer to our guests,” said Gupta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/night-curfew-forces-hotels-to-bank-on-new-strategies-183197
12-12-2020||Amritsar||4 inter-state smugglers  held, four pistols seized||The Amritsar (rural) police have arrested four inter-state smugglers and recovered four pistols (.32 bore) from their possession. The accused have been identified as Davinder Singh and Daljit Singh, both residents of Faridkot, Karanbir Singh, a resident of Harike Pattan, and Vikram Sonu of Tarn Taran.The accused were roaming in Bhakna Kalan area falling under Gharinda police station when they were intercepted by a police team on December 10. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against the accused while further investigation was underway to ascertain their motive and their links.SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the accused were produced before the court, which sent them to the police remand.He said Karanbir had four criminal cases of the NDPS Act, Arms Act and Excise Act registered against him while Vikram also had a couple of criminal cases against him.According to police, they received a tip-off that the accused were roaming in Chicha and Bhakna villages in a car. During inspection of their vehicle, cops recovered four country-made pistols and seven bullets from them. As per preliminary probe, weapons were smuggled from Madhya Pradesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-inter-state-smugglers-held-four-pistols-seized-183198
12-12-2020||Amritsar||5 peddlers held with 1,400 litres of  ENA smuggled from Haryana||The Excise Department and the Amritsar (rural) police arrested five persons and seized 1,400 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA is a primary raw material for making alcoholic beverages) on December 10.Preliminary investigations revealed that the ENA was being smuggled from Haryana after the Punjab Government tightened noose around bootleggers following a hooch tragedy, which claimed more than 125 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala in July.The accused have been identified as Kawaljit Singh of Cheeta Kalan, Akashdeep Singh of Meharbanpur, Harjit Singh alias, Jeeta of Rampur, Maan Singh of Meharbanpura village, and Kuldeep Singh of Mahal village.The police said the Excise Department had got a tip off that the ENA was being smuggled from Haryana by the bootleggers for preparing spurious liquor and a few persons from Amritsar and Tarn Taran were involved in the nexus and transporting the same in various parts of the two border districts.Working on the leads, cops intercepted a Mahindra pick up, which had seven drums of the ENA (200 litres each). The police also intercepted an SUV which was piloting the pick-up. Cops said the accused were sent on the police remand by the court.A case under the Excise Act has been registered at Majitha police station. Further investigations were under progress to unearth the entire nexus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-peddlers-held-with-1-400-litres-of-ena-smuggled-from-haryana-183199
12-12-2020||AMRITSAR||We are two of a kind||When Manjit Singh decided to leave a blind school, being run by the Durgiana Temple complex, after superannuating as headmaster in 2016, the management couldn’t come to terms with it. Arun Kapoor, secretary of the management, even approached Manjit to provide his services. So immense was his influence at the school.His wife, Inderjeet Kaur, doesn’t lag far behind. After attaining education at Delhi’s blind school in Rajender Nagar, she completed her graduation and attained proficiency in typing there. It landed her a job as a typist in Punjab National Bank in Dehradun in 1984. Ten years later, she tied the knot. Despite being visually impaired since childhood, both have excelled in their professional and family commitments.Manjit was associated with the school, popularly known as Andhvidyalaya, for about 54 years. Born at Phillaur, he had moved to local Andhvidyalaya in 1962 for studying and was appointed a teacher there in 1971. He is a graduate of Guru Nanak Dev University and taught English, Punjabi, Hindi, social studies and maths in Braille at the school.Post retirement, he was employed with the Surma Singh Ashram, being run for the unsighted in the Central Yatimkhana. However, the covid-19 and ensuing lockdown brought its share of economic hardships — he had to leave the institute in June. His significant other, after rendering nearly 30 years of service, retired two years back, after marrying off their only child, a daughter, in 2016.Having performed their duties, these days Manjit is idling away time by studying braille magazines like Braille Digest, Zigyasa, “These magazines helps me to keep abreast with the views of leading thinkers, columnists and latest development taking place in medical science and aids for visually challenged,” he shares. While Inderjeet’s side of the story is same as any housewife, she’s busy most of the time carrying out household chores – without any difficulty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-are-two-of-a-kind-183201
12-12-2020||ASI Shashpal Sharma contracted the virus in the initial days of the outbreak of the pandemic. At that time||‘Motivation helped me in difficult times’||He said during this unprecedented health crisis, he was distributing ration to needy people and he did not really know how he contracted the virus. He also remained deputed for the medical examination of the people boarding special trains to reach their native places.When he was declared Covid positive, he was immediately shifted to a quarantine centre opened at meritorious school here. “We were all shocked but in the mind we knew that it was going to happen in the line of duty,” he said.For six days I was kept in the quarantine centre. My family, though worried, supported me. My younger brother used to supply the things I needed at the centre. After six days he was asked to go into 14-day self-isolation at home.“Health officials pasted a document announcing that I was positive. Luckily, my other family members, including wife and two young children, tested negative,” he said. Emotions ran high when you go into self quarantine in a room and cannot meet your children. I kept patience and faith in God during these testing times. I witnessed the scenario where a kind of stigma was attached to the disease and people even did not take bodies of their family members. But my family members continued to motivate me and I also used to get regular calls from my relatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motivation-helped-me-in-difficult-times-183202
12-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Gang of vehicle lifters busted||12K litres of lahan seizedTarn Taran: The Punjab Police and the Excise Department on Thursday seized 12,000 litres of lahan in the Mand area alongside Beas river in Kirian village. ASI Jagjit Singh who led the operation said lahan was kept in plastic turpoils beneath the soil. The accused have been identified as Amandeep Singh and Sodhi, both resident of Kirian village. The duo used to throw waste material in to the river. The accused have been booked under Sections of 61,1,14 of the Excise Act, the Water Prevention and Control of Pollution Act, 1974 (Section 24). In another incident, the Sarhali police recovered 5,430 ml illicit liquor from a residence of Baljit Kaur. The accused has been booked under the Excise Act. OCFive succumb, 62 new casesAmritsar: The district reported five deaths due to the contagion, pushing the toll to 524 on Friday. The deceased were identified as Anupama (53) of DR Enclave on the Airport road, Sukhdev Kaur (67) of Sardar Avenue, Karamjit Kaur (52) of Sugar Mill locality in Chheharta area, Harnek Singh of Majitha Road and Shakti Chand (86) of New Pawan colony. The district health authorities also reported 62 new cases with which the total count has increased to 13,831. The new cases include 43 persons who were found to have symptoms like influenza-like illness and 19 contacts of positive patients. Besides, 50 patients recovered from the disease, taking the recovery count to 12,498. At present, the district has a total of 809 active cases. TNSMan robbed of Rs4,100, phoneTarn Taran: Angrej Singh, a resident of Dhigana village, was robbed of Rs4,100, mobile phone, ATMs and other articles by three unidentified robbers, when he was on his way back to his village. Angrej said he was on his way back to his residence last evening, when three robbers appeared and thrashed him and took away Rs4,100 cash, mobile set, ATMs and other documents. A case under Section 379-B of the IPC was registered by the Patti Sadar police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-183203
12-12-2020||Dr Sanjeev Tiwari||Soar high and the world will be at your feet||‘Disability is a matter of perception’Pathankot Deputy Commissioner (DC) Sanyam Aggarwal delivered a passionate extempore just after he distributed special cards for disabled under a government of India initiative. People with disabilities who hold these cards will be given preferential treatment in government offices. So far, the administration has identified 14,888 such persons in the district out, of which 5,764 have already applied for the cards. As many as 2,196 have been handed over the document so far. “Disability is a matter of perception. My advice to you is to concentrate on things your disability does not prevent you from doing well and do not regret the things it interferes with. Human spirit is one of ability, perseverance and courage. However difficult it may seem, there is always something you can do and succeed at. Always see the person, not the wheelchair,” he told the gathering. In a speech drenched in emotion, Aggarwal said that disability was one of the most important issues in contemporary society because stigmatisation of people with handicaps contributes to the formation of biases and prejudices which put them into a disadvantageous position as compared to normal people. He recalled that recently he saw an old man on a wheelchair who told him, “Sir, this is not a wheelchair. This is a fully operational battle station.” Aggarwal added that work was on to prepare cards for all persons identified with disabilities in the district.Pathankot readies for Corporation electionsPathankot administration officials have started holding meetings pertaining to the forthcoming Municipal Corporation (MC) polls. The city had a municipal committee before the state government decided to upgrade it into a corporation in 2015. Senior BJP leader Anil Vasudeva, a former chairman of the Improvement Trust, was unanimously elected as the first ever Mayor. For five long years, the corporation was controlled by the BJP with a brute majority. Several villages located on the periphery of the district were brought into the ambit of the new corporation. Vasudeva, with all his political sagacity and experience, brought in several new projects. However, things have now changed on the political firmament. Post the farm bills, the BJP is on a weak wicket and is no longer sure that it may control the MC House. Vasudeva was elected the first citizen of the city when a BJP man, Ashwani Sharma, was the local MLA. Now, Amit Vij, a Congressman, is the sitting legislator. As it normally happens, corporations and committees are controlled by people who owe loyalty to the party which rules the state government in Chandigarh. A prime example is that of the Patiala MC which has 59 Congress councillors in a house of 60. Reason for this political imbalance is that the MC polls were held after the Congress came to power in the state. Before that when the SAD reigned supreme from 2007 till 2017, it was the Akali-BJP combine that ruled the roost with a massive majority. With the SAD having a negligible presence in Pathankot, both the Congress and the BJP have started the process of identifying candidates.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soar-high-and-the-world-will-be-at-your-feet-183204
12-12-2020||Amritsar||Doctors strike work on IMA call||On a call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), local doctors observed a strike against the Centre’s decision to allow postgraduate Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries here on Friday.Members of the local chapter of the IMA held a meeting to flay the Central Government’s notification and sought its withdrawal. A complete shutdown of OPD and non-emergency services was observed by doctors in view of the strike call given by central IMA.Dr KS Arora of the local chapter of the IMA said: “We are against the government’s decision.” Calling the move regressive, he said it would have far-reaching effects and disastrous implications for the nation’s healthcare system and would destroy all the progress made in the field of medicine.Dr OP Singhania said, “This will ruin the nine billion US dollar medical tourism industry in the country, which is growing by eight per cent every year. It will strike at the very roots of progress made in the modern medical system. The very healthcare edifice built after decades of hard work will crumble like a house of cards,” he remarked.Dr JS Grover, Dr Sukhjit Singh and other members of the IMA, said, “Therefore, we request the Central Government to withdraw the notification at the earliest and save the modern system of medicine. Instead of taking it back to medieval ages and play havoc with the health of the common man.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-strike-work-on-ima-call-183205
12-12-2020||Amritsar||Unruly scene at  city public park||An unruly scene was witnessed in Sundar Nagar area here on Friday, when saleswomen of a private company accused a former BJP councillor and his supporters of manhandling them over sitting in a public park in the area.Though the councillor refuted the allegations, both groups allegedly indulged in stone pelting in the clash in which two saleswomen Surjit Kaur and Mamta were injured. The saleswomen also alleged that the councillor fired gunshots in the air.However, the police officials said the claims of firing were being ascertained while further investigations were under progress. A complaint was filed by the saleswomen in this regard and facts were being verified after examining the CCTV cameras in the area.Arun Kumar, the supervisor of the company, said they were sitting in park when the councillor and his supporters came and asked them to leave. This led to arguments and manhandling followed. He alleged the former councillor also fired gunshots.On the other hand, the councillor said the company was violating the government guidelines by holding a ‘meeting’ in the park. He said around 150 persons were present and therefore the people objected to it.“CCTV cameras were examined in the area in which the claims of firing could not be proved. But, the investigations were under progress and an appropriate action would be taken,” SHO Neeraj Kumar said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unruly-scene-at-city-public-park-183206
12-12-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||More farmers leave for Delhi||A convoy of around 100 vehicles comprising tractor-trailers, buses, trucks and cars, ferrying farmers from different villages of the district left for Delhi under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC).The farmers would first perform ‘ardas’ at the Golden Temple in Amritsar before heading to Delhi with their counterparts.Satnam Singh Pannu, chief, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said large number of youth left for Delhi morcha. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, member of the KMSC said they were holding village-level meetings with farmers on the three agri laws and the next jatha would also leave for Delhi soon.Ardas held for protection of farmers’ rightsAmritsar: On the occasion of Human Rights Day, the Khalra Mission Organisation, Punjab Human Rights Organisation and Human Rights Justice Struggle Committee, today conducted ‘ardas’ at the Akal Takht for success of the ongoing farmers’ agitation and protection of human rights.Paramjit Kaur Khalra, head, Khalra Mission Organisation, said the objective behind conducting ‘Ardas’ was welfare of the farming community and the Panth. “The Centre has to abandon its arrogance and repeal the three agri laws. Farmers have been compelled to protest in winter. The entire farming community from various parts of the country is protesting against the agri laws, but the Supreme Court has yet not taken any notice of it,” said Khalra. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-farmers-leave-for-delhi-183207
12-12-2020||Amritsar||MP Shwait Malik opens CCTV project in Guru Bazaar||On the demand of shopkeepers of Guru Bazaar, Rajya Sabha MP and former BJP state president Shwait Malik on Friday inaugurated the CCTV installation project that was completed at a cost of Rs 10 lakh. The market is the hub of jewellery business in the city and had recently reported many theft and robbery cases.Shwait said incidents of loot had risen in the Guru Bazaar area and lack of CCTV cameras added to the challenge of identifying the criminals responsible for the cases. The money for installing CCTV cameras inside the Guru Bazaar was allotted from the MPLAD funds and more areas would be covered under the CCTV surveillance soon.Malik said the push towards technological development would be more now as CCTV surveillance had become the need of the hour. He also talked about an IT institute to be set up at a cost of 20 crore for IT education, which would provide better employment opportunities to the youth in the district and nearby areas. He said the development work under the Jallianwala Bagh Trust would speed up now to complete the project within the set deadline. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-shwait-malik-opens-cctv-project-in-guru-bazaar-183208
12-12-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Theft case: FIR registered after more than 2 months||Ninder Singh, a resident of Buraj Nathuke village, who is a patient of cancer and Hepatitis- C (HCV), could get a complaint registered against his daughter for stealing cash and gold ornaments worth lakhs, after over two months efforts.The version of Harinder Singh SHO of the concerned police station Patti Sadar, was much more excruciating who said he was not aware of registering the case in this regard. He added that both the parties (complainant and the accused) were called to the police station to know the facts of the incident.According to the facts a case under an FIR No. 244 dated December 9 with Ninder Singh as the complainant of Buraj Nathuke was registered against his daughter Ganagdeep Kaur, her husband Gurlal Singh, her mother-in-law Dheeto and four more have been booked under Sections 380 and 120-B of the IPC (the copy is with The Tribune).The victim said here on Thursday that his daughter, Ganagdeep Kaur got court-married with Gurlal Singh about four months ago. He said that to save his social honour his family decided to give consent to the marriage and fixed a date to solemnise the marriage.He called his daughter and others at his home from her in-law’s residence on September 21. He along with his wife had gone to Tarn Taran for shopping that day when his daughter stole gold ornaments worth 12 tolas and a cash worth Rs 6.43 lakh by breaking the locks of the rooms which the family had reserved for the function.Besides Ganagdeep Kaur, her husband Gurlal Singh, mother-in-law Dhito others Avtar Singh, Gurpreet Singh of Kot Khalsa (Amritsar), Sukhraj Kaur and Gursewak Singh of Rahal Chahal village have been nominated as the accused in the case registered by Patti Sadar police on Wednesday. None of the accused have been arrested so far. Ninder Singh alleged that the police was dealing the case with partial attitude and was harassing him under one or the other pretext.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theft-case-fir-registered-after-more-than-2-months-183209
12-12-2020||---||AAP flays attack on Sisodia’s residence||Amritsar, December 11The district unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has strongly condemned the recent attack at the residence of Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Munish Sisodia allegedly by some BJP goons.“The BJP, alarmed by the farmers’ massive movement, is now resorting to such despicable acts to target those who are supporting the farmers in their ongoing struggle,” said district unit joint secretary Ashok Talwar.He said ever since the Aam Aadmi Party ministers, MLAs and workers started working for the protesting farmers, the BJP were resorting to cheap gimmicks to target the party leaders, adding that the party would not be cowed down by the BJP’s false bravado.Parminder Sethi, district in-charge, Amritsar (Urban), said, “In a democratic country like ours, people are within their legitimate right to protest peacefully pressing for their demands, but the BJP government, through the Delhi Police, have been suppressing such rights of people. Such acts of hooliganism by the BJP would prove disastrous for the country and its people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-flays-attack-on-sisodias-residence-183210
