13-06-2020||Amritsar||Use e-learning platforms: SGPC||Two held for seeking ransomAmritsar: The police have arrested two persons for allegedly threatening Ricky Bhalla, a liquor contractor, and demanding ransom at gunpoint. The suspects were identified as Harsimran Singh alias Simmu of Kishangarh Colony and Rikshit Shaini of Hansli Wali Gali. In his complaint to the police, Bhalla has alleged that the suspects called him from different numbers to demand ransom. He said around 9 pm on Thursday, the suspects intercepted his scooter and again threatened him at gunpoint. As people started gathering, they fled away from the spot, he said. The police have registered a case and launched probe. It was being alleged that the suspects were associates of a notorious gangster but the police were verifying the facts. TNSUnidentified body foundTarn Taran: The Government Railway Police found the body of some unidentified person near the railway station, Bhagtanwala, 20 km from here, on Friday. ASI Sukhminder Singh, in-charge of the post, said the body seemed to be of around a 35-year-old clean-shaven man with wheatish colour. The ASI said the body would be kept in the mortuary of the local Civil Hospital for 72 hours for identification and after that if it remained unclaimed it would be cremated at the local cremation ground with the help of the municipal council. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/use-e-learning-platforms-sgpc-98606
13-06-2020||PK Jaiswar---||4 cops test positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 12  Four policemen have been found infected with the coronavirus during the testing of policemen, which is under way for the past few days. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said till now, over 500 cops were tested and their samples were taken out of which reports of four came positive. He said samples of all the cops would be taken in the near future so that if anyone has contracted the virus, he should be kept in isolation as precautionary measures. He said samples of their close contacts were also taken and they were advised to self-quarantine. Of the four policemen who tested positive, one was serious as he was already suffering from other ailments while the remaining three were still asymptomatic. One of them was deputed at a naka near the Telephone exchange. His colleagues were also examined. Those tested positive included a reader and a gunman of the SHO of the Gate Hakima police station. The medical examination and test of their close contacts and other policemen in the police station, including the SHO, were also taken. Another official requesting anonymity said proper instructions were issued to the police force about the precautions to be taken while dealing with the public such as wearing masks and using sanitisers and maintaining social distance. He said the vehicles in which the suspected patients were brought by the police to the hospital were also sanitised before and after travel. The policemen, along with health staff, are among the frontline warriors. Besides performing their duties at checkpoints on city roads and chowks, the policemen were also working in the police stations for day-to-day public dealings and work. Therefore, they were also at a risk of contracting the deadly virus that has claimed thousands of lives across the world. There is panic among cops who have been working day and night fighting the coronavirus. The Covid-19 pandemic has almost reached community transmission stage and we do not know if a person coming to the police station was infected with the virus. “All we can do is to take precautions and measures to control its spread,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-amritsar-98582
13-06-2020||---||‘Media should refrain from disclosing names of patients’||Amritsar, June 12In a bid to provide relief from the mental and social harassment to the families of the Covid-19 patients, a cross-section of society has demanded that media avoid disclosing of the identities of the virus infected patients.The demand has surged after the families of the suspected or positive patients, even after they were discharged from hospitals, were subjected to harassment. They now want the goverment to frame rules to protect them from any further harm.Rajinder Singh Marwaha, an industrialist, said: “Disclosing names or identities of those affected or their relatives, and even the doctors and nurses treating them, on the social media need to be banned.He also pointed out that disclosure of the individual’s identity was in direct violation of medical ethics and patient’s right to privacy. “The social hardships and social boycott-like situation faced by patients can breed wider stigma and deter people from reporting their illness and revealing their travel/exposure for the fear of social intimidation. This can worsen the situation and can even make it harder for the government to trace cases.”Subsequently, he has written to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Department, asking that the infected persons being revealed on the social media and conventional media outlets be banned.Sameer Jain, an entrepreneur, said privacy is priority and should be protected at any cost. “Relevant steps and measures can avoid potential harm and distress to patients and their families in both short and long term”.He also feels that the cyber cell should monitor social media posts and take appropriate action in such matters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/media-should-refrain-from-disclosing-names-of-patients-98583
13-06-2020||1 booked for raping minor---||1 booked for raping minor||Our Correspondent   Tarn Taran, June 12  The Bhikhiwind police have booked a man for allegedly raping a teenage girl. The suspect, identified as Harmanpreet Singh of Bahamniwala village, has been booked under Sections 376, 506 of the IPC, Section 4 of the POCSO Act, and Section 67-A of the IT Act.   The 15-year-old victim in her complaint to the police alleged that the accused had been sexually abusing her for more than a year.   The victim alleged the suspect, Harmanpreet, blackmailed her by making her obscene video.   Sub-Inspector Kiranpal Kaur, investigating officer, said the statement of the victim had been recorded, while the suspect was absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-booked-for-raping-minor-98584
13-06-2020||---||3 die, 63 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 12Three more patients succumbed to Covid-19 and 63 new cases were reported in the district during the last 24 hours.Naresh Kumar (70), a Covid-19 patient of Dhab Khatikan, who was admitted to hospital in a critical condition, breathed his last on Friday.Medical staff on duty said he suffered a cardiac arrest and despite the best efforts of doctors he could not be revived. He was suffering from comorbid conditions.His body was packed as per the guidelines and kept in the mortuary.Of the new positive cases, 17 were suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI). Among them, 18 were contacts of positive cases recorded so far.The district continues to report positive cases from the walled city, including Chitta Katra, Namak Mandi, Gate Khazana, Maha Singh gate, Gate Hakima, Gali Hatim Tai, Gali Malika, Shastri Market, Gali Jattanwali, Fateh Singh Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-die-63-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-98585
13-06-2020||---||NGO accuses Amritsar MC official of graft||Amritsar, June 12A local NGO, Lok Voice, on Friday accused Municipal Town Planner (MTP) of the municipal corporation Iqbalpreet Singh Randhawa of corruption here.The office-bearers of the NGO, led by Rupinder Kaur Gill, said on July 24 last year, a joint team of the Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, and PSPCL disconnected power connections of illegal hotels around the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Around 11 power connections were severed on that day.Rupinder Gill claimed that a member of the NGO had filed RTI to PSPCL in this regard. In its reply, PSPCL officials responded that 10 connections were severed while one of the connections of a hotel was initially disconnected but later MTP Iqbalpreet Singh Randhawa forced them to reconnect it.Smelling corruption in the matter, the NGO demanded a high-level inquiry.When contacted, Randhawa said, “Following the court orders, we were disconnecting the power and water sewer connections of illegal establishments around the Golden Temple. When we reached Indus tower, the owner of the hotel provided a copy of stay orders by the court. PSPCL employees disconnected his connection without our instructions. I have checked the documents and found that the hotel had stay orders. The hotel owners threaten to file contempt of court against me. So, I have asked the PSPCL officials to reconnect the power connection. Everything is on record and I have court orders in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-accuses-amritsar-mc-official-of-graft-98586
13-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Green move: Saplings planted at two Tarn Taran gurdwaras||Tarn Taran, June 12The Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, being managed by international environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh on Friday planted saplings in the vacant land of gurdwara Baba Bir Singh Rattoke and gurdwara Beer Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha (near Chabal).Rajinder Singh Mehta, senior vice-president of the SGPC, said saplings of tirvani and trifla were planted today. Dr Roop Singh, chief secretary, SGPC, said, saplings of tirvani, peepal, neem and bohar were planted in Gurdwara Rattoke, while trifla, harah, bahera and amla were planted in Gurdwara Beer Baba Budha ,Thatha. He said each gurdwara would provide one acre of land for the purpose of forest plantation. It is pertinent to mention here that under the leadership of Baba Sewa Singh, the sect is running a campaign for the plantation of 550 forests on the occasion of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-move-saplings-planted-at-two-tarn-taran-gurdwaras-98588
13-06-2020||---||GNDU favourite among region students||Amritsar, June 12Continuously improving its position in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) for the past three years, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has become popular among students of the region.Vehicle-free universityGuru Nanak Dev University is now a vehicle-free institute. Two parking lots have been constructed at the two entry gates for convenience of students and visitors. Golf carts, e-rickshaws and bicycles are being provided at reasonable charges for travel inside the campus.The number of admissions has risen by around 30 per cent in the past two years, from 2017 to 2019. This has happened despite the fact that there are several other universities in the region.After the Covid outbreak, the university chose to continue teaching via online platforms. Viva voce-examinations of thesis, projects and seminars went online to ensure continuity in curricular activities. Besides, the e-office module is being utilised for unhampered and paperless processing of files.Vice-Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu said the department of computational statistics and data analytics was recently set up at the university. Setting up of an incubation centre was in the pipeline, he said.The University Grants Commission has granted ‘category one’ status to the university, making it the only university to get the elite status in the North and giving it more autonomy. The Centre has allotted four ‘centres of excellence’ in athletics, fencing, cycling and swimming to GNDU and has sanctioned Rs17 crore.Placed amongst the top 10 state public universities of the country and top nine per cent universities of the world by the Centre for World University Ranking, it has been ranked among top four institutions in Punjab and top 10 institutions in North India by Nature Index.A ‘category one’ institute: UGCIt has been granted ‘category one’ by the University Grants Commission. It was placed among top 10 state public universities and top 9% universities of the world by the Centre for World University Ranking. Nature Index has placed it among top four institutions in Punjab and 10 institutions in North India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-favourite-among-region-students-98590
13-06-2020||---||Agriculture officials hold pen-down strike, seek arrest of culprits||Amritsar, June 12Agriculture development officers and other staff members of the Agriculture Department staged a protest and criticised the attack on agriculture officers here on Friday. On the call of the Agriculture Technocrats Sangarsh Committee, all agricultural technocrats of Punjab went on an indefinite pen-down strike from today. The protesters were demanding arrest of the accused responsible for injuring agriculture officers Dr Husandeep Brar and Nidhi Chaudhary.A team of the Agriculture Department led by Dr Husandeep Singh Brar went to stop the farmers violating the Punjab Preservation of Subsoil Water Act 2009 on June 8 when they were reportedly attacked.Dr Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, general secretary, Agriculture Technocrats Sangharsh Committee, said, “The accused attempted to kill Dr Husandeep Singh with a spade, while the woman officer was also beaten and dragged on the road. The vehicle was vandalised and mobile phone was snatched. The role of agricultural extension experts on government duty is no different from that of health and police officers during the Covid-19 epidemic and the attack on these officers not only demoralised the agricultural technocrats but also the entire employees of the Punjab Government”."Pen-down protests are taking place due to delay in the arrest of the accused. The protests will be staged at the district headquarters on June 16 and memorandums will be sent to the Chief Minister through the Deputy Commissioners”, he added.Dr Gurdial Singh Bal, Chief Agriculture Officer; Dr Gurinder Singh Dhanjal, Deputy Director Horticulture; Dr Pritpal Singh, president, Agriculture Officers Association; Prabhdeep Singh, president, Agriculture Extension Officers Association; Ranbir Singh, Kulwant Singh, Agriculture Sub-Inspectors Association, Atma staff, ministerial staff and members of the field staff participated in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-officials-hold-pen-down-strike-seek-arrest-of-culprits-98593
13-06-2020||---||Police gear up for strict lockdown on weekends in Amritsar||Amritsar, June 12With the Punjab Government ordering a strict lockdown on weekends and public holidays in the state, the police administration has geared up for the same.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill on Friday said only essential service providers, including medical stores, hospitals, dairies, etc, would remain open while other shops would remain closed on these days.He said travel by vehicles would be allowed only to those persons who would have e-passes. Talking to mediapersons, he said those who wanted to visit hospitals should take e-passes from the administration or download e-pass from the COVA app.He said as industries were allowed to function, the movement of factory workers was allowed. He said the owners of these factories had asked to issue them some kind of letters so that they were not stopped by policemen at nakas.He said there should not be any confusion and only essential services providers were allowed.The decision was taken to stop the spread of the coronavirus. The holy city has witnessed a considerable increase in the number of coronavirus patients in the recent past. The number of positive cases has crossed the 550-mark.The Police Commissioner said instructions were given to the cops who would remain on roads for implementation of the lockdown. He urged the people to follow the government guidelines and remain indoors, besides wearing masks, maintaining social distance and using sanitisers in public places to control the spread of the deadly virus.“It is scientifically proven that wearing mask could reduce the risk of contracting the disease by three times,” he pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-gear-up-for-strict-lockdown-on-weekends-in-amritsar-98594
13-06-2020||Amritsar||Govt decision on new e-way  welcomed||People associated with tourism and hospitality sector see a ray of hope in the current recessionary phase in the economy after the announcement of a new Sikh circuit in the proposed Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway.Local tourism industry, reeling under Covid-9 impact, has seen the tourist footfall being dried up. They opine that such measures will lift the sagging morale of the industry.Kulwant Singh Ankhi of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM) thanked the government for conceptualising a Sikh circuit at a cost of Rs25,000 crore in the proposed expressway. This circuit would have stoppages at Sultanpur Lodhi, Goindwal, Khadoor Sahib, Tarn Taran and Amritsar.This expressway was conceptualised under the Bharatmala Pariyojana for the highways that focusses on optimising efficiency of freight and passenger movement across the country by bridging critical infrastructure gaps through effective interventions like development of economic corridors, inter corridors and feeder routes, national corridor efficiency improvement, border and international connectivity roads, coastal and port connectivity roads and green-field expressways. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-decision-on-new-e-way-welcomed-98597
13-06-2020||Or ‘Pb Govt failed to address unemployment problem’||Bunty Romana pays visit to Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12Newly appointed Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Bunty Romana and secretary-general Sarabjot Singh Sabi on Friday visited the Golden Temple and paid obeisance. Speaking to mediapersons, the leaders said the Punjab Government had failed on all counts to address issues such as unemployment that concern youths of the state. The farming community was also disappointed with the incumbent government.Meanwhile, senior Akali leader Gulzar Singh Ranike also paid obeisance at the Darbar Sahib after being elected as national president of SC wing of the party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bunty-romana-pays-visit-to-golden-temple-98598
13-06-2020||GUNBIR SINGH Chief Managing Director (CMD) of Divine Destination||‘Centre, states should come up with out-of-the-box solutions’||How has the lockdown impacted the industry?It has dealt a severe setback to the industry. Businesses have suffered losses over the last quarter and will meet the same fate in the current quarter. Our travel industry has taken a substantial hit across all its verticals, be it leisure and business tourism, logistical support, hospitality assets, food catering businesses and aviation. The human resource within these modules in the tertiary areas such as guide services, ticketing agents, visa services, etc, is in a quandary. It has been a disaster of magnitude yet not contemplated since the industry is among the largest employment providers.Do you expect the resumption of your business in the near future?At present, there is uncertainty in the travel sector. Once cases start receding, only essential travel services will start. Industry people know that decisions globally can be made through online meetings. The impact on travel business will be seen for a long time. Leisure will await till the panic subsides globally. We will not see this happening in 2020.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?We have been constantly in touch with our employees and been addressing all their needs and even providing counselling to them and their families. The company believes in taking care of their own people. We have dug into our savings to ensure that our extended families, who are dependent on us, do not suffer the pain on the fiscal front or otherwise.Have any of your major investments been deferred due to the lockdown?Investments have come to a standstill during the crisis. The crunch will continue till fund flows stabilise. At present, it is imperative to maintain the status quo and the need to stay afloat the top priority.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Every challenge opens up new vistas of opportunities. This time has been utilised to keep in touch with the existing clientele and utilise the same for new businesses that can sail on the credibility of the old. We believe that 2021 will figure as a significant year for riding the stallion of success built on the trauma of 2020. Businesses shall be leaner and more dynamic to change than ever before.What are your expectations from the government?Industry needs more support today than ever before. This is a time when lip-service must be replaced by real monetary help. State governments and the Centre should come up with out-of-the-box solutions. Also, they need to be prepared for kick-starting demand once the healthcare issues are resolved. Hope they are better equipped for that than they were on the healthcare front.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-states-should-come-up-with-out-of-the-box-solutions-98599
13-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Cosmetics no longer in big demand||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 12Sonu, a cosmetic shop owner, is thinking about changing his ‘line’ if the current economic crisis continues for months. “Daily, we come to our shop risking contracting the deadly virus but earning negligible as compared to normal days. We are even unable to pay salary to our lone employee who has been with us for a long time now,” he pointed out.A resident of Pishori Sari Wali Gali near Bharawan Da Dhaba in the walled city, he said community spread had left the people scared. “Many areas in the walled city were quarantined and sealed after positive cases of the novel coronavirus came there. We faced difficulty from coming out of the walled city and reaching the shop,” he said.Earlier, we could earn anything between Rs 2,000-3,000 a day. But now, we are earning just Rs 200 to Rs 300 a day. “How we will survive in the future if the situation remains same for the next several months,” he said with anxiety writ large on his face.Sonu has been running the shop for the past three decades. After the death of his father and grandfather, he inherited the shop and was doing brisk business before Covid-19 pandemic hit the country resulting in country-wide lockdown.After a two month gap due to curfew restrictions, we recently opened the shop located in the main bazaar of Putlighar area. As the period broke the circle of economy with markets, entire industrial units and institutions were closed, it hit us as well. “We hope that the situation will improve once the markets are opened and people come out of their houses,” Sonu said.Due to the unprecedented health crisis, the priority of people have changed while the spending power has come down considerably.“Earlier, people used to stress on quality, but nowadays they compromise and want things that are lower in price because of budget constraints,” he said. Earlier, people used to take nail paints and lipsticks now preferred not to purchase these ‘non-essential’ items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cosmetics-no-longer-in-big-demand-98600
13-06-2020||---||Lockdown hits her plans to do postgraduation||Amritsar, June 12The coronavirus-forced lockdown has hit hard many lives across the nation. Anukampa Sharma, a DAV college final year student, is one of them. She had planned to pursue her post-graduation in the field of media from a renowned university but all of a sudden her plans have come crashing down and are lying flat — as of now.Midway through her bachelors’ degree (Journalism and Mass Communication), she is left to stare at an uncertain future, she says: “I was supposed to be done with my bachelors a couple of months back and be on my way to pursue my masters’ but everything has been put on hold. I was exploring various masters’ programs in all of the leading institutions of the country and wanted to apply but this is turning more into a pipe dream.”For vigorous students like her, holidays are an opportunity to expand horizons and get busy in internships and part time jobs, but nothing has gone her way, and the precious time that was to be contributed to attain practical knowledge has been losing significance. “Meanwhile, I have to set new goals and adjust the previous ones to meet the requirements of the current scenario. Now the only things I can do, is look forward to a time of more clarity and channel it towards improving my skills and knowledge, while waiting for the examinations for my final semester,” Anukampa said.Anukampa was well into organising the annual media fest of her college when things went south, stopping not only her college-going life, but also life as she knew it. “As part of my course, the final year students get the opportunity to organise the media fest but the sudden closing of the college washed all the plans in black, which was a big disappointment”, she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-hits-her-plans-to-do-postgraduation-98601
13-06-2020||Chandigarh||Highest single day spike in Amritsar, 3 deaths||Amritsar continued to give state the jitters with as many as 63 Covid cases coming to the fore today, the highest single day spike so far. Besides, three patients succumbed to the disease in the district.A patient, identified as Naresh Kumar (70) of Dhab Khatikan in Amritsar, was admitted to a local hospital in a critical condition and was on ventilator support. The medical staff said he suffered a cardiac arrest today and could not be revived. He was suffering from co-morbidities like hypertension with psychiatric illness. Besides, two other patients from the district died of the disease.Among the positive cases in Amritsar, two have no contact or travel history, 19 are contacts of already positive cases and 31 had influenza-like symptoms.Another death was reported from Jalandhar. The patient died in a hospital in Ludhiana. The 67-year-old woman was admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, on June 5. She was Covid positive and had co-morbid conditions. Her test had come positive on June 6 and she was on ventilator support since then. She was a heart patient and a diabetic.Dr Ashwani Chaudhary, Medical Superintendent, DMCH, said the patient was admitted to the hospital due to other health complications and when her Covid test was done, she turned positive.Besides, 12 more cases were reported from Ludhiana. The new patients include a 24-year-old woman and a five-year-old child, both contacts of a positive patient from Gill Road. Besides, two teenage sisters from Prem Nagar, Islamganj, have also tested positive.In Jalandhar, three more persons tested positive, taking the number of cases in the district to 319. The new patients included a 31-year-old man from the Industrial Area, currently admitted to an IMA facility, and two another men, aged 53 and 33, both contacts of a previously positive patient.Meanwhile, 23 patients recovered from the disease. Four each were cured in Jalandhar, Patiala, SAS Nagar and Pathankot, two in Gurdaspur and one each in Sangrur, Ludhiana, Fatehgarh Sahib, Muktsar and Fazilka. None of the patients tested positive today were put on ventilator support or admitted to the ICU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/highest-single-day-spike-in-amritsar-3-deaths-98351
