13-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Lt Akashdeep Singh visits Nishan-E-Sikhi in Khadoor Sahib||He met environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, and shared his training experience. Akashdeep completed his secondary education from Sainik School Kapurthala. He joined training at NDA, Khadakwasla (Pune) for first three years and completed his last year at IMA Dehradun in Uttarakhand.In a message to young students preparing for NDA in Nishan-E-Sikhi and other institute, he said: “One should focus on his goal all times.” Baba Sewa Singh honoured Akashdeep and his parents. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lt-akashdeep-singh-visits-nishan-e-sikhi-in-khadoor-sahib-140703
13-09-2020||Amritsar||EX-DGP Sumedh Saini’s arrest sought||Paramjit Kaur Khalra, wife of slain human rights activist Jaswant Singh Khalra, said SAD leaders, the Congress and the BJP had allegedly orchestrated fake encounters during the turbulent period of militancy in the state. TNSProperty of drug smuggler freezedAmritsar: The rural police have freezed the property of a drug peddler, identified as Harjit Singh of Fattewal village falling under the Ajnala police station here. The property freezed by the police was valued at Rs62 lakh. He was nabbed with 1 kg of heroin in December last year. Harjit purchased around 23 kanal and 4 marla land from the ill-gotten money. Cops said during probe the police also found that he had a case of robbery registered against him in July 2013. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-dgp-sumedh-sainis-arrest-sought-140554
13-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Four held for illegal sand mining in Sutlej||Tarn Taran, September 12The Patti Sadar police have busted a gang of members indulging in illegal sand mining from the Sutlej.Assistant Sub-Inspector Gurmukh Singh, who is investigating the case, said four of the gang members had been arrested while other members of the gang were yet to be identified.The ASI said the suspects had been identified as Gurwinder Singh of Mahneke, Gurwinder Singh of Kot Budha, Charan Singh of Sito Meh Jhugian and Gurpreet Singh of Jand village.He said two tractors with sand filled trolleys and a sand-filled tipper too had been seized from the spot. The accused have been booked under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 (1) of the Mining Act. The accused was stealing sand from Sutlej near Jalloke village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-held-for-illegal-sand-mining-in-sutlej-140558
13-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Over 125 health workers infected in Amritsar so far||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12Since the outbreak of Covid-19, over 125 health workers working at various government health establishments have tested positive and two have lost their lives in the city. Dr Arun Sharma, Senior Medical Officer, and a Chief Pharmacist Officer of the TB Hospital have succumbed to the virus.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh is the senior-most official of the Health Department to have tested positive. Immediately after assuming the charge of Civil Surgeon in June, he had set an example by performing a life-saving surgery on a 27-year-old female at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital. He had set a kind of example by performing the surgery at a time when some health workers were trying to use their political or bureaucratic connections to avoid Covid-related duty.Dr Amarjit Singh, Assistant Civil Surgeon, said about 14 staff members of the Civil Hospital, including six doctors, had tested positive. Dr Rajiv Devgan, principal of Guru Nanak Dev Medical College and Hospital, said: “Out of the over 1,000 staff members, a little over 100, including, 60 doctors, have tested positive”. He said around 60 per cent of them had rejoined their duties after recovery. He said despite increasing remuneration for Medical Officers, negligible number of applicants showed interest to join the duty during pandemic.With Covid cases mounting to a new high every passing day, there is no denying the fact that the situation is turning worse in the border district. For instance, the highest single-day Covid-19 spike is touching a new high with each passing day. Earlier, the highest single-day spike of 197 cases was recorded on September 6, it spiraled to 230 cases on September 8 and the next day (on September 9), it surpassed all previous records with 347 new cases.292 fresh cases, nine casualties in district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-125-health-workers-infected-in-amritsar-so-far-140528
13-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Cops ask I-T Dept to look into properties of two bootleggers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12Tightening the noose around bootleggers, including Rashpal Singh and his brother Gurpal Singh of Dhotian village, the Tarn Taran police have approached the Income Tax Department, requesting it to ascertain the source of funds of the suspects which helped them accumulate huge properties.Though Rashpal is yet to be arrested, Gurpal was nabbed by the Punjab Police in Phillaur for possessing ethanol-based alcohol in July and was later taken into custody by the Tarn Taran police in connection with the hooch tragedy on a production warrant.The police have also asked the Income Tax Department to examine properties of four other notorious bootleggers — Satnam Singh, his brother Shamsher Singh, their father Harjit Singh and paternal uncle Kashmir Singh, all residents of Pandori Golan village who have amassed a fortune. All of them were arrested by the police in connection with the hooch tragedy that claimed over 120 lives in the Majha region. “We have written to the Income Tax Department, telling them that they (the suspects) did not have any known legal sources of income, but sill had acquired huge properties worth several crores in and outside Punjab.They would examine how they managed to acquire the properties,” said Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale while talking to The Tribune.The police have also roped in the Financial Intelligence Unit of the Union Government which would look into their ‘benami’ properties if any, he added.Rashpal Singh, alias Shallu (38), who worked as a driver around one-and-a-half decade ago, now owns a number of palatial houses and luxury vehicles. Hailing from Dhotian village in Tarn Taran, he, along with his brother Gurpal Singh, allegedly amassed a fortune from the illicit liquor trade. According to information, both have at least 27 cases registered against them at various police stations in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Jalandhar, including 10 against Gurpal.Rashpal Singh, alias Shallu (38), who worked as a driver around one-and-a-half decade ago, now owns a number of palatial houses and luxury vehicles. Hailing from Dhotian village in Tarn Taran, he, along with his brother Gurpal Singh, allegedly amassed a fortune from the illicit liquor trade. According to information, both have at least 27 cases registered against them at various police stations in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Jalandhar, including 10 against Gurpal.It is learnt that Rashpal had encroached upon an abandoned plot in 2012 illegally. Preferring anonymity, locals said till 2001, this family lived from hand to mouth. Then Rashpal took up driving and a year later, a case under the NDPS Act was registered against him. He entered the illicit liquor trade in 2005.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-ask-i-t-dept-to-look-into-properties-of-two-bootleggers-140529
13-09-2020||
||Woman booked for cheating youth||Amritsar, September 12  Kamaljit Singh, a resident of Mandi Gobindgarh, Fatehgarh Sahib, on Saturday accused a city woman and her husband of cheating and blackmailing him. Kamaljit said following his complaint and investigation carried out by the local police, the woman was booked by the police on charges of fraud and criminal breach of trust in March this year. Kamaljit said the suspected woman was now lodging false police complaints against him so that he reached a compromise with her. Kamaljit has now shot a letter to higher police officials, including the DGP (Punjab), seeking justice by registering another case of blackmailing against her. He said the accused was demanding Rs 2 lakh from him for taking back the complaint. Giving details, he said the woman, who used to run a job placement agency, and her accomplices had cheated her of Rs 1.3 lakh on the pretext of getting him recruited in a government department. However, the woman provided him a job in a private firm. He said perturbed over this, he submitted a complaint to the Amritsar police in this connection which registered a case against her under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC. Kamaljit said later she lodged a complaint against him for stealing Rs2 lakh and making an objectionable video of her which he claimed was not true. He urged the police authorities to hold a high-level probe and provide him justice, besides exposing the racket allegedly run by her for cheating vulnerable youths on the pretext of providing jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-booked-for-cheating-youth-140530
13-09-2020||---||Raghav tops in Amritsar, scores AIR 632||Amritsar, September 12Raghav Khullar, a student of DAV International School, has once again aced the JEE (Main) conducted in September by becoming the top-performing student in the city. With 99.95 percentile, Raghav has managed to get the national rank of 632. The results of the exam were declared late on Friday night.Earlier, Raghav had topped the district in the examination held in January by scoring 99.8 percentile. Celebrating his success with his family, Raghav looked and sounded more determined than ever to crack the JEE Advance with a good rank. “My aim is to get into IIT, Kharagpur, and purse a degree in computer science and engineering. I want to carry my success from JEE Main to the Advance and hope that I will be able to get the rank I desire,” said Raghav.Remaining stress-free during the lockdown, Raghav said he spent his time before the exam focussing on his studies and enjoying with his family. “Since the pandemic forced everyone to remain indoors, it got the chance to spend time with my family. I used to spend four-five hours every day on my studies and rest of the time was for family and other things.” He said the pandemic-induced lockdown was a blessing in disguise as it gave students a lot of time to prepare for the JEE (Main). “But it also meant that the competition this time is going to be tough,” he said. He managed to stay focussed through self-study and regular online tests through his coaching institute as he had already finished his coaching before the lockdown.His father Ashwini Kumar, who is into the shoe business, and mother Meena Khullar, said they were proud of him and hoped that he would make it to the college of his dreams.Another JEE (Main) merit holder, Kartik, who studies in Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, has managed to get the national rank of 42. Kartik’s hometown is Amritsar but he has been pursuing his studies from Panchkula, Haryana.Some other JEE (Main) success stories included those of Pranav Aggarwal, who scored 99.49% percentile and the national rank of 5,749 followed by Harasees Singh (99.4%) and Snehal Dhawan (99.4%). Arhant Arora from Springdales School scored 99.3 percentile. The JEE (Main) is an annual examination conducted by the National Testing Agency and this time around 8.58 lakh students registered and nearly 6.3 lakh appeared for the exam across India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. In the district, 1,683 students had registered for the JEE (Main) conducted in September.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/raghav-tops-in-amritsar-scores-air-632-140531
13-09-2020||Amritsar||Taj Swarna bags best sanitised hotel tag||Taj Swarna, located in the city, bagged the Worldwide Best Sanitised Hotel/Resort Award by the Hotel Critic and Bloggers Association.  Sumeet Taneja ,General Manager, said, “Complying with the norms laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO), Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), we have implemented additional stringent hygiene and safety protocols across all customer-touch points, digital process from pre-arrival to check-out.  All associates and vendors are provided with appropriate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). The new normal witnessed fewer tables at restaurants and banquet areas whereas the self-serving buffets are suspended. “Menus are largely digital or single use, with greater emphasis on wellness-oriented food sections for healthier meals and greater level of immunity,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/taj-swarna-bags-best-sanitised-hotel-tag-140533
13-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Jobless due to Covid, he discovered his options to remain in reckoning||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12Sarbjit Singh Pinku of Butala town has weathered various storms in his life with his indomitable spirit.Covid-19 and its ensuing circumstances once again tested his grit and determination which he faced by changing his profession to remain in the reckoning.Father of two, his priority was to meet domestic expenses, besides footing the operational cost of his shop. Putting his air travel and money transfer business at the back, he became a Business Correspondent of the State Bank of India, aiding in opening saving accounts, fixed deposits, recurring deposits, cash withdrawal and deposits. He is daily registering nearly 50 transfers under various modes in the banking sector.He also opened a common service centre updating Aadhaar cards, besides making the new ones. In addition, he runs courses for educating rural youth in operating smartphones and computers under the DISHA programme being run under the Ministry of Rural Development. It earns him Rs 300 per student from the Ministry.Adversities keep testing him at regular intervals. He lost his father Tarlok Singh to liver cancer at a young age, prompting him to join the business to shoulder his family’s responsibility.Cashing in on the craze of youth in the city going overseas in search for greener pastures, he even started an air travel business and was handling remittances through a private multinational company.He soon consolidated his financial position. However, destiny took an ugly turn as a group of armed youth attacked his shop after pumping a bullet in his thigh and decamped with Rs seven lakh in October 2017. After months of investigation, police recovered Rs 40,000 from the looters. Due to the circuitous legal procedure and further expenses, he did not pursue the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jobless-due-to-covid-he-discovered-his-options-to-remain-in-reckoning-140535
13-09-2020||---||Selling chanas, papad for livelihood, Class VII lad catches CM’s attention||Amritsar, September 12Impressed by the grit of a young boy from Amritsar selling roasted chanas, papad and golgappas to earn his livelihood and to bear the expenses of his education, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced Rs 5 lakh grant for him on Saturday.Sustaining his family a challenge for himManpreet Singh, a Class VII student, lives near the Gate Khazana area. His father used to sell vegetables but due to his ill health, he was not able to continue with the same. He has two elder sisters, while his mother died long ago. He started selling chanas and papad since the beginning of the lockdown period for survival and earning a livelihood.Manpreet Singh, a Class VII student, lives near the Gate Khazana area. His video of selling golgappa and roasted chana had gone viral in the social media. In the video, several members of the NGOs were seen interacting with him.During interaction, he said his father used to sell vegetables but due to ill health, he was not able to sell the same. He has two elder sisters while mother had died. He started selling chanas and papad during lockdown period for survival and earning livelihood. The lad was seen refusing the offer from an individual and said he wanted to rely only on his hard-earned money.The Chief Minister, while answering the query of a resident during the #AskCaptain programme yesterday said he had also seen the video, which captured the spirit of `Punjabiyat’. He agreed with the resident’s suggestion to be helped by the state government and immediately announced Rs 5 lakh grant for him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/selling-chanas-papad-for-livelihood-class-vii-lad-catches-cms-attention-140538
13-09-2020||---||Smart Ration Card Scheme to cover 3.2 lakh beneficiaries in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 12After the launch of Smart Ration Card scheme virtually by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday, Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka distributed cards among eligible beneficiaries. Around 3.20 lakh families in the district and 1.41 crore beneficiaries across the state would be covered under the scheme.While talking to reporters, Verka said the scheme would help curb corruption and give freedom to the beneficiaries to buy from any depot. “The card holders’ biometrics will be identified by the data stored in the chip in the Smart Ration Card so that no wrongful distribution of ration can take place,” he said.Amritsar East MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia, who was present at the distribution spot, said the government had fulfilled its promise by launching the card. “The state government is strictly working for the welfare of the people despite the financial constraints created by the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. The MLA said the government had been carrying out development works uninterruptedly and a major project like implementation of public ration distribution scheme was launched across the state on Saturday.Sarkaria distributes cards to the needy familiesTarn Taran: Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on Saturday distributed 10 Smart Ration Cards to the beneficiaries of the scheme at a function here. Local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihorti, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale were among other officials present on the occasion.Social distancing norms were violated during the function. The minister said 1.78 lakh families in the district would be covered under the scheme. Meanwhile, MLA Harminder Singh Gill (Patti), Sukhpal Singh Bhullar (Khemkaran) and Ramanjit Singh Sikki (Khadoor Sahib) distributed cards to the beneficiaries in their respective constituencies. The minister said the scheme would help curb corruption.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-ration-card-scheme-to-cover-3-2-lakh-beneficiaries-in-amritsar-140540
13-09-2020||---||Amritsar Municipal Corporation razes illegal vend||Amritsar, September 12On the directions of the Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal, a team of the Estate wing led by Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, MC, demolished an under construction illegal shop and took the possession of land here today.Sushant Bhatia stated that a vendor had installed a vend on the Municipal Corporation land a few years back. The MC used to collect Tehbazari fee from him. Now, for the past two years, the MC is not collecting any fee from the vendors. Following the Street Vending Zone scheme of the government, no vendor has legal right on the government’s land outside the vending zones.Vendor has no legal right on govt landFor the past two years, the MC has not been not collecting any fee from the vendors. Following the Street Vending Zone scheme of the government, no vendor has legal right on the government’s land outside the vending zones.Violating the government rules, the vendor started construction of shop at the MC’s land. When Estate wing team reached on the spot, a large number of supports of vendor gathered to oppose the move of MC.Sushant Bhatia took the help of B-Division and SHO Police Station B-Division along with police team also reached on the spot. The MC sealed the area demolished the construction and took the possession of the land.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-municipal-corporation-razes-illegal-vend-140542
13-09-2020||
||Mayor inaugurates tube wells, says will resolve drinking water problem||Amritsar, September 12 Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Saturday claimed that there would be no problem of clean drinking water in any part of the city. He said no stone would be left unturned to improve the sewerage system. It had been started during the inauguration function of tube wells in various areas of the South Assembly constituency. The city Mayor, along with MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia, inaugurated tube wells in Ward Nos.64, 66 and 67 of the Amritsar south assembly constituency. The Mayor and the MLA were given a warm welcome by councillor Ashwani Kaleshah and residents of the area at Gilwali Gate in Ward No.64 where they inaugurated the new tube well. After this, the tube wells were inaugurated in Ward No.66 in the presence of councillor Sunny Kundra and councillor Pooja Rani of Ward No.67. On the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said with the installation of these tube wells in inner urban areas of the south assembly constituency where clean drinking water would be available, the problem of water shortage would be addressed and the supply would be better. He said under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme, new tube wells, water supply and sewerage lines were being laid at a cost of Rs 24 crore. He said the face of the south assembly constituency was being changed with the development works worth crores of rupees.  The Mayor said the Punjab Government had come up with a huge fund to beautify the circular road from Gurdwara Shaheedan Sahib to Khazana Gate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-inaugurates-tube-wells-says-will-resolve-drinking-water-problem-140544
13-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||For the love of culture, she’s still active at the ripe age of 83||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 12Swaran Kaur Bal, a folklore researcher, who preserved ‘Bolian Tappe’ and other folklore of Majha region by visiting rural masses, is still active in her field. Even at the ripe age of 83, her participation in social and cultural events is as young. Recently, she organised ‘Tian da Mela’ to keep the tradition alive.Swaran Kaur Bal, a folklore researcherHow she utilised lockdown timeI had collected many books through literary events I attended in the past but never got a chance to read them. Now, they are my favourite companions, especially in the afternoons. I have been enjoying the feedback sessions directly to their authors over phone. I must say all these conversations remain so rich.Born on June 6, 1937 at Thatha village near Sarhali Kalan in Taran Tarn, she completed her schooling at Mata Sahib Devi Aashram in Kairon village, a gift for girls by late Punjab Chief Minister’s Partap Singh Kairon. She owes her interest in writing to Ram Kaur — CM’s wife — who not only looked after the school but also taught Punjabi.“I often think of her as she played a vital role to inspire us in various ways. She introduced several writing contests and various others events where we explored our talents,” says Swaran. Though she did cultural activism for several decades, her collection of folksongs of Majha region is remarkably a great contribution to the preservation of Punjabi culture.After completing her MA in Punjabi, she would teach at the village’s government school in Butala, near Amritsar. She visited more than 20 villages in various blocks of both the places and met old women well-known for singing traditional songs. She recorded those songs, which, however, are no more popular among the rural women.“With the emergence of TV and recording companies, the young generation remembers only those recorded songs. A large number of folksongs are no more the memories of the present generation,” she is worried. During her research, she found that every region of Punjab has a different folklore and folksongs. The Majha region has separate beliefs, traditions and culture from other areas.On paperOn the bedrock of it, she penned a book ‘Majhe De Main Jami Jayi’ comprising songs, boliyan and tapes of Majha region in 2000. She has mentioned every single woman who has been part of the contribution.With the book gaining popularity among populace, it was published four times. The maiden year of publication being 2000, followed by 2003, 2009 and 2017 by Punjabi Saath, an international literary body.Apart from this, she has been part of several radio station talks and Doordarshan as well. A source of encouragement for several women of her village for more than a decade, she has also promoted rural culture and folk singing in her ‘Mela Charkhe Da’ – organised at the village.“Collecting folksongs from old women was not enough. We need to preserve the musical tone, pitch, intensity of the folksongs, bolian, tappe mahiye. So I have encouraged some young woman from village and trained them about the rhythm of song. The mela was a great success. I have been actively participate in such events,” she tells.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-the-love-of-culture-shes-still-active-at-the-ripe-age-of-83-140550
13-09-2020||Amritsar||Won’t allow protest on missing ‘saroops’ at Diwan Hall: Longowal||SGPC chief Gobind Singh Longowal has refused to allow Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall, situated inside the Golden Temple, to be used for organising a protest after the satkar committees and other Sikh religious organisations announced a stir at the site on September 14.The satkar committees, formed to uphold the dignity of Guru Granth Sahib in society, had announced a protest against the SGPC accusing it of failure in maintaining the dignity of the Guru Granth Sahib during its publication. They held it responsible for the missing 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib and inadequate punishment to guilty officials.Longowal said the Manji Sahib Diwan Hall was a historic religious site associated with the Golden Temple, so its sanctity could not be allowed to be compromised at any cost.He said the ‘saroops’ were in the houses of the Sikh sangat as per the ‘rehat maryada’, so no desecration took place. He flayed the attempt to politicise the matter. — TNSDhindsa: sgpc failed to Punish guiltySangrur: SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Saturday alleged the SGPC chief had not been fulfilling his responsibility to punish the persons behind the disappearance of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wont-allow-protest-on-missing-saroops-at-diwan-hall-longowal-140397
