13-01-2021||PK Jaiswar||Police crack Shastri Nagar robbery case; 4 arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, January 12The city police have cracked the robbery case in which several armed persons held a dentist’s family hostage and robbed them a week ago. The police have arrested four persons, including two women, in the case while three of their accomplices are still on the run.A former domestic help also involvedThose arrested have been identified as Davinder Kaur, Daljit Kaur of Krishna Nagar, Kot Khalsa, Shammi alias Aman alias Amu of Islamabad, and Gupreet Singh, alias Fateh, of Sewa Singh Nagar on Ram Tirath Road here. The police also recovered a country-made weapon, two scooters and Rs 65,000 from their possession.The incident occurred in the posh Shastri Nagar locality in the Lawrence Road area here on January 6 when the victim, Dr Shivangi Arora, and her family was at home. Dr Shivangi was in her clinic located in the residence. Two of the accused had come on the pretext of treatment of a person. Later, their two more accomplices barged into the house and tied Dr Arora and her helper Priyanka and then held her mother-in-law and children along with Dr Shivangi’s helper Priyanka hostage at gunpoint. They later decamped with jewellery and lakhs of rupees from the house. While escaping they forgot gloves and a datar at the clinic.Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Daljit Kaur used to work at the residence of Dr Shivani Arora as a domestic help several years ago. She, along with her other accomplices, had conducted a recee of the area a few days ago before committing the crime.He said their other accomplices — Daljit Kaur’s husband Dildar Singh, Vikramjit Singh TT and Gurmeet Singh — were absconding and raids were on to nab them. Bhullar said Vikramjit TT had several criminal cases registered against him in Madhya Pradesh.He said the police had also detained Gorakhnath, a goldsmith, who originally hailed from Maharashtra, following the interrogation of the suspects. He had melted around 208gm of gold given to him by Vikramjit Singh. If his involvement was found in the case, he would also be nominated in the FIR.The DCP said Davinder Kaur had a couple of cases of robbery and under the NDPS Act against her in Faridkot area while another suspect Shammi had two cases of the NDPS Act against him. He said Daljit Kaur and her husband Dildar Singh were drug peddlers while Gurpreet Singh used to procure drugs from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-crack-shastri-nagar-robbery-case-4-arrested-197593
13-01-2021||Amritsar||30-yr-old stabbed to death as family failed to pay house rent||Jagandeep Singh (30), a resident of Gurnam Nagar area, on Saturday was stabbed by the owner of the house in which he, along with his family, was living on rent. The victim succumbed to his injuries on Monday. The police have booked Kulwinder Singh, alias Baba, along with four unidentified persons for murder. According to the victim’s mother Raj Kaur, the accused tried to forcibly vacate the house as they failed to pay one month rent of the house. She said due to the lockdown their earnings dwindled and therefore they could not pay the rent. In her statement to the police, she said she, along with her daughter Malka and son Jagandeep, was living in the house, belonging to Kulwinder Singh, on rent. She said due to the lockdown restrictions, they lost their work and started facing financial hardships. As they could not pay the rent of one month, the accused asked them to vacate the house. She said on Saturday, the accused came to the house and demanded rent but they expressed their inability to pay the rent. On the same day in the evening, the accused, along with four unknown persons, came to the house armed with sharp-edged and blunt weapons. They started throwing their household goods out of the house. She said as she tried to resist, they pushed her and she fell down. She said her son Jagandeep also tried to resist but they stabbed him with a sharp-edged weapon. She said she raised an alarm following which her nephew Shiv Charan, along with Manpreet Singh of the area, rushed to their house. By the time, they reached the house the accused had fled the spot. She said they took Jagandeep to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and after treatment they brought him home. She said as his condition deteriorated and he was again taken to hospital where he died on Monday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-yr-old-stabbed-to-death-as-family-failed-to-pay-house-rent-197594
13-01-2021||---||Govt schools better off than private on attendance scale in Amritsar||Amritsar, January 12Days after reopening of schools across the state for Class V-VII, the private schools have started getting students but the turnout remains dismal. The government schools had implemented the reopening orders as soon as they were issued, while most private schools chose to wait for parental consent before calling students.As of today, private schools in city are getting 10-12 per cent attendance of Class V to Class VIII. Dr Anita Bhalla, secretary of Sahodaya Schools and principal, Bhavans’ SL school, said that the low turnout is due to multiple reasons. ‘The extreme cold weather conditions and the suspicions regarding pandemic still in mind, the number of students coming to school of middle classes remains low, but consistent. Most parents are waiting till Lohri to send their wards as there could be change in weather.”The government schools too fall in same bracket with almost 10 per cent attendance, mostly from Class VIII onwards. Keshav Kohli, teacher, from Government School, Hathi Gate, said that the attendance may increase in the coming days as students will get accustomed to school environment. ‘We have got almost 30 per cent attendance between last two days, as students are happy to come to classrooms and resume offline classes,” he said.Meanwhile, schools are carrying out online classes alternately as well to ensure that students do not miss out on anything.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-schools-better-off-than-private-on-attendance-scale-in-amritsar-197595
13-01-2021||---||Filth finds its way on this nameless road||Amritsar, January 12Residents here have been demanding removal of huge garbage dumps along the sides of the stretch connecting the Islamabad area to Rego Railway Overbridge (ROB).Many important areas fall along the 1-km stretch such as defence area, railway station’s loading and unloading cargo facility, railway’s residential B-block Colony and a gurdwara. The road is also of strategic importance as it diverts the traffic heading towards Islamabad area to take a detour from the GT road via Rego ROB. Similarly, the commuters travelling from Islamabad to the Civil Lines area need not go via congested Puttalighar.The width of the stretch is also not regular. However, as per the Municipal Corporation records, its paved road is 30-ft wide and the kuchha portion on the railway side is 15 to 16 ft wide and along the Defense area, it is eight feet wide.Chander Kumar, a resident of Islamabad area, said, “Despite being so significant for the commuters, it never figured in the priority list of the authorities. Hence, the stretch never earned any name.Both the sides of the stretch are dotted with garbage, debris and other refuse. “It has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. It also emanates an unbearable stench.”Sohan Singh, a resident of B-block, said despite repeated complaints, the road became a dumping site. It not only is an eyesore but can also become a source of several diseases. He added that a large number of those tourists coming out of the Gobindgarh fort heading to the Attari Wagah border Joint Check Post to witness the retreat ceremony commute over this stretch. The authorities must spare a thought about what impression they might be taking along.Vikas Soni, area councillor, said with the rise in traffic flow on the GT road, the stretch has assumed importance among the commuters. “I have already initiated the process of re-carpeting and end-to-end tile work. This will end the practice of disposing garbage along its sides,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/filth-finds-its-way-on-this-nameless-road-197596
13-01-2021||---||Lohri celebrations mark reopening of Virsa Vihar||Amritsar, January 12 Promising a new beginning for theatre and cultural activities in the city, theatre thespian Kewal Dhaliwal and several other prominent theatre as well as folk artistes celebrated Lohri at Virsa Vihar here on Tuesday. The event also marked the reopening of Virsa Vihar for live performances and audiences after a gap of 10 months. “On the occasion, a bonfire is a sacred promise of new beginnings, change in season and fortune for many. We hope that the new beginning of cultural activities in the city will be much more enthusiastic than before. The city is a hub of cultural landscape of Punjab and even the country and artistes and audience were waiting to resume folk as well as theatre activity,” said Dhaliwal.  He said the resumption of live plays would be done keeping in mind the Covid-19 guidelines. “We have maintained social distancing norms while seating arrangements inside the auditorium and the premises are being sanitised daily. The artistes too have been informed about the new normal. We will be hosting a theatre festival soon to start activities for the year,” he said. Senior artistes from the city, including Gurinder Makana and Harinder Sohal, were present at the event. Performing boliyan and traditional folk songs of Lohri, the artistes dedicated their performances to the ongoing farmers’ movement as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lohri-celebrations-mark-reopening-of-virsa-vihar-197597
13-01-2021||---||Events, rally held at Amritsar’s Heritage Street on National Youth Day||Amritsar, January 12National Youth Day was celebrated by various colleges and educational institutions and tributes were paid to Swami Vivekananda, whose birth anniversary falls on this day. DAV College marked the day by organising an event through its NSS wing. Dr Neerja Kalia, NSS in charge, DAV College, encouraged the youth from the thoughts and works of Swami Vivekananda on the occasion. “Swami Vivekananda always focused on the potential of youth. He wanted to inspire the younger generation so that they could compete with the British and achieve independence,” she said.School of Education of Guru Nanak Dev University under the aegis of PMMMNMTT, Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Education, to mark National Youth Day. Prof Anand Bhushan, former chairperson, Department of Education, Panjab University, Chandigarh, addressed the audience of over a hundred participants. He drew a vivid description of the inspirational journey of a humble Swami to the most sought-after Indian after his powerful speech at the First World’s Parliament of Religions in Chicago 1893, at the time when Indians were looked down upon and Britishers were plying to disconnect the Indian masses from their cultural roots.NSUI members took out a rally at Heritage Street to highlight the plight of youth and joblessness marking the National Youth Day. Slamming the PM for rising unemployment, Punjab NSUI president Akshay Sharma said unprecedented joblessness and desperation among our youngsters was a direct result of Modi’s callous and negligent handling of Indian economy.NSUI workers stage protestTarn Taran: Workers of the National Students Union of India (NSUI) hosted a ‘Boot Polish Campaign’ on the National Youth Day and burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi today. They marched to the cremation ground of the local Sachaknad road and burnt the effigy of PM. Ritik Arpra, district president of the NSUI, while addressing on the occasion, said the youth was deprived of the job avenues with due to the wrong policies of the government. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/events-rally-held-at-amritsars-heritage-street-on-national-youth-day-197598
13-01-2021||---||Civil Surgeon asks staff to clear all cases||Amritsar, January 12In order to ensure timely delivery of all services of the Health Department to the general public, Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh has instructed the employees to clear all pending cases within 10 days. A meeting in this regard with all the programme officers and senior medical officers was held at the Civil Surgeon’s office. Dr Charanjit Singh also reviewed pendency of cases in all programmes such as Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, Janani Shishu Surakhsa Yojna, disability certificates, birth and death certificates, dengue and malaria control programme, de-addiction programme, TB control programme, mother and child care programme, immunisation programme and tobacco control programme. Dr Charanjit Singh said all programme officers and SMOs have been asked to work towards improving sex ratio and bring down infant mortality rate and mother mortality rate. He said his priority would be to ensure that the general public gets best medical services at government hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-surgeon-asks-staff-to-clear-all-cases-197599
13-01-2021||---||GNDU students continue to protest against offline exams||Amritsar, January 12Hundreds of students, including office-bearers and members of state units of ABVP and Student Struggle Front, on Tuesday blocked the GT Road in front of the main gate of GNDU for nearly two hours in a protest against the conduct of offline exams. Extending their demand to shift the exams to online mode and extension of offline exams by the university, the students pulled through the barricades by GNDU security officials to reach VC office. Registrar KS Kahlon, dean Student Welfare, Prof Hardeep Singh among other officials from university held talks with the students and announced that the offline exams for affiliated colleges under the varsity will be postponed till January 18. The varsity officials told students that they will be holding meeting with principals of all colleges to decide how to take up the matter further. The students have been demanding the university to conduct exams digitally citing that Punjab Technical University, Panjab University and Punjabi University, Patiala, have done the same in given circumstances. The two-hour blockade of GT Road by the students resulted in traffic chaos and inconvenience for commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-continue-to-protest-against-offline-exams-197600
13-01-2021||---||‘No infra work to be left pending’: Amritsar Mayor||Amritsar, January 12 Mayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated development works in the areas of the Professor Colony and Nagina Avenue at Ward Nos. 12 and 13 in the North Assembly. The work of laying of the new pipeline to fix the sewerage system was undertaken at Professor Colony and reconstruction of streets was carried out at Nagina Avenue.Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh said some development works were being carried out in the areas of North assembly constituency. We have installed modern smart LEDs in all areas of theses wards. He assured the residents of the area that no development work would be left pending and all ongoing development projects in the city would be completed in a record time. He said they were committed to 100% development of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-infra-work-to-be-left-pending-amritsar-mayor-197601
13-01-2021||---||PoWs: Morcha raises issue of repatriation||Amritsar, january 12Lok Insaf Morcha Society has raised the issue of repatriation of Indian Prisoners of War (POW), who were detained during the 1971 War and still languishing in various jails of Pakistan.Society president Lakhwinder Singh in a communique to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated that five decades have passed since the occurrence of the war but no efforts were being made to repatriate the Indian POWs in Pakistan. He sought that all POWs aged above 70 years must be released on humanitarian grounds and the government must initiate action in this regard.       He said that years ago reports had suggested that 176 POWs were in prisons of Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat Rai, Mianwali, Adiala Jail (Rawalpindi), Multan, Bahawalpur, Karachi, Sialkot and others. Later, the number came down to 70.He claimed that in response to a reply in the Parliament of 1976 the then External Affairs Minister had mentioned 54 names of POWs. Later, the then Pakistan Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto had also accepted the presence of 49 POWs, he said.He mentioned that recently the Indian Parliament confirmed the presence of 83 Indian POWs in Pakistan jails. He claimed that the list did not contain the names of missing Indians soldiers like Balwinder Singh of 10th Sikh Regiment, Dharampal Singh of fourth Sikh Regiment, Bir Singh of 15th Punjab Regiment and others. So, he inferred that the actual number of POWs might be more.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pows-morcha-raises-issue-of-repatriation-197602
13-01-2021||---||IMA suspends membership of private hospitals||Amritsar, January 12The Indian Medical Association(IMA), Amritsar Chapter, has suspended the membership of private nursing homes which were found involved in the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna (AB-SSBY) scam detected by officials of the Health Department recently.The IMA leadership while condemning the malpractice of the said hospitals stated that they had brought a bad repute to the entire medical profession. The IMA members further stated that such hospitals were being run by unqualified and non-medico persons with the sole aim of business.Most of hospitals involved in such medical malpractices are not even registered, stated IMA release. The Health Department had recently uncovered the scam and removed five hospitals from the list of hospital empanelled for providing services under AB-SSBY scheme.IMA president Dr Amandeep Kaur and general secretary Dr JS Grover stated that the erring hospitals membership from nursing home cell had been removed and the memberships of the doctors running these hospitals till the investigation was not completed. Dr Grover added that the administration should also take strict action against those found guilty in the scam.Meanwhile, the health administration has also decided to scrutinise the details of all hospitals empanelled under the scheme. The officials stated that a thorough investigation would be made.The insurance schemes started by the governments often end up benefitting the unscrupulous elements in the medical industry instead of providing any relief to the deserving beneficiaries. Earlier too the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) had come under scanner as embezzlement by private hospitals using dummy and fake patients was reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-suspends-membership-of-private-hospitals-197603
13-01-2021||Amritsar||Assault: Cong leader booked||1 death, 20 new cases in districtAmritsar: With one more death in the district due to Covid-19, the toll has increased to 565 on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Kashmir Kaur, a 55-year-old woman from Ajnala. The district health authorities have also reported 20 new cases with which the total count has increased to 14,741. The new cases include 12 Influenza-like-illness cases and eight contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 37 patients, the recovery count too has increased to 14,016. The district at present has a total of 162 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/assault-cong-leader-booked-197604
13-01-2021||---||Illegal arms racket: Police get remand of two MP residents||Amritsar, January 12Two illegal arms racket accused, who are residents of Madhya Pradesh, were produced before the court which remanded them in one-day police custody here on Tuesday. The police sought five-day police remand of the accused for further interrogation.Arrested on January 9 from Madhya Pradesh, Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu, both natives of Khargone village in MP, were brought here after getting transit remand. The police authorities said they would be produced in the court tomorrow again.With their arrest, the Punjab Police had claimed to have busted a gang involved in supplying country-made weapons to criminal elements in Punjab, including gangsters and alleged terrorists.The police had recovered 12 (.32 bore calibre) country-made pistols with 15 magazines along with a huge cache of ammunition from their possession. The gang was suspected to have supplied over 24 pistols (.32 bore) to gangsters and criminals in the last three months.Preliminary investigation had revealed that he was also in close contact with Akashdeep Singh, the prime accused in the drone module busted by the Punjab Police in 2019 and who is at present lodged in Amritsar jail.Gurinder Pal Singh Nagra, DSP (Detective), said the police had got the production warrant of Akashdeep Singh and he would be taken into custody from jail on Friday for further investigation in the racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-arms-racket-police-get-remand-of-two-mp-residents-197605
13-01-2021||---||Property of former ASI-turned-smuggler worth Rs 1 cr freezed||Amritsar, January 12 The Amritsar rural police on Tuesday freezed property worth Rs 1 crore belonging to a notorious drug peddler Ranjit Singh Mode (an ASI) and dismissed him from service. He has around five cases registered against him under the NDPS Act. His name recently figured in a case of confiscation of 7.3 kg heroin from the Indo-Pak border in Dera Baba Nanak area.In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the Amritsar rural police said during investigation, it was found that he had around 53 kanals and 18 marla land in the name of his wife Paramjit Kaur. They said during valuation the property was found to be worth Rs 1.07 crore. The same was frozen following the orders of the competent authority.The police had seized 7.3 kg of heroin along with three Chinese .30 bore calibre pistols from near the international border in Dera Baba Nanak area on December 30. During investigation, it was found that notorious drug peddler Ranjit Singh of Modhe village played a key role in the smuggling of the consignment. A former cop, he is currently lodged in the Ludhiana Central jail and was running his drug network from there. Following the inputs provided by the rural police, the jail authorities confiscated a smart phone from his possession also.Ranjit Singh was recruited as a constable in 80th battalion of Punjab Armed Police in 1989 and rose to the rank of ASI. In 2011, he was nabbed by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence for smuggling 23 kg of heroin. He was dismissed from his service thereafter. He had around five cases registered against him under the NDPS Act and the Arms Act.The police said Ranjit developed close links with Pakistan-based cross-border smugglers. Investigation revealed that he had developed links with Simranjit Singh and Surjit Masih who were prime suspects in the drone module racket busted by the police in December 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/property-of-former-asi-turned-smuggler-worth-rs-1-cr-freezed-197607
13-01-2021||Gurbaxpuri||28 yrs on, cops still occupy militant Gurbachan Singh Manochahal’s property||Tarn Taran, January 12After a legal battle of more than 28 years, Tarlochan Singh and Ninder Singh, brothers of dreaded terrorist Gurbachan Singh Manochahal, are still not certain about the time it would take to regain the possession of a chunk of prime land the Punjab Police had “illegally occupied”.The land the family of Manochahal was calling their own is situated on the GT Road, crossing through the Naushehra Pannuan town.The self-styled head of the Bhindranwale Tiger Force of Khalistan (BTFK), Manochahal was killed in an encounter in nearby Rataul village in February 1993. He came to the limelight when he managed to flee from the cordon of heavy force of the CRPF and the police from the tubewell room where he had taken shelter at night in November 1985 after ‘Operation Blue Star’.His three kanal land was acquired in 1992 by the police to make a police post under the Sarhali police station. Local residents were not sure if it was the family’s ancestral property or was purchased from someone else. Many said there was a Gurdwara at the place when the police took possession of the ‘house’. There were shops at the front portion of the land at the time of acquisition.Tarlochan and Ninder said the family had been fighting for a long time to take back the possession of their house but to no avail. Tarlochan, bed-ridden for the past 14 years, claimed that the Punjab and Haryana High Court had given a verdict in the family’s favour.Meanwhile, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the police had not vacated the land from where the Naushehra Pannuan police post was operational. He said the land was given by the village panchayat to the police and there was a proposal to allot a new place to the police for which the DSP visited the site.“The proposal would be sent to the Deputy Commissioner for approval and then the question of vacating the old building would be taken up,” the SSP said.Even today, ASI Kulbir Singh, along with some other policemen, was working from the spot. However, another ASI Kashmir Singh was seen at the old building of the Government Secondary School of the village.Proposal to shift||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/28-yrs-on-cops-still-occupy-militant-gurbachan-singh-manochahals-property-197620
