13-05-2020||
||Nurses exhorted to follow path shown by Florence Nightingale||Amritsar, May 12 An event to mark International Nurses Day was organised at Sri Guru Ram Das College of Nursing under the SGRD Institute of Medical Sciences and Research here on Tuesday.  The day celebrates the birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing and an embodiment of compassion and love. “This year, as the world is fighting Covid-19 pandemic, it becomes even more pertinent for the nursing fraternity to fulfil its duties with missionary zeal,” said Dr AP Singh, Dean, SGRD University. The nursing faculty and practitioners observed a two-minute silence for patients and health workers who have died due to Covid-19 infection. They also prayed for the health of the ailing. Principal, SGRD Nursing College, Dr Parvesh Saini said: “The present health crisis is the moment for nursing fraternity to tread on the path set forth by Florence Nightingale, who is still remembered as the Lady with the Lamp for showing the path of compassion not only to health professionals, but to the entire world.” The college distributed fruits among patients and organised a special prayer for the well-being of humanity by lighting lamps. The nursing faculty and practitioners attended the ceremony.  Meanwhile, in a separate event organised by the Punjab Nursing Association at Government Medical College here, nurses deputed at Covid care centre were honoured. Association president Narinder Buttar said the world was celebrating the 200 birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale this year. She said: “Nurses are primary care givers in the modern medicine and ever since Covid-19 has started, they are performing their duties with devotion.” She also stressed at the need for regularising the services of all contractual nursing staff to improve the state of health services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nurses-exhorted-to-follow-path-shown-by-florence-nightingale-84145
13-05-2020||
||City chapter of FICCI FLO conducts virtual change of guard ceremony||Amritsar, May 12 The Amritsar chapter of FICCI FLO held its virtual change of guard ceremony on Tuesday. Immediate chairperson Arushi Verma handed over the baton to Meeta Mehra, who will be the chairperson of the women’s organisation for 2020-21. Chairperson Meeta Mehra, immediate past chairperson Arushi Verma, founder chairperson Gowri Bansal, senior vice chairperson Manjot Dhillon, vice chairperson Shika Sareen, treasurer Simar Preet Sandhu, secretary Himani Arora, joint secretary Mona Singh and joint treasurer Tanya Khanna will be in the new team of the organisation. Meeta, who is also an entrepreneur, shared her vision for FLO. “Due to the pandemic, the world has changed. So, my tagline for FLO will be Reflect, Refresh and Reform. The number 2020 is associated with a perfect vision and this year will be about a perfect opportunity to rebuild with all positivity channeled to it,” she said.  Meeta’s list of priorities includes launching an all-inclusive online portal for B2B and B2C exchange. “The world has shifted to web amidst the ongoing crisis and that is where one can re-grow the business. I want to connect all 17 chapters of FICCI FLO through the portal that will be called FLO-mazon,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-chapter-of-ficci-flo-conducts-virtual-change-of-guard-ceremony-84146
13-05-2020||---||2 Amritsar students make it to quiz semifinal||Amritsar, May 12Two students — Hemaang Gupta and Mridul Goswami — from DAV Public School, Lawrence Road, have made it to the semifinals of ‘Mind Wars’, which is a quiz-based app that allows participants to progress to different levels and winners to participate in the TV version of the show.‘Mind Wars’ had just begun to air before the lockdown and was hosted by actor Shreyas Talpade.The game challenges the knowledge of each participating team about their own state and progressively moves towards neighbouring states and then the country at large.Class X student Mridul Goswami said, “It was a wonderful experience working on ‘Mind Wars’ app. It provided a forum that helped me quench my thirst for knowledge. It expanded my IQ and general knowledge and helped me learn about the history and culture of the country.”Hemaang, a Class IX student, said, “My experience with the app has been fantastic. It is rare to see such a vast repository of questions on almost every aspect of general knowledge on one platform. Shooting for the ‘Mind Wars’ TV show was a memorable experience as well as meeting Shreyas Talpade.”The show will further continue after the lockdown.What is ‘Mind Wars’‘Mind Wars’ is a quiz-based app that allows participants to progress to different levels and winners to participate in the TV version of the show. ‘Mind Wars’ had just begun to air before the lockdown and was hosted by actor Shreyas Talpade (see pic).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-amritsar-students-make-it-to-quiz-semifinal-84147
13-05-2020||Amritsar||Post relaxation, 2 bikers killed in accidents||On a day when the district administration announced some relaxation in the curfew restrictions imposed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the holy city witnessed two road mishaps in the rural belt that snuffed out two lives. The deceased were identified as Tejinder Kumar of Rampura village and Balwinder Singh of Raipur Kalan village in Ajnala. Kulwinder Kaur, wife of Tejinder Kumar, stated to the police that they were going to Manjit filling station on bike when a rashly driven truck hit them. While she fell on the roadside, the truck ran over Tejinder killing him on the spot. The incident occurred near Bal Khurd village. The truck driver fled away leaving the truck behind.  In another incident, a youth Balwinder Singh of Raipur Kalan village sustained serious injuries when a truck hit his bike near Uthian village. He was rushed to hospital by his brother where he succumbed. The incident occurred on Sunday late evening. Puran Singh, brother of the deceased, stated to the Rajasansi police that he along with his brother Sampuran Singh and Balwinder Singh along with Kabal Singh were returning home on two motorcycles. He said when they reached near Uthian village, a truck hit Balwinder Singh’s bike leading to serious injuries to him and Kabal Singh. The truck driver fled away with truck. The injured were rushed to a hospital where Balwinder Singh died. The police registered two separate FIRs in Kamboh and Rajasansi police station under Section 304-A and other relevant sections of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-relaxation-2-bikers-killed-in-accidents-84148
13-05-2020||Our Correspondent
||Firing in Assal village leaves six injured||Tarn Taran, May 12 Six persons were injured in a stone pelting and firing incident between two groups in Assal village, 30 km from here, on Monday night.  The Patti Sadar police have booked eight persons under Sections 307, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.  The ongoing conflict among village residents was said to be the reason behind the incident.  The suspects have been identified as Major Singh, his son Gurwinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh, Vishal Singh, Surjit Singh, Gurlal Singh, Amrit Singh and Jatinder Singh, while  the injured have been identified as Jaswinder Singh, his father Samma Singh, Vijay Singh, Om Parkash, Jobanpreet Kaur and Nishan Singh.  The police said the suspects attacked Jaswinder Singh when he was standing outside his residence. When neighbours and family members came to the victims’s rescue, the suspects opened fire and started pelting them with stones. Samma Singh and Jobanpreet Kaur have been referred to an Amritsar hospital while others were admitted to Patti  Civil Hospital. One of the suspect has been arrested, while other are at large, the police said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-in-assal-village-leaves-six-injured-84149
13-05-2020||Amritsar||Congress flayed for getting notification passed in hurry||Rajinder Singh Marwaha of the SAD (Punjab Beopar cell) on Tuesday accused the Capt Amarinder Singh government of acting in a hurry by forcing the Centre to get the notification passed for land acquisition of the Punjab part of the ambitious Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway. He said the reason was that the state government wanted to sabotage the project. The 600-km expressway would be entirely funded by the Centre. He said the border districts of Amritsar and Tarn Taran had been removed intentionally from the project alignment, which existed in the original concept and vision. On the other hand, members of the Amritsar Vikas Manch (AVM), at its meeting, said: “After excluding religious and underdeveloped areas of Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts from the alignment of the expressway, the powerful and influential lobby in the Punjab Government in connivance with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has got the notification issued for acquiring land for the expressway.” Kulwant Singh Ankhi of the AVM said the historical and religious towns of Sri Goindwal Sahib and Khadur Sahib, both in Tarn Taran district, and Baba Bakala Sahib in Amritsar would suffer a severe setback in future. “For instance, most of the units in the industrial complex, which were established at Goindwal Sahib in 1977 on the occasion of the 500th birthday celebrations of the Third Master Guru Amar Das, are on the verge of collapse due to poor connectivity to the town. If the town becomes part of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway as per the original plan, the industry here will flourish,” he said.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-flayed-for-getting-notification-passed-in-hurry-84150
13-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Sanitisation drive on in residential localities in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12The Municipal Corporation has outsourced 175 workers for 85 wards to conduct sanitisation in the city. The health wing has deployed two workers in every ward for this purpose, who will conduct sanitisation with the hand pump in three to four localities of each ward every day.Municipal Health Officer (MHO) Dr Ajay Kawar said: “We have outsourced workers to tackle the situation. A fire brigade jeep has been modified to spray at quarantine centres. Every building, where migrants are gathering for screening before boarding trains, is being sanitised. Apart from this, we are sanitising the quarantine centres, hospitals, dispensaries and government buildings.”"The MC is buying sodium hypochlorite solution without break. We have no shortage of sodium hypochlorite solution. The sanitisation will be continued till the end of Covid-19 pandemic. Our sanitisation workers are doing a great job with dedication,” the MHO said.Raman Kumar, a worker conducting sanitisation said: “We start our job early in the morning and sanitise more than 500 houses a day. We spray the solution on gates and handles, door bells and such objects which are in direct contact of human beings.”Surinder, another worker, said: “We are doing the same job since the past one month. Residents call councillors to conduct spray and we follow the instructions. Otherwise, we have our schedule of covering every household in the ward within a week.”Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said: “We are concerned about the health of residents and hence taking such initiatives to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Residents should cooperate with the MC and keep the surroundings neat and clean. Our sanitisation teams are spraying every street.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitisation-drive-on-in-residential-localities-in-amritsar-84152
13-05-2020||Anil Vij||‘Giving shape to time is important now’||H istorically, pandemics have forced humans to break with the past and imagine their world afresh. This one is no different. It is a portal, a gateway between one world and the next.We can choose to walk through it, dragging the carcasses of our prejudice and hatred, our avarice and our dead ideas, our dead rivers and smoky skies behind us. Or, we can walk through lightly, with little luggage, ready to imagine another world — ready to fight for it. The choice is entirely ours.Giving shape to time is important now, particularly when the future is so shapeless. We do not know whether the virus will continue to rage for weeks or months or, Lord help us, on and off for years. We do not know when we will feel safe again. We may stay this way if we do not create at least the illusion of movement in our lives. And that is precisely the reason, why I have decided to keep myself busy and also remain among my constituents in their hour of need.The first thing I do in the morning is to get in touch with health officials to inquire how the corona positive patients are doing. We have 15 active cases in our district and we have to get them well soon.The shortage of ventilators is giving me the jitters. I have written to the authorities to arrange eight ventilators, so that in case of crises, things do not go off in a tangent.There were reports across the state that private doctors were averse to treating Covid patients. In my district, there is no such fear. So much so, eight such doctors have submitted affidavits that the administration can assign them any duty, any time.My message to my people is: Do not fear. Fear is only as deep as the mind allows.(As told to Ravi dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/giving-shape-to-time-is-important-now-84153
13-05-2020||---||32-yr-old woman commits suicide; in-laws booked||Amritsar, May 12 A 32-year-old woman, Mamta, a resident of Ajnala, committed suicide by hanging herself at her in-laws’ house here on Monday. She took the extreme step as she was being harassed by her in-laws, her brother stated in his statement to the police.On the basis of his statement, the Ajnala police have registered a case of abetting suicide against the victim’s in-laws, including her husband Subegh Singh. The others, who were booked, included his mother Toshi and Monica of Gurdaspur.Harpal Singh, brother of the victim, told the police that his sister was married to Subegh Singh around 10 years ago, who is a resident of Nepal village. He said as she could not give birth to a boy, Subegh and his mother used to harass her and threatened her that Subegh would get married with Monica of Gurdaspur. The couple had two daughters, one is 9-year-old and the other is 5-year-old. He said on Sunday his sister called him to inform that the accused were harassing her and she would end her life.He said on Monday, he, along with his mother, went to see Mamta and talk to her in-laws. He said when they reached there, they were shocked to see her hanging from a ceiling fan while the in-laws were at large.Investigating officer ASI Major Singh said a case under Sections 306 and 34 of the IPC had been registered in this connection. Raids were on to nab them. The body was handed over to the family after a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/32-yr-old-woman-commits-suicide-in-laws-booked-84154
13-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||3,000 rooms to house NRIs reaching state||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12The Amritsar Hotel and Restaurants' Association (AHARA) has managed to arrange more than 3,000 rooms all over Punjab to quarantine non-resident Punjabis, who are expected to start landing from different countries at international airports in Mohali and Amritsar from Wednesday onwards.APS Chatha, president of AHARA, said despite the lockdown, the association managed to arrange over 3,000 rooms for quarantine. About 9,000 persons would arrive in the next few days. These people are residents of different parts of Punjab.AHARA opened these rooms on the request of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board (PHTPB). Occupants will pay for the rooms.Of these, over 600 rooms will be available in 40 hotels of Amritsar. These hotels will be of all categories, including luxury, classified and non-classified.However, all payments would be settled directly by guests to hotels. Performance on parameters such as hygiene would be the total responsibility of hotels.AHARA has been able to procure hotels in Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohalli, Zirakpur, Patiala, Bathinda, Sangrur and Mansa among other places.This opening will infuse a fresh lease of life to the industry in this difficult time to earn some revenue to pay off salaries and electricity bills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-000-rooms-to-house-nris-reaching-state-84155
13-05-2020||---||GNDU announces revised submission dates of examination forms||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12Guru Nanak Dev University has announced the revised submission dates of examination forms. Students can submit online forms of May/June examinations and fee on http://punjabcollegeadmissions.org/.Graduation students of semester 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 and postgraduation students (regular and private) of semester 2 and 4 can visit the website.Dr Manoj Kumar, professor in charge, said candidates of annual examinations (additional/ special chance/ improvement) will submit their examination forms by post with demand draft of the fee. The revised schedule for submitting the examination forms and fees has been approved.According to the schedule, dates for fee slip generation after filling the examination form are with late fee of Rs500 till May 13 to 20; with late fee of Rs1,000 till May 21 to 29; with late fee of Rs2,000 till May 30 to June 10 and with Rs1,000/- per day 10 days before the commencement of exams, along with the approval of the Registrar.He said dates for depositing fees in bank for private students are with late fee of Rs500 is May 25; with late fee of Rs1,000 is June 1; with late fee of Rs2,000 is June 15 and Rs1,000 per day 10 days before the commencement of exams, along with the approval of Registrar.He said dates for depositing fees in bank for colleges are with late fee of Rs500 is May 29; with late fee of Rs1,000 is June 8; with late fee of Rs2,000 is June 22 and with Rs1,000 per day 10 days before the commencement of exams with the approval of the Registrar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-announces-revised-submission-dates-of-examination-forms-84156
13-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||He is working tirelessly to look after needy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12From distributing ration to the needy to taking up the issues of chemists and traders, Punjab Chemist Association president Surinder Duggal is working round the clock to contribute his bit in fight against the pandemic. Apart from this, he is also managing to spend quality time with his family.“I have never spent so much time at home for decades," he says."It was my son’s birthday on May 2. He lives in Canada. My wife cooked chappatis and vegetable for distribution among the needy. This is how we celebrated. It gave us satisfaction," he added.Duggal says he spends his morning hours by doing exercise and watching birds such as house sparrows, sun birds and parrots which had disappeared due to an increase in the pollution level. “It is heartening to see and listen them chirping and it truly gives immense pleasure,” he said.Duggal said he was also trying his hand on learning cooking which he never did in his lifetime.Being active member of the society, he is also fulfilling social duties. "I am trying to ensure that there is no shortage of essential and emergency medicines. If the need be, I go beyond my schedule to deliver the medicines to patients," he said.Recently, he distributed sanitisers, PPE kits and masks to frontline warriors, including doctors and policemen.Duggal, who is also the president of the Amritsar district beopar mandal, remains in touch with traders and shopkeepers to listen to their grievances during the lockdown period and take them up with the district administration while maintaining social distancing.With all business establishments shut due to the curfew restrictions, the trading community has been facing troubles. Some shops open for a limited period. "We, as representatives of the trading community, held a meeting with the district administration and other stakeholders and got permission for opening wholesale market during morning hours after the government issued relaxations at several places in the state," he said.“I have also been attending online video conferences of the All-India Chemists Association to discuss the issues pertaining to chemists,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-is-working-tirelessly-to-look-after-needy-84157
13-05-2020||---||1 more death, Amritsar toll 4 now||Amritsar, May 12Even as the district has reported no new Covid-19 case today, it reported the death of a migrant worker admitted to the Government Medical College due to the disease.The deceased has been identified as Mithu Swami, a 39-year-old resident of Bagh Ramanand area here. The district health authorities said the patient was on ventilator for the last two days and breathed his last on early Tuesday morning. This is the fourth death reported due to the disease in the district.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said they have received 122 test reports today and all were negative. He said the total count of positive cases in the district is 296 at present.At least 25 Covid-19 positive cases admitted to the Covid care centre of Government Medical College were discharged after complete recovery on Tuesday. The discharged patients, all returnees from Sri Hazur Sahib, had arrived in the city on April 28.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said patients were shifted to the Covid care centre after they tested positive. “Now, their two subsequent tests have tested negative and patients have been discharged,” he said, adding that all 25 patients remained asymptomatic during their stay at the hospital. With this, the district has seen 34 recoveries of Covid-19 cases.While the discharged patients expressed happiness, a few whose family members are still admitted said they would wait for them to be discharged. A woman from Chabal Road said: “While I and my child are going home, my husband is still positive. I will be really happy when he joins us at home.”Lack of coordination between Health Department and GMCWhile the district Health Department is the overall in charge for the district, Government Medical College is a testing and treating facility for Covid-19 patients. The lack of coordination between the two institutes especially in reporting positive cases has become frequent. Many times, GMC authorities directly report the new positive cases to the state authorities while the district officials are still in dark.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-more-death-amritsar-toll-4-now-84159
13-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Working 18 hours daily without off for two months||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 12Away from the media, Dr Madan Mohan, district nodal officer for Covid-19 control, has been working 18 hours a day without availing a single day off for the past two months.He is responsible for collecting samples of suspected coronavirus patients, shifting of confirmed patients to Covid care centers, ensuring smooth working of rapid response teams and collecting and filing reports to the state headquarters.Ever since the state reported its first Covid-19 case, Dr Madan has been working on the forefront of the fight against the cornonavirus.For this epidemiologist, the family life has taken a backstage for the past two months. He remains busy with his duty. “When I leave home in the morning, I do not know at what time I will come back. Usually, I return home after 1 am,” he said.A calm and composed official, Dr Madan said, “This is an unprecedented situation and we had no experience of it. But, we as a team have managed to overcome the hardships. We hope that we will win against the virus.”He said people would perhaps never come to know about the sacrifices which are being daily made by some professionals such as nurses, class IV workers, doctors, paramedics and many others to perform their duties.Dr Madan said, “People should not believe in rumours and ensure that they rely on authentic sources of information.” He added that people should stay at home and come out only in an emergency situation. They must take proper precautions such as wearing masks and washing hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/working-18-hours-daily-without-off-for-two-months-84161
13-05-2020||Amritsar||Girl ends life; youth booked||Two smugglers held with pistolsTarn Taran: The team of the local CIA staff led by SI Baldev Singh arrested two drug smugglers and recovered two countrymade pistols and four cartridges from them. A case under Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act and Sections 27, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act was registered by the Bhikhiwind police. SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia said the accused were dealing with illegal weapons from across the border. ocVOA celebrates Int’l nurses dayAmritsar: Members of the Voice of Amritsar, an NGO, honoured Cabinet Minister OP Soni and donated 1,000 bed sheets, 1,200 litres of drinking water, food and fruit juice to patients to mark the Nurses Day on Tuesday. The members also honoured nurses who have been working tirelessly to treat Covid-19 patients. Soni said the VOA has been doing consistent efforts in providing assistance to patients, doctors and police personnel during the pandemic. Earlier, the organisation donated thermal scanners, PPE kits, face shields and ration to needy families. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-ends-life-youth-booked-84169
