13-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Three held with pistols, Bullets||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-with-pistols-bullets-125941
13-08-2020||Neha Saini||Elderly brave psycho-social issues to stay positive||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, August 12It’s been gruelling for them. The fact that our elderly hugely rely on social interaction, its absence during the lockdown, has had some implications. One of the most vulnerable demographic groups amid pandemic, senior citizens, a majority of them, relied on network of support groups and frontliners for bare necessities and the district administrations’ free home delivery service of food and medicines. For a few, who had no one to take care of them, voluntary care homes in city were no less than a safe haven.Sarab Asara, an old age home that provides free-for-all residential service here, had been serving its elderly inmates without hitting a rough patch throughout the lockdown. “We had locked our premises so that no outsiders could come in. We sanitised our premises daily and educated them about exercising safety precautions. Initially, there was fear among the oldies regarding the pandemic but we regularly and openly discussed about it so that there are no anxieties,” said Pammi Sukhija, the manager at Sarab Asara. The care home that has currently 22 inmates, procured all of its grocery and medical supplies by home delivery system and their in-house employees were also confined to the premises.Most of the inhabitants here are the ones without any source of income and abandoned by their families and children. “We made an effort to take care of their emotional, mental and physical well-being, while also allowing them in-house social activities like setting up a library and walking in the park with them,” said Pammi.Guru Ramdass Old Age Home, another care home for elderly, too took care of its elderly as humanely as possible. “The food supplies and medicines were not a problem as we regularly stocked our pantry. The challange was to take care of their physical well-being as most of them are frail and senile already. We assured that all the measures were being followed religiously,” said Poonam. They also conducted awareness sessions during the day to tell them about the various risks and precautions. To keep their spirits high, the inmates were treated to special dishes on birthdays and festivals during the lockdown.Outside the safe zoneWhile those living in care homes were relatively safer, there were some who had to live throughout the lockdown on their own. Gurmeet Kaur Boparai, 62, a retired government teacher, who lives with her husband in Ranjit Avenue, shared that the initial stage of the lockdown and pandemic was the most difficult. “We mostly confined to our home, taking extra precautions, as my husband is a heart patient. However, we were extremely worried about our children, two of who live in the US and one in Canada,” she said. “My son, who lives in New York, was the one we were most worried about as it was the epicenter of the outbreak in the US,” she added.Fortunately, Gurmeet didn’t face as much difficulty – she had the support of her extended family — as her widowed close acquaintance. “The stories we heard from our friends and social groups were quite depressing. One of my close acquaintance, who is a widow, had to deal with isolation and loneliness all alone and suffered from depression. There must be many like her we do not know of but it was definitely hard for senior citizens.”‘Lack of geriatric care severely felt’Geriatric healthcare and medicine needs to be approached with sensitivity and due urgency as it is required now more than ever. Throughout the pandemic, senior citizens have been facing psychological stress and families and caretakers must ensure that communication is not halted between them. Dr NS Neki, Prof emeritus, of medicine at Government Medical College, said, “Lack of geriatric care in India was severly felt amid the pandemic. Just like kids, elderly people also have special needs and require care and attention. Many of them suffer from heart ailments, lung disorders, hypertension and are on multiple drugs already for various ailments.” He added: “While, some who are financially independent didn’t have to face much difficulty, but those with zero income and no family support were the most vulnerable. Now, in this situation, they require holistic well-being but India, unfortunately, lags far behind many developed countries in ensuring that.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/elderly-brave-psycho-social-issues-to-stay-positive-125931
13-08-2020||Our Correspondent 
||Wedding ceremony called off midway||Tarn Taran, August 12  A wedding ceremony was called off midway after the parents of the bride objected to the ‘defect’ in bridegroom’s leg. The ceremony was being performed at gurdwara Gurusar Sahib, Rasulpur Nehran, 6 km from here, on Wednesday.  On the complaint of the bride’s parents, the Sadar police had initiated investigation.  The bride went unconscious over the development and was admitted to the  local Civil Hospital, where her condition was reported to be stable. The sagan ceremony was held on Tuesday at Jodhpur village, where the bride and the bridegroom, along with their relatives, were present.  ASI Balbir Singh, investigating officer (IO), said both the parties had been invited to resolve the issue.   The police said the marriage of Sukhchain Singh of Jodhpur village and Paramjit Kaur of Ghariala village was being performed at the gurdwara and was nearing completion. Relatives from both sides were present on the occasion. The younger brother of the bride objected to the alleged defect in the bridegroom as a result of which relatives from both sides came out of the gurdwara.  The IO said the statements of both the parties had been recorded and efforts were on to resolve the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wedding-ceremony-called-off-midway-125932
13-08-2020||
||Folklore akademi to celebrate I-Day online||Amritsar, August 12 The Hind-Pak Dosti Manch and Folklore Research Akademi, in collaboration with SAFMA (South-Asian Free Media Association) will celebrate the Independence Day this year with a change in the wake of Covid-19. Ramesh Yadav, president, Folklore Research Academi said the main events to mark the day would shift online given the social distancing guidelines due to Covid-19.  “This year, on August 14 morning we will host the launch of magazine “Panj Paani”, a literary journal, dedicated to the Indo-Pak peace and brotherhood. Besides, a song written by Padam Shree poet Surjit Patar, titled “Mombattian” (candles) will be released on the YouTube channel. The song has been sung by a Pakistani singer Zafar Allah Lok,” said Ramesh Yadav.  A webinar based on the subject relevant to both the countries across the border will also be conducted on August 14 afternoon that will see participation of scholars, writers and thinkers from botyh the countries. The annual peace march taken out by ‘Hind-Pak Dosti Manch and Folklore Research Akademi to light candles at Wagah border will also be held symbolically this year.  The two host organisations every year celebrate the Independence Day with literary activities and a peace march to Wagah border||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/folklore-akademi-to-celebrate-i-day-online-125933
13-08-2020||
||Heritage garden work at Heran gurdwara begins||Amritsar, August 12 The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday planted saplings at Gurdwara Sri Guru Gobind Singh Patshahi Dasvi at Heran village as part of a series to develop gardens at historical gurdwaras across the state for the purpose of conservation of the environment. SGPC president Bhai Gobind Singh Longowal, who was present on the occasion and inaugurated the plantation drive, said such heritage gardens were being developed at 40 historic gurdwaras. He said each garden spread over an acre of land would have 2,500 plants. Noted environmentalist Padma Shri Baba Seva Singh of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadur Sahib, along with other dignitaries was also present on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Longowal said the SGPC was working for the conservation of the natural environment. “The purpose of establishing these gardens is not only to create cleanliness and freshness in the environment but also to provide shelter to birds,” he said. He also thanked Baba Sewa Singh for providing help to the SGPC in setting up the heritage gardens. Longowal also appealed to the general public to take inspiration from the environmental conservation campaign launched by it and plant as many saplings as possible in and around their homes.  Baba Sewa Singh said at present every human being should come forward to save the natural environment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-garden-work-at-heran-gurdwara-begins-125934
13-08-2020||Amritsar||Lecture throws light on online teaching tools||A seven-day faculty development programme on the topic, “Online Teaching — Learning Pedagogy for Higher Education and Research Methods: Innovative Modules”, organised by Shahzada Nand College concluded here on Wednesday.  Harjot Kaur from GNDU Regional Campus, Gurdaspur, threw light on types of online teaching. She talked about various teaching-learning tools and their merits and demerits. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lecture-throws-light-on-online-teaching-tools-125935
13-08-2020||
||Agri technocrats oppose departments’ restructuring||Amritsar, August 12 The Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee has criticised the proposal of the state government to reduce the posts of agronomists serving the farmers in the departments of agriculture, horticulture, soil conservation and animal husbandry under the guise of restructuring these departments.  The organisation has demanded that vacant posts at different levels in these departments should be filled as soon as possible.  General Secretary, Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee, Dr Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, said the increase in population in the state had resulted in a significant increase in the number of farming families as compared to the old structure of the departments.  “In order to meet the nutritional needs of the growing population of the state and to provide scientific and technical help to the farming community at the grass root level, there is a need to increase in the number of these posts,” he said.  “Instead the government is trying to decrease the posts which will also affect agricultural graduates in the state. On the one hand, the government is talking about providing door-to-door jobs, on the other hand, it is cutting a large number of jobs which are available to educated youth,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-technocrats-oppose-departments-restructuring-125936
13-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rainy season puts hurdle in way of road relaying work||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 12The Municipal Corporation (MC) had sanctioned Rs20 crore for recarpeting major and several internal roads, but onset of monsoon has halted the works. Potholed stretches have for long been the issues setting off many a residents of various areas.The MC had passed the tender of Rs11.5 crore for the recarpeting works. Only Majitha road, Circular road and Ajnala road have been refurbished in the past two months. While the work on the other internal roads had been announced in June, it yet to come to life as it remains to be passed by the Finance and contract committee (F&CC).The shops on the stretch from Ram Bagh Deodhi to Namdahri Saheedi Samark are being beautified by a government agency but it has big potholes, irking the commuters. While a road from Hakima Gate to central jail, Fathapur, is badly damaged. The MC had proposed it’s widening but has failed to float a tender till date. Devotees visiting Gurdwara Baba Budha Sahib Jhabal have to face a lot of troubles. Similarly, Jhabal road is also in a bad state. A road from Ajnala Road to Gumtala via Tabowali and Malawali villages also needs to be looked at. Residents of Kot Khalsa have also been waiting forever. The road from main chowk Kot Khalsa to Gurdwara Bohri Sahib is in dire need of mending.Dapinder Sandhu, executive engineer (Civil), said, “The recarpeting works of some roads were completed before the rain. We were recarpeting some major roads but the due to ongoing rainy season work has been halted.”The MC officials claimed that the virus outbreak had delayed the tendering process. Now, the work will be resumed in the last week of august and completed in next month.Rajan, a resident of Ram bagh area, said, “The road outside Nandan cinema got damaged some years ago. There are large potholes resulting in accidents. The government is beautifying the facades of shops, what about the roads?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rainy-season-puts-hurdle-in-way-of-road-relaying-work-125937
13-08-2020||---||Youth’s ‘torture’: 2 cops suspended||Amritsar, August 12Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill on Wednesday suspended two cops of the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) following suicide by a youth on Tuesday who was allegedly tortured during police interrogation. The suspended officers are SI Palwinder Singh and ASI Surinder Singh of the CIA staff. The Police Commissioner also marked an inquiry to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar in this regard.30-year-old Sandip Bhatia committed suicide after interrogation by the CIA branch of the police on Tuesday. Family members and activists of the SAD, led by Talbir Singh Gill, staged a protest outside the B Division police station by putting the body outside the police station late evening yesterday. Talbir Singh Gill, in-charge of the south constituency of the SAD, alleged that the police had tortured and humiliated him without any reason, following which he committed suicide. They were demanding action against the guilty officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youths-torture-2-cops-suspended-125927
13-08-2020||---||Relatives to rear children of hooch tragedy victim||Amritsar, August 12Keeping in view the well-being of children, who lost their parents in the spurious liquor tragedy, the district Child Welfare Committee of Tarn Taran has handed over the custody of three siblings to their paternal relatives. The eldest of the four children would be accommodated at a government-run children’s home in Hoshiarpur.Sukhdev Singh (34) — father of Karanbir (13), Gurpreet (11), Arshpreet (9) and Sandeep (5) — had died within 24 hours of consuming chemical-laced cheap liquor on August 1. He was a rickshaw-puller. His wife, Jyoti (32), too, died of shock the same day.Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, too, had extended a helping hand in rearing the children, but the latter showed hesitation. The committee chairman, Dinesh Gupta, on Wednesday called up them and their family members, asking them to take a final call in the matter.Following their response, the committee decided to let the children live with their family members at their native place Pandori Takhatmal in Tarn Taran only. The District Child Protection Officer has been asked to be in touch with them and submit reports from time to time. “The custody of Arshpreet and Sandeep was handed over to their father’s cousin Mewa Singh. Mewa’s brother Satnam Singh volunteered to take care of Gurpreet. Their financial position is bit better as compared with deceased’s brothers”, he said.However, Karanbir, the eldest son, would be accommodated at a children’s home in Hoshiarpur. Gupta said: “We will also recommend the state government to extend a special children’s sponsorship scheme under which they would be entitled to a monetary assistance of around Rs 1,500 per month each. Our committee members, comprising two doctors and teachers, announced to help them in education and medical aid in their personal capacity,” he said. The ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh announced by the CM would be deposited in children’s bank account and could be withdrawn once they attain the age of 18 years. “Every penny would be used for them only, that is our promise,” said Gupta.Gupta said Sonu Sood’s offer was also discussed at the meeting. “We had received an email on his behalf from Fazilka-based Matra Chhaya Anath Ashram, but we concluded that the upbringing of the children would be done better if they live with their family members at their native place. We told the ashram that if they wish to accommodate Karanbir, they should apply through the Fazilka district Child Welfare Committee,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relatives-to-rear-children-of-hooch-tragedy-victim-125928
13-08-2020||
||Five ‘drug peddlers’ nabbed with Rs 22.50 L||Amritsar, August 12 The city police nabbed five alleged drug peddlers and seized drug money amounting to Rs 22.50 lakh from them at Verka on Tuesday. The police claimed that the arrested persons used to smuggle heroin and opium from Jammu and Kashmir and sell in Punjab. The accused have been identified as Savinder Pal Singh, alias Shind, a resident of Naushehra Dhalan in Tarn Taran district, Jagdeep Singh, alias Kaka, a resident of Sultanwind,  Karamjit Singh, alias Mana, of Loharka Kalan, Paramjit Singh, alias Pamma, a resident of Chachowali village and Rajwinder Singh, alias Raju, of Nawan Pind.  Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, said, acting on information the police seized Rs 22.50 lakh, one truck and two cars from their possession. The police informed that   facing drug cases, Dharminder Singh of Saheed village, near Patti, was mastermind of the gang. Mehal Singh, father and Tehal Singh, uncle of Dharminder Singh already facing drug cases.   A case under Sections 411 and 414 of the IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act, 27-A, 28, and 29 of the NDPS Act has been registered. The police produced the arrested accused in a court, who sent them to two-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-drug-peddlers-nabbed-with-rs-22-50-l-125929
13-08-2020||
||Man duped of Rs16.45 lakh||Amritsar, August 12 A swindler duped a local trader of Rs 16.45 lakh by posing as a manager of a tyre company. The suspect has been identified as Rahul Shri Vashtav.  The victim, Bhupinder Singh, in his complaint to the Maqboolpura police station stated that on July 2, he applied online for the dealership of a tyre company. The suspect interacted with him on behalf of the tyre firm and debited Rs16,45,800 from his bank account.  The Maqboolpura police have registered a case under Sections 420 of the IPC and 66-D of the IT Act in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-duped-of-rs16-45-lakh-125930
13-08-2020||---||Covid claims three more lives; 53 infections in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 12With the health authorities reporting three more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease on Wednesday, the toll has reached 101 in the district. Besides, the district also reported 53 new positive cases, taking the total count of positive cases to 2,574.The deceased have been identified as 64-year-old Asha Rani, a resident of Bhola Singh Colony, 48-year-old Ajit Singh, a resident of Chakki Wali Gali and 70-year-old Tasveer Singh, a resident of Holy City (Chabal Road). The three patients were admitted to Government Medical College.Of the new positive cases, 26 are patients with influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 27 are contacts of positive patients. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, one each case was reported from Race Course Road, Akash Enclave, Bharat Nagar, Ram Nagar (Sultanwind Road), Guru Amardas Avenue, Basant Avenue, Kot Baba Deep Singh, Nirankari Colony, Kabir Park, Batala Road, Friends Avenue (Airport Road), Baba Bakala, Tungbala, 100-Ft Road, Shareefpura, Katra Bagghian, Adarsh Nagar, NRI Colony, Prem Nagar, Nawa Kot, Holy City (Bypass Road) and two from Batala Road.Of the contact cases, four cases each from Friends Colony (Majitha Road) and Pyramid City, three cases each from Guru Nagar (Verka), Ram Nagar (Sultanwind Road) and the Gharinda police station, two cases each from Gokul Vihar, New Amritsar, B-Block Ranjit Avenue and Guru Amardas Avenue, and one case each from Military Hospital and Cooperative Hospital.At present, the district has a total of 514 active cases. With 19 more patients recovered in the last 24 hours, the total count of recoveries in the district has increased to 1,959.Meanwhile, the district administration has appealed to shopkeepers to get tested for the virus. Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said all those persons who had to pass through crowds of people should get tested for the Covid-19 disease. He said it was important as it could contain the disease. He appealed to the traders’ organisation to motivate traders associated with them to get tested for the virus.Canal Complex offices closed after 3 officials test positive||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-claims-three-more-lives-53-infections-in-amritsar-125925
13-08-2020||---||Soni gives smartphones to govt school students||Amritsar, August 12Under the first phase of the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme, Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni distributed smartphones among 15 Class XII government school students at an event held at Government School, Mall Road, here on Wednesday.Under the state government-launched scheme, smartphones will be given to students for online education. The scheme will be implemented in different phases.Soni said in Amritsar district, smartphones will be given to 13,741 students, of them 7,096 boys and 6,645 girls. “The government is distributing 1,73,823 smartphones across the state by spending Rs 92 crore. The smartphones have in-built educational apps and will provide information on government-run welfare schemes for students and needy persons,’ said Soni.The mobile phones come with 2 GB RAM, 5.45 inche display, 1.5 GHz processor, 3,000 mAh battery, two side cameras, Android 9.0 operating system and 16 GB ROM, which is expandable up to 128 GB. Students will be able to get employment assistance, information on start up business and recruitment assistance through the mobile-based apps.15 students get mobile phones in Tarn TaranCabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Lok Sabha Member Jasbir Singh Dimpa distributed smartphones among 15 school students at a function organised at the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Wednesday.Officials of the district administration said 6,417 students would be covered under the Punjab Smart Connect Scheme of the state government.Sarkaria missed no opportunity to condemn the Opposition for “opposing” the welfare schemes of the state government. He appreciated the officials of the district Education Department for managing to increase admissions for Classes XI and XII, taking it to the top among all districts in the state. Its position in overall admissions was second, said the minister.Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar and Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill were also present at the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soni-gives-smartphones-to-govt-school-students-125926
13-08-2020||Amritsar||Implement SC order on SYL, says Dushyant||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala has said their government was committed to bringing Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) water to the state.Chautala was in the city today, along with his wife Meghna and youth leader Digvijay Singh Chautala, to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. He said the Supreme Court’s two-year-old verdict on the SYL issue should be implemented. Regarding the declining ground water levels, he said water flowing from India to Pakistan should be put to good use and fulfill the needs of our states.On liquor smuggling, Chautala said the Haryana Government had been taking strong steps to curb it. Whenever a complaint is received in this regard, strict and immediate action is taken. More than 1,250 FIRs have been registered during the lockdown, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/implement-sc-order-on-syl-says-dushyant-125767
