13-10-2020||---||Resume trade with Pak: Cong MP Gurjit Aujla to PM||New Delhi, October 12Congress MP from Amritsar Gurjit Singh Aujla today wrote to PM Narendra Modi demanding resumption of bilateral trade with Pakistan and consideration of a new trade policy that is more acceptable in a post-Covid world.“Bilateral trade between India and Pakistan is today languishing at around $2.5 billion annually, while the potential, according to the World Bank, is $37 billion. Therefore, in order to give a fresh start to agriculture and economic rejuvenation of the region, I request your good office to consider opening of diplomatic channels for the resumption of trade and also for a fresh trade policy more acceptable in the post-pandemic world,” Aujla said in a letter to PM.He noted: “The border district of Amritsar has suffered manifold due to imposition of 200 per cent customs duty on imports from Pakistan in February 2019, reckless termination of trade in August 2019 by Islamabad, Covid-19 pandemic and now with the introduction of farm Bills. The direct impact of a disruption in border trade is felt most in Punjab, especially among more than 20,000 families in Amritsar dependent on this trade.”“Amritsar’s economy has suffered a net loss of nearly Rs 30 crore earned every month from this border trade. With the opening of the Kartarpur corridor, possibility of looking at bilateral relations from a different prospective had emerged. It is worth considering whether Punjab can be made center to the India-Pakistan relationship fortifying trade route running through Punjab,” said Aujla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resume-trade-with-pak-cong-mp-gurjit-aujla-to-pm-154957
13-10-2020||Amritsar||Masks — the new fancy of buyers, sellers alike||With the unlocking phase coming in waves, the sale of face masks has only been rising and finding space in almost every single store. If selling those till the mid-March was the sole luxury of pharmacies, presently, a shop of cosmetics, apparels, karyana, even confectionary; you name it, are cashing in on the pandemic-induced demand.The city’s market is brimming with face masks made up of cloth in the price range of Rs10 to Rs50 depending on preference of the buyers. A tailor in Islamabad area, Harish said, “For the last few months, the customers with orders for stitching of clothes have declined many fold.” He now gets orders for sewing cloth face masks from the local shopkeepers.Another shopkeeper, Harjit Singh in Putlighar area said, “People often forget to carry a face mask while getting out of their home. Sometimes they have to buy these instantly while roaming in markets as they do not want to be found on wrong side of the law.” He added that he sells at least 25 everyday.Wearing a mask is not only confined to the realm of one’s own safety and avoiding the brunt of law, nowadays it is also about making a fashion statement. Arshdeep Kaur of RC creations, a boutique specialising in women clothes, said, “These days we have to stitch a cloth mask matching salwar-kameez.” The cloth masks being sold in the markets do not vary and look dull. As a result, the demand of colourfully designed ones go well with lot of people. “In market there are only few colours, such as white, black or green. These look odd with picturesque Punjabi dresses,” she quipped.Meanwhile, the market is filled with many a colourful and fancy face masks and even many online companies are selling branded ones, these have failed to catch the fancy of Punjabi machos. For young Punjabi males, a ‘parna’ or ‘safa’ (a long cloth usually worn on head but commonly also wrapped around neck) is the new addition in the dress-up. “A mask with a white kurta-pyjama does not look appropriate. So, a ‘parna’ is the must have these days,” said Amaninder Singh Grewal, a youth.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/masks-%E2%80%94-the-new-fancy-of-buyers-sellers-alike-155011
13-10-2020||---||Driver’s murder: Unknown persons booked after 2 days||Amritsar, October 12Two days after a body was found dumped near Hothian village, falling under the Kamboh police station here, the police have booked unidentified persons for his murder.The deceased was identified as Jagir Singh (32), a resident of Zira. He was a goods carrier driver and has been missing for the past four days. According to the police, someone had hired him for delivering goods.Shinder Singh, a resident of Tindwa village (Zira) and elder brother of the deceased stated to the police that Jagir used to run a small goods carrier (PB-46-M-1651). He said, he came to Amritsar with goods on Thursday, but did not return. When he did not come, a missing complaint was lodged with the police in the Sadar police station at Zira.On Saturday, Amritsar rural police found a body dumped near Hothian village. The police initiated inquest proceedings. Yesterday, he was identified as Jagir Singh.Shinder Singh said he was apparently murdered and his body was dumped by unidentified persons. His vehicle was also not there near the spot, which indicates that his vehicle was robbed by the accused.Kamboh police have registered a case under Sections 302, 379-B (2) and 201 of the IPC against unidentified persons. Further investigations are under way to identify the suspects, said Yadwinder Singh, SHO Kamboh police station here.He said the body of Jagir Singh was handed over to his family after the post-mortem examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drivers-murder-unknown-persons-booked-after-2-days-155012
13-10-2020||Amritsar||Case against 7 for murder bid||Woman, paramour booked for murderTarn Taran: A woman and her paramour have been booked by the local city police for the murder of her husband. The deceased has been identified as Sajanpreet Singh (24) who had been missing for the past one-and-a-half months under mysterious circumstances. Jaswant Singh, Sub-Inspector and the Investigating Officer (IO) of the case said the accused had been identified as Manpreet Kaur of Fetahbad village and her paramour Jagroop Singh of Khairdinke (Chabal). The IO said Sharanjit Kaur, mother of the deceased Sajanpreet Singh, in her complaint to the police, said the accused Jagroop Singh developed illicit relations with Manpreet Kaur, her daughter-in-law sometime ago. The duo kidnapped her son and disposed of the body somewhere after killing him, said the complainant. The body was still missing. The police had registered a case under Sections 364, 302, 201 and 34 of the IPC. The accused have been absconding, said the Investigating Officer. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/case-against-7-for-murder-bid-155013
13-10-2020||Amritsar||Six succumb to virus, 56 test +ve in Amritsar||Six deaths were reported by the district health authorities due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 421 on Monday.The deceased have been identified as Navjot Singh, a 19-year-old from Budha Theh village near Baba Bakala; Parveen Kumar, a 51-year-old from Mehta Chowk; Chaman Lal, a 75-year-old from Vishal Vihar; Harjit Kaur, a 55-year-old woman from Sarangra village; Sushil Grover, a 45-year-old from Ranjit Avenue; and Agnes, a 67-year-old woman from Fatehgarh Churrian Road.The district has also reported 56 new cases. The new cases include 35 influenza like illness cases and 21 contacts of positive patients.With the new cases, the total count of infections in the district has increased to 11,208. With the authorities reporting recovery of 93 patients, the total recovery count, too, has increased to 10,048. At present, the district has a total of 739 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-succumb-to-virus-56-test-ve-in-amritsar-155015
13-10-2020||Amritsar||Time for Punjab BJP leaders to wake up: Simarjit Singh Bains||Lok Insaaf Party leader and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains along with his supporters joined the farmers’ protest outside BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh’s residence here on Monday.Speaking on the occasion, Bains demanded from Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to call a special assembly session to pass a resolution to outrightly reject the three agriculture-related Acts passed by the Union Government.Farmers get support from other assnsThe farmers’ protest at the Buttari railway station received a shot in the arm with representatives of trade unions, employees’ associations and student organisations joining the protest on Monday. Farmers’ leader Tehal Singh Chetanpura said all sections of society were joining hands with the farmers as the new Acts would affect society in general. He said the seriousness of the farmers towards the protest could be assessed from the fact that despite the harvesting of paddy under way, the attendance in protests had not thinned.“We have urged the Chief Minister to pass a law making it a criminal offence for private players to buy farmers’ produce below the MSP. We also demand from the CM to bring a law restricting the purchase of land by non-domiciles.Bains said on the one hand Prime Minister Narendra Modi had invited farmer associations to join a meeting on the issue on October 14 but on the other he was threatening leaders of the opposition parties and was accusing them of misleading farmers.Bains said the PM was trying to create divisions in farmer associations by inviting them for a meeting. He urged the associations to not to fall prey to such political tactics of the Union Government.Talking about the protest outside Tarun Chugh’s residence, Bains said the objective was to wake up ‘sleeping souls’ of BJP leaders from Punjab. “We want to remind them that they are Punjabis and they should feel proud of being Punjabis,” he said, adding that Punjab was an agrarian state and its economy would be hit hard if the three Acts were implemented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-for-punjab-bjp-leaders-to-wake-up-simarjit-singh-bains-155016
13-10-2020||Amritsar||3 killed in separate road accidents in Amritsar||A woman, identified as Manjit Kaur, and her daughter Anu were run over by a truck on the Majitha road bypass here on Sunday evening while Manjit’s husband Surjit Singh is fighting for life in a hospital.They were going towards the Mohkampura side when the truck, which was being driven rashly, hit their scooter from the rear. Unsatisfied over the police response to the incident, people blocked the road and held a protest. They alleged that the police were trying to save the truck driver.Jaspal Singh, a relative of the victims, said they were going towards the Mohkampura side from the Majitha road. He said Surjit Singh with Manjit Kaur and Anu riding pillion were coming behind him. He said the truck hit his scooter from the rear. Manjit and Anu were killed on the spot while Surjit was seriously injured and was taken to hospital. He alleged that the driver was drunk.Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Sarabjit Singh Bajwa reached the spot and assured the protesters of the registration of a case against the accused.Bajwa said the accident occurred around 9 pm. He said the truck driver, identified as Bana Singh of Moga, had been arrested and the truck (PB-13R-2515) was seized by the police. He said his medical examination was being done to ascertain whether he was drunk.Meanwhile, a local resident, identified as Buta Singh, was run over by a tractor trolley near the school for blind near Lohgarh area here on Sunday evening. The complainant, Gurcharan Singh, told the police that he, along with Buta Singh, was going to Shashtri market from Lohgarh area. He said when they reached near the school for blind, a tractor trolley hit his father’s scooter from the rear as a result of which he fell down and was run over by the trolley.The police arrested tractor driver Amritpal Singh, who is a resident of Saidpura village. A case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC was registered against him. Later he was released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-killed-in-separate-road-accidents-in-amritsar-155017
13-10-2020||---||Double suicide: Another abetment to suicide case filed against Sub-Inspector||Amritsar, October 12The Jandiala police have registered another abetment to suicide case against Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur after Sukhbir Kaur, a resident of Nava Pind village here, committed suicide at her residence on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.She was perturbed over the death of her husband Virkamjit Singh, who had ended his life a day before. Both Vikramjit and Sukhbir Kaur had accused Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur of blackmailing and harassment.Harchand Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said the case was registered late in the evening after taking the opinion of the district attorney (legal). He had opined that as it was a separate incident with time and spot different from Vikramjit’s death, therefore a separate case should be registered in this regard.A case under Sections 306 and 120-B, IPC, was registered against Sandeep and her unknown accomplices on the statement of Harpreet Singh, brother of Vikramjit.Harpreet told the police that the accused had illicit relations with his brother and later was blackmailing and harassing him. As per the suicide note, she along with her accomplices had extorted around Rs 18 lakh from him after blackmailing. The suicide note was recovered from the hotel room located on the Batala road where Vikramjit had ended his life.He said the entire family had returned after the postmortem of Vikramjit. At around 1.30 am, Sukhbir also committed suicide.Two days after Vikramjit committed suicide, a video of his surfaced in which he alleged that SI Sandeep Kaur claimed to be close to a Congress MLA. He alleged that the accused claimed that nothing could happen to them as they were close to him.He also urged former Punjab minister and senior SAD leader Bikram Majithia that he was a true worker of the party while appealing to him to provide justice to him and his family.He apparently made the video before taking the extreme step.Nevertheless, the accused is yet to be arrested. The police have also launched a hunt to nab her.Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the rural police have started proceedings for dismissing SI Sandeep Kaur from service. A resident of Nava Pind village, Sandeep was posted with the rural police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-suicide-another-abetment-to-suicide-case-filed-against-sub-inspector-155019
13-10-2020||Amritsar||4-kg heroin seized||The BSF on Monday seized 4 kg of heroin from the India-Pakistan border area under the 71 Bn of the BSF, Amritsar sector. This was the second seizure within a span of one week when an attempt to push a consignment of the contraband was thwarted on the Indian side. However, no arrest was made. A BSF official told that four packets weighing 4 kg of the contraband suspected to be heroin were seized.Earlier, from the same area, the same BSF troops had recovered two transparent plastic bottles lying abandoned which had heroin weighing approximately 1 kg on October 5. The official said the BSF had confiscated a total of 430 kg of heroin since January. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-kg-heroin-seized-155020
13-10-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||4 of NRI family shot at in Tarn Taran village, injured||Four members of an NRI family were injured when Ranjit Singh Rana of Dhotian village, a Congress Party block Samiti member and his six other supporters opened fire on the members of an NRI family on Sunday in the village.ASI Paramjit Singh, in-charge of the Police Post Naushehra Pannuan, said besides Ranjit Singh Rana, the other three accused have been identified as Dilbag Singh Patwari brother of Rana, Karamjit Singh Kanma of Dhotian and Rajanpreet Singh of khadoor Sahib. Three more unidentified accused too have been found to be involved in the crime.Sukhwinder Singh, his uncle Lakhbir Singh, aunt Harbhajan Kaur and nephew Ikjot Singh were injured with the gunshots. Sukhwinder Singh said they were returning from the village Gurdwara when the accused armed with licensed and a country-made pistol fired at them. They have been admitted to the local Civil Hospital for treatment. A property dispute is said to be the cause behind the conflict.ASI Paramjit Singh said one of the accused Karamjit Singh has been arrested while the others were absconding. Raids are being conducted at their possible hide outs. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-of-nri-family-shot-at-in-tarn-taran-village-injured-155021
13-10-2020||Amritsar||Webinar brings alive memories of Manto||Saadat Hasan Manto courted many controversies, especially in the context of his writings in his early years. A special session was dedicated to the young thinker and writer. His works were organised by the Majha House, where DR Gurupdesh Singh, former professor, English at GNDU and Harish Narang, a former JNU professor and author of book ‘Manto My Love’ discussed influences on Manto’s life and his experiences that reflected in his noted literary works.“Manto had spent a considerable part of his life in Amritsar, before migrating to Pakistan after the Partition. Manto fell into undesirable company and started gambling which became such an addiction that he once himself admitted of having dreams of sequences of cards. Tired of this, he decided to give a direction to his life. There used to be a hotel in city called Jeeje Da Hotel, now known as Shiraz Hotel where Manto started meeting people, who were into literature and culture,” said Dr Narang said while tracing the early years of Manto’s literary influence.“Manto wrote what he saw happening in the society, using the same language he heard on the streets. He painted a true picture of the society without ever bothering to sugarcoat the truth. It was his was of unveiling the societal hypocrisy that he remained embroiled in controversies galore,” he said.Dr Narang also threw light on Manto’s years in Bombay where he wrote for films and was successful but left Bombay for Lahore after he witnessed riots against Muslims happening. “His own experiences find their way into his stories, and Mozzelle is one such example where a Jewish woman saves a couple from rioters. Toba Tek Singh is another such example and is regarded as one of the best stories he had ever written. Where Toba Tek Singh succeeds is that apart from being a story about Partition, there is a harsh indictment against the governments all garbed in satire,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-brings-alive-memories-of-manto-155022
13-10-2020||Amritsar||Each element in their garden reflects this couple’s philosophy towards life||As followers of the Mother (Mirra Alfassa) and Sri Aurobindo, Geeta and Sumant Sud have created their home, and the garden in it, with a passion for elements and perception of inward and outward beauty. It resounds with a meditative-like quality. Their sprawling yard has a lot of striking features, most of all, a fine example of striving towards creativity and creating balance with nature.The entrance has a Ganesha engraving, carved out of a single piece of granite. “It was carved by a French artist in Auroville and weighs 300 kg. We also have basins in our garden that have been carved out of single piece of granite,” informs Geeta, 62, who runs a fashion boutique in city.When they built their home in 1997, they handpicked every element used in aesthetics to reflect their personal philosophy toward life. “We believe that every element, including every tree we chose to plant in our house, is an expression towards humanity. So, when we designed our garden, we had no architects or landscaping artists,” she says.“So, when we designed our garden, we had no architects or landscaping artists. My husband is fond of wood and he sourced it from Balharshah forest in Nagpur,” she adds. Her husband, Sumant, 70, is an electrical engineer from IIT. Their garden also has murals of two swans and bird, done in granite. The red tiles used in outer structure and the house, have been made from mud sourced from Kerala. It has lots of trees including palms, harshingar, species of champa and more. “Every tree represents something, some special emotion or feeling that we strive to achieve,” Geeta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/each-element-in-their-garden-reflects-this-couples-philosophy-towards-life-155023
13-10-2020||Amritsar||‘Resume trade with Pakistan through Wagah’||MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has written to the PM’s office, forwarding a request to resume the bilateral trade ties with Pakistan and other Central Asian countries through the the Wagah-Attari border.In his letter, Aujla stated that termination of trade ties with Pakistan has had a direct impact on the border trade and lots of livelihoods are dependent on it. “I represent the border district of Amritsar, which has suffered manifolds due to the imposition of 200 per cent customs duty on imports from Pakistan in Feb 2019, reckless termination of trade in Aug 2019 by Islamabad, Covid-19 pandemic and now with the introduction of farm Bills. The direct impact of disruption in border trade is felt the most in Punjab, especially among more than 20,000 families in Amritsar dependent on this trade.” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resume-trade-with-pakistan-through-wagah-155025
