13-12-2020||---||Prisoner escapes from TB hospital||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12An Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) was among two persons booked for dereliction of duty after a prisoner escaped from Government TB Hospital here on Friday.The escapee prisoner was identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukhpreet Singh alias Sarabjit Singh, of the New Gurnam Nagar area located on Sultanwind road here. He was booked by the police under the NDPS Act.Besides the prisoner, the police booked ASI Gurlal Singh and head constable Sukhpal Singh.According to information, on November 23, Sukhwinder suddenly got ill and was admitted to the ward number 4 of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here. A jail guard was deputed for his security so that he could not escape from the hospital. On November 26, police guards were changed and a new team consisting of ASI Gurlal and head constable Sukhpal was deputed there. On December 4, he was shifted to emergency ward of the Government TB hospital.Sub-Inspector Kashmir Singh, the complainant in the case said that on Friday a police team visited the TB hospital to check the guard and the prisoner, they found them missing. He said it was found that the prisoner escaped due to negligence to the two cops and therefore a complaint was lodged with the Majitha road police.A case under Sections 223 and 224 of the IPC has been registered against them while no arrest has been made so far. In the meanwhile, the city police arrested three jail wardens— Amritpal Singh, a resident of Pheruman, Jugraj Singh of Verka and Parminder Singh of Kamoke village—in connection with fleeing of another prisoner Baldev Singh escaped from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on Thursday. Baldev Singh, alias Desa, a resident of Fatehabad, Tarn Taran, was lodged in jail under the NDPS Act case registered with the Goindwal police in April last year.As per details, he was admitted to the GND hospital after his health condition deteriorated and medical officer at jail referred him to the hospital in the intervening night of December 6 and 7. The jail guards also accompanied him to the hospital for security. On Thursday, the hospital authorities informed the jail authorities that the accused fled away through window of washrooms. Following this a case was registered against the prisoner and also against jail wardens for dereliction of duty.Man found dead at Kamboh police station, suicide suspectedAmritsar: Pritam Singh, a resident of Makam village, who was allegedly arrested by the police on the charge of drug-peddling, was found dead inside the Kamboh police station here on Saturday. A magisterial probe has been ordered into the incident. While the police claimed that he committed suicide by hanging himself from the ceiling, the family members alleged that he could not end his life in this manner. The police handed over the body to the family after a postmortem. Kulwinder Kaur, wife of the victim, told mediapersons that Pritam Singh ran a grocery shop in the village. She said he, along with his brother Sawinder Singh, was arrested by the police allegedly for drug peddling on Friday though no drugs were found from their possession. She said today the police informed that he committed suicide by hanging himself in the storeroom of the police station. She demanded action against the cops who were responsible for Pritam’s death. SP Baldev Singh said a case was registered against Pritam Singh at the Ajnala police station. He said he, along with Sawinder, was arrested on Friday. In the evening, he felt uneasiness in the lock-up and was shifted to storeroom by a head constable where he committed suicide. In the morning, he was found hanging from the iron grill of the storeroom. He said a magisterial probe into the incident was under way. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-escapes-from-tb-hospital-183705
13-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||A digital artist, Mandeep chose to rise above his disability||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12An acclaimed digital artist, Mandeep Singh is an inspiration for everybody as he has carved out his space in the field with his grit and determination. Mandeep was born with cerebral palsy. Presently, apart from working as a graphics teacher at Cambridge International School, he is also a freelancer digital artist.The recipient of a state award from the Punjab government in 2010, Mandeep (39), claimed that he has so far put up over hundred exhibitions of his work all over country, including some in other countries.Though he had to undergo a bypass surgery at a very young age, Mandeep stated that he is completely independent now and can take care of himself. “I just need help when I have to go out as I cannot drive,” he said.Singh was doing his graduation in 2003 when he got a chance to exhibit at an art gallery here. “The institute from where I was learning designing had put up an exhibition at the gallery. They had also allotted me a table. After seeing my work, the management of the gallery invited me to put up a solo exhibition,” he said.He said his family wanted him to learn accounting so that he could become financially independent. “But I was inclined towards digital art. My exhibition helped me get a job offer from Springdale School initially as a graphic teacher. Now, as my students are excelling as artists, I am happy as I feel that I am contributing my bit to the society,” he said. Singh said one of his pieces was purchased by an art lover in the very first exhibitions which motivated him further. His work has been part of three PhDs by different universities. Talking about his disability, he said, “Physical disability can be overcome if one is not handicapped from the mind.”“I love instrumental music, reading and honing my creative skills,” he said, adding that he is living a life of contentment. Stay positive. There is nothing you cannot do. If I can do it anybody can do it.” Singh also feels that the government must create disabled-friendly buildings and infrastructure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-digital-artist-mandeep-chose-to-rise-above-his-disability-183706
13-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Role of local police under the scanner||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12Even as a magisterial probe was under progress in the killing of Hoshiarpur resident Inderjit Singh in an encounter, it has been learnt that a cop attached with the Amritsar rural police destroyed video evidence of the police encounter near Manawala toll plaza on main GT Road on Tuesday late evening.The cop allegedly deleted the video made by certain farmers who were holding an agitation against Central government over three controversial farm laws near the toll plaza. The CCTV footage of the toll plaza was also deleted in order to destroy the evidence.Sarabjit Singh Verka, principal investigator of an NGO Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), which has been closely monitoring the case, alleged that a DSP rank official along with other cops not only deleted the CCTV footage of the toll tax barrier near Jandiala, but also deleted videos from mobile phones of eye witnesses of the occurrence. “They were pressurising the witnesses not to depose in the magistrate enquiry,” he alleged.Inderjit Singh, a carjacking suspect was shot dead by the police team near Jandiala Guru toll plaza. It was alleged that he stole an SUV from Ambala and was coming to Amritsar. The Ambala police was tracking him with the help of the location of a mobile phone in the SUV. fired at the tyres of the vehicle. A probe has been initiated in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/role-of-local-police-under-the-scanner-183707
13-12-2020||---||Amritsar markets witness record arrival of paddy this season||Amritsar, December 12The markets in the district have witnessed a record arrival of 4,72,819 metric tonne (MT) of paddy this season, as compared to the total arrival of 2,52,401 MT last year.The arrival has nearly doubled and is being attributed to the sale of paddy produced in other states.However, no arrival has been reported after November 26. While the procurement figures are high, farmers have not reported any increase in yield. The sale of paddy from other states was detected in November, when farmer unions had stopped a few trucks coming from UP.The farmers have not reported any increase in yield this year though the Agriculture Department claims so. The grain markets in the district have not seen any new arrival after November 26.“The yield is almost same. And even if there was a little increase, it has not doubled,” said Jagjeet Singh, a farmer.Earlier in October, farmer unions had stopped a few trucks ferrying paddy from UP and Bihar at the Jandiala toll plaza. Later, the administration had registered FIRs in this regard. Paddy, in states where it is not purchased on MSP, is sold at a price of Rs800-1,000 per quintal.However, with Rs1,888 per quintal MSP for paddy in Punjab, rice mills and traders bring paddy from states with no MSP, so that it could again be sold at higher price to earn profit.Meanwhile, a total of 3,72,072 MT of basmati varieties have arrived at markets so far. The basmati varieties are purchased by private players.An Agriculture Department official on the condition of anonymity said: “The major rise in paddy arrival is due to the transportation of paddy from other states. Normally, yield can increase by one or two quintals per acre.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-markets-witness-record-arrival-of-paddy-this-season-183708
13-12-2020||---||Martyrs’ kin, artists join hands to collect 90,000 units of blood||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12The National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA) started ‘Samvedna’ an international blood and plasma donation awareness campaign, here on Saturday.The campaing aims to set up 1,500 blood donation camps across the country and gather 90,000 units of blood on the 90th martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev, on March 23.Pritpal Singh Pannu, chairman of NIFAA, said apart from the families of all three martyrs, including Abhay Singh Sandu, nephew of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Satyasheel Rajguru, nephew of Shaheed Rajguru, and Anuj Thapar grandson of Shaheed Sukhdev, will be part of the campaign. Bollywood actor Sonu Sood, too, has joined the campaign and certicificates with digital signatures of celebrities would be provided to donors.Pannu said, “In the last few years, the country has seen an improvement in blood assortment ranging from 9.8 million units in 2012-13 to 11.45 million in 2017-18. Despite this, India gazes at blood shortage of a whopping 1.95 million units per year. Several myths keep individuals at bay from donating the blood.”He said, “In India, blood donations have drastically diminished due to the implementation of social distancing, cancellation of various blood drives and low donor turnout due to fears associated with catching disease from hospitals and blood banks. Despite the massive burden of trauma and surgeries in the current situation, several hospitals in almost all the states and the union territories have been struggling to meet the daily requirements of blood in the past few months. This disruption has impacted accessibility of blood for emergency surgeries, postpartum haemorrhage cases, thalassemia, sickle-cell disease, and cancer patients.”Launched as a nation-wide blood donation campaign, ‘Samvedna’ has also received support from Non-Resident Indians and now it would also be organised in the United States, Canada, UK, Australia, New Zealand, Mauritius, UAE and Fiji. NRIs will donate on the same day to pay homage to the martyrdom of the three martyrs.Pannu said a dedicated website and mobile app would be launched. List of all blood donors of India would be available on both options and any one in need of blood would be able to find out a volunteer donor by searching the city and blood group in the app.Parvesh Gaba, general secretary, NIFAA, said they wouod join hands with other social organisations to carry forward this campaign and furthermore incorporate other incredible personalities of the country.This campaign after effectively coordinated will also be included in the Guinness Book of World Records with the goal that this campaign of India should be discussed globally and becomes a beginning of the awareness of blood donation not only in India but all over the world.The city-based social workers associated with blood donation, including prominent social activist Sukhdev Singh, Jagmohan Chawla of the Ma Bhagwati Sewa Samiti, Jatinder Singh and Manpreet Singh of the Akhri Ummeed Welfare Society, Sukhjit Singh, Manish from the Blood Donors Welfare Society, Shivam Arora and Harshdeep of the Life Line Welfare Society also attended this meet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-kin-artists-join-hands-to-collect-90-000-units-of-blood-183709
13-12-2020||---||Irate farmers stage dharna at Usman toll plaza, flay govt||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 12Farmers belonging to different farmers’ organisations held day-long dharna at the Usman toll plaza on Saturday against the farm laws. Arsal Singh Sandhu, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Daljit Singh Dialpur were among those who addressed on the occasion. The leaders called all sections of society to back farmers’ agitation as the move of the Union Government was working to protect the interests of the corporate sector at the cost of lower sections of society.This was to boost the ‘Mall sector’ in spite of the shop-culture, which was to create unemployment. Farmers raised slogans against the Union Government.Angry farmers burnPM’s effigyAmritsar: Farmer organisations took out a march against the Union Government demanding that all three agriculture related laws be repealed.They also burnt the effigy of Prime Minister to express their anguish. They continued with their protest at Jandiala Guru toll plaza and other places. They said the government should repeal the laws, adding that amendments as being stated by the government would not serve the purpose as the basic intent of the laws was flawed. The members of a local NGO ‘Cure India’ also distributed pamphlets to form public opinion in support of the farmers. A large number of farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have already left for Delhi. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/irate-farmers-stage-dharna-at-usman-toll-plaza-flay-govt-183710
13-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Prime suspect Karwinder gets relief from HC till December16||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12The Punjab and Haryana High Court granted relief to Karwinder Singh, prime accused in the fake arms license scam, from arrest till December 16 and sought a reply from the Tarn Taran police in this regard.Karwinder, who had been evading arrest since the registration of case against him on November 23, had pleaded to the court that he was being falsely implicated by the Tarn Taran police even as he got a clean chit in the previous case registered by the Tarn Taran police in 2016.Dhurman Nimbale, SSP, Tarn Taran, said that a reply was being prepared to file in the high court. He said this was the fresh case registered regarding busting of fake arms license racket and we have enough proves against him. He said in the previous case also he was not given the clean chit, as he was claiming.The police official said that a case was registered with the Patti police in June this year following the seizure of illegal arms and fake arms licenses. In the FIR entire staff was nominated without naming anyone as the investigations were under progress. Karwinder would also be interrogated in the case.Many eyebrows are being raised that how Karwinder managed to get posted in the same branch even as he was facing allegations of preparing fake arms license in the past. According to information, he enjoys a considerable clout among political leaders and therefore managed to get scot free, it is alleged.The Tarn Taran police busted the fake arms license racket and booked a deputy commissioner’s arms license branch employee Karwinder Singh Cheema, and Manjinder Singh, alias Mani, in connection with preparation of over 200 fake arms license. Investigating into the case, the probe was extended to over 700 arms licenses.The police also found fake holograms besides some other fake licenses from the shop of Manjinder Singh during a raid. The police sources privy to the investigations revealed that the police were also investigating into the huge properties massed by the two suspects till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-karwinder-gets-relief-from-hc-till-december16-183711
13-12-2020||Neha Saini||‘Akhar’ back on path of revival||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12One of the most prominent Punjabi literary journals of the state — Akhar — has stood the test of time.A writer’s take‘Akhar’ is one of the few Punjabi magazines that are published today, after Preetlari (a newsletter published from Preet Nagar) and Kahani Punjab (published from Barnala). The magazine has contributors spread across the globe. We did have financial and creative challenges earlier, but we are glad that the magazine is being revived to its former gloryThe 42-pages Akhar's circulation included 600 to 800 copies, 15 per cent of which were circulated outside India. Parminderjit has once shared that the publishing cost of the magazine came to be anything between Rs22,000-Rs40,000 depending on the content and number of pages. Japan-based writer Parminder Sodhi is the current international editor of the magazine and its distribution is across Canada, US, UK, Australia. The magazine has been publishing 500 copies on an average in each edition.Started by noted Punjabi poet late Parminderjit, in 1975, the 42-page magazine was counted among the few Punjabi literary magazines to survive the digital age. It was published and edited by Parminderjit until 2015, when the untimely demise of the writer suspended the magazine’s publication for almost a year. It was republished in 2016, with a special dedication to its founder editor, but soon it was a challenge to support publication cost and find readers.The bi-monthly magazine featured poetry, short stories and social commentary by prominent writers and literary figures. Akhar has charted its own literary history being part of significant movements in Punjab. It was discontinued for publication during the Emergency and struggled through some financial constraints during the late ’80s and was restarted in 1992. The magazine has contributors spread across the globe. Over 30 Punjabi literary personalities, including Punjabi poet Karnail Singh from the UK, Paramjit Singh, Surjit Patar, Swarajbir and many others were regularly featured in Akhar.But after the demise of Parminderjit, the magazine struggled for revival. Its literary legacy being passed on to Parminderjit’s family, his wife Surinderjit and son Ravjit Singh. The magazine has now been revived by Akhar Sahit Manch, the creative team of Akhar, that includes local as well international editorial and publishing partners.“Akhar has a history of four decades behind it and so, we wanted to maintain the creative standards. We ensured that the hiatus was the end of it. So, we revived with limited edition release in 2016 and our editions for 2020 resumed the earlier status of Akhar now being published as a quarterly magazine,” said Dr Vikram, a writer and member of Akhar’s editorial team.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akhar-back-on-path-of-revival-183712
13-12-2020||---||AGA elects 10 new office-bearers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 12Ten office-bearers were elected unanimously to the Amritsar Games Association (AGA), solely responsible for the promotion of cricket at the district court on Saturday.Majority of the candidates elected were Congress leaders. The opposition, which mainly comprised former office-bearers, had withdrawn their candidatures, citing failure to follow the procedure.Vijay Dhingra, Raman Bakshi, Dr Shahbaz Singh, Inderjit Singh Bajwa were elected Vice Presidents. Om Prakash Kanojia, Balraj Mehra and Dawinder Sharma as executive members. Aman Randev, Manmohan Singh and Dr Ravi Saini as joint secretaries.Prakash Chand, former vice-president of the AGA, said procedure was not properly followed by the district administration in conducting the election. The election was held at the district court complex which is against the norms. As per norms, a notice for holding election is served 21-day prior to the Annual General Meeting.In addition, accounts should be passed in the AGM and auditor must be appointed before the election. So neither AGM was held nor accounts were read in the general meeting nor auditor was appointed. Gurpreet Singh Khaira, DC heads both AGA, which has over 190 members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aga-elects-10-new-office-bearers-183713
13-12-2020||---||215 cases disposed of in National Lok Adalat||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, December 12A National Lok Adalat was organised today under the supervision of Harpreet Kaur Randhawa, District and Sessions Judge. Seven benches were formed in Tarn Taran, three in Patti and one at Khadoor Sahib in the district to hear the cases.In Patti sub-division, three benches were led by Munish Garg, Gurinderpal and Gurpreet Singh while the lone bench formed for Khadoor Sahib was led by Vanita Kumari, Additional Civil Judge (senior division). Harpreet Kaur Randhawa District and Session Judge said a total number of 1,295 cases came for consideration while 215 were disposed on the spot. An amount of Rs 2,27,36,986.26 was also recovered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/215-cases-disposed-of-in-national-lok-adalat-183714
13-12-2020||---||Farmer dies in road accident while returning home from Delhi||Amritsar, December 12Balbir Singh (57), a farmer and resident of Bagga village, lost his life when he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Tangra here today.He was returning home from Delhi after participating in the farmers' agitation against the three controversial farm laws. He had returned for the marriage of his son. As he alighted from a truck along with other farmers to have tea, he was hit by an unidentified vehicle, said farmer leader Harjit Singh Jheeta.After post-mortem examination at Baba Bakala civil hospital, farmers took the body of Balbir Singh outside BJP MP Shwet Malik’s house in the evening where an agitation was going on.Balbir was an activist of Kisan Sangharsh Committee. The farmers demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation and a government job for a family member.An SDM reached the spot and announced Rs 5 lakh compensation and assured to send his case to state government for a job to a family member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-dies-in-road-accident-while-returning-home-from-delhi-183523
