14-05-2020||MLA REFLECTS||‘Ready for help 24X7 to take on Covid-19’||It gives me immense satisfaction to serve the people of my constituency in these times of Covid-19. Moreover, there seems to be no end to the virus on the horizon. The people of my constituency have given me so much love, affection and support and they are like my family members. Around 60 per cent of people belong to the Scheduled Castes and backward classes in the area. After the lockdown, 60 per cent residents of my constituency lost their source of income.Without waiting for help from the state government and the Centre, I immediately started distributing cooked food to people in all 132 villages. As many as 30,000 needy families are earmarked. Langars (community kitchens) are being organised in every village and mobile numbers of my five senior workers have been put on Facebook so that need families can contact them. Initially, more than 25,000 face masks and sanitisers were distributed among people. They were appealed to maintain social distancing, wash hands frequently, remain indoors and take other precautions.Apart from the state government help, I distributed 3,500 bags of potato, 3,000 bags of wheat (each of 50 kg) and 2,000 bags of rice among needy families from my own pocket. I also donated kits to poor people. Even now every needy family can meet me in my office at Sheikhchakk village where my employees and party workers are available to help them. I keep track of the situation all the time and my workers are in touch with the residents. I pray for the well-being of the residents!(As told to Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ready-for-help-24x7-to-take-on-covid-19-84435
14-05-2020||---||5 fresh cases, Amritsar district count 301||Amritsar, May 13Screening must to enter Tarn TaranThe district administration has deputed medical teams 24x7 at all six entry points of the district and made it mandatory for every entrant to undergo screening. Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the purpose was to check the spread of the infection in the district.With five new Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday, the total count of positive cases has risen to 301 in the district. While three cases were reported from a hospital in Tarn Taran, two cases were reported from Gurdaspur district.For the statistical purposes, the residents of a particular district even if residing in any other district are counted as cases from that particular district. Meanwhile, a total of 20 Covid-19 patients, including 19 pilgrims from Hazur Sahib (Nanded), were discharged from Covid care centre at Government Medical College here.Sahil, a UK-returned resident of Jandiala Guru, was also discharged after his 36-day stay in hospital. The 23-yr-old male patient was admitted to GMC on April 7. The hospital authorities stated that Sahil was brought in a critical condition and this is the reason why he took so long to recover.Earlier on Tuesday, the hospital had discharged 26 positive cases who all were returnees from Nanded after a complete recovery. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said a total of 55 positive patients had been discharged after recovery from hospitals in the district so far. The district also reported deaths of four Covid-19 patients. Dr Jugal said the district now had 242 active cases.After coming out of the hospital, a recovered patient, Daswinder Kaur, said, “We have faced no problem at the hospital. A healthy food was provided to us regularly. Even there had been no issues regarding cleanliness.” She said people should cooperate with health employees in dealing with the coronavirus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-fresh-cases-amritsar-district-count-301-84436
14-05-2020||
||‘Theatre fraternity needs financial support for revival’||Amritsar, May 13  Noted theatre thespian Kewal Dhaliwal, along with a few senior theatre artistes from Punjab, has written to the Chief Minister’s office requesting financial support for the theatre fraternity in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown.  Terming the situation of the theatre community in the state “dangerous”, Dhaliwal said a few folk art forms and young theatre talent might lost if the government did not help them out.  “The prolonged lockdown due to Covid-19 and health risks afterwards will impact the theatre community, especially the young talent, who otherwise used to perform theatre in colleges or do street plays and were looking at it as a career option. There is a possibility that lack of audience and livelihood might force them to choose another career path. Folk artistes like Bhand Marasi, who were already oppressed economically, will find it hard to survive without any relief,” he said. Sharing concerns that there is a large community of theatre artistes who are suffering financially, Dhaliwal, along with other noted senior artists, has recommended a monthly stipend or amount for them from the government.    “It may be a short-term solution till the situation improves and theatre is revived. But till then, we have asked the government to give a small amount to these senior artistes, who used to survive from the earnings of theatre productions,” he said. As president of Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, he has been planning to chart out a revival plan for theatre in the state. “We need to keep the young talent connected with theatre in some way or the other until we get audience for our shows,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/theatre-fraternity-needs-financial-support-for-revival-84437
14-05-2020||---||Safai sevaks at GMC seek protective gear||Amritsar, May 13Contractual safai sevaks at Government Medical College here on Wednesday accused the contractor of not providing them gloves and masks.Worker Munshi Singh said, “We clean toilets and washrooms in the hospital, including those used by coronavirus patients. But we are not being given protective gear by the contractor.”Another worker Leela said, “We work for the salary of around Rs 6,000 per month. We cannot afford to buy mask and gloves from our pocket.” She said they were not even getting their weekly holidays. The workers said we had taken up the matter with the hospital management, they said it was all between workers and the contractor and they could not do anything.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safai-sevaks-at-gmc-seek-protective-gear-84438
14-05-2020||
||Retailers allowed to open shops in Amritsar, but  with some restrictions||Amritsar, May 13 The district administration has allowed retailers to open their shops from 10.30 am to 3 pm with some restrictions in the city. A meeting was held between members of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) and officials of the administration after the intervention of Cabinet minister OP Soni at his residence here on Wednesday. Earlier, the administration had allowed the wholesale traders to operate from 6 am to 10 am. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon and Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill also took part in the meeting. Shops on roads with divider would open alternatively with left hand side one day and those on the right hand side next day. Narrow bazaars and markets would operate in an alphabetical order (A-B-C rotation) as lists compiled by police stations concerned or DCP office. The DC asked all to maintain social distancing. “Wearing face masks is also compulsory for everyone and shopkeepers must possess sanitisers and do not display articles on roads,” he said. The Commissioner of Police warned that the violation of norms would compel the administration to roll back relaxations. He informed that commercial establishments like spa, saloon, beauty parlour would not be allowed to open. Besides, any kind of gathering of people was also prohibited. The Cabinet minister hoped that traders would follow the norms. Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, thanked the minister and the district administration for understanding the pangs of the trading community and offering relaxation. On behalf of the traders, he assured the government that they would follow the norms. On the occasion, PPBM general secretary Sameer Jain, district president Surinder Duggal, Rajinder Goyal, Anil Kapur, Ravi Arora, Rakesh Thukral, Anil Jain, Charanjit Khurana, Billu Jain, Savinder Singh, Sunil Chopra, VK Mehta and other members were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/retailers-allowed-to-open-shops-in-amritsar-but-with-some-restrictions-84439
14-05-2020||---||Social distancing norms a casualty in inner city areas||Amritsar, May 13With the administration contemplating to give relaxation for movement of people, the police removed barricades from some of the key roads in the city. Even police personnel at check points are not stopping commuters to ask the purpose of their visit. A large number of residents step out in the evening by violating the lockdown restrictions.The social distancing norm is not being followed in interior areas of the city, where people gather in streets at dairies and grocery shops. Though most of the shops remain closed, residents can be seen roaming outside.During a visit to Katra Bagian, Rambagh, Katra Ahluwalia and other interior city areas, residents were found openly flouting the Covid-19 safety norms. Even most residents wear face masks only when they have to cross a check-point. Otherwise, they do not wear masks while roaming in streets.Vishav Kumar, a local resident, said, “Residents in the walled city do not have much space outside their houses. They used to sit together before Covid-19. After the threat of the pandemic, they kept themselves indoors for the last one month. Now, after the relaxation, they step out and sit together. The police should keep a check in the streets too.”“Despite the government directions, residents are not taking preventive measures to check the spread of the pandemic. The relaxation in curfew is not for meeting people, it is due to the economic reasons and traders can open their shops. If the residents would not follow the directions, the government may reverse relaxations,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-distancing-norms-a-casualty-in-inner-city-areas-84440
14-05-2020||Amritsar||NGO steps up relief efforts for the needy||Phulkari CAN, a philanthropic wing of Phulkari WOA, an NGO, has stepped up its Covid-19 relief activities over the past two days. It donated contactless sanitiser dispensers to Government Medical College for health workers, who are looking after Covid patients. Besides, it is also providing other relief material, including masks for migrants, to the needy.These activities are a part of the ‘Help The Helpless’ campaign launched by Phulkari CAN to provide essential items to the needy and equipment to the frontline Covid-19 warriors. It has donated dry rations to migrant labourers and daily wagers. It organised langar in collaboration with the Golden Temple karsewa. Besides, it provided sanitisers, PPE kits for health professionals, re-usable masks, face shields and pulse oximeters.Nidhi Sindhwani, president, Phulkari CAN, said, “We are constantly reaching out to the needy. We have provided relief in several areas. We are constantly adjusting our focus according to the need of the hour.”Phulkari CAN is working hand in hand with the local authorities, including MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and advisor to the Covid-19 Coordination Committee set up by the state government Dr. Santokh Singh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-steps-up-relief-efforts-for-the-needy-84441
14-05-2020||Amritsar||Councillors demand 500 ration kits for each ward||Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi and Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar on Wednesday met the MC Commissioner and demanded 500 ration kits for each ward.The public representatives claimed that after the increase in lockdown not only poor but people belonging to lower middle class were also demanding ration kits.Raman Bakshi, Senior Deputy Mayor, said, "Councillors represent the public in government and vice versa. The residents approach councillors and discuss their issueswith them. We have to provide them immediate help. But we are not getting sufficient assistance from the government".Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar said the ration kits provided by the government to councillors were not sufficient. They need at least 500 kits for each ward. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/councillors-demand-500-ration-kits-for-each-ward-84442
14-05-2020||  ||Train carrying 1,200 passengers leaves for UP’s Ambedkar Nagar||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 13  A special train carrying 1,200 passengers left for Ambedkar Nagar in Uttar Pradesh here on Wednesday. It was the fourth train for migrants that left for various places from the holy city.  Rajat Oberoi, nodal officer for sending back migrants to their native states, said migrants were medically screened at screening centers before boarding the train. He said all of them were given packets of packed meals on the occasion.  The Railways distributed masks and sanitisers among them and ensure social distancing by limiting their numbers in coaches.  Passengers did not pay for the tickets, meals and water during the journey. The state government is bearing all cost while the Railways has offered 85 per cent subsidy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/train-carrying-1-200-passengers-leaves-for-ups-ambedkar-nagar-84443
14-05-2020||---||Moved by their plight, historian penning report on wood craftsmen||Amritsar, May 13Dr Sukhdev Singh, a noted historian and Punjab convener, INTACH, has been spending his lockdown in the company of books and roses. Apart from this, he also indulges in gardening."I have been rather more busy, I would say. During the lockdown, I have been reading more and writing a report on wood craftsmen of Hoshiarpur. My another hobby these days is gardening and nurturing potted roses," he says.Just finished reading "Punjab: A history from Aurangzeb to Mountbatten" by another eminent historian Rajmohan Gandhi, Dr Sukhdev says that he has begun to miss people-to-people contact. "We are a social being and its but obvious to miss social contact after so many days of distancing. But the situation demands that we refrain from doing so."While writing his report on the craftsmen community of Hoshiarpur, he says that weavers, artisans and craftsmen will be the worst affected by the lockdown. "They are an already distressed community, facing economic oppression before the lockdown. Now, with economical crisis affecting every sector, these craftsmen will have to face more bad situation as it's a matter of their survival," he said.He says the impact will not just be economical, but psychological as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/moved-by-their-plight-historian-penning-report-on-wood-craftsmen-84445
14-05-2020||---||1 booked for minor’s rape||Amritsar, May 13The police have booked a resident of Shann Kalan village of the Bhindi Saida area for raping a minor girl. The suspect has been identified as Sona.In her complaint to the police, the mother of the 15-year-old victim has stated that on May 5, the girl woke up around 3 am to attend to nature’s call. Someone threw a stone on gate and when she opened the door to see what had happened, the suspect nabbed her and took her to his house, where he raped her. When the girl returned home, she narrated the incident to her mother.“Initially, we were worried that filling a complaint with the police might bring dishonor to the family, but later decided to go ahead,” said the mother.The police have registered a case under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-booked-for-minors-rape-84446
14-05-2020||Amritsar||Flight with 178 aboard to reach Amritsar||Under the Vande Bharat Mission, five special flights from the Gulf will bring back about 900 stranded Indians home at different airports, including one at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here.A flight with 178 distressed Indians of Punjabi origin from Dubai will land here late tonight. Officials say priority has been given to workers in distress, elderly people, urgent medical cases, pregnant women and others stranded in difficult situation. Only those who are found asymptomatic will be allowed to board the flight.Before permitting them to leave for their houses, they will have to undergo a14-day quarantine period at hotels.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHARA), said despite lockdown the association managed to arrange over 3,000 rooms in the state, including 600 rooms in the city.On the request of the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board, AHARA has opened these rooms. All rooms will be paid by occupants.Meanwhile, it is learnt that the district administration has written to the Municipal Corporation, police and the Excise Department to ask hoteliers to arrange rooms to quarantine NRIs.A British Airways flight number BA 9115 with 306 Britons took off from the local airport for Heathrow on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flight-with-178-aboard-to-reach-amritsar-84447
14-05-2020||Strap||Wheat yield dips, farmers blame untimely rain||Manmeet Singh GillTribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 13Farmers from various parts of the district have reported a fall of up to four quintals in per acre wheat yield due to the unfavourable weather conditions that prevailed during the cultivation period. According to them, the wheat yield this season has gone down to 15 to 17 quintals as compared to the 19 to 20 quintals for the average years.Kuljeet Singh, a farmer from Malawali village, said: “The average yield is around 15.5 quintals. At best, farmers got a yield of 17 quintals. The untimely rain that had delayed the sowing of wheat is one of the factors behind fall in yield.”Another farmer Rawel Singh from Gagobooha village, said: “The rains this season were above normal. When the crop was ready for harvesting, hailstones in various places damaged the crop and washed away grains from the plants.” He said some farmers had to sow wheat twice as the seeds sown the first time failed to germinate due to the high moisture due to rain.According to data on the arrival of wheat crop at grain markets in the district, around 83 per cent of crop in comparison to the arrival last year has arrived so far. In comparison to a total arrival of 6.82 lakh metric tonnes, the grain markets have recorded an arrival of 5.70 lakh metric tonnes this year. The harvesting in rural areas has been already over. Officials of the Mandi Board said they estimate that upto 40,000 tonnes of wheat might arrive in case farmers have stored it at their homes.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal admitted that lower yield has been reported from trial fields of the department. “We have recorded a loss of one quintal per acre. The loss is primarily due to unfavourable weather conditions.” Bal said wheat sowing was delayed which has resulted in loss.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-yield-dips-farmers-blame-untimely-rain-84448
14-05-2020||Amritsar||Online assistance for dairy farmers||DAV students shine in examsAmritsar: Students of DAV College, Amritsar, brought laurels to the college by securing top positions in university examinations held in December. Twenty students of various streams from the college have featured among toppers in various streams. Vanshika and Akashdeep Singh of BAJMC (Semester III) bagged the first and second positions, respectively. Manik Sareen of MSc maths (Semester I) got the second position, Arshdeep Kaur of MSc physics (Semester I) got the first position. Lakshay Mehra and Rajbir Kaur of BCA (Semester I) got the first and second positions, respectively, Jahanvi Rajput of BAJMC (Semester I) got the third position and Abhishek Bedi of MSc physics (Semester III) got the fourth position in the university. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-assistance-for-dairy-farmers-84449
14-05-2020||BK Bajaj||‘Dry fruit biz got a big blow, govt must chalk out a revival plan’||How has the lockdown impacted your dry fruit import, export and processing units?The dry fruit trade is of international nature. It was severely affected due to the lockdown in India and abroad. So, several orders were cancelled at the national and international level. I honoured all import orders as per the laid down norms. However, export contracts of my firm saw massive cancellations. I import almond and walnuts from the US, almond from Australia and various other varieties of dry fruits from the Middle East and Afghanistan.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?It will take a lot of time for the business to get back on track as dry fruits fall under the category of exotic eatables. The lockdown hit the income of people and their purchasing power hard. It will take, at least, a year for the revival of the trade. Even I have doubts over its revival during Diwali. Leading economists indicate that India will see 0.5 per cent growth in the GDP and European economies will register negative growth. So in this scenario, how can I expect the demand to reach soon at the previous level?How are you dealing with the issue of workers’ salaries?I have over 2,000 employees, who work in my all units. I paid the salaries for March and April. It cannot be sustained like this for a long. I will have to reduce all kinds of expenditures wherever possible. If I have no sale, I will cut down on production. Therefore, I do not need so much staff even. In this way, it will affect all in the chain.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Online trading has only 10 per cent share in the entire spectrum of the business. Modern retail houses and e-commerce firms buy products online.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?A big recession is likely to follow after the lifting of the lockdown. The demand is likely to remain lethargic in various sectors. We should be conservative towards our finances. It will be tough for companies who are under massive debt to survive.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is really a challenge to run a firm. My company is in all major departments of a business. We import dry fruits from the US, Australia and Middle East. After processing and packaging them, we sell the same in the domestic market.What are your expectations from the government?The Centre and the state government must adopt a positive approach towards businesses and industries. These must be offered congenial atmosphere like rebate in taxes and soft loans to help rejuvenate the business.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dry-fruit-biz-got-a-big-blow-govt-must-chalk-out-a-revival-plan-84450
14-05-2020||GS Paul||Rickshaw-puller’s son banks on his ‘goodwill’ to help neighbours||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 13Around 12 years ago, with no money in hand, he took the leap to establish a free school for underprivileged children. Now amid the Covid-19 lockdown, he has set another goal that no one in his locality would sleep on an empty stomach. Meet Mithun Kumar, son of a rickshaw-puller, who lives in Nangli village near Amritsar.“Sir, paise to aaj bhi nahin hai mere paas, par maine logo se jo goodwill bana rakhi hai vahi kaam aa gayee” (I don’t have money today as well, but the goodwill I have earned from people has helped me,” he said on being asked about his source of procuring essential items for people living in his locality.Mithun said a majority of the residents of his village were poor and engaged in small-time jobs, which they lost due to the lockdown.Alleging that representatives of the ruling party seldom bothered to help, he did not refrain from approaching a leader of the Opposition party. “Leaving aside the present sarpanch, who only cared for those who supported his party, I contacted the candidate who had lost the elections. I was bewildered that he was generous enough to come out to help on my call. This had instilled a sense of confidence in me. Then I called up some doctors and good Samaritans whom I was in touch through my school days and it did wonders,” he said.Mithun was able to provide flour, pulses, rice, tea and daily-use essential items to around 50 families.“I don’t give up so easily. 10 years ago when I noticed children of my street playing petty street games as their parents could not send them to school due to poor financial constraints, I vowed to offer them at least basic education. Despite odds, I managed to raise a decent school with the help of some good people. Those contacts helped me this time as well and helped me arranging food, grocery and toiletries for the needy,” he said.Mithun was three years old when his family migrated to Amritsar from Kathiar (Bihar). His father Dina Nath is still a rickshaw-puller and mother Meera Devi works as a domestic servant. He studied privately and at present, he has been pursuing his graduation.During initial days in 2008-09, he worked as a waiter in marriage palaces, washed utensils at tea stalls to arranging second-hand books and stationery for his students, who used to get lessons in a vacant plot in the village.Today, his school christened as “M-Real” (Methodologies for Rural Education and Learning), imparts basics of the English language, along with the normal primary-level curriculum to children of rickshaw pullers, daily wagers and domestic servants in two shifts free of cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rickshaw-pullers-son-banks-on-his-goodwill-to-help-neighbours-84451
