14-01-2021||Amritsar||Helpless, father of 4-yr-old girl is full of rage for stray dogs||When Murli Kumar, a migrant worker from Bihar, sees the same pack of stray dogs that killed Chanda, his four-and-a-half-year-old daughter on January 6 every day, he feels helpless and is full of anguish and rage.The January 6 incident went unreported as the poor farm worker felt it was better to resign to his fate.“I see the same dogs roaming around daily now. I am so helpless that I cannot even kill those dogs that killed my daughter,” said Murli, with a lump in his throat.He said he surely wants to kill those dogs, but knows it was against law and he could be sent to jail for doing so.“I want to kill those dogs, but would not do so as I have a family to feed. Who will take care of them if I go to jail?” Murli asked.When questioned as to why he had not reported the incident to the police, he said: “What can I do? Everybody here knows about the incident. I thought it was better to take care of other members of the family instead of running for such things.”Little Chanda was playing outside her accommodation at a rice mill in Malawali village, when a stray canine came running and went straight for her neck.“It happened in a split second. I, along with four other persons, was standing a few meters away, when the dog pounced on Chanda,” said Murli. The child was rushed to a private hospital, where she breathed her last 15 minutes.Chanda’s is not the only one who has been mauled by stray canines in the district. Earlier, too, such incidents, sometimes resulting in deaths or in serious injuries, have occurred. Kuljit Singh Malawali, an advocate from the same village, said: “The dog sterilisation programme should be initiated to control the population of stray canines.With an estimated stray dog population of 40,000 stray canines roaming on city roads, sterilisation of dog is the need of the hour.” Over the last four years, the MC tried to initiate its dog sterilisation programme, but it failed every time due to lack of proper infrastructure. But try telling that to Murli and he says: “A dog is more protected than a poor man’s child.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helpless-father-of-4-yr-old-girl-is-full-of-rage-for-stray-dogs-198217
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Gangsters fire at police party in Attari, escape||An exchange of fire took place between a police team and two unidentified gangsters in Attari near the Indo-Pak border on Wednesday. Eyewitnesses said a total of 15 rounds were fired from both sides. The police team chased them for 5 km, but gangsters escaped in a car.Were about to hide drugs near borderIt has been learnt that the the accused were members of the notorious gangster Jaggu's gang. The car-borne gangsters were going to hide the consignment of heroin and weapons somewhere near the Indo-Pak border.It has been learnt that the gangsters were going to hide the consignment of heroin and weapons somewhere near the Indo-Pak border. Cops from Gharinda police station had received information that two suspicious car-borne persons were going towards the Indo-Pak border.A police team led by SHO Maninder Singh and Paramjit Singh, in-charge of Kahangarh police post, set up a check point in this regard.When cops gave them signal to intercept the car, the occupants stopped the car. Seeing police personnel around, one of the gangsters opened fire. The policemen tried to defend themselves by taking positions. The accused reversed the car and fled. The policy party fired at the car.The police sources claimed that the accused were members of the notorious gangster Jaggu’s gang.Senior police officials also reached the spot and claimed that the gangsters would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangsters-fire-at-police-party-in-attari-escape-198218
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Man robbed of cash at gunpoint||In a broad daylight incident of robbery, four unidentified car-borne youths robbed a person at gunpoint on the bypass road here on Tuesday.The victim, Avtar Singh (60) of Satkartar Nagar, told the police that he was going to Escort Hospital at around 7am. When he reached near the Mahal flyover, a car stopped near him.After stopping him, two of the occupants alighted from the car. They asked him to give cash and other valuables. On refusal, Avtar was manhandled by them. Two other accomplices, who were inside the car, asked them to shoot Avtar and snatch his valuables.Then one of the accused took out a pistol and pointed it at Avtar Singh who gave Rs 1,000 to them. The accused fled from the spot. On the complaint of Avtar Singh, the Kambo police have registered a case under Section 370 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-cash-at-gunpoint-198220
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Complaints regarding LED street lights to be addressed in 48 hrs||After the installation of 66,000 light emitting diodes (LED) under the Smart City project, a private firm (Smudra) is all set to establish a complaint centre for redressal of grievances.The Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL) had hired the firm under a condition to repair and maintain the lights for five years. The company has to repair the light within 48 hours after receiving the complaint. There’s a provision of penalising the firm in case it fails to address the issues.The Municipal Corporation will provide Rs400 annually for maintenance of one point to the private firm. The company officials claimed that the complaint center was almost ready at Ranjit Avenue.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said the work related to installation of LED lights has been completed in the city.“The private firm will address the complaints within 48 hours. We assure that every street of the city will be properly lit,” said Mayor.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complaints-regarding-led-street-lights-to-be-addressed-in-48-hrs-198221
14-01-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Four held with 32-gm heroin||A team of CIA staff, Patti, arrested two persons of Sarhali Kalan village and recovered 5 gm of heroin from their possession while a police party of Sarai Amanat Khan arrested two persons with 27 gm of heroin on Tuesday evening.The police said the accused, arrested by the CIA staff, were identified as Guramrit Singh and Kashmir Singh Gora. The accused were in a car when they were nabbed by the police.The accused arrested by the Sarai Amanat Khan police were identified as Varinderpal Singh and Armanpreet Singh of Chheena Bidhi Chand. They were in a car when they were nabbed by the police party.The accused had been booked under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-held-with-32-gm-heroin-198223
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Sale of Chinese string goes on unabated||Despite a ban, the sale and use of Chinese string during Lohri went unchecked in the city. Shopkeepers sold plastic string through their networks.Contrary to the claims of the district administration and the police, residents openly flouted rules. Social organisations had sought a ban on plastic string and had even demonstrated last week to pressurise the authorities and create awareness.Rohan Kumar, a social activist, said, “Several birds are killed or injured due to Chinese string. Birds, which fly at low height, suffer a lot. Sparrows, pigeons and doves cannot get free from the trap of plastic string.”Jantinderpal Singh, a resident, said, “Chinese string is fatal for human beings and birds. Despite being banned, it is easily available. The government should ban its manufacturing or take action against users and sellers.”Shera a construction worker from Valla village said, “I met with an accident a few days ago as plastic string wrapped around my neck. The government should implement ban and violators should be dealth with sternly.”Nodal Officer Sushant Bahtia said, “It is true that the practice is still going on. We have registered criminal cases against people, who stored the banned string. We need more staff to keep vigil on sale and use of killer string.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sale-of-chinese-string-goes-on-unabated-198224
14-01-2021||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||On Lohri, farmers burn copies of farm laws||On the occasion of Lohri, farmers, mazdoors, employees and other sections of society on Wednesday staged a protest against the Union Government by burning copies of the farm laws in over 500 villages of the district and in urban, semi urban areas too.Some protesters staged a dharna at the toll plaza, Usman, and burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and corporate honchos Mukesh Ambani and Gautam Adani.Activists of the Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Kisan Sangharsh Committee, (Pannu), Kisan Sangharsh Committee (five-member), Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Budha), Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee and volunteers of the Aam Aadmi Party led protests.The AAP volunteers, led by Dr Kashmir Singh Sohal, took out a protest march in Tarn Taran and burnt copies of the farm acts. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, state leader of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said the workers organised gatherings in the Chabal, Rasulpur, Pandori Sidhwan, Gohalwar, Mianwind, Fatehbad, Goindwal Sahib, Khadoor Sahib, Chohla Sahib, Talwandi, Ghariala, Patti, Bhikhiwind areas and burnt copies of the controversial farm laws.Farmers and other organisations under the leadership of the Press Club, Chohla Sahib, organised a conference and warned the Union Government against its dilly-dallying tactics just to harass the farmers.Balbir Singh Parwana, president of the Press Club, said the agitating farmers and other sections of society had decided to jointly protest against the indifferent attitude of the Union Government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-lohri-farmers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-198226
14-01-2021||Amritsar||People make a bonfire of farm laws’ copies||On the occasion of Lohri, farmers and people from different walks of life burnt copies of the three farm laws in protest here on Wednesday.Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) gathered outside the Khalsa College building and burnt copies of three agriculture laws in the bonfire. They raised slogans against Rajinder Mohan Singh Chinna, honorary secretary, Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC), who is also a BJP leader.Baldev Singh, a farmers’ leader, demanded his resignation from one of the two positions. He said the college was raised with the contribution of farmers and the KMSC would not allow any BJP leader to lead an organisation of the Sikh community.Activists of different farmer organisations burnt copies of the farm laws in various villages of the district. Similarly, such an event was also held at Holy City locality.Raj Kumar Verka, MLA West, Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi and others gathered at Ward No.80 to consign the copies of farm laws to the bonfire.AAP volunteers of the district observed Black Lohri as a protest against the anti-farmer laws passed by the Narendra Modi government. Activists of the Dal Khalsa and its youth wing, Sikh Youth Punjab (SYP), burnt 100 copies of the contentious farm laws and demanded the revocation of the agriculture laws.Activists raised slogans such as “down with the fascist BJP government”. They termed the Narendra Modi government as authoritarian and blamed it for promoting crony capitalism. They carried big placards reading ‘Mr Modi shun ego, roll back farm laws’.Members of the Democratic Teachers’ Front used the Lohri festival to raise voice against the three contentious laws. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-make-a-bonfire-of-farm-laws-copies-198228
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Cold wave fails to cast shadow over festivities||Severe weather conditions proved to be no deterrent to youth who took to flying kites to celebrate Lohri, on Wednesday.Residents celebrated the festival with traditional gaiety and fervour. Prohibited synthetic string was also used in flying kites. The youths also did not mind risking their lives by coming over to roads to fly kites.While residents relished ‘Rauh (sugarcane juice) di kheer’ to mark the occasion, youngsters and children danced to the beats of drums and DJs apart from participating in kite flying contests.However, the practice of demanding Lohri (Lohri mangna) was missed in the city as the tradition has been dying down with the passage of time. The elderly people recalled their days of yore. They reminisced going from door-to-door singing folk songs and demanding Lohri in the form of til (sesame) seeds, peanuts, jaggery, gajak, rewri and money.“With the passage of time, this practice has got confined to the lower economic stratum,” said Manjit Singh, an elderly.In evening, bonfires were lit in streets where families gathered and celebrated Lohri by sharing ‘gur’ and groundnuts with each other.The police continued with their drive to book persons for using the banned kite string. However, the deadly string is being sold here in ‘clandestine’ manner with the support of society at large.The youth could be seen flying kites on the roadside, elevated road and even on the BRTS track. However, the shopkeepers running kite stores denied having plastic strings but children and adults were seen flying kites with this killer plastic string across the city.Lohri for girl childAn event to celebrate Lohri with newborn children was organised at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital on Wednesday.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh and other senior officials were present on the occasion. Dr Singh said the function to celebrate Lohri of the girl child was organised to give a message to society that girls are not less than boys in any way.The Child Welfare Department also organised an event at Kurmania Bal village, near Attari, and honoured the mothers of 10 newborn girls. Child development project officer Kuldeep Kaur Bamrah said a positive change has started coming in society and apart from government departments and NGOs, even common people have started celebrating the Lohri of girl child.A festival to mark the celebrations was also organised at DAV College. Students performed bhangra to mark the occasion. The teaching, non-teaching staff, NSS volunteers, NCC cadets and hostellers participated in the event with zeal and enthusiasm.College principal Dr Rajesh Kumar congratulated the students, teachers and other employees for organising the community celebration of the Punjabi festival.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cold-wave-fails-to-cast-shadow-over-festivities-198230
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Experts dwell on disruptions caused by coronavirus||The Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Amritsar, conducted its fourth annual Operations and Strategy Conclave, Sankshetra’21 in virtual mode.Sankshetra’21 - the operations and strategy conclave, witnessed the participation of some well-known experts from diverse industries across the country.The panelists stressed on the need to move from the brick and mortar to IT-enabled organisations to ensure the global scalability of supply chains.The first-panel discussion theme corresponding to the operations domain was the ‘Reinventing Supply Chains for the post-pandemic world.With countries facing lockdown, travel restrictions, workforce shortages, halted production, etc, the worldwide outbreak of Covid-19 has exposed the vulnerability of the global supply chains. The reinvention of supply chains is necessary to absorb this large-scale disruption caused by the pandemic. The theme focussed on encapsulating this new normal in supply chain design, discussing the strategies to minimise the effects of disruptions and bounce back at the earliest.The second panel discussion theme corresponding to the strategy domain was ‘Evolving Strategy and Consulting Amidst Changing Socioeconomic Outlook,’ which delved into the disruptions caused by the pandemic across industries and how consulting strategies are evolving to accommodate changing business models amidst a Socio-Economic outlook.The Covid-19 outbreak has proven to be a significant blow to the strategy and consulting domain as a whole. However, like any other crisis, it could also present an opportunity to formulate new strategies and improvise the existing ones.The conclave commenced with Prof Chetan Chitre, Students’ affairs chair, welcoming the panelists. Prof Chitre said even though 2020 disrupted the economy, it also created a lot of new opportunities and brought innovation to the surface.Prof Chitre emphasised that no business education was complete without industry interaction, and thus, it lies at the crux of bridging the gap between academia and practices.Concluding his address, he said he expected all students to make the most of this opportunity and learn from the industry stalwarts’ first-hand experiences.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/experts-dwell-on-disruptions-caused-by-coronavirus-198233
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Civic body identifies 100 property tax violators||Seeing that recovery targets have fallen short by approximate Rs10 crore, the Municipal Corporation has started scrutiny of the big defaulters and identified at least 100 big businesses which have deposited less tax than the previous year.Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi said the MC had collected a total of Rs26.27 crore as property tax during the previous financial year. He added that the amount has dropped by around one-third during the current fiscal year.The Municipal Corporation has so far cumulated Rs16.10 crore as property tax. The MC officials stated that the big businesses which had deposited more tax during the previous year and have deposited less amounts this year are the major cause of drop in the collections.The officials said that the big businesses, who have deposited less tax this year, include few malls in the city. The MC has asked the employees to make efforts to collect the taxes from such businesses. They stated that most of the businesses have deposited fewer taxes on the pretext of Covid-19. Sandeep Rishi said that efforts are being made to recover the dues from such establishments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-identifies-100-property-tax-violators-198235
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Traders hail one-time settlement scheme||To settle pending VAT cases, pertaining to pre-GST era, traders welcomed the Cabinet’s decision to grant approval to the one-time settlement scheme for the disposal of old VAT cases on Tuesday.Accepting the demand of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), the state Cabinet approved one-time settlement scheme during a meeting held in Chandigarh on Monday.Beopar Mandal welcomes moveDuring a virtual programme held at Government Senior Secondary School for Girls on the Mall Road on Tuesday, OP Soni, Medical Education and Research Minister, informed that the scheme would benefit 47,627 entrepreneurs. He added that the government would have to forego Rs121.06 crore in taxes. He stated that the registered dealers would have to self-attest the forms while filing returns.He elaborated that the scheme would provide the traders 100 per cent respite from interest and penalty.Piara Lal Seth, president of the PPBM, said the beopar mandal had submitted the demand to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh through Cabinet Minister OP Soni. He said that Rs103.13 crore waiver pertained to the financial year 2013-14 and Rs17.93 crore belonged to period 2005 to 2013.He recalled that the PPBM had requested this to the CM on January 31, 2019. He said this was the main reprieve they received from the government while battling the Covid-19 induced economic crisis. He added that the Central government had not shown any magnanimity of this level to the MSME sector and their all incentives were directed to the corporate sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-hail-one-time-settlement-scheme-198237
14-01-2021||Amritsar||SGPC takes steps to propagate Sikhism||To propagate Sikhism, the SGPC has decided to engage Sikh researchers from various universities and conduct special refresher courses. Besides, a proposal was there to set up a religious advisory committee to make the work of Sikh History Research Board more result oriented.Similarly, the history related to the establishment of the SGPC and the Gurdwara Reform Movement will be published with a contemporary approach. Apart from this, special research work dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur and the 100th anniversary of Saka Sri Nankana Sahib will also be released.SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur, who held meeting with Sikh intellectuals, said, “At present many publications are required to be reprinted, for which work will be done as per the valuable opinion given by the intellectuals.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-takes-steps-to-propagate-sikhism-198239
14-01-2021||English Booster Club of Government Senior Secondary School||English Booster Club a boon for students!||‘Vocal for local’ goes for a tossThe Municipal Council, Tarn Taran, has purchased John Deere tractor by not choosing to purchase all tractors being manufactured in Punjab. This has raised some eyebrows. The Municipal Council had received grants under the ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ for which a tractor was to be purchased for the concerned works to be done. Most of the Municipal Corporations, Municipal Councils and other local self government institutions across the state of Punjab have preferred to purchase tractors being manufactured in Punjab, such as the Sonalika, Preet and Swaraj, for the benefit of the state exchequer. The Swaraj tractor was being manufactured in the company run under management by the state government. The MC, ignoring the state interests, preferred to purchase Pune-based manufacturing company’s John Deere tractor which has its price higher than the other tractors. It has its price ranging between Rs 7 lakh to 9.30 lakh. The price of Preet tractor fluctuates between Rs 5.85 to 7.60 lakh. Swaraj tractor ranges from Rs 6.38 lakh to Rs 7.56 lakh and the Sonalika has its price in the range of Rs 5.90 to Rs 6.40 lakh.Girl child gets new lease of lifeAnantjot Kaur, one-and-a-half-year-old daughter of Apnider Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran, has got a new lease of life from the Health Department under 'Tandarust Mission Punjab'. Anantjot Kaur was detected with a heart disease. A team of the Health Department working under the 'Rashtrya Bal Swasthaya Karyakryam' (RBSM) diagnosed her with Ventricular Septal Defect (VSD) and was admitted to the district Civil Hospital. Civil Surgeon, Tarn Taran, Dr Rohit Mehta said she was immediately treated under the RBSK scheme at the Fortis Hospital, Mohali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/english-booster-club-a-boon-for-students-198243
14-01-2021||Tarn Taran||Cops donate 550 units of blood||2 deaths, 24 new cases in distAmritsar: The district on Wednesday reported two deaths due to the Covid-19 contagion, pushing the toll to 567. The deceased have been identified as 82-year-old Prem Dass (82) of Azad Nagar (Chheharta) and 62-year-old Madhu Bala (62) of Chabal Road. The district health authorities reported 24 new cases, taking the total count to 14,765. The new cases include 12 influenza-like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 35 patients, the recovery rate has risen to 14,051. At present, the district has a total of 147 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-donate-550-units-of-blood-198244
14-01-2021||Amritsar||Bibi Jagir Kaur, Diljit Dosanjh among world’s 'top 100 Sikhs'||SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur and actor Diljit Dosanjh have been named among the 100 most influential Sikh personalities in the world by a UK-based global Sikh organisation.Both made their debut in the latest 9th edition of “The Sikh 100” list announced by “The Sikh Group”, a global organisation recognising Sikhs from across the world.Kaur has been recognised as the second most powerful Sikh personality at the global level in 2020. The first position has been retained by Takht Hazur Sahib Jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh, who was declared the most influential Sikh in 2019 as well.Talking to The Tribune, The Sikh Group founder Navdeep Singh said: “The Sikh 100 is an annual ranking, documenting profiles of some of the most influential Sikhs from around the world and across all sectors, be it business, education, profession, media, entertainment, sports or charity.”Diljit, who supported the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws and donated a huge amount, secured the 62nd position. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bibi-jagir-kaur-diljit-dosanjh-among-worlds-top-100-sikhs-198205
