14-09-2020||---||Seven fall prey to Covid, 200 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 13The health authorities on Sunday reported 200 new Covid-19 cases and seven casualties in the district.The count of cases rose to 4,896 and the death toll increased to 256. As many as 3,619 persons have recovered so far and the district now has 813 active cases. The positive news is that 176 patients were discharged after recovery on Sunday.The new 200 cases included 108 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 92 contacts of Covid patients. The deceased have been identified as Harjit Singh (50) of Sandhu Avenue, Baldev Singh (79) of Janta Colony, Inderpal Singh (76) of Silver Estate Colony, Harbhajan Kaur (67) of Modern Colony, Sanju (30) of Indra Colony, Sukhdev Singh (59) of Bhoewali village in Ajnala tehsil and Amarjit Kaur (52) of Kot Mitt Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seven-fall-prey-to-covid-200-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-140983
14-09-2020||---||6 booked in two rape cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13A girl was allegedly raped by a youth after taking her to a relative’s house here. Though the incident occurred on July 10, a complaint was lodged with the police on Saturday after the suspect circulated her objectionable pictures on social media.Those booked have been identified as Harinderpal Singh, Jaswinder Singh, his wife Sandeep Kaur and Dalbir Kaur of Akalgarh Tapiya village and Babbi of Sudhar village.The victim told the police that Harinderpal was a resident of her village. She said he used to keep a bad eye on her. She said on July 10, when she was returning home from the village bus stand, the suspect’s sister-in-law Sandeep Kaur took her along to meet their paternal aunt Babbi.She alleged when Harinderpal took them to Sudhar village where the suspect offered her a cold drink laced with some intoxicating substance. She said when she became unconscious, the suspect raped her and also clicked her objectionable pictures. She said they started forcing her for marriage. She alleged when her family refused, Harinderpal posted her objectionable pictures on social media.The police have registered a case under Sections 366, 376 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code against them. Mandeep Kaur, Investigating Officer, said the suspects were at large since the registration of case while medical examination of the victim was conducted.In the second case, a Pathankot girl has accused a Gurdaspur boy for allegedly raping on the pretence of marriage. The complaint was lodged with the police on July 28 while a case was registered with the police on Saturday. The suspect has been identified as Raman Kumar of Duragla village in Gurdaspur.Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Division-A police station, said the complaint was initially lodged with the Pathankot police and after a probe by a DSP, the case was forwarded to Amritsar city as the incident occurred at a hotel near the bus stand here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-booked-in-two-rape-cases-in-amritsar-140984
14-09-2020||---||Averda begins bioremediation work at Bhagtanwala dump||Amritsar, September 13Bioremediation of garbage at the Bhagtanwala dump has been restarted by Averda, the newly hired company. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal, along with other senior officials, visited the dump to check the progress here on Saturday.What is bioremediationBioremediation is a way to manage or degrade garbage. The trimble machine crushes garbage and automatically segregates plastic, debris, soil and manure. After bio-treatment, the garbage can be used as manure in fields.Recently, Averda, a Dubai-based waste management firm, took over the Amritsar MSW Company Ltd and initiated bioremediation. More machines would be brought to strengthen the work.Bioremediation is one of the major components of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also directed the civic body to initiate bioremediation of garbage. Following the recommendation of the NGT, the MC initiated the construction of a wall around the dump and would also develop a green belt by planting trees.“We started the bioremediation wok at Bhagtanwala dump recently. More machines will be added by Averda. Composite pits have been prepared. The company will also install a waste-to-energy plant. The boundary wall is under-construction and trees have been planted to develop a green belt,” said Dr Ajay Kawar, Municipal Health Officer.The initiatives aimed at improving the Swachhata ranking of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/averda-begins-bioremediation-work-at-bhagtanwala-dump-140985
14-09-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Drunk’ cop runs car over woman in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 13A woman was seriously injured after a policeman, allegedly drunk, ran his car over a woman in Patti town on Saturday. The woman has been admitted to the Patti Civil Hospital, where her condition is stated to be serious.The victim has been identified as Raman Kaur of Verka (Amritsar), who along with her husband Manjit Singh had come to Patti to take medicine from a private hospital. As she was on her way to the hospital, the car driven by a policeman hit the woman and she received arm and stomach injuries. Two policemen sitting in the car, including driver, have been identified as Gurwinder Singh and Amrik Singh posted in Tarn Taran.The policemen were allegedly under the influence of liquor and dragged the victim 100 metres from the accident site.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a case under Section 279 of the IPC and others relevant sections had been registered against the accused policemen and further action would be taken after receiving the medical report.The residents, including the victim and her husband, have demanded action against the policeman responsible for the accident. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drunk-cop-runs-car-over-woman-in-tarn-taran-140986
14-09-2020||---||Week-long mega job fair in Amritsar from September 24||Amritsar, September 13Amid Covid-19 pandemic when the campus placement drives are not being held, many top multinational companies, including Microsoft, HCL, Trident, Lenskart and Justdial would be attending the mega job fair being organised by the state government from September 24 to 30 in the district.Deputy Director, District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises, Vikram Jit said, “With educational institutions lying closed, the fresh graduates are facing a problem in finding suitable job placement. In the job fair, the jobs with annual packages ranging from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 43 lakh are on offer.” He added that the job fair would provide opportunities for B Tech and MBA degree holders.The eligible candidates can apply on the government web portal before September 15. “Microsoft is also providing internship opportunity to B Tech students wherein a monthly stipend of Rs 25,000 to Rs 80,000. The stipend for MBA graduates is 1.25 lakh,” said Vikram Jit.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Ranbir Singh said two events; on September 25 at Government Polytechnic and on September 30 at Government ITI Ranjit Avenue would be organised as part of the job fair. He added that the MNCs as per their employment criteria can organise written test followed by an interview session.He added that for those candidates who do not have infrastructure as high internet speed or computers, the administration would make these available to them at the special centre which would be set up by it. Ranbir Singh said in case of any assistance, the eligible candidates can contact the District Rozgar Bureau.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/week-long-mega-job-fair-in-amritsar-from-september-24-140991
14-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Aspirants brave sultry weather for NEET in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 13NEET for entry into medical colleges was conducted in compliance with safety protocol at six centres here on Sunday.The candidates queued up as per their designated time slots outside the centres. They were sanitised by the attendants who were not wearing PPE kits though it was said that the attendants would be in PPE kits while sanitising candidates. The exam was to start at 2 pm but they reached the centres at 11 am, as per the instructions.The candidates were sanitised only once at the entrance of the centres and during their nearly six-hour stay inside the campus they were not sanitised for a second time. Besides, they were neither allowed to take eatables inside the centres nor were they provided anything in them. Only drinking water in transparent bottles was allowed and those who did not have it were provided in sealed bottles inside the centres.Out of a total of 3,091 candidates, about 85 per cent took the NEET examination. As many as 515 teachers were appointed to conduct the examination. Twelve candidates were made to sit in each classroom as per the Covid-19 restrictions.Prabhnoor Singh, a candidate, said it was tedious to write the descriptive paper while wearing the gloves. The hot and humid weather led to a lot of perspiration inside the gloves.The guardians, who were waiting outside the six centres, were a disturbed lot as they were forced to wait in the scorching heat. They were neither offered potable water nor were any tents pitched to provide them shelter or protection from the sun.Prabhat Kumar, a resident of Gurdaspur, said his daughter was to appear in the examination to secure a medical seat. He said it was a six-hour-long arduous wait for their children. It was a terrible experience which nobody would want to face again. Those candidates whose relatives lived in the city could go to their houses but others had no choice but to wait outside on the roadside.Besides, most guardians did not follow the social distancing norm while waiting outside the centers. No government authority was visible to enforce the norm. Parents expressed their helplessness as they waited in the open braving hot and humid weather conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aspirants-brave-sultry-weather-for-neet-in-amritsar-140992
14-09-2020||---||30-yr-old man found dead, wife among three booked for murder in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 13Mystery shrouds the death of Randip Singh (30), a resident of Mohanbhandaria village falling under the Jhander police station, here. He was on Friday evening found hanging in the house while his legs were touching the ground raising suspicion among the family members that he was killed.Following a complaint by the victim’s brother Jagdip Singh, the police have booked his wife Paramjit Kaur, her brother Sonu and sister Meetu of Udowali village in this regard.The complainant told the police that his brother Randip Singh and his wife used to often quarrel with each other. He said Paramjit Kaur, along with her two children, went to her parents’ house at Udowali village after a dispute. Though his brother went to take her, they did not return.He said suddenly on Friday, Paramjit Kaur returned home with her children. They were accompanied by her brother Sonu and sister Meetu. He said Meetu called him saying that they had reached a compromise and therefore bring some liquor to celebrate.Jagdip said when he returned home he found Randip hanging from a ceiling fan while his legs were touching the ground. He believed that he was killed by the three. Following this, the Jhander police have registered a case under Sections 302 and 120 of the IPC against them.SI Avtar Singh, investigating officer, said there was neither any injury mark on his body nor any strangulation mark on the neck. The family had already brought the body down before the police reached the spot.The SI said his postmortem was conducted after constituting a medical board here on Sunday. His viscera would be sent for chemical examination. The autopsy report would ascertain the exact cause of his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-yr-old-man-found-dead-wife-among-three-booked-for-murder-in-amritsar-140993
14-09-2020||Open House||Local body officials can help dispel fear around testing||Lack of education to blame for issue?In private labs, results of the samples were shown as positive whereas in reality they were negative. This led to doubts in minds of people. Private hospitals charged exorbitant rates for treatment of infected patients and state government took no action against such erring private institutions. Rumours like increase in number of patients to get national or international financial assistance or important body organs are taken out while providing treatment to the patient. The state government took no steps to remove such doubts. It should have taken the help of the industrial associations and gram panchayats. Meanwhile, poor infrastructure at government care centres further added to the woes. Last but not the least, the reason for people not voluntarily coming forward for testing is lack of education.Harsh N JoharTesting method is superfluousSample collection of all for Covid testing is much superfluous. Only those who have symptoms like dry cough, fever, loss of taste and smell etc should be tested. In villages, panchayats and in cities councillors and welfare societies of colonies should take responsibility to educate the residents in their areas about this. This will save time and energy of various departments to tackle this issue.Santokh Singh DhillonMore facilities needed to curb virus spreadPatients being treated at government hospitals have been complaining of lack of facilities. That is the reason people are opposing sampling. Private labs are costly and charge Rs2500 for a test. Not only this, private labs have also issued false reports of patients just to make money. The pandemic has already dried up savings of many and then such unscrupulous activities crop up. Nowadays, humanity is no more there. The government has become deaf and dumb; they are least bothered. In fact, government itself is busy minting money.Shailja ThakurPersuasion and not coercion will workPeople in villages and industrial areas are opposing sample collection because of the widespread rumours. It is said that the government receives Rs3 lakh per patient from the WHO. So, the government deliberately declares many infected to increase the number of patients. Secondly, it is rumoured that people admitted in government hospitals are intentionally ill-treated to pass away and internal organs are then extracted to sell them in the market under a racket. Thirdly, their contention is that when there is no vaccine and medicine for cure then why people are being admitted to hospitals. Fourthly, sheer lack of facilities in government hospitals recently ratified by an MLA as reported by The Tribune dated September 7. Hence, to motivate the people for testing the government must intervene to nullify. The facilities in government hospitals should be drastically improved to make them people-friendly. Hygiene should be given top priority. Rumour mills working overtime should be brought to a grinding halt. Persuasion not coercion can cajole people to get them tested.Tarsem S BumrahRumours could worsen SituationAs the focus of Punjab’s Covid-19 battle shifts to rural areas, the state Health Department is up against an unlikely adversary – villages that refuse to be part of mass sampling drives to contain the spread. There is some news of negligence on part of heath authorities. The health teams are battling against this misinformation. This scare has grown so much that villagers refuse to sampling. Moreover, they are not able to understand that asymptomatic patients can be carriers as well. The mistrust has grown so much that the district health authorities are confronted with life threatening acts. The situation could worsen if the negative propaganda against health workers isn’’t brought to a halt. The time has come when leading members of village community including panchayats come forward and educate village people for testing and treatment.Amarjit KalsiConduct random tests to fight the pandemicDuring this time of Pandemic, it is very important that random testing should be done so that the disease can be contained as early as possible. But, some people are trying to oppose sample collection for testing. This issue can be solved by meticulous intervention from the government. It should make proper plans for testing and area wise schedule should be informed to the people through newspapers, radios and online websites. The testing should be conducted in supervision of the sarpanch village as they can better interact with the people and help doctors in sample collection. In industrial areas, help of trade unions, labour unions and industrial associations so can be taken so that labour class could cooperate in testing. It should educate people and make them understand that the testing will help to contain the uncontrolled spread. There is a common fear among people that if tested positive, they will be forcibly admitted to hospitals but the government should aware people about home isolation and assure people that nobody would be forced to do so.Ashray GuptaQUESTIONThe Covid-induced lockdown has changed the trend of wedding ceremonies in India. The celebrations, which earlier used to be fancy, big-budget, colourful and elaborate, are now turning into a low-key affair. Do you think the trend is for good and should continue even post-Covid?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 17).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/local-body-officials-can-help-dispel-fear-around-testing-140994
14-09-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar MC foils bid to encroach land||1 booked for cheating manTarn Taran: The Valtoha police have booked Vikas Sharma, a resident of New Tagore Nagar, Ludhiana, under Section 420 of the IPC for defrauding a resident of Mehmudpur village here of Rs 20 lakh. The victim, 50-year-old Bikaramjit Singh of Mehmudpur village, in his complaint to the police stated that the accused lured him by offering to help him in getting an SUV (Land Cruiser) and got the amount in advance. The accused neither got the SUV issued in his name nor returned his money. The police have registered a case. OCNavjot Kaur’s twitter salvoAmritsar: After the Supreme Court has expressed its dismay over pending criminal cases against politicians, Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, the wife of estranged Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, in a tweet, has drawn attention towards senior Akali leader Virsa Singh Valtoha’s statement in the Vidhan Sabha in 2014 “that he was, is and will remain a terrorist”. Valtoha has been named as accused in the three-decade old murder case of Sudarshan Trehan in Patti. Valtoha was elected MLA twice without being acquitted in the 1983 Dr Trehan murder case. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-foils-bid-to-encroach-land-140995
14-09-2020||Amritsar||Religious bodies firm on holding stir at Diwan Hall in Golden Temple complex||Unmindful of SGPC’s warning against holding any protest at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex, the Satkar Committee and other organisations are adamant on holding their protest there tomorrow against the SGPC for its “failure” in ensuring the sanctity of Guru Granth Sahib “saroops”.On the other hand, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall was a religious site for holding ‘gurmat’ programmes and discussions, not for holding demonstrations. He had also asked the Satkar Committee to furnish details of the ‘saroops’ that were taken into their possession to date at the first instance.In the backdrop, the disappearance of ‘saroops’ from the possession of the SGPC in connivance with some of its staff members and officials had created an uproar. Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee head Balbir Singh Muchhal said Gurdwara Manji Sahib was not a personal site of the SGPC and hence he could not restrict anyone’s access. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/religious-bodies-firm-on-holding-stir-at-diwan-hall-in-golden-temple-complex-140924
