14-12-2020||---||With season’s first fog, weather takes sudden turn||Amritsar, December 13Showers on Friday night and the first fog of the season on Sunday morning has brought a considerable dip in the daytime temperature.The sunlight remained unavailable for most part of the day on Sunday due to clouds and foggy weather.The sudden turn in the weather has increased the chill in the air and its visible impact was seen in the market places.“Until now, the day temperature was high as there was ample sunlight every day. People are enjoying the change in weather,” said Surjit Kaur, a homemaker.Showers have made the farming community happy, as it was time for most of them to apply first irrigation to their fields.“With erratic power supply, farmers have to remain awake during the night to irrigate their fields. With many farmers already in Delhi, the rain has made the job easy for those left behind,” said Satnam Singh, a farmer.Though residents of rural areas are worried as their near and dear ones are braving the harsh weather in Delhi, the decrease in temperature has failed to dampen the spirits.The moderate fog in the region has also come as a warning sign for commuters.“Though it decreased the visibility, the fog was not very dense today. It generally is moderate on the first day and then it starts growing dense,” said Kirpal Singh, a bus driver.He said people should check their vehicles for the front and back lights, which could help in avoiding accidents during the fog.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-seasons-first-fog-weather-takes-sudden-turn-184076
14-12-2020||---||Trains cancelled, short-originated, diverted due to continuous blockade||Amritsar, December 13 The Railways has cancelled a pair of trains, short-originated many and diverted four trains due to the continuous rail blockade. The 05531 Saharsa-Amritsar Express special train remained cancelled on Sunday. Consequently, the 05532 Amritsar-Saharsa special train will also remain cancelled on Monday. The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express was short-terminated at New Delhi. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded Express will short-originate from New Delhi on December 15 and remain partially cancelled between New Delhi-Amritsar-New Delhi. The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express will be short-terminated at Chandigarh. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express will short-originate from Chandigarh on December 15 and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh-Amritsar-Chandigarh. The 04652 Amritsar -Jaynagar Express special train was short-originated from Ambala JCO on Sunday and the 04651 Jayanagar-Amritsar Express special train was short-terminated at Ambala on Sunday.  The 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express, 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express, the 04649 / 73 Jaynagar-Amritsar Express and 04650 /74 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express were diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trains-cancelled-short-originated-diverted-due-to-continuous-blockade-184077
14-12-2020||---||Asked why he was making rounds in colony, youth opens fire at two||Amritsar, December 13Asking a youth why he was making rounds in the locality proved costly for two residents of Fateh Singh Colony, as he shot at them following a verbal spat.The injured have been identified as Sunny Pal Singh and Damodar Sahib, while the perpetrator was yet to be identified. The police have booked the unidentified person on the charges of murder bid and Arms Act. The police were examining the CCTV cameras installed in the locality to find the clues about him.One of the victims Sunny Pal Singh stated to the police that on Saturday around 5 pm he was standing outside his house, when he noticed a youth making several rounds in the street.He said as he got suspicious about his movement, he stopped and asked him about the reason behind making rounds in the street. The accused got enraged and started arguing with him.The youth took out a pistol and shot at him. The bullet passed bruising his thigh. He said Damodar Sahib, another resident of the area, came out to rescue him. He tried chasing the youth who fired again at him. The bullet hit his leg.Hearing the gunshots, people came out and raised an alarm. The accused fled the spot. Damodar Sahib who received injury on his leg was taken to the Civil Hospital for treatment.Sub-Inspector Dilbagh Singh, Investigating Officer and in-charge Anngarh police chowki, said the police examined CCTV cameras in the area, but could not find the clue about the perpetrator of crime as the images were blurry. He said a case under Sections 323 and 307 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against unknown person and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asked-why-he-was-making-rounds-in-colony-youth-opens-fire-at-two-184078
14-12-2020||Amritsar||51 fresh cases reported in district||The district health authorities reported 51 new cases on Sunday. With this, the total count has increased to 13,942. The district reported no deaths due to the Covid-19 today.The new cases include 33 influenza like illness cases and 18 contacts of positive patients.It has reported a total of 526 deaths till date. Meanwhile, with recovery of 51 patients, the recovery count has reached 12,606. At present, active cases reached 810.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/51-fresh-cases-reported-in-district-184079
14-12-2020||Amritsar||Drug peddler shoots self with country-made gun||An alleged drug peddler, identified as Sajan, alias Bablu, committed suicide by shooting himself with a country-made weapon at Devidaspura village here on Saturday. The police said he was facing seven cases under the NDPS Act and had come out on bail. His brother Rahul, alias Dana, was a gangster who had around 27 criminal cases registered against him. He was currently in jail. Harchand Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said he shot himself with a country-made weapon, which was seized by the police. The weapon was provided to him by his brother Rahul. He said inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC had been started and the body was handed over to the family after a postmortem. Sajan used to run an auto-rickshaw. He said he was heavily drunk when he returned home. After coming home, he entered his room and shot himself. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-shoots-self-with-country-made-gun-184080
14-12-2020||---||Surgeons express solidarity with protesting farmers||Amritsar: The Surgeons Society of Amritsar (SSA) has expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers and urged the Central Government to accept the protesting farmers’ demands. Society president Dr Gurvinder Singh on Sunday said lakhs of farmers from all across the country were protesting peacefully for their just demands for the last more than two months. He said initially the government was not ready to listen to their genuine grievances. The SSA said the farmers were forced to intensify their fight and march to Delhi just to make the officials sit across the table for talks. Dr Gurvinder Singh said the demands of the farming community should be met at the earliest so that they could return to their homes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/surgeons-express-solidarity-with-protesting-farmers-184081
14-12-2020||Amritsar||Motorcycle rally in support of farmers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motorcycle-rally-in-support-of-farmers-184082
14-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||3 cops suspended, judicial probe begins‘||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 13Three cops were suspended in the incident in which Pritam Singh (57), a resident of Makam village, allegedly ended his life at Kamboh police station on Friday night.The incident came to light on Saturday morning, when the cops allegedly found him hanging from the iron grills in the storeroom of the police station.Meanwhile, a judicial probe has commenced in the case. Judicial Magistrate first class Rajan Aneja was entrusted with the probe.Those placed under suspension include ASI Inderjit Kumar, constable Kulwant Singh and Harjit Singh.DSP Baldev Singh confirmed the development and said further action would be taken after the completion of probe. He said the postmortem was conducted by a medical board on Sunday and the entire process was video-graphed.Victim Pritam Singh was allegedly arrested by the police on the charge of possessing intoxicants. The family members of the deceased alleged that he was kept under illegal detention as no case was registered against him.The family members alleged that the police nabbed Pritam and his brother-in-law Sawinder Singh was arrested for allegedly possessing intoxicants. However, no case was registered against him. They said they got a call from the police on Saturday that Pritam has ended his life.The police said on Friday evening he felt uneasiness in the lock up and therefore he was shifted to the store room by the night munshi, ASI Inderjit Kumar, where he committed suicide. In the morning he was found hanging with the iron grill of the store room.The CaseVictim Pritam Singh was allegedly arrested by the police on the charge of possessing intoxicants. His family alleged that he was kept under illegal detention as no case was registered against him. They said the police nabbed Pritam and his brother-in-law Sawinder Singh was arrested for allegedly possessing intoxicants. However, no case was registered against him. They said they got a call from the police on Saturday that Pritam has ended his life. The police said on Friday evening he felt uneasiness in the lock up and therefore he was shifted to the store room by the night munshi, ASI Inderjit Kumar, where he committed suicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-cops-suspended-judicial-probe-begins-184083
14-12-2020||---||Farmers’ stir hits small-scale units||Amritsar, December 13 City-based small-scale industries manufacturing screw, nail, nut and bolt continue to face the shortage of raw material due to the farmers’ prolonged agitation and the shortage of iron ore in the country. The price of iron ore being supplied in shape of rods has increased by Rs 12,000 per tonne, escalating their investment cost. On the other hand, the rates of finished products remain unchanged due to the lack of demand. The export of hardware goods has also suffered a beating. A couple of local units export these to the US and Canada. Ramesh Sahdev, a leading exporter, said, “My 10 containers got stuck in Ludhiana during the ‘rail roko’ movement by farmers and I had to pay Rs 60,000 more per container to re-route and dispatch them by road.” He lamented that companies hiked the steel prices by about 40 per cent, citing uncontrollable factors. Samir Goyal, a leading manufacturer of hardware products, said the demand for these products had fallen by half as compared to the contemporary period last year. He said post lockdown there were a large number of small units which perished due to high investment cost, scarcity of labour, rise in the cost of raw material vis-a-vis low demand in the market. On the other hand, he claimed big players like JSPL and JSW were earning a moolah as the value of their shares increased by 300 per cent during this period. Goyal said in such a scenario MSME units would take a hit as they neither had enough storage space for raw materials and finished products.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-stir-hits-small-scale-units-184084
14-12-2020||---||Joint welfare assn formed to seek development in colonies||Amritsar, December 13Residents of four residential colonies Swiss City, Swiss Land, Swiss Green and Roseland on Sunday formed a joint Swiss Colonies Welfare Association (SCWA) to press for their long-pending demands for uniform development and public works in the areas.Dr Kashmir Singh Khunda was unanimously elected as president, while Sukhbans Bala and Kashmir Singh were elected as vice-presidents. The new team would press for the amenities in the colonies which are vying for basic facilities including proper roads, water supply, sanitation, security and maintenance of parts and streets. The SCWA expressed concerns over the rising incidents of daylight thefts in the colonies and demanded police action and patrolling.Senior residents Harjinder Singh Bamrah and Gurmukh Singh were elected as patrons, while Prof BS Randhawa, Dr Raj Sukhjinder Singh Kaler, Avtar Singh Bath and JP Singh were elected as advisers.Dr Sukhdev Singh, Dr Vinay Sukhija, Dalbir Singh Khalsa and Jatinder Singh would be disciplinary committee. The team of the other office-bearers included Gur Sahib Singh as general secretary, Amolak Singh, joint secretary, Vardhmaan Jain, joint secretary, Swinder Singh Bittu as political secretary.Karanbir Singh and Neha were elected as members of finance committee, while DS Rataul and Munish Singh would head the media panel.Other members of the executive included Gurjit Singh Aulakh, Kewal Kumar, Rachhpal Singh, Surinder Singh Gandiwind, Sardul Singh, Ashok Sharma, Charanjit Singh, Kanta Punj, Manjit Kaur, Parlaaj Singh, Ravi Pathania and Narinder Jain. Youth coordinators include Gautamjit Singh Warraich, Gaganjit Singh, Akal Paramjot Singh and Sunny Singh.The elected team pledged to follow up with the authorities concerned for the completion of development works in the given time, as they thanked Attari MLA Tarsem Singh DC and Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu for recent announcement of funds for the roads, installation of tube well and streetlights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-welfare-assn-formed-to-seek-development-in-colonies-184085
14-12-2020||Our Correspondent||7 couples tie knot at mass wedding||Tarn Taran, December 13Seven couples from underprivileged families tied the nuptial knot at a mass wedding function organised by a local social organization, the Citizen Council (CC). The ceremony was solemnized according to Sikh rites.Local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, who was the chief guest at the function, appreciated the good cause of office-bearers of the CC taking interests in social welfare activities. The MLA released a grant of Rs 1 lakh for the CC.Avtar SinghTaneja, president of the CC, said daily usable articles were given to the newlywed couples as gifts. Many donors of the area liberally donated for the noble cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-couples-tie-knot-at-mass-wedding-184086
14-12-2020||How can the city roads be made safe for pedestrians and commuters?||Pedestrian-friendly roads need of the hour||Need to curb menace of drunken drivingAlmost all the roads and footpaths in the city have been encroached upon by vendors, thus leaving no space for pedestrians. As commuters park their vehicles on roads, traffic jams occur often in most parts of the city. A high number of people lose their lives on roads every year because of rash driving, minors at the wheel, drunken driving and using phone while driving. Thus the MC should take steps to remove encroachments to make roads safer for commuters and pedestrians. To ensure compliance of road rules, the traffic police should be deputed to regulate traffic. Rules should be followed in all earnest and fellow road users should be encouraged to do so as well. People should drive slow and should give pedestrians the right of way. Roads should be properly constructed so that traffic moves in a hassle-free manner. The safest roads are found in Sweden, Ireland, Romania and Bulgaria. And best quality roads are found in Switzerland, Netherlands, France, Austria and Portugal. The administration should borrow a leaf or two from these countries to improve the pitiable condition of roads. It is easier to blame the authorities concerned, but how many of us actually follow rules in letter and spirit. We should not drink and drive, should obey the speed limit, should not use cell phone when driving, should ensure that our vehicle is in roadworthy condition, should guard against distractions and should ensure that all vehicle occupants wear seat belts. Besides a more effective and efficient licensing procedure should be adopted to check the violation of basic safety requirements. Roads should be monitored regularly through CCTVs. Introduction or revision of speed limit after scientific assessment of stream speeds in different areas can help improve road safety. Also media should play an active role to make the citizens aware of road safety. Violators should be punished in an exemplary manner if the city roads are to be made safe for commuters and pedestrians.Tarsem S BumrahRoad safety remains a distant dreamThe biggest threat is presence of stray cattle on the roads. The authorities have failed to tackle the cattle menace. Massive potholes are also a major reason for unsafe roads. Commuters are equally responsible for accidents as they drive rashly, hardly obey traffic rules and still try to throw blame on the traffic police. How can they help us till we are not ready to help ourselves? Coming to the pedestrians, where should they walk, considering almost every footpath is encroached upon by shops and even push carts selling street food, fruits and vegetables. A news report quoted a shopkeeper who admitted that they pay the authorities concerned for using corridors and footpaths. In other words, how should we expect free footpaths, with such a scenario? Hence, pedestrians are forced to walk on the roadsides, which keep resulting in accidents. As I also walk a lot at times in the city, I often experience that how unsafe it is to walk on the road.Many a time, large vehicles pass really close. Till the Municipal Corporation will not ensure free footpaths, pedestrians will continue to remain unsafe and along with also commuters. Irony is that years come and go, safety on road continues to be a distant dream. But hope authorities concerned will wake up and at the same time, we should be as careful and responsible as possible.Rameshinder Singh SandhuOnus on authorities as well as citizensThe onus for safer roads must be as much on citizens as on the authorities. An application should be launched in which any citizen can click a picture or record a video of the bad road making it obligatory for the department concerned to take action within a stipulated time. An information board must be installed adjacent to every road in the city containing information about the contractor and supervising engineer of the road, thus forcing employees to do their job sincerely. Even CCTVs should be installed covering every road in the city so that any wrongdoing by unscruplous elements can be reported.Jatinderpal SinghUrgent Need to educate motoristsSince long, footpaths have been abandoned in the city. During construction of the BRTS project, some roads were widened, but the middle portion of those roads was kept reserved only for buses, which run almost empty. The widened brinks have been substantially encroached upon by push carts and kiosks. As a result, footpaths are being used for parking vehicles. A large number of vehicles, particularly two-wheelers almost choke the roads. To make the matters worse, almost 90 per cent people use their mobile phones, while commuting on their vehicles. The rest have earphones active, while driving. So, nobody can expect safety from a blind driver. Locally modified vehicles, including small trucks and gharhukas also have a free run on the roads along with unroadworthy school buses. Underage kids also recklessly drive vehicles. Earlier, there used to be no driving test for granting a licence. Now, one has to undergo a test, but driving license can be made by paying hefty money to circumvent rules. Moroever, the post of the District Transport Officer has been changed to the Secretary RTA. Minister for Surface Transport Nitin Gadkari once said driving licences were still being made illegally and his driver had more than one such licence. The traffic police hardly does any other exercise than collecting fines. Annual road safety weeks prove only as cosmetic rituals.The entire road safety regime is a moth-eaten entity and needs to be rebuilt by educating civic and driving sense right from the beginning by curbing of locally fabricated vehicles, motivating and equipping the regulator for honestly enforcing law and by providing roads without encroachments.Hardish SandhuThose in power often misuse traffic rulesGlobally, road accidents are the leading cause of death. If we look closer home, so many people lose their lives on roads every year due to rash driving, minors behind the wheel, drunken driving and countless other factors. Stringent actions are prerequisite to curb violation of road safety. Hefty fines should be charged whoever flouts the rules. Rules are same for all, but in Punjab there is a trend of VIP culture. For instance, if someone is a kin of any minister, MP or an MLA, he can jump the signal and no action is taken against them. Politicians and rich brats misuse their position and whenever allegations are made against them, they always get a clean chit. This only shows how hollow the system is and how politicians think they have the right to exploit anything.Saahil HansPotholes dot city roadsI am a resident of Amritsar and there are massive potholes. Commuters face a lot of problem while commuting on the potholed stretches, especially during monsoon. There should be a separate committee for recarpeting the roads. The government should make a concentrated effort for maintenance of roads in the city and in rural areas as well.IzleenMake the city pedestrian-friendlyI am a government employee who has been recently transferred to Amritsar from from Kolkata. I feel very unsafe while walking in the city as footpaths have been encroached upon. In Kolkata, we have separate footpaths for pedestrians. Paver blocks should be used to make footpaths to make the city pedestrian-friendly.Debarati23 black spots in city, seven in rural areasNumerous steps are required to make the roads commuters and pedestrian-friendly. There are 23 black spots in the city and seven in rural areas. The Ministry of Road Transport declares an area a black spot if any stretch of 500 metres witnesses more than five accidents in three consecutive years. The city roads are full of potholes. The pedestrian way on Rego bridge was blocked with barbed wire for safety reasons around a decade ago, but no step has been taken to set the path right for pedestrians. Crossing one-way road is quite difficult in Hall Bazaar, Katra Sher Singh, Cooper Road and Queens Road. Zebra crossings with blinkers should be used in the city extensively for safety of pedestrians. Haphazardly parked vehicles on the road sides create lot of problem for commuters. Under the Smart City project, parking sensors were installed at Novely chowk, but it failed. Private vehicles are frequently seen moving in the designated corridor for the BRTS and the traffic police should challan the violators. To generate funds for its development projects, the Municipal Corporation is inviting tenders for parking lots. While doing so, they are converting the roads into parking lots.Harsh N JoharQUESTIONWith the Covid threat looming large and farmers out on the roads in large numbers, should the Central Government expedite talks and resolve the agri crisis at the earliest?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 17).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pedestrian-friendly-roads-need-of-the-hour-184088
14-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Two held with illegal weapon||Husband booked under IT ActTarn Taran: A woman has accused her husband of circulating her objectionable pictures on social media platforms by claiming that she was a ‘third gender’. This he did to break up the marriage, she claimed. The police have booked her husband and his two female relatives under charges of criminal conspiracy and the IT Act. The accused were identified as Harmeet Singh, his sister-in-law (elder brother’s wife) Jasbir Kaur of Jalalabad village and sister Bhupinder Kaur of Khanpur in Amritsar. DSP Sucha Singh said the victim, Rajbir Kaur (27), was married to Harmeet Singh six months ago. The victim after three months of the marriage went to see her parents in Nagoke village. “Her husband refused to bring her back saying that she was ‘third gender”, alleges Rajbir Kaur in her complaint to the police. She alleged that her husband in connivance with other accused circulated pictures of her private parts on different social media groups from his mobile number to break marriage by defaming her. She had also complaint to the administrator, Sakhi One Stop Centre Anita Kumari, and to SSP Dhruman H Nimbale. The Verwoal police have registered a case under Sections 66-A and 67-A of the IT Act and Section 120-B of the IPC, while the accused are at large. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-illegal-weapon-184089
