14-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Potholed & ignored — tale of stretch from Golden Gate to Bhandari bridge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 13Considered as the lifeline of Amritsar, the main entrance road of holy city further leading to elevated road has been left in hands of fate, ignored by the MC and leads only to people’s woes.While the road is dotted with some big potholes near the Mall of Amritsar, it is also a bumpy ride for the two-wheelers due to its uneven surface. Fortunately, the condition of elevated road is somewhat better but if someone travels from beneath it, one has to face pounds of dust because of new under construction road dividers.A visit to the 5 km stretch reflects MC’s negligence as patch work at particular point can be seen. “The authorities have done patch work here but you can see another big pothole just a few meters before the elevated road near the Mall of Amritsar. It is ironical that they could not see this,” said Munish Kumar, a resident of nearby Partap Nagar area, who frequently uses the road to reach old walled city for work. “The entrance of flyover at Taran Wala Pull was also in bad shape,” he added.OfficialspeakAs far as the elevated road is concerned, it falls under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation. The stretch would have patch work done whenever the pothole is there. The road was laid in 2016 when BRTS project was executed. It is recarpeted after every five years and therefore recarpeting would be done after one year. — JS Sodhi, XEN, Public Works DepartmentA shopkeeper near commencing point of the elevated road said that a couple of months ago there was a big depression. The point can be called a major road engineering defect as water gets accumulated here every year during monsoons. The standing rain water damages the road thereby creating big potholes.Saktar Singh, another resident of the area, said that during the lockdown they would travel from beneath the elevated road. “Due to no traffic or rush it was a pleasant drive. But since the unlocking phase, traffic resumed, pounds of dust could be seen at the 3 km stretch beneath the elevated road. New road dividers were being constructed under Smart City project due to which a lot of dust gathered on the road. The experience of commuting was close to hell,” he added.Arwinder Singh, a resident of Golden Avenue, pointed out that apart from fissures, the road is a bumpy ride due to uneven surface indicating authorities’ uncaring quality of work done while laying roads. “Commuting on the stretch from Golden Gate to the inter-state bus terminus on main GT Road is a terrible experience,” he said. The new road was laid following construction of Bus Rapid Transit System, an ambitious project of previous SAD-BJP government three years ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/potholed-ignored-%E2%80%94-tale-of-stretch-from-golden-gate-to-bhandari-bridge-155390
14-10-2020||---||Farmers prepare for long haul||Amritsar, October 13 After 31 farmer unions agreed to hold talks with the Centre on Wednesday related to the farm laws, most farmers at the grassroots-level were preparing for a long haul as they felt that the meeting would not address the core issues. The farmers’ agitation being held at Buttari railway station on Amritsar-Jalandhar route entered the 13th day on Tuesday. Agitators said farm laws brought by the Centre would exploit farmers by purchasing their produce at lower rates and on the contrary, consumers would be forced to pay more due to monopoly of certain corporate firms. Farmers complained that at a time when they were demanding implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report, which could have helped augment their income, the Central Government has brought in the draconian farm laws.  Farmers protesting outside the Bharatiya Janata Party MP Shwait Malik’s residence were in no mood to relent.  Meanwhile, the protest at Devi Daspura village has entered the 20th day. Numerous farmers have been protesting at toll plazas on the national highways and at petrol pumps of Reliance. Farm leaders, including Daljit Singh Dayalpur, Dharminder Singh Qila, Yudhvir Singh Sarja, Baba Mahinder Singh Weinpuin and Ratan Singh Madhar led the protest. Farmers also paid homage to Nazir Singh Saidhpur, a leader of the peasant movement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-prepare-for-long-haul-155391
14-10-2020||Stories that inspire||Riding on the wings of dream, he is sure of reaching destination||Neha SainiTribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 13There is no doubt that life works in its own strange ways. Some find it sooner, some later. For Rahul, the revelation came during the lockdown period. His dream of opening an eatery was locked away as a result.The 20-year-old had been looking to set up his own business as he had a considerable experience in cooking. But the restrictive times knocked this option out of his life. He had been working with a local library-cum-book cafe, managing their kitchen. “I had been in that job for almost over a year before the lockdown and I was planning to begin my own tuck-in eating joint when it was announced. I had to sit without a job, with no salary for the entire period. It was really difficult to support my family,” he shares.But dreamers are dreamers. And he just won’t give in that easily. Eventually, he decided to change tracks and started vegetable vending business by renting a small spot in the posh Civil Lines area. “I had a friend who was already working as a vegetable vendor,” he says. The person told him that he could get a spot, without much hassle, in that locality as there were not many vendors available in that area after the lockdown. “Now, I run my own vegetable vending business along with my brother, who helps in sometimes,” he tells. Rahul also takes rounds of nearby localities like White Avenue to earn extra.Youngest of three siblings, his brother works as a delivery boy with a leading pizza chain and another one is out of work. With such meagre earnings it is hard to support a family for sure, but that never choked his yearning of a small-time eatery. “I used to earn a salary of Rs7500 per month in my last job. Currently, I get somewhere between Rs5000-6000 per month by selling vegetables. My focus now is to keep working as a vendor and open my own shop within a few months. I don’t want to go back to working for someone else. At least there is a possibility of growing my own small business,” he is relentless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/riding-on-the-wings-of-dream-he-is-sure-of-reaching-destination-155392
14-10-2020||---||Child begging menace reaches alarming proportions||Amritsar, October 13There has been a big rise in child begging after the lockdown with children being seen present at every traffic light point, marketplace, outside schools and colleges and shops.One can spot groups of children begging at Kabir Park market situated opposite Guru Nanak Dev University, market areas of Ranjit Avenue, Lawrence road, eating joints on the Queen’s road, Cooper Road, Mall Mandi Chowk, markets inside the Hall Gate.The number of children begging on roads, especially girls, has sharply increased on roads after the lockdown. They keep pestering people until they give some money to them.Balram Kumar Sharma, president, Punjab Sudhar Sabha, said, “The problem has become more aggravating after the lifting of the lockdown. The people behind these groups of children are trying to cash in on the emotions of people which were shaped up by the stories of people helping others in distress.”He said a good gesture was to provide them good education. Though India had introduced the Right to Education Act way back in 2010, which gives legal guarantee to provide free and compulsory education to children, these children were seen wandering on roads and seeking alms. They do not go to any school. They look fit to be enrolled in pre-primary and primary classes.The Right to Education law, providing free and compulsory schooling to children in the 6-14 year age bracket came into force on April 1, 2010. Yet no sincere efforts were being noticed on the part of the departments concerned to enrol them to provide mandatory and free of cost education.Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC, said the District Child Protection unit had been asked to immediately check this and take action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/child-begging-menace-reaches-alarming-proportions-155393
14-10-2020||        ---||CII organises virtual session on strengthening cyber security||Amritsar, October 13 Scourge of cyber crimes and modus operandi of threat attackers were discussed threadbare in the CII virtual session on Strengthening Cyber Security: Prevention: Detection: Remediation.  Naavniit Miterr, Chairman, CII Amritsar Zonal Council, moderated the session and highlighted the biggest challenges faced by businesses and society due to cyber crime. Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Police Commissioner, said the cybercrime was one of the emerging fields which was very important to be taken care of. Currently, social media, child pornography, revenge porn, fraudulent banking transactions and phone hacking were the most concerning issues for the police with regard to cybercrime.  While summing up, he motivated the CII to work hand in hand with police so that the issues from industry perspective could be dealt effectively.  Avneet Rana, cofounder and Siddharth Vijay from Baazi Games apprised the audience the concept of dark web and cloud computing. Siddharth highlighted the dos and don’ts to keep the data safe on internet. Trishneet Arora, CEO, TAC Security, while interacting with participants said the cyber criminals were a step ahead in cyber attacks than before any combat measure was taken. Breaking the stereotype reflex action of reporting to police first, Trishneet made the industry members aware of the difference between cyber attack and cyber crime and when to report to police or cyber expert.  Toshar Dhar, regional head, risk intelligence, HDFC Bank, along with his colleague Vijay Kumar, shared the presentation on various types of threats being faced by financial institutions such as phishing, ATM skimming, credit card fraudulent, UPI related and the most prevalent smishing.  Vijay shared the preventive measures to be followed for dodging any such attempt of cyber attack. While thanking everyone for taking out time to attend the session, Rajiv Sajdeh, vice-chairman, Amritsar Zonal Council, said it was very important for financial institutions to stay informed about the latest threats and ready with actions of prevention, detection and remediation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cii-organises-virtual-session-on-strengthening-cyber-security-155394
14-10-2020||---||Amritsar boy develops web app for organic farmers||Amritsar, October 13As farmer protests rage across Punjab against the new farm laws, city lad Raghav Vashisht, a Class XII student of Wyneberg-Allen School, Mussoorie and a young developer, has set up a web/mobile app for the farmers called “Organic Farmers Connect”. The application is available on the Google play store. The young innovator said that the application would help improve the farm economics in India and ensure viable future for farmers. While speaking about his application Raghav said, “The team at Farmer Connect accepts that a secure cultivating future is fundamental and that we are to accomplish long haul supplies of sheltered and quality raw materials. We require understanding of farmer needs and the app will assist farmers with tending to their difficulties. To provide full assistance to the farmers, our app ‘Farmer Connect’ and the web portal ‘www.organicfarmersconnect.com’ has been set up.”He said that Farmer Connect will permit the farmers delivering organic produce and get the full value of their hard work. “Also, it has been a shared effort with the network of more than 100 farmers, at present,” he informed. Farmer Connect encourages the farmers to develop a network of supply-demand, with accentuation on natural items, which advances the healthy and nutritious eating. Furthermore, the online interface www.orgaicfarmersconnect.com without focusing on monetary intrigue centres around directly making available the organically produced farm items to consumers. He had been working on developing the app during lockdown. “Around the globe, the cultivating population and the rural communities in which they live are maturing. We can progressively hope to see this affect our flexible chain. Numerous farmers face monetary issues coming about because of truly low food costs and are managing the impacts of environmental change. The Organic Farmer Connect underpins the farmers who cultivate organic products, to address these difficulties and manages to let their products reach the right consumers through an online platform. This activity would help settle on agribusiness an alluring profession decision for youngsters, which is fundamental to guaranteeing a sustainable support to our farm economies,” said Raghav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-boy-develops-web-app-for-organic-farmers-155395
14-10-2020||---||Crying for help: Residents of Swiss, Roseland colonies living in uninhabitable conditions||Amritsar, October 13Residents of Swiss and Roseland colonies are a perturbed lot as the government is not providing civic amenities. Both colonies are situated together on the Ramtirath by-pass.In the absence of civic amenities, they are living in uninhabitable conditions. Amenities like proper roads, power supply, street lights, security, sewerage, cleanliness and maintenance of parks, roads, proper boundary walls are not provided.Dharminder Singh Rataul, a resident of the colony, said developers had sold out most of the commercial plots and seemed to be packing up, caring less to ensure the provision of amenities. As per the law, they are duty bound to provide the facilities. This is bringing a bad name to PUDA also.Laying sewerage lines without proper outflow is causing insanitary conditions in the so-called promised planned colony. So the residents are forced to put the outlet in adjoining plots.Cleanliness and maintenance of parks and footpaths and removal of haphazard growth of wild grass are yet to be done. He also sought the provision of water supply.Dr Vinay Sukhija, another resident said, PUDA handed over the colony to the municipal corporation. “A security of Rs 27 lakh in the form of bank guarantees submitted by the real estate developer of these colonies was with the government. In case the promoters fail to complete the works, the government could confiscate the amount to provide the residents with basic amenities.He said in case the government did not take care of their needs, then they would be compelled to move court.Dr Sukhija, who is also president of a residential association of the colony, said the developers of the colony had not completed the development works as per their agreement with the PUDA. “The developers are not completing the works which as per the written agreement, they are bound to do,” said Dr Sukhija.Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA), said she directed the staff to look into the complaint. She said it was also to verify whether the colony fell under the jurisdiction of the MCA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crying-for-help-residents-of-swiss-roseland-colonies-living-in-uninhabitable-conditions-155396
14-10-2020||---||Around 3,000 street vendors register for availing loans in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 13Officials of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation claimed that the city registered highest number of street vendors to avail loan under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi). Jaswinder Singh, Nodal Officer for the PM SVANidhi at the MC said more than 3,000 street vendors had been registered for micro-credit facility.The Centre had launched the PM SVANidhi to provide Rs 10,000 to street vendors as initial working capital to revive their businesses, which suffered setback in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. Initially, the MC got a lukewarm response to the scheme. Jaswinder and his team organised camps to create awareness among vendors and facilitate them at the MC zonal offices.The government has constituted a high-power committee of senior officials to review the ongoing process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/around-3-000-street-vendors-register-for-availing-loans-in-amritsar-155397
14-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Rifle, jewellery and cash stolen||Police martyrs week from oct 15Amritsar: In order to mark the police martyrs week starting from October 15, the local police will organise online competitions, including debate/quiz contests, writing and poster making competitions in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Police Commissioner, said that 120 cops had attained martyrdom while fighting with terrorists during heydays of militancy in Punjab. He said October 21 is observed as martyrdom day by state police, army and paramilitary forces. During the day they pay rich tributes to the martyrs. TNSMan escapes unhurt in firingTarn Taran: Ranjit Singh, a resident of Pindian village, was allegedly shot at by a resident of the same village on Monday. However, he escaped unhurt. Ranjit, in his complaint to the police, said that Arwinder Singh fired at him when he was at his shop and fled. The Verowal police have registered a case under Sections 307, 506 and 427 of the IPC, 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rifle-jewellery-and-cash-stolen-155400
14-10-2020||---||Dishonoured cheques: Eight Amritsar MC staffers chargesheeted||Amritsar, October 13Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) Commissioner Komal Mittal today chargesheeted eight employees of property tax wing for not recovering charges after cheques got dishonoured.A large number of cheques deposited by residents to pay house and property tax during 2013-14 to 2017-18 were dishonoured. There were around 150 cheques amounting to Rs 50 lakh, which were dishonoured. During an audit in 2019, the MC officials found that these cheques were in record, but the amount was not recovered. The then MC Commissioner Sonali Giri ordered to charegsheet employees concerned, who failed to recover the charges.Pardeep Rajput, Nodal Officer for property tax said, “Some of the employees have retired. Now, eight of them are working with us. The Commissioner chargsheeted them and asked to visit the tax payers and recover the dues.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dishonoured-cheques-eight-amritsar-mc-staffers-chargesheeted-155401
14-10-2020||---||Double suicide case: Hunt on to nab absconding SI||Amritsar, October 13The Jandiala police on Tuesday took the video and audio recordings and chat recordings of Vikramjit Singh into possession from the city police for further investigation into the double suicide case in which Vikramjit and his wife ended their lives after being blackmailed and harassed by Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur and her unknown accomplices.The police have registered an abetment to suicide case against her and her identified accomplices. She has been suspended and the department has written for her dismissal from service to the higher police authorities.Harchand Singh, SHO, Jandiala police station, said that DSP Sukhwinder Pal Singh visited the spot and verified the details of the case. He said police teams had been raiding the suspected hideouts of the SI who has been evading arrest since the incident.Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller and resident of Nawa Pind village, had committed suicide in a hotel room in Amritsar on Saturday while his wife Sukhbir Kaur ended her life in the house on Sunday. Vikramjit in his video message and suicide notes recovered from the spot had accused the SI of blackmailing and harassing him. He had alleged that the accused extorted Rs 18 lakh from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-suicide-case-hunt-on-to-nab-absconding-si-155402
14-10-2020||---||One succumbs to Covid, 52 new infections in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 13One more person succumbed to the contagion, taking the tally to 422 in the district on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Kulbir Singh, a 74-year-old resident of Salempur village. The deceased was admitted to a private hospital as he was suffering from pneumonia.The district also reported 52 new positive cases. With new case, the total count of infections here has increased to 11,260. The new cases include 26 persons having influenza-like illness cases and 26 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with 129 recoveries, the total recovery count has reached 10,177. At present, the district has a total of 661 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-succumbs-to-covid-52-new-infections-in-amritsar-district-155404
14-10-2020||---||Teams constituted to conduct NTSE on Dec 2, says DEO||Amritsar, October 13The District Education Officer has constituted teams to conduct the National Talent Search Examination across the state on December 2.Teams comprising officials, schoolheads and teachers have been formed to motivate students and parents.District Education Officer (Secondary) Satinder Bir Singh has been appointed as District Project Director and Deputy District Education Officer, Harbhagwant Singh has been appointed as District Project Coordinator (NTSE) for smooth conduct and monitoring of examination in the district.In addition, district mentor, block mentor and school heads had been appointed as district, block and school project coordinators, respectively. The DEO said officials/staff appointed by the department would identify students appearing for the examination from schools. “We will provide coaching to students to prepare for the exam,” he added.He said a five-member committee of teachers constituted by the head office in Mohali, would prepare auxiliary material and upload it on Punjab Educare app, which would be useful for students.As per the instructions issued by the department, the District Project Director would hold a review meeting with the district-level team after a three-day period to monitor and inspect the project and provide scholarship to successful students.There is no limit on the number of students in this examination and students of Class X from government, semi-government, private and associate schools can take part in it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teams-constituted-to-conduct-ntse-on-dec-2-says-deo-155405
14-10-2020||Vishav Bharti||Copyright row over Jallianwala painting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 13A controversy has erupted over the iconic Jallianwala Bagh painting as a local artist from Amritsar has claimed that it is his creation.Masterpiece commissioned by Dr MS Randhawa in 1970sJaswant Singh is known for his ‘ragmala’ series. He died in 1991The painting was one of the masterpieces of eminent artist Jaswant Singh and was selected by civil servant Dr MS Randhawa from various entries.Going by the posts on his Facebook account and web page, Atul Mehra, an artist from Amritsar, who presently heads one of the oldest schools of painting — the Indian Academy of Fine Arts in Amritsar — claimed “noteworthy paintings can be found at the Jallianwala Bagh Memorial in Amritsar. The 17.5-foot-long canvas depicts the stark reality of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.The vivid portrayal of General Dyer’s men shooting every Indian at sight wrenches the heart of every visitor to the memorial even today”.‘Moral offence’It is a moral and legal offence to copy a dead painter’s work, present it as your own and put it at the same public place where the original has been placed. — Harinder Singh, Jaswant Singh’s sonThe claims made by Mehra have left Jaswant Singh’s Delhi-based son Harinder Singh and daughter-in-law Aparna Caur in shock.“The painting was commissioned to my father by Dr MS Randhawa. Atul Mehra is blatantly bragging on Facebook that it is his painting. This is shameful on his part and also for the Punjab and the Central Government to allow such a malicious campaign. This is my father’s copyright because he is the creator of the painting,” Harinder said.He said the plaque displayed at the entrance for many years was written by Dr Randhawa in which one could see the creator’s name. “It is a moral and legal offence to copy a dead painter’s work, present it as your own and put it at the same public place where the original has been placed,” he said. Mehra said the painting was damaged by termites. Decades back, on the request of Sukumar Mukherjee, he had repaired the damaged painting. But when questioned how he could claim it was his creation, Mehra said since he had restored the painting, he had the right to call himself as its creator.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/copyright-row-over-jallianwala-painting-155423
14-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Coop bank fraud: Vigilance yet to get orders of full probe||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 13The Punjab Government move to shift investigation into the multi-crore cooperative bank fraud to the Vigilance Department has turned out to be a mere eyewash as the department is yet to get the orders of full investigation into the case.As per Vigilance officials, they have only received orders for holding an ‘enquiry’, implying they will not have the authority for search, arrest or preparing the final report in the alleged scam. It only allows them to ascertain the facts given in the FIR registered in the fraud in February.Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had shifted the probe to the Vigilance for detailed investigations into the fraud, involving bungling of government funds worth several crores by several cooperative societies.In February, the police had registered an FIR under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC into Rs 3 crore fraud at Tarsikka branch of the bank.In the case, four persons, including branch manager Rakesh Kumar and cashier Ram Kishore, were arrested. Two of their accomplices, Sukhdev Singh of Sarai village and Sukhbir Singh of Bhatti village (both secretaries of the cooperative societies), were booked.The police filed a challan in the local court on May 16. The police investigations found that the senior manager, district manager, bank officials, deputy registrars, assistant registrars, inspectors of cooperative societies and officials of the Audit Department colluded and misappropriated funds running into crores.The investigation was extended to other branches of the cooperative bank, thereby unearthing a major scam. It was found that the fraud was committed at five branches, including Tarsikka, Saidoke Lehal, Bhattike, Chogwan Sadhpur and Kohala, falling under the jurisdiction of the Tarsikka branch of the bank.The case was shifted to the Vigilance after the Amritsar rural police failed to make any further progress. Besides the two, the police did not arrest any other suspect or nominated new suspects in the FIR. The police were apparently acting under pressure as the accused were considered close to a prominent leader of the region, it was learnt.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/coop-bank-fraud-vigilance-yet-to-get-orders-of-full-probe-155413
