14-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Residents prefer diamonds, pre-owned cars on Dhanteras||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 13While sale of gold ornaments and other articles subdued in comparison to the last year on Dhanteras, a large number of people rushed to the markets despite the Covid-19 cases witnesses surge in the city.With gold price hovering at its highest, people widened their choice of buying costly products. Residents preferred to purchase diamonds and two and four-wheelers.Pankaj Khurrana, a jeweller, said customers became more pragmatic after their source of income was hit during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. People preferred to buy small items and avoided investing in gold ornaments. He said residents purchased diamond-studded rings and earrings.Charanjit Arora, another jeweller, said although the buying sentiment got improved during Dhanteras, yet customers were wary of investing in gold due to its high price.The change was obvious as gold prices hovered around Rs 52,000 per 10 grams, more than 35 per cent higher (Rs 38,000) than last Dhanteras, he said. People also invested heavily in second-hand cars. Sports cars available in the range of Rs 1 crore were procured between Rs 30 to Rs 40 lakh. Those dealing in utensils and other household items recorded brisk business on this auspicious day. Rohan Kumar, a utensil trader, said footfall came near to the last year, but buyers preferred to purchase fewer items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-prefer-diamonds-pre-owned-cars-on-dhanteras-170443
14-11-2020||Amritsar||Artists depict Sikh history, culture on canvas||Painters brushed the SGPC’s history and Sikh culture on the canvas dedicated to centennial of the apex Sikh body and submitted their creations on Wednesday. As many as 31 painters participated in a special workshop organised by the SGPC dedicated to the occasion. These paintings would be exhibited as a part of programmes chalked out by the SGPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artists-depict-sikh-history-culture-on-canvas-170445
14-11-2020||---||Activist Mandeep Singh Manna urges farmers to end protest outside mall||Amritsar, November 13The protest by farmer organisations at various areas of the district —Butari and Gehri Mandi railway station, outside the residence of BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, at toll plazas and petrol pumps run by the Reliance Group — continues in the district.The farm leaders said the protest would continue and they would observe ‘black Diwali’ this year as a mark of protest against the Union Government for three controversial agriculture related laws. Meanwhile, a local activist Mandeep Singh Manna has appealed to a group which has staged protest a local mall. Activists of the Lok Bhalai Insaaf Welfare Society, being run by Baldev Singh Sirsa, had initiated a protest outside the mall earlier last month even as protests were already going on at five different places.Manna said out of the total 200 shops in the mall, only five are associated with the Reliance. He said shopkeepers and around 1,500 workers were in trouble since March as lockdown due to Covid-19 was announced.“While other market places were opened due to protest outside the mall, the livelihood of shopkeepers and their workers is at stake,” said Manna, adding that he had also requested Baldev Singh Sirsa to lift the protest from outside the mall.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activist-mandeep-singh-manna-urges-farmers-to-end-protest-outside-mall-170446
14-11-2020|| Tarn Taran||CCTV cameras to be installed in border area||The district police have planned to instal high-powered CCTV cameras at all 29 sensitive points in the border area to have round the clock vigil on infiltration, smuggling and the activities of the anti-social elements.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said here today that the district had the long stretch of 102-km border line from Naushehra Dhala to Ram Singh Wala (Muthianwala). He said that there were three BSF battalions in the district at Amarkot, Bhikhiwind and at Khemkaran. The SSP added that besides the deployment of the BSF there were seven second line of defense ‘nakas’ at Naushehra Dhala, Chheena Bidhi Chand, UBDC Khalra, Thathi Jaimal Singh, Kals, Mehindipur and Ram Singh Wala but even then there were reports of infiltration, smuggling etc from across the LoC. He further said that though there was fencing beyond the LoC but in spite of all anti-social elements manage to douse the security forces which was very much possible with the installation of the CCTV cameras.The district police chief said that the police have identified 22 more sensitive points on the bridges in the border area and were planning to instal CCTV cameras at these points. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cctv-cameras-to-be-installed-in-border-area-170447
14-11-2020|| Cricket is the national intoxicant. Amid all the hype surrounding the sport||Walkathon rakes in Rs 1.5L, all for underprivileged||Highway to hell!The steel town of Batala is grappling with many problems. One of them is related to traffic. The national highway (NH)-54 running from Pathankot till Amritsar branches off from the outskirts to the inner parts of the town. At the bypass, accidents occur every second day. There is a traffic post at the bend but it’s of little use. Now, residents led by Jagjot Singh Sandhu have written to the Executive Engineer (XEN), Construction Division, Batala, to sort out things. The XEN, in turn, has shot off an SOS to the project director of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which is the agency responsible for maintaining the NH. “The road leading into the city from the NH is a blind spot. It has been badly planned and even more poorly executed. People will continue to lose their lives and limbs if corrective measures are not taken. We have also approached MP Sunny Deol but to no avail. Since the NHAI is a central government agency, the MP’s intervention is called for immediately,” said Sandhu.No funds, judo centre could be knocked overThe much-famed Shaheed Bhagat Singh JFI Judo training centre has fallen on hard times. Over the last two decades it has produced one Olympian, 60 international and over a 100 national-level judokas. Yet another player, Jasleen Saini, is on the cusp of greatness. He has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics although a formal declaration to the effect is yet to be made by the International Judo Federation (IJF). He has qualified through the complex Continental Quota. The centre has become a conveyor belt for producing top drawer judokas, who are later absorbed by the Punjab Police, BSF, CISF and ITBP. However, coach Amarjit Shastri is a dejected man these days as the finances required to run the centre have dried up and the future seems to be heading deep down the rabbit hole. Saini wants to go to Japan for a training stint but the son of a lab attendant may not be able to travel because of financial constraints. Now, Shastri has written to the Punjab Sports Department to release funds for the same. The coach has also met Sports Minister Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi but was not happy with the treatment. “The minister does not even know what judo is all about. He is a shooter and thinks every sport has something or the other to do with shooting,” a judoka commented.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/walkathon-rakes-in-rs-1-5l-all-for-underprivileged-170449
14-11-2020||---||NGOs revive handicrafts, light up hopes of needy||Amritsar, November 13In order to ease economic blow suffered by local business and artisans during the lockdown, several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) collaborated with self-help groups to give impetus to the ‘Local for Vocal’ campaign.As festive season hopes to revive the market, exhibits featuring Diwali and handicrafts made by local weavers would also help the needy to tide over difficult times.The Majha House collaborated with the Shramik Bharti who came up with an exhibition of handicrafts made by rural women. From durries to woven lamps, furniture, crochet and traditional phulkari, the exhibition at Art Gallery hopes to help women come out financial crunch.The Shramik Bharti, which supports the Virsa Women’s Craft, a self-help group comprising women artisans and weavers had been organising exhibitions in the past as well to promote local handicrafts.Harvinder Singh of the Shramik Bharati, said, “We collaborated with several experts from the field of deisgning and marketing to train rural women in not just reviving traditional handicrafts to suit modern tastes, but also teach them entrepreneurship skills, so that they can brand and market their products as well.”“The project is supported by four designers from reputed institutes. We increase the scope by identifying skills and potential of those women, who are not only producers of handicrafts, but also entrepreneurs.”Rejuvenating handicrafts, including phulkari and punja durries, the project aims to move beyond just festive shopping and create a network of loyal customers.The All India Pingalwara Charitable Society had also put up a Diwali specific exhibition to showcase creative efforts of special children. The one-day expo showcased wax and clay lamps, candles and other Diwali décor made by kids studying at Pingalwara-run school. Dr Inderjit Kaur, Director, Pingalwara, said, “Through this initiative, we highlight skills of our special children and give them a chance to earn. There is a scope of making them self-reliant.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngos-revive-handicrafts-light-up-hopes-of-needy-170444
14-11-2020||---||DC hands over Rs 5L aid to young golgappa seller||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 13Amritsar DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira along with District Education Officer Satinderbir Singh on Friday handed over a cheque for Rs 5 lakh to Manpreet Singh, whose video of selling papad, golgappas and roasted chana, had gone viral on social media in September.The Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, had talked to Manpreet and assured him of every kind of help. The CM had asked the district authorities to make arrangement for education of Manpreet and his two sisters.The CM had lauded Manpreet for setting a true example of Punjabiyat and stated that the boy was striving to earn a livelihood for his family and refused to take help from others. Impressed by his grit, the CM had announced Rs 5 lakh grant for him. Manpreet said talking to the CM and his inspiring words encouraged him to study and work hard to strengthen the economic condition of his family. He also expressed his gratitude to Capt Amarinder Singh for providing financial help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-hands-over-rs-5l-aid-to-young-golgappa-seller-170442
14-11-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Noted environmentalist starts treatment of trees at Ram Bagh||Tribune News Service Amritsar, November 13 Noted environmentalist Parkash Singh Bhatti and his men have started the treatment of trees at the historic Ram Bagh, the summer palace of legendary Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh.  Khudai Khidmatgaran, an NGO which Bhatti heads, was also involved in treating trees at various parts, including gardens, in Amritsar. Many trees have decayed and fallen due to fungi and termite attack while authorities concerned have yet to wake up.  Most of the heritage trees, located in the precincts of the historic garden popularly known as Company Bagh, are facing extinction. The historic garden has a century-old ‘mushakapur’ tree. Thanks to the apathetic attitude of the authorities concerned and the municipal corporation, the age-old tree has dried up due to fungi and pest attack. Bhatti said the Geeta Sewa Samiti and the Sukhmani Sewa Society were two other organisations which were helping his organisation in the cause. The garden has many rare varieties of trees and a number of them date back to nineteenth century.  Environment lovers point out that these trees on the sprawling landscape are also part of the heritage of Summer Palace. “In fact, many such historic gardens in various parts of the country are preserved beautifully in their original shape. But the authorities are indulging in mindless concretisation of green wealth,” said Dr Rakesh Sharma, an environment lover. Besides the MC, the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) are two other custodians who were involved in the preservation of the historic structures of the park. Kulwant Singh Ankhi, patron of the Amritsar Vikas Manch, said, “It is the duty of the MC to maintain the landscape of the sprawling complex.”  While pest attack was one of the major reasons behind the drying up of trees, the presence of rodents is also leading to tilting and falling of trees. Another major reason was mindless excavation of earth from the bagh in order to ‘protect’ the heritage buildings in the garden which are being preserved after spending huge amounts.  The digging exposed the roots of trees leading to their weakening. MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, along with a battery of officials, had visited the garden a couple of days ago and assured that they would provide all kind of help to save trees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/noted-environmentalist-starts-treatment-of-trees-at-ram-bagh-170436
14-11-2020||PK Jaiswar & Charanjit Singh Teja||Cops, firemen, health officials on toes for safe & happy Diwali||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 13At a time when people celebrate the festival of lights with their family and friends, personnel of the Punjab Police remain on roads. For them, the entire city is their family. Being a city of religious and historic importance located close to the India-Pakistan border, the policemen keep a strict vigil in every part of the city to ensure that no untoward incident mar the celebrations of its residents.In view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the new instructions issued by the National Green Tribunal and the Punjab Government regarding the bursting of crackers, the policemen were directed to be extra cautious so that nobody dare flout laws.“Our workload increases manifold during the festive season. But then there is nothing new about this. Owing to the pandemic this year, we have to remain extra alert to ensure safety or security of not only others but also ours,” said ASI Pawan Kumar, who is posted with the PCR wing and deputed in the Hall Gate area.He said as he could not go home for celebrations, he would do the Diwali prayer through a video call on mobile with the family. “I have four brothers and all family members come to my house for celebrations,” said the ASI. Another cop Kashmir Singh said, “They have to attend calls and reach the spot immediately where they are asked to. During the festival season, traffic chaos is another major problem and we also assist in managing traffic.”Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said all police officials had been asked to remain present on roads. Security had already been beefed up and nakas installed at every entry and exit points of the city, he added.Besides cops, health officials also remain on duty to tackle emergencies. Dr Charanjit Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, said outstation leave of staff had been cancelled and they were asked to remain present on call duty to deal with an emergency situation.“We have adjusted the timings of the ophthalmologists and gynaecologists in such a way that these doctors would be available in the hospital round the clock,” he said.As bursting crackers is an integral part of the Diwali festivities, the Fire Brigade Department is another wing that remains on toes. Diwali witnesses a number of fire instances and to save the life and property of people, firemen have to remain alert day and night.The city Fire Brigade has 12 fire tenders to fight fire incidents. Considering narrow streets in the walled city, there are four small vehicles (jeeps) and two motorcycles. These vehicles are equipped with modern technology.A large number of commercial buildings do not have fire safety equipment in the city. In such circumstances, the Fire Brigade officials have to stay alert on eve of and on Diwali.Lovepreet Singh, Additional District Fire Officer, said, “The Fire Brigade is well prepared to deal with any untoward incident during the Diwali celebrations. All staff members of the fire station would be on duty. Though the government has allowed only two hours for bursting firecrackers, we will stay on duty all night. The residents should adopt safety measures while bursting firecrackers.”Officials of the Fire Brigade claimed that “this year they have procured several new modern equipments under the Smart City project. Now the firemen would work more efficiently and douse any fire within no time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-firemen-health-officials-on-toes-for-safe-happy-diwali-170437
14-11-2020||---||GNDU issues guidelines for reopening of colleges||Amritsar, November 13Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) will reopen to classroom studies very soon as per the instructions and guidelines of the Punjab Government for reopening of universities and colleges post the Covid-19 lockdown.Vice-Chancellor Jaspal Singh Sandhu informed that according to the guidelines issued by the state government, institutes of higher education in the state could reopen on November 16 onwards. Informing about the same, the Vice-Chancellor also presided over the meeting of the Syndicate that was held here on Friday.Rahul Bhandari, Secretary, Higher Education, Government of Punjab, Prof Ved Prakash, former chairman, UGC, and Prof Mohammad Miyan, former vice-chancellor of Central University of Odisha, Koraput, and Maulana Azad National Urdu University, Hyderabad, and former member of the UGC registered their presence online to discuss issues related to the university.Professor Sandhu said as per the guidelines, the departments for the physical presence of students for classes in the university would be re-started in a phased manner. In the first phase, students of the final year would only be called for attending classes of sciences, engineering and technology, physical planning and architecture and other departments where hands-on training is the essential part of the curriculum, followed by the departments of management, commerce and computer science.Similarly, the second and third phases of re-opening will be implemented while following precautions and guidelines. To begin with, only the students of final year will be called for the mentioned courses to attend physical classes. GNDU has also issued instructions to various affiliated and constituent colleges and heads of departments regarding the reopening.Professor Sandhu also informed the Syndicate that this year there was a rise in admissions from 10 to 15 per cent despite the process being carried out completely online. He said the compulsory ID courses of EVS, Drug Abuse: Problem, Management & Prevention and Human Rights and Constitutional duties were to be taught at the UG/FYIC level only from next academic session (2021-2022).According to the SOPs released, blended mode of education will be followed in higher education and all staff/ teachers would have to be tested for Covid-19 using the RT-PCR method. Classroom teaching time would be reduced by 10 minutes and a similar safe method must be adopted by the institute while allotting hostels to students with only one student per room allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-issues-guidelines-for-reopening-of-colleges-170438
14-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Don’t enter our village to seek votes, Gohalwar farmers warn politicians||Tarn Taran, November 13Farmers of Gohalwar village here have warned the politicians against entering their village to seek votes during elections. They decided to take this step at a meeting held on Friday. The farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, led by Manjinder Singh Gohalwar, condemned the role of politicians belonging to the political parties at the time of the crisis.Manjinder Singh, president of the village unit, said as no political party had come to support the farmers’ agitation, they should not seek their votes. After the meeting, the farmers organised a rally in the village in support of their demands. They raised slogans in favour of their current demands for the withdrawal of the farm laws and the restoration of the mandi system to ensure the procurement of the farmers’ crops at the MSP. They said the laws would give right to the Union Government not to buy their crops at the minimum support price.The farmers said they would oppose the entry of politicians at the time of elections. Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, leader of the KMSC, said it was the decision of the village-level unit, not of the state leadership of the organisation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dont-enter-our-village-to-seek-votes-gohalwar-farmers-warn-politicians-170439
14-11-2020||---||Martyrdom day of Shahid Baba Deep Singh observed||Amritsar, November 13The 363rd martyrdom day of Shahid Baba Deep Singh was observed at Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh Shaheed, today.A large number of devotees came to pay homage at the historic shrine dedicated to the great historical and religious personality.The bhog of the akhand path was performed in the morning followed by a kirtan. Dhadhi and kavishri groups rendered compositions on the life of Baba Deep Singh and his sacrifice. He had sacrificed his life while valiantly repulsing the attack on the Golden Temple by the invading Afghan Army under Ahmed Shah Abdali. Volunteers of the Sukhmani Saheb Sewa Society and the office-bearers of Gurdwara Bibi Kaulan together rendered path (recital) of the Sukhmani Sahib. Rajinder Singh Sangha of Sewak Jatha Ishnan Amrit Vela said volunteers of the jatha brought water from amrit sarovar of the Golden Temple to the gurdwara situated at Chattiwind Gate to clean its premises and the practice has been carried out since time immemorial. In addition, milk is also used to clean the premises, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrdom-day-of-shahid-baba-deep-singh-observed-170440
14-11-2020||---||Amritsar farmers block highway||Amritsar, November 13Protesting the Central agriculture laws, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) today blocked the International Attari-Lahore route for a few hours and burnt an effigy of the Central Government at Shyam Singh Attari Chowk.KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said a statewide campaign of burning the Centre’s effigy had been launched from Amritsar today.“Unlike the other farm organisations which accepted the Centre’s invite for talks, we had rejected the proposal as the environment was not conducive with BJP leaders giving anti-farmer statements. But our goal is similar,” he said.He said the committee’s call to observe ‘black Diwali’ had evoked a good response from traders, transporters and the public. “We will further intensify the agitation from November 15”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-farmers-block-highway-170343
14-11-2020||Our Correspondent||Weeks after ASI’s killing, cops clueless||Tarn Taran, November 13Even two weeks after 56-year-old ASI Gurdeep Singh was shot by two robbers near Kakka Kandiala on November 1, the local police have failed to make any breakthrough in the case. Victim’s son Manpreet Singh was injured in the incident.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 397 (use of deadly weapon during robbery), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act had been registered by the police.The ASI, a resident of the local Police Lines residential quarters, along with Manpreet was riding towards the village to fetch medicine when two masked men waylaid them. The assailants hit Manpreet with a rod and shot the ASI, killing on the spot.The city police had obtained CCTV footage of nearby residences but couldn’t identify the suspects. SHO Jaswant Singh said they had no leads in the case so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weeks-after-asis-killing-cops-clueless-170354
14-11-2020||---||Sikh history depicted on canvas||Amritsar, November 13As a part of the centennial celebrations of the formation of the SGPC, a painting exhibition has started at the Golden Temple complex today.As many as 31 paintings are being exhibited. Painters from all over Punjab participated in the workshop organised by the SGPC, and depicted the Sikh history on canvas.Rajinder Singh Rubi, additional manager, Golden Temple, said, “The exhibition commenced today afternoon at the Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. The paintings depict important events such as the Khalsa Panth taking over the management of the Akal Takht from the mahants, the Nankana Sahib Massacre, Jaito Morcha and Kirpana Morcha.”Portraits of prominent personalities, including Jathedars Teja Singh Samundari and Teja Singh Buchar, and SGPC presidents have also been displayed.A brief description in Punjabi and English has been written to summarise the events. “The exhibition will continue during the ceremonies scheduled to be held as a part of the celebrations,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-history-depicted-on-canvas-170356
