15-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Her efforts made chinar tree find roots in holy city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 14Chinar, the majestic tree, is a living heritage of Kashmir, but an experiment by Rashmi Talwar, to grow it in the landscape of the holy city, has borne fruit. The sheer beauty of the ornamental tree during the autumn season leaves one spellbound.An ardent nature lover, she toiled so hard to sustain the tree that it managed to survive even in the harsh and hot summers of the plains. “It is now around 40 feet high and is standing tall, adapting to the climatic conditions of the plains,” she proudly said, adding that she bought 32 chinars from Kashmir at different times, out of which only one has survived. “It is perhaps the only or one of the few in the holy city,” she claimed.“During the initial days, we used to cover the tree with wet dupattas and make every effort to provide it an artificial cold climate in hot summers,” she remembered. “We even used its leaves for composting which is very nutritious for other plant saplings,” she pointed out.Her love for the tree can be gauged from the fact that she has named her house as “Chinar homes” while different portions of her house and garden have been named after different landscapes of the valley (Kashmir).A proud plant parent, she owns some of the rare varieties of plants, such as a fossil tree Ginkgo Biloba, black bamboo, weeping willow, bone plant, red bud tree, Bulgarian apple, cherry tree from Tungmarg, Kargil apricot, etc. Talking about Ginkgo Biloba, a living fossil, she said it was among the few trees that survived even the atomic bombing of Hiroshima in Japan.Besides, she had also formed a herb station which boasts of rosemary, parsley, mint, oregano, red cabbage and lemon grass. Her sprawling garden also consists of different varieties of fern such as antelope fern. The front garden is full of flowering plants and vines, including Wisteria, Madhumalti and many fragrant plants like honey suckle.She said gardening was her childhood hobby which she inherited from her parents. During childhood my family used to have an exotic garden in the house located on the Majitha road. “I was so fascinated with the plants that I even used to go to neighbouring houses to see beautiful plants,” she said.Talwar’s garden also has a Bonsai collection of trees. She remained a member of the Indian Bonsai Club and even trained many in Bonsai art to produce small trees in containers. “I took training in Delhi at a young age and used to teach Bonsai techniques to people long time ago,” she said.She said, “Plants are stress busters and are like companions to me. I look for plants and trees wherever I go,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/her-efforts-made-chinar-tree-find-roots-in-holy-city-141325
15-09-2020||---||Repeal agricultural ordinances: Farmers||Amritsar, September 14Members of the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Talmel Sangathan, an umbrella organisation of 250 pan-India farmer unions, along with seven local organisations got together to hold Lalkar Rally in Company Garden here on Monday.The farmer union leaders highlighted different troubles being faced by farmers and the indifferent attitude of governments towards their problems. They demanded the repealing of three agricultural ordinances like amendment to the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, deregulating inter-state trade in agricultural commodities and providing a regulatory framework for contract farming.Addressing the protesters, senior farmer leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said these ordinances would end the liberty of farmers and would eventually pave the way for the corporate houses to take over.He said the Narendra Modi-led Union Government under the veil of Covid-19 was continuing its agenda to privatise state-owned companies. He stated that it was visible with partial attempts in the railways, power utilities in the provinces and other PSUs.Highlighting the grievances of border farmers, the leaders stated that they had not been issued compensation for damages caused to crops by wild boars in the past nearly three years. They said the Punjab and Haryana High Court had fixed the compensation of Rs 10,000 per acre, with equal share between the Union and state governments. Over 20,000 acres of land belonging to 220 villages fall across the barbed fencing on the international border.They said the government was bent on centralisation while undermining the federal structure. They claimed that the Union Government was shifting Rs 8.50 lakh crore deposited with cooperative banks in the country to the RBI.Women leaders take command of morchaTarn Taran: On the eighth day of the ‘Pakka Morcha’ for Jail Bharo Andolan launched by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, women leaders took the command of the morcha here on Monday. The organisation had started a permanent dharna outside the local District Administrative Complex (DAC) here.Devinder Kaur, Kuldeep Kaur and Raj Rani led the protesters. Besides, Harjinder Kaur, Mohinder Kaur and Malkiat Kaur addressed and cautioned the Union Government and the Shiromani Akali Dal leadership against the implementation of the ordinances regarding the farmers which were depriving them of the minimum support price (MSP), government-managed procurement of farmers’ products, subsidies and other facilities like free power, etc. The leaders demanded the withdrawal of the ordinances, which were against the farmers and other sections of society. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/repeal-agricultural-ordinances-farmers-141326
15-09-2020||---||Amritsar district case count climbs to 5,100||Amritsar, September 14The district health authorities reported 204 new Covid-19 cases and eight casualties on Monday, taking the caseload to 5,100 and death toll to 264.The deceased have been identified as Krishna Devi (50) of Haripura, Arwinder Singh (42) of Abadi Guru Nanak Nagar, Jailal (68) of Varindavan Garden, Amrik Singh (60) of Shahura village, Neelam (55) of Gali Niwi in Sultanwind Gate locality, Pritam Kaur (75) of Shahid Udham Singh Nagar, Joginder Nath Mahajan (82) of New Jawahar Nagar on Batala Road and Ravinderpal Singh (47) of Sundar Nagar.The new cases included 107 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 97 contacts of Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-case-count-climbs-to-5-100-141327
15-09-2020|| ||30-yr-old  labourer strangled to death||Amritsar, September 14Gurmeet Singh (30) of Kolowal village, who worked as labourer, was strangled to death by unknown persons here on Sunday. His body was found dumped near the Boparai drain.According to police, his hands were tied and he was strangled with the help of a head gear. The police have registered a case against unknown persons in this connection and further investigations are underway.Tarlok Singh, the complainant and paternal uncle of the deceased, told the police that Gurmeet went with Balbir Singh, a mason, to work at an under-construction building in Khasa on Saturday. However, he did not return home in the evening. Tarlok said the next morning, they called up many relatives but were unable to locate him. Later in the afternoon, they found his bike near Boparai village. Tarlok said he started searching for Gurmeet in the area and found his body strangled with a head gear with his hands tied on the backside near the village drain. Sub Inspector Harpal Singh, investigating officer, said probe was underway to identify suspects while the body had been sent for a post-mortem examination. A case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC has been registered in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/30-yr-old-labourer-strangled-to-death-141328
15-09-2020||---||Couple booked for thrashing their child||Amritsar, September 14Days after a video of a woman beating up her child mercilessly went viral, the police on Monday booked the couple under the Juvenile Justice Act. At present, the boy is under treatment.The accused have been identified as Amanpreet Kaur and her husband Jagjit Singh. A case was registered after a local resident filed a complaint with the police in this connection.In his complaint to the police, the complainant stated that in the video clip Amanpreet Kaur was seen brutally beating up her son Prathambir Singh. He said her husband, Jagjit Singh, instead of saving the child was making his video, therefore he was equally responsible for the brutal act.Later, a child helpline came to the rescue of the child who was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for treatment.The woman had later claimed that the video was over two months old and that the boy had not sustained any injuries at that time. She said the video went viral after she lodged a complaint against his foster father who had beaten him up badly.The police said investigation had been initiated in the case while a case under Section 75 of the Justice Juvenile Act had been registered against the couple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-booked-for-thrashing-their-child-141329
15-09-2020||Tarn Taran||22-year-old man found dead||Couple killed in road accidentTarn Taran: A couple was killed in a road accident on the Amritsar-Khemkaran National Highway near Panjwar village on Sunday. The accident took place when the motorcycle they were riding was hit from the side by a car (PB-38 D-1947). DSP Sucha Singh Bal said the deceased had been identified as Gurdev Singh (28) of Bishambarpur village and his wife Kajal (25). The police said Gurdev Singh, along with his wife, was going to his in-law’s house in Mari Udhoke village. When they reached near Gaggobua village, a car hit their motorcycle from the side. While Gurdev Singh was killed on the spot, Kajal was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, where she succumbed to her injuries. The car driver fled the spot. A case had been registered. OC‘Abolish post of nambardar’Tarn Taran: Hari Krishan Lal Arora, a social worker of the area, has demanded to abolish the age-old post of ‘numberdar’ as it has lost its relevance. The social worker said this post was created by the British rulers to verify the identification of the citizens. The social worker, in his letters written to the Union and state government, said the numberdars verified the identification of clients in the judicial and the revenue courts. He said with the change in time, there were a number of documents to verify a person, including the Aadhar card, Pan card, driving license, birth certificate, passport, etc. OCGNDU asks pupils to update detailsAmritsar: To facilitate hassle-free conduct of exams via online mode, Guru Nanak Dev University has asked students to upload their mobile number and email address on the university website by September 17. The exams will be conducted from September 21 to October 10. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-year-old-man-found-dead-141331
15-09-2020||---||Amritsar NCC unit to induct 8,660 new cadets||Amritsar, September 14As announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, the expansion of NCC is being undertaken in border areas of Punjab under the PH HP & C Directorate (Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh). The Amritsar NCC wing, which has been assigned the maximum responsibility to implement the plan for expansion in the border belt, will induct 8,660 new cadets into the unit under the scheme as against the present strength of 12,040 vacancies.This increase in the number of cadets is almost 70 per cent and the NCC wing in the city today announced that cadets would be enrolled from various schools/institutions in border areas, out of which one-third will be girls.This expansion plan would be implemented in partnership with the state administration. The scheme is open to all government and private institutions and it will be initially Centrally funded. Brig RK Mour, Group Commander, Group Headquarter, Amritsar, said the requirement was to have a school with minimum 500 students and provision of a teacher under 42 years of age, who should volunteer to become an ANO (Assistant NCC Officer).He said he had reached out to the schools to subscribe to the NCC and encourage the students to join the organisation. “Representatives from various NCC units in Amritsar will be visiting the schools and institutions to ensure maximum enrolment in the next one week. The NCC is involved in instilling a sense of unity and discipline among the students. It undertakes a number of activities for personality development of the child.“There has been a significant increase in the spectrum of activities undertaken by the NCC, especially in the field of social service and community development. NCC has actively participated in Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, various health awareness campaigns under the state and Central government schemes, tree plantation, anti-drug campaign, water conservation programmes,” he elaborated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-ncc-unit-to-induct-8-660-new-cadets-141337
