15-06-2020||---||Makeshift shops find it difficult to stay afloat||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14Hira Singh (55), who ekes out a living by altering pants, jeans and trousers for the past three decades, has been facing survival crisis.He said although he had been opening his makeshift shop for the past couple of days now, the business had hit badly. This was the only source of livelihood for him, but the pandemic outbreak and the lockdown had affected them hard.Like other establishments, his makeshift shop was also permitted to be opened during the fourth phase of the lockdown. However, he said the business had been reduced by 50 per cent. Earlier, he would earn Rs 500 per day, which had now been reduced to Rs 250 to Rs 200.Hira Singh is the sole breadwinner for the family comprising his wife, two sons, a daughter and daughter- in-law. He said they had never witnessed such a phase earlier, when there was no income. Everyday, he paddles seven km to reach his makeshift shop just to return disappointed.During the lockdown, he spent his small savings of Rs 8,000 in meeting other mandatory expenditures.The government did help him by providing 75-kg wheat and three-kg pulses during the lockdown period.As people prefer readymade garments to stitched clothes, he had started the business of alteration, so as to ensure a regular source of income nearly 20 years ago. He set up an 'adda' (a makeshift shop) on Lawrence Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/makeshift-shops-find-it-difficult-to-stay-afloat-99407
15-06-2020||---||Covid lockdown delays his dream to study abroad||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14Simran Singh Aulakh was all set to apply for Canada visa, when the lockdown was announced in March. He had also got the IELTS certificate and further applied for an offer letter at Fanshawe College in Ontario, Canada.“I had completed my BSc in agriculture from Khalsa College last year and applied for PC diploma in agriculture business management in Canada. I got admission too and the fee was submitted. However, I was about to apply for the visa when the lockdown was imposed,” said Aulakh.Simran Singh Aulakh said the college management informed him that his batch would start in September and till the situation was normal, he could attend online classes.“I have received an email from the college. After the completion of the visa process, they will start the online classes,” he said.He has spent Rs 13 lakh on the fee and other expenses. However, his dream to fly to Canada got delayed due to the pandemic outbreak, “I was supposed to be in Canada by August. Now, there is uncertainty about the start of the visa process. Even if I get it in the next few months, no one is aware when international flights will resume. It seems the plans have been delayed till December or January,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-lockdown-delays-his-dream-to-study-abroad-99406
15-06-2020||---||Week after opening, hospitality sector continues to incur losses||Amritsar, June 14Minimal footfall in hotel and restaurants of the state even after a week of opening these has not provided any relief to operators of the services as they continue to incur huge losses.According to Satish Arora, president of Hotel, Resort and Restaurant Association of Punjab, between 30 to 40 per cent hotels and restaurants were opened in the state. But the industry, which has a monthly Rs 960 crore turnover and generates revenue of about Rs 150 crore for the government, was in disarray.So those people in the hospitality business and the government were sailing in same boat of finding their income being dried up. He said nearly 3 lakh people were either directly or indirectly employed in the profession. “Of these, 80 per cent were either laid off or sacked”, Arora observed.APS Chatha, President of Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said there were about 550 hotels, including five in luxury category, but not more than 20 per cent of them opened after the government granted permission. He added that only essential staff was retained and the rest laid off.Moreover, among the five luxury properties only two were opened. Jitender Pal Sohal, General Manager of Radisson Blu, said the response was tepid in the first week following the resumption. “Also, senior functionaries in the government should not create an environment of panic by stating that coronavirus was yet to hit the crescendo,” Sohal feels. He recalled that his hotel used to get residential conferences this month every year, which is not the case this time.Sumit Taneja, General Manager of Taj Swarna, said response of customers was slow but he is receiving calls for banquets and room bookings from Delhi and Mumbai. He hoped that the hospitality sector would revive as the people regain confidence in moving out with standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/week-after-opening-hospitality-sector-continues-to-incur-losses-99405
15-06-2020||---||Govt draws flak over liquor vend timings||Amritsar, June 14Former Congress leader Mandeep Singh Manna raised objection over the opening of liquor vends during curfew hours here on Sunday. He alleged Capt Amarinder Singh-led state government was only concerned about the sale of liquor.“The only objective of the state government is to operate the liquor trade and collect the revenue from it. The government is defaming people of Punjab that Punjabis can’t stay without liquor. Illegal liquor mafias have been operating in the state. If government wants to collect revenue then take on sand, drugs, medicine mafia and collect more revenue than liquor”, said Manna.He alleged the state government was forcing its police and administration officials to enhance the sale of liquor in Punjab. The movement of public is banned but home delivery of liquor is going on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-draws-flak-over-liquor-vend-timings-99404
15-06-2020||JASPINDER Singh||‘There should be no interest on working capital loan for a year’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The Covid-19 pandemic has broken our backbone and in this business raw material is purchased mostly from Ludhiana-based firms on one-month credit. The sale of finished products is also on credit. The problem is that buyers are releasing payments and suppliers are demanding their dues. If we go to bank for loan, we have to pay interest, which will only add to expenditure.Do you expect business activity to start running in the near future?There is no plan for any expansion in a scenario where demand is non-existent.How are you dealing with the issue of releasing salaries?My employees have been working with me for a long time, so it is my duty to work for their betterment . I am paying workers on a weekly basis and the unit is functioning with only 25 per cent of the total capacity.What is the share of online trading in your profession?There is no scope of online trading in the profession as dealers prefer to buy products after ensuring their quality.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?I feel one should never do business on the faith of the government. No matter how many reserves you may have, in a manufacturing unit you will always feel the pinch when the Covid-like pandemic occurs.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It’s a big challenge to continue with production while saving workers and myself from the pandemic.What are your expectations from the government?The government should give us one month working capital loan on the basis of the previous year sale figures. There should be no interest charged on the loan for a year. Governments world over are helping private organisations get back to work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/there-should-be-no-interest-on-working-capital-loan-for-a-year-99403
15-06-2020||What steps can be taken to revive the ailing realty sector?||Realty sector needs incentives to come out of doldrums||Waive stamp duty for property registrationThere has been recession in the real estate business since long, but the coronavirus disease has worsened the situation. Now to cope with the crisis, two major steps should be taken on priority. First, the state government should waive the stamp duty at the time of registration of property for the remaining part of the current accounting year. Second, property owners should sell their property as durable consumer products are sold in the market, i.e. possession of the property on nominal advance, balance on easy EMI on zero per cent interest. Further in regard to construction, new innovative ideas should be introduced.Naresh JoharRid realty sector of red-tapismBeing a popular tourist destination and political capital of the state, the property business certainly deserves a flurry of incentives to come out of the doldrums. First of all, we need to get rid of the prevalent culture of red-tapism. Cumbersome laws like change of land use, declaring of various colonies by the local government as illegal, obtaining NOCs from various departments for construction and high rates of property tax for commercial establishments have taken the sheen off the once-thriving business of property. Resorting to a single window system to address people's grievances and the simplifying of complex rules and regulations is the need of the hour. The second step that needs to be taken by the government is improvement of infrastructure. Potholed roads, choked sewers, piles of garbage and stray cattle in the city are big impediments to the growth of realty business.Rajiv SharmaAllow one-time loan restructuringThe lockdown, which has hit brought to a standstill most economic activities in the country, has badly hit the real estate sector. The adverse impact of Covid-19 is visible on property sales in the last quarter of the fiscal year. It will be very difficult for most of the developers to manage enough cash flow so as to continue construction activities, pay salaries and at the same time service loan obligation. Thus, it is the need of the hour that the government or the RBI announces one-time loan restructuring for all loans to real estate businesses. This would ensure that real developers have enough cash in their hand to complete the project on time, which is imperative to regain the lost confidence of home buyers. The move, if implemented, will also ensure more fund with financial institutions as they would not require to make additional provisions. The real estate sector expects up to 50 per cent reduction of stamp duty charge on housing at least for a limited time from the government. The government should bring down the ready reckoner rate by as much as 40 per cent for the next two years to give a boost to the sector. The government should also waive or reduce GST on real estate for a limited period of time. The reduced rate would benefit the buyer as well as the seller and help boost real estate.Amarjit KalsiRealtors must innovate to sail through crisisThe realty business, which was already in the doldrums, has been pushed to the brink of collapse by the Covid-19 pandemic. Realtors will have to be patient and support one another as far as they can to sail through the tough times. To compete efficiently, the realtors must keep innovating. It requires more of the professional spirit, courage and mental attitude to tide over the crisis. Covid-19 is a humanitarian challenge going to have a lasting effect on the business. Centralising cash management, focusing on efficiency and changing portfolio and capital expenditure decision-making can help revamp the property business to a certain extent. Better tenant-customer experience, behavioural changes and diversification of resources of revenue can give further boost. Earning the respect, trust and fidelity of customers and employees and making tailor-made decisions in commercial lease concessions should be the areas of focus. The depth and breadth of the economic impact from the pandemic be gauged exactly but can be minimised. A pie from the Centre's Rs20-lakh crore package to revive the economy can help the realty sector come out of the woods.Tarsem S Bumrah QUESTIONThe state government ordered weekend lockdown and put restrictions on inter-district travel on Saturday and Sunday. Do you think imposing such curbs only on weekends will help check the spread of Covid-19?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (June 18).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/realty-sector-needs-incentives-to-come-out-of-doldrums-99402
15-06-2020||---||Three held for assaulting cop at checkpoint||Amritsar, June 14Three persons were arrested by the police for allegedly manhandling a constable deputed at a checkpoint near Jagdev Kalan village here yesterday. They were identified as Aarshdeep Singh and Gursahib Singh, both residents of Santu Nangal village, and Khushbir Singh of Pathan Nagal village, falling under the Jhander police station here.They were booked on the charges of assaulting and obstructing a public servant from discharging his duty. A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 353, 186, 427 and 34 of the IPC was registered against them. Constable Rajinder Singh said he was posted at the Rajasansi police station and deputed near Jagdev Kalan village. Around 3.30 pm, the white Ford Figo car, in which the suspects were travelling in, came to a screeching halt near his feet.He said the driver of the car came out and started an argument regarding putting up nakas and stopping his car.He alleged that the suspect caught him by his collar and torn his uniform, besides assaulting him.Manmeetpal Singh, SHO, Rajasansi police station, said the state government had announced complete lockdown on weekends and stopped any movement of vehicles till there was an emergency.He said the suspects were roaming in the area, thereby violating the orders. When the policeman stopped them, they entered in an argument and assaulted him. Hence, a case had been registered against them and they were put behind the bars. Such acts were intolerable and stringent action would be taken against the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-for-assaulting-cop-at-checkpoint-99401
15-06-2020||---||Soni opens Mission Fateh in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni formally inaugurated Mission Fateh here on Sunday in order to spread awareness about the precautions and measures to prevent catching the contagious virus that has claimed many lives globally.Speaking on the occasion, Soni said at this time there was no vaccine and no specific treatment for Covid-19. However, by taking certain steps you can check its spread and avoid getting infected from the coronavirus.He flagged off battery operated vehicles that would visit different areas of the holy city and aware the people about the steps to take including washing hands regularly, using sanitisers, maintaining social distance and wearing masks.He said under Mission Fateh, the government would honour officials of different departments who are fighting war against deadly coronavirus and working 24X7 in the field. He honoured DC Shiv Dullar Singh Dhillon and Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill on the occasion. He said anganwari workers, sarpanches of villages, municipal councillors, NGOs, cops and local welfare committees would spread the awareness in their areas so that the message could reach to every nook and corner of the city.He said from June 17, the government would keep an eye on every worker with the help of COVA app. He said those working in the fields diligently would be honoured by the Punjab government by certificates signed by CM Capt Amarinder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soni-opens-mission-fateh-in-amritsar-99400
15-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||10 booked in cremation row of Hazoori Ragi Nirmal Singh||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14The police have reportedly nominated around 10 persons in connection with the row over cremation of former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa.Though the police had already registered a case against around 40 unknown persons on April 9, a week after the incident, it remained tight-lipped over the registration of the FIR.The special investigating team (SIT), headed by Jalandhar Division Commissioner B Purusartha, started a probe in the case and had nominated around 10 persons for protesting and creating hindrance against the cremation of the deceased. He died of Covid on April 2.SIT has summoned around 25 persons, including family members of Khalsa, police and district administrative officials, including an SDM-rank official, for recording their statements. Amritsar Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and local Civil Surgeon were also members of SIT.While managements of cremation grounds at Durgiana Temple and Chatiwind allegedly did not allow his cremation as he was a Covid patient, certain residents of the Verka area had also opposed his cremation at the Verka cremation ground, fearing that it would spread the virus in the area. Later, negotiations were made with the residents and his mortal remains were cremated at a distance in a secluded place provided by a local resident. They also promised to make a memorial in his remembrance. The district and the police administrations faced a tough time negotiating with the residents.Earlier, an audio message of a conversation between Khalsa and his son also went viral in which he had alleged that he was not being properly treated at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where he was admitted for treatment. His family members had also accused the Health Department of alleged negligence in his treatment.A police official privy to the probe said among those nominated in the FIR included Harpal Singh, Lalli, Rana, Baldev Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Harman and Navdeep Singh. However, Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, denied the same.Meanwhile, the Police Commissioner also denied nominating anyone in the case. “The SIT was probing the case and summons were issued in this regard. As investigations were on, the question of nominating anyone does not arise at the moment,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-booked-in-cremation-row-of-hazoori-ragi-nirmal-singh-99398
15-06-2020||---||Farmers give thumbs down to direct seeding||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14The alternative to manual transplantation of paddy being promoted by the Agriculture Department to tackle the shortage of labour hands, has failed to find takers as farmers prefer to manually transplant paddy.Farmers say with the direct seeding technique, they require more seeds and have to spray weedicides twice, so the input cost doesn’t reduce as is being advertised by the department. “We have to use at least 8 kg of seed using the direct seeding method in comparison to 3 kg of seed in manual transplantation. This year some private shops charged up to Rs160 per kg for seeds. So the cost of seeds alone has increased by more than double. Accounting for the expenses on spraying of weedicides and wages to labourers, the cost remains almost the same,” said Sandeep Singh, a farmer.He said in direct seeding, many farmers were facing the problem of low germination at places in fields, as a result they had to manually plant saplings.Though farmers are more enthusiastic about mechanical transplanting than direct seeding, they said the non-availability of sufficient machines is a problem. “The machines are a more practical alternative to manual transplanting but most farmers do not have these. Besides, farmers have not yet seen many successful trials,” said Kuljit Singh, another farmer.Chief Agriculture Officer Gurdial Singh Bal said: “Those farmers who do not have experience of direct seeding or mechanical transplanting should first apply these alternates on a small chunk of their land. They can experiment it on one-fourth of their land holding. It would give them experience and hands-on training.” Many farmers were using the alternate technique, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-give-thumbs-down-to-direct-seeding-99397
15-06-2020||---||Lockdown on Sat, Sun gets good response from Amritsar residents||Amritsar, June 14The weekend lockdown introduced by the state government after rise in Covid positive cases received support from people. The police laid nakas at the entrance of the city. Besides, all major roads were barricaded.All roads wore a deserted look. Even the Heritage Street, leading to the Golden Temple and the Jallianwala Bagh, was seen without any pedestrian. Staff of the SGPC said the number of devotees was negligible in the two days.Vinod Mittal, a shopkeeper, said the two-day lockdown revived the memories of the recent curfew when the majority of people abided by the new norms framed by the government to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, largely people did not follow the norms after relaxations in the lockdown, due to which a rise in positive cases was witnessed in almost all parts of the city.Barring chemists and liquor vends, all shops were closed. Interestingly, people were not allowed to move on roads but sales persons at liquor vends kept waiting for customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-on-sat-sun-gets-good-response-from-amritsar-residents-99396
15-06-2020||---||Civil Surgeon: ASI died of pneumonia||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 14Civil Surgeon (CS) Anoop Kumar claimed on Sunday that ASI Sukhdial Singh died of pneumonia not Covid-19. The ASI died on Friday night and the body was cremated on Saturday under the Covid-19 protocols. The CS gave information to mediapersons on Saturday that the ASI died of Covid. The Health Department, by adopting the protocol, sent its employees with PPE kits to cremate him at Mughalwal, his native village in the Patti subdivision.The deceased was admitted to the local Civil Hospital on June 11 and the authorities after getting his samples to be tested for Covid referred him to the Government Medical College (GMC) and Hospital, Amritsar, for treatment.The Amritsar authorities too took his samples for testing. The CS said the report of his first sample taken by the local authorities was reported positive. Later, after his death he was declared negative. The report of the GMCH, Amritsar, too came negative. In spite of all this, the body was cremated under the Covid-19 protocols, under the supervision of the Health Department. In the present circumstances, the family of the deceased would be deprived of benefits of the Covid death case, which includes an insurance of Rs 50 lakh and other benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-surgeon-asi-died-of-pneumonia-99395
15-06-2020||---||Sewerman found infected; 4th case in MC||Amritsar, June 14A sewerman of the Municipal Corporation working in zone number 4 tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said more than 200 employees had been tested in the last few days. “A total of four employees have tested positive till date. The contacts of three found infected earlier have been traced while that of the sewerman are being traced and their tests will be conducted,” she said.Earlier, two sewermen and one sprayman had tested positive. The MC has been sanitising all its offices and departments in routine. Hand sanitiser stands have also been installed outside the offices.“Sewermen and safai karamcharis of the Municipal Corporationworking in the containment zones will be tested on a priority. We are also conducting random tests of employees working in public dealing offices,” said a health official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sewerman-found-infected-4th-case-in-mc-99394
15-06-2020||---||Amritsar reports 20th death, 12 new cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 14A 66-year-old man from Pandori Mehma village succumbed to Covid-19 here today, taking the death toll due to the virus in the district to 20. Avtar Singh was admitted to Government Medical College on June 12 following complaints of breathlessness. Health officials said he was a known case of diabetes mellitus.Meanwhile, the district also reported 12 new positive cases today. Of these, two patients... one from Rayya Khurd village and the other from Kotla Doom village —- tested positive in Ludhiana.Besides, seven are the contacts of a positive case from Varindavan Garden while the remaining three cases were reported from Anngarh, Shiva Enclave and Katra Khazana localities. With a total count of 613 positive cases, the district has witnessed 418 recoveries and 20 deaths. The active count stands at 175.At a meeting with senior health and administrative officers to review the condition, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni said from now onwards, the test reports of family members of positive cases would be made available within six hours.The early availability of reports would help in the timely treatment of patients and the early identification of contacts. He directed the health authorities to expedite the contact-tracing exercise so that the infection chain could be broken. Soni said any employee found not performing his/ her duty would be punished as per the law. He directed health officials to initiate action against a private lab for issuing false reports.The minister said suspected patients should preferably be tested at the GMC lab as it had been upgraded to process 3,000 samples daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-20th-death-12-new-cases-99393
