15-04-2020||---||Sanitation workers get vitamin pills||Amritsar, April 14The Municipal Corporation (MC), in collaboration with a local NGO, distributed 600 vitamin pills to safai karamcharis to boost their immunity. Rohan Mehra, a social activist, contributed Vitamin C chewable tablets for the wellbeing of the MC workers.Sushant Bahita, Estate Officer, MC, said, “The vitamin pills boost the immunity and it was the need of the hour. Our sanitation workers are fighting on the frontline to check the spread of Covid-19. It is our duty to take care of their health. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has given the pills to the union leaders to further distribute to the workers.”Rohan Mehra said more tablets would be provided in the next few days. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu expressed his thanks to all the social workers, NGOs and industrialists who were putting in their efforts to feed poor people and provide them with other required assistance during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-workers-get-vitamin-pills-71436
15-04-2020||Box||Veggie vendor takes this as opportunity to serve society||When determination is strongSurjit Singh wakes up at 4 am everyday to visit the wholesale sabzi mandi so that the needs of the residents are fulfilled on their doorstep. He also has three children at home, but his determination to serve others is strong.-------------Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 14When everyone today is confined indoors to stay safe amid the deadly Covid outbreak, there are some warriors fighting for us, saving us and risking their lives for us and our families.One among them is Surjit Singh, a vegetable vendor, who wakes up at 4 am everyday to visit the wholesale sabzi mandi so that the needs of the residents are fulfilled on their doorstep. Surjit also has three children at home, but his determination to serve others is strong.“The government has permitted retailers to purchase vegetables and fruits between 3 am and 7 am. I along with other two vendors go in an auto to procure fresh vegetables. After this I go house-to-house to sell these. To ensure social distancing, I drop packets on the doorstep of each customer," said Surjit.The vegetable vendor said he had a family of five to feed and in this time of exigency when people were staying indoors to keep their families safe, he had no other way except to go out to earn."However, this way I also get an opportunity to serve society in this hour of crisis. Vegetables come under essential commodity. It now takes only a few hours to sell the entire stock of green vegetable, which earlier used to take the entire day," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/veggie-vendor-takes-this-as-opportunity-to-serve-society-71435
15-04-2020||Amritsar||Residents, councillor spar over distribution of ration||A heated argument between a councillor and the people was witnessed over distribution of ration in the Yaseen road area here on Tuesday. The councillor, along with administrative officials, had gone to distribute ration among non-blue card holders.Poonam, a resident of the area, alleged that ration was being distributed among some selected families in their locality. She said some officials had visited their residence on Monday. After verifying their blue ration cards and noting down their Aadhaar card details, they promised that the family would soon receive ration. However on Tuesday, they were denied ration supply, she said.Pardeep Sharma, councillor of ward No. 52, said the present ration was only meant for non-blue card holders and those holding blue cards will also be given ration by the government soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-councillor-spar-over-distribution-of-ration-71430
15-04-2020||---||3-member panel meets Gujjars over ‘boycott’ by village residents in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 14A three-member committee, constituted by Punjab State Minority Commission Chairman Emanual Nahar, on Tuesday visited Timmowal village near here to investigate the incident of boycott of members of the Gujjar community by residents. The community members said residents were accusing them of spreading the coronavirus.The committee members included Lal Hussain, Satnam Singh Gill and Manga Singh Mahal who interacted with the village residents as well members of the Gujjar community.They informed the committee members that due to their boycott by the residents they were not even able to step out of their houses to buy grocery. Gullu Din, Roman Din and Saraj Ali said a buffalo, owned by their family, died on April 4 as they could not get medical help due to their boycott. “No doctor is ready to come to their homes even as a leg of another buffalo has been broken for the last few days,” they said.Punjab State Minority Commission member Lal Hussain said they had asked the district administration to submit its report within seven days.He said the SHO and the tehsildar concerned had been issued instructions to provide the community with essential items. As the members of the community were mainly depended on the sale of milk, the officials had been asked to ensure daily procurement of milk, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-member-panel-meets-gujjars-over-boycott-by-village-residents-in-amritsar-71429
15-04-2020||Amritsar||Screening drive covers 12k homes in Amritsar||The screening teams of Health Department found no case in those areas which were perceived as suspected Covid hotspots in Amritsar. The Municipal Corporation and the Health Department screened residents of more than 12,401 houses but no case of corona infection was found during the last three days.Initially the MC conducted screening in the areas, where Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa and former Superintending Engineer of Municipal Corporation Jaswinder Singh’s house are located.MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said 42 teams of the Health Department visited localities including Kangra Colony, Amarkot, Sunder Nagar, Anterjami Colony and Golden Avenue to screen residents.“Only one suspected patient was found, but preliminary reports have tested negative. Other five suspected patients have been asked to stay in quarantine”, said the MC Commissioner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/screening-drive-covers-12k-homes-in-amritsar-71428
15-04-2020||---||Youth beaten to death, two held||Amritsar, April 14A youth was beaten to death by several persons following a dispute over a mobile phone near Indira Palace here on Monday.The police have booked four persons on charges of murder and two of them were arrested by the police, said Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station.The police handed over the body of the deceased, identified as Sham Lal, to his family after post mortem examination.As per information, the accused also injured a relative of the victim, Dinesh Kumar, who came to rescue him. All of them were friends and they were in inebriated position at the time of the incident.Neeraj told that those arrested were identified as Anuj and Sanjay and they were arrested during a raid on Tuesday. Heera Lal, the complainant, stated to the police that a few days ago Sham Lal had come to meet Dinesh Kumar near Indira Palace where he met Anuj and Sanjay and their accomplice. Around a week ago Anuj lost his mobile phone and he suspected that Sham Lal had stolen the same. On Monday they called him over a drink where they had an argument and the accused brutally beat Sham Lal with baseball bat due to which he died. When Dinesh tried to intervene they also attacked and injured him. The police said raids were on to nab the remaining suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-beaten-to-death-two-held-71427
15-04-2020||---||Majithia seeks package for those who lost livelihood||Amritsar, April 14SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday distributed around 500 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to medical personnel, arhtiyas, labourers, police personnel and journalists at Majitha here. He also handed over kits to Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon.Demanding an economic package for all those who had lost their livelihoods, he said the government should extend a direct help to all daily wagers by depositing Rs 6,000 in their bank accounts, besides releasing Rs 1,000 crore due to sugarcane farmers.He said similarly wheat growers should be given a bonus of Rs 50 per quintal. He said potato and vegetable farmers and those engaging in floriculture should be given a direct cash benefit considering the losses they had incurred last month.“Milk producers should be given a bonus of Rs 5 per litre to help them tide over difficulties faced by them,” he said, while asserting it was unfortunate that the government had reduced the milk procurement rate in this time of crisis.Speaking about the bravery of doctors, para-medics and entire staff and ambulance personnel, he said the government should double their salaries immediately to recognise the services being rendered by them.He also saluted the bravery of ASI Harjit Singh for displaying remarkable courage and composure when attacked by anti-social elements in Patiala during the course of which his arm was severed. He said Harjit should be given an out-of-turn promotion for being a role model for the entire force.During his visit to Majitha, he also interacted with arhtiyas at the grain market, besides giving them reusable gloves as well as masks. The Arhtiyas’ Association urged Majithia that all labourers working in the mandis should be given insurance.Later, the SAD leader met DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon. He pointed out the need for ensuring safety measures as thousands of farmers and others associated with the harvesting of wheat crop would be out in the open from tomorrow. He stressed the need for maintaining complete transparency in distribution of food material to poor and needy people while disclosing instances of politicisation of government relief material by Congressmen.Majithia also visited the DSP office and the SDM office in Majitha where he also gave PPE kits. Separate PPE kits were kept in the market committee office. He thanked the civil and police officials as well as health workers for the risks they were taking to provide service to the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/majithia-seeks-package-for-those-who-lost-livelihood-71426
15-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Social activist finds solace in gardening, reading books||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 14Philanthropist and social activist Jeevan Jyot has been keeping herself busy with gardening and reading books during the lockdown. Besides, she lays stress on practising social distancing amid curfew restrictions.“The restrictions have brought us close to nature. It has completely taken over the world and showing its true colours when people are staying indoors,” she said.She is the chairperson of S.H.E Society, which is a 23-year-old philanthropic organisation and has been working for the uplift of women and underprivileged people by mobilising resources.“I have seen the house sparrow after a long time. Many birds which had disappeared have suddenly resurfaced while clearly hinting that how rapid urbanisation has taken a toll on their natural habitats and the environment,” she said.“The curfew restrictions, in a way, have a positive impact on nature. Reports of flowing clean water in rivers, including the Ganga and the Yamuna, are coming up with many other good affects on nature,” she said.Activities of her organisation have also come to a standstill due to the curfew restrictions. “During the lockdown, the workload of most women has increased when all members of the family are at home. They are over occupied while caring for them,” she added.As gyms are closed, she has been also doing cycling to stay fit in these testing times. “I have started devoting more time to cycling. I cycle in the lanes of my colony daily in order to stay fit. It also strengthens me mentally to fight uneasiness,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-activist-finds-solace-in-gardening-reading-books-71425
