15-08-2020||---||Two more testing vans to take samples in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 14The Municipal Corporation of Amritsar provided two more mobile testing vans to the district administration here on Friday.Speaking on the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said a mobile testing van had already been provided by the Municipal Corporation to the district administration. He said the MC built separate compartments for the driver, doctors and patients in these vans at a cost of Rs 2 lakh.Handing over the keys of both the testing vans to the Deputy Commissioner, Mayor Karamjit Singh said with the help of these vans the number of tests would increase in the district.Rintu said if the district administration needed more mobile testing vans then more would be provided by the Municipal Corporation.“If someone notices symptoms of the Covid-19 disease, he should immediately visit the nearest hospital and get tested for the virus to protect himself and the family. The medical helpline number 104 can be contacted for information about Covid-19 tests,” added Rintu.On the occasion, DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira said these two mobile testing vans would be sent to different areas of the city and first of all the vans would take samples at dhabas where a large number of customers could be seen. He said everybody should support the government to get rid of the virus and get their test done in case of any symptoms.He said with these mobile testing vans visiting their areas or localities people would not have to travel far-off areas for testing. Khaira said no medical prescription was required for undergoing the test.Khaira said the mobile testing vans would work under the supervision of the SDM and if any positive case was found in the area then other people would also be tested to break the chain of the Covid-19 disease.Prominent among those present on the occasion were Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal, Municipal Corporation Additional Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh and other officials.No casualty, 33 fresh infections; total cases 2,667 The district reported 33 new positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 2,667 on Friday. However, as no fresh casualty was reported, the death toll stood at 105 in the district. Of the 33 new cases, 16 are people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 17 are contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each was reported from Tungbala, Sultanwind Road, Islamabad, Ranjit Avenue D block, Bhagtanwala Gate, Pawan Nagar on the Batala road, Ratirath Road, Jheeta Kalan, Majitha Road, Umrapur, Khalchian, Gali Kamboj, Nangali Majitha Road, Majith Mandi, Fatehgarh Churian Road and Gokul Avenue. One contact case each was reported from BSF in the Khasa area, Guru Har Rai Avenue Road, Ivy Hospital, Tej Nagar on Sultanwind Road, Tanjit Avenue B block, New Jawahar Nagar, Ram Tirath Road, AzadNagar on Sultanwind Road and Sarpanch dairy on Sultanwind Road. Besides, two contact cases were reported from Dashmesh Avenue on the Majitha road and three each from Military Hospital and Shiv Nagar colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-more-testing-vans-to-take-samples-in-amritsar-district-126633
15-08-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Differently abled defies all odds, cracks UPSC exam||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 14 Success comes to those who work hard for it, rather than regretting over their limitations, said 25-year-old Karanbir Singh Chohan, who has cleared the UPSC Civil Services Examination in his third attempt this year. A differently abled person from birth, Chohan is a strong believer in god. “If god takes something from you, it gives us more in form of other things which we do not see initially,” said Chohan, who is orthopedically handicapped as he suffers from cerebral palsy in the right arm. “In my case, he gave me grit, right frame of mind and enough intelligence to create a niche for myself,” he said. Chohan scored an all-India rank of 807 in the general category and eight position in the handicap category. He said he wanted to sensitise people to the struggle of differently able persons. “They should be considered equal. They don’t need anyone’s sympathy but only companionship,” he said. Recalling his experience, Chohan said he used to consistently read for eight to 10 hours daily. “Consistency is the key to success and one should not lose hope,” said Chohan. He graduated in computer science from the prestigious Delhi Technological College. He first attempted the UPSC civil services exam in 2017 after taking a coaching from an institute based in Delhi. Unable to clear the exam in first two attempts, he prepared for another year while staying at his home and cleared the exam this year.  Chohan said he had a childhood dream of becoming a civil servant. After completing senior secondary, he decided to take the computer engineering course after getting inspired by his sister who was among the first girls in the holy city to go an IIT. He said he started preparing for the UPSC in the final year of his graduation. “I credit my success to my family, especially my father Manjit Singh Chhina, who is a retired bank employee,” Chohan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/differently-abled-defies-all-odds-cracks-upsc-exam-126634
15-08-2020||Our Correspondent||SAD workers protest against spurious liquor trade in area||Tarn Taran, August 141,000 protesting SAD workers bookedTarn Taran: A case has been registered under Sections 269, 188, 5 of the Disaster Management Act against as many as 1,000 SAD workers who had gheraoed the residence of Khemkaran MLA Sukhpal Singh in Mehmudpur village, 45 km from here, today. The police said Virsa Singh Valtoha, former SAD MLA and his son Gaurav Singh Valtoha were among the 100 persons, who had been booked by name, while the other 900 were booked as unidentified persons.A large number of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers protesting against the spurious liquor trade flourishing in the area, organised a motorcycle rally in the border areas today and gheraoed the residence of Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, Khemkaran MLA, for hours together in Mehmudpur village, the native village of the MLA.SAD workers burnt the effigy of the MLA and the then local SSP Dhruv Dahiya as the SAD had been blaming that the police officer was hands-in-glove with the ruling party leaders in the trade.Virsa Singh Valtoha, District President SAD and former MLA led the party workers. The SAD workers marched in different villages of the area and at the end of the march reached Mehmudpur village where they gheraoed the residence of the MLA Sukhpal Singh Bhullar.Virsa Singh Valtoha, in his address, said the spurious liquor had claimed as many as 100 precious lives. He alleged that the trade was on in its full swing in the border area. He also alleged that the leaders of the ruling party were patronising the accused of the trade. He said residents of the area, sent WhatsApp messages to the then SSP Dhruv Dahiya regarding illegal distilling of liquor, yet no action against the accused, inspite of the ample evidence given by the residents.The SAD leader said about two weeks back, the district police had seized a huge quantity of illicit liquor and lahan from the residence of Major Singh and his brother Sukhwant Singh, alias, Sukh Mehmudpur, who were the leaders of the Congress party.He said it proved the allegation of the residents that illicit liquor trade was running in the border area in full swing. He alleged that the trade was running under the patronage of ruling party leaders with the connivance of the police officials. The agitated SAD workers burnt the effigy of the MLA and the then district police Dhruv Dahiya for his negligence to take action against the element indulging in the spurious liquor trade. Heavy police forces were deployed in the area to prevent any untoward incident. The SAD leader demanded a CBI probe into the spurious liquor trade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-workers-protest-against-spurious-liquor-trade-in-area-126635
15-08-2020||---||People suffer as ongoing strike hampers work at Amritsar DC office||Amritsar, August 14The strike, which was started on August 6 by employees of the Deputy Commissioner office, is causing undue inconvenience to people as no public work is being done here. As a result, the cash-strapped government is suffering loss of revenue. Likewise vendors are also facing undue losses.Situated inside the District Court Complex, the DC office carries out important and various public works. The applicants, who have been trying to get their works done at the DC’s office, the SDM’s office, the land registrar’s office and tehsil are worst affected.The strike has upset the applicants, who are unable to get their works done for over the past a week. On the call of the Punjab State DC Office Employees’ Association, employees of the DC office here had started a 10-day pen-down strike which would conclude this weekend.The protest hampered the work at the DC office and judicial work at the SDM-I and SDM-II offices. Scores of stamp vendors have to shut down again immediately after a prolonged lockdown.From 70 to 75 regular appointments for property registration, besides 20 Tatkal appointments take place daily here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-suffer-as-ongoing-strike-hampers-work-at-amritsar-dc-office-126636
15-08-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar district gets 75th govt smart school||Cabinet Minister OP Soni on Friday inaugurated the 75th smart school at Naushera village in the district. The school has been developed at a cost of 9.5 lakh and has an educational park equipped to help kids learn through alternate learning tools.  Soni, while inaugurating Government Senior Secondary Smart School, said the development of smart schools in the district was being done with the main objective to provide quality education and health facilities to the children. While addressing the teachers and officials present, he said this school had been inaugurated to mark the 74th Independence Day. “Government schools in the state are in much better shape than they were during the previous government’s tenure. The students of government schools are beating the private schools and this year also the results of government schools were better than private schools. During the pandemic, the teachers too are working hard to impart quality education to the children by setting up online classes. It’s time that more parents come forward and get their wards enrolled in government schools.”  The school’s educational park has been developed keeping in mind creative skill development. “It has drawing boards, alternate learning tools that can help kids bring out hidden skills,” said Soni. He also felicitated Harmandeep Sharma, Satyam Kumar and Ramandeep Kaur, Class XII students who secured top positions in the PSEB results. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-gets-75th-govt-smart-school-126637
15-08-2020||Amritsar||Hardliners to observe August 15 as ‘black day’||The hardline Sikh groups such as Dal Khalsa, SAD (Amritsar) and United Akali Dal have decided to observe August 15 as ‘black day’ and stage a protest across the state.Kanwar Pal Singh, spokesperson of the Dal Khalsa said they would stage protests on Independence Day against atrocities, political subjugation, agri ordinances and ‘denial of rights’ to the people of Punjab in the last seven decades.He said the indiscriminate use of black laws like UAPA on Sikh activists and anti-CAA protesters had raised alarm bells among the minorities, who are already at the receiving end of the oppressor state.He claimed that SGPC members Sukhdev Singh Bhaur, Karnail Singh Panjoli, and activists of the Rashtriya Muslim Morcha, Bhaujan Kranti Morcha, Sikh Youth Federation Bhindrawale and Akal Federation would also participate in the demonstration.He said the activists would hold a two-hour demonstration at 20 district headquarters. He said the flagrant manner in which desecration and vandalism of Guru Granth Sahib was taking place unabatedly had made Sikhs angry.He further said Sikhs and Kashmiris were not alone in this crisis of identity in India. All the minorities, including Dalits and Muslims, are also suffering. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hardliners-to-observe-august-15-as-black-day-126638
15-08-2020||Tarn Taran||State govt employees protest over demands||Employees of the state government lodged a protest stressing on their demands today and presented memorandums to the authorities concerned. The protesting employees wore black clothes with black badges. Members of the Punjab Subordinate Services Federation (PSSF) organised a march to the office of Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, local MLA where they presented a memorandum to Sandeep Agnihotri, son of the MLA. Baljinder Singh Doblian, District President of the organisation, condemned the state government for reducing the mobile allowance of employees and not releasing them their due dearness allowance installments.   He condemned the indifferent attitude of the state government towards the current state of employees. Workers of the Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation Contract Workers Union too organised a protest march. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-govt-employees-protest-over-demands-126639
15-08-2020||Neha Saini---||Cambridge School student wins ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ contest||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 14 Ten-year-old Hridhaan Kapoor won the ‘Ambassadors of Hope’ contest that was initiated by Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla in April this year. The contest was all about inviting students across the state to share positive ideas and outcomes during the pandemic and share their stories of hope.  Hridhaan, a Class V student of Cambridge International School, made a video about the safai sewaks, who had been proactively working throughout the pandemic as frontline warriors. “It’s a surprise that I won as when the first list of consolation prizes was announced online, I was disappointed after not finding my name on it. I was really expecting to win, but when I was announced the winner from Amritsar, I jumped for joy,” said Hridhaan.  The idea about making a video on garbage collectors was a spontaneous one of this little one. “Our neighbourhood garbage picker did not come for two days and when he came to collect the garbage on third day, I asked him why he didn’t show up. He told me that he was not well and had been hospitalised. Then I realised that they are the real heroes of society, who pick up the mess created by us without any complaints or tantrums. They deserve better and all our respect as they were out doing their duty when everyone was sitting inside the comfort of their home during the pandemic,” said Hridhaan.  His father, Mayank Kapoor, who is principal of Ajanta Public School, Dhab Khatika, and acted along with him in the video entry, said that Hridhaan’s sensitivity towards social issues is something that he always will be proud of. “He has a natural affinity to pick up creative ideas from everyday happenings. He is empathetic towards people and that’s what reflected in his video as well.”  As for his win, Hridhaan is elated that he will get an iPad as a prize. “I also told the garbage picker who featured in the video, that we won. He gave me a flower bouquet as he shared my happiness.”  Over 25,000 videos were sent from Amritsar for the contest and Hridhaan came first. Samreen Kaur, a Class X student of Sacred Heart Senior Secondary School, and Rahul Kumar, a Class X student of Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Beas, came second and third, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cambridge-school-student-wins-ambassadors-of-hope-contest-126640
15-08-2020|| ---||Armed persons demolish boundary wall of private colony||Amritsar, August 14  Several armed persons barged into a private colony at Ram Tirath road and demolished wall around the colony Thursday night. The persons reportedly fired several gunshots in the air also. Residents of Urban Estate Colony, near Dera Baba Darshan Singh, alleged that more than 100 persons came around 12.30 am and demolished the boundary wall of the colony to make it open for their fields and other nearby localities. Jageer Singh, one of the residents of Urban Estate, said, “We are concerned with the safety of colony residents. Some persons wanted to link the colony roads with some other residential colonies. But we had signed an agreement with the coloniser that no outsider can use the roads of the colony inside the boundary walls. The matter is sub judice. But some persons illegally damaged the wall and threatened the residents last night. We want action against those persons”. Rashpal Singh, who demolished the wall, said, “The boundary wall was illegal. We have plots in the urban Estate and have legal right to open the entry for our property”. Rashpal Singh refuted the allegation of firing and alleged that colony residents opened the fire.  “We have asked both the parties to come with the documents on August18”, said police officers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-persons-demolish-boundary-wall-of-private-colony-126641
15-08-2020||---||Victims of Partition to be remembered||Amritsar, August 14The Sai Mian Mir Foundation, an organisation working on the Indo-Pak friendship and peace, will remember 10 lakh Punjabis, who were killed in riots during the Partition days on August 15 in 1947.  Harbhajan Singh Brar, president of the foundation, said Punjabis paid a heavy price for the country’s independence. More than 10 lakh persons were killed and crores were displaced in 1947.“We forget all those persons who were murdered in communal riots. No one remembers them in India and Pakistan. We should remember the victims of the Partition,” said Brar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victims-of-partition-to-be-remembered-126643
15-08-2020||Amritsar||International workshop held at GNDU||Panel of Diploma engineers formedAmritsar: Ashwani Kumar was unanimously appointed as convener of the local-level committee of the Council of Diploma Engineers, Punjab, on Friday. In the presence of representatives of various wings of the Public Health, Water Supply and Sanitation, Rohit Mehra, Sharandeep Singh, Kulwant Singh, Harpreet Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Amarinder Singh, Amandeep Singh Khalsa, Sandeep Singh and Jaspal Singh were nominated as co-conveners. Chairman Sukhminder Singh told that on the call of Sanjha Mulazim Manch, Punjab, the Council of Diploma Engineers would participate in the protest against anti-employee policies of the government on August 18 at all district headquarters. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-workshop-held-at-gndu-126644
15-08-2020||---||Ex-AAP Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh booked||Amritsar, August 14The local police have booked former AAP MLA from Delhi, Jarnail Singh, for alleged blasphemous social media post against Hindu community.A case was registered under Sections 295-A of the IPC and 67 of the IT Act following a complaint by Rani Ka Bagh resident Gaurav Sharma.He sparked a row after posting blasphemous and disrespectful comments against Hindu gods. He had, however, claimed that the comments were accidentally posted by his son during his online class. The party has suspended him from primary membership.Gaurav Sharma, the complainant in the case, registered with the Cantonment police here said the post had hurt sentiments of the Hindu community and was not only detrimental for the brotherhood of Hindu and Sikhs but would also deteriorate the peaceful atmosphere of the country.Sharma, an automobile spare parts exporter and member of the Mata Lal Devi Sewa Manch, said being a responsible person and former MLA, Jarnail Singh should not have indulged in such act which could hurt the peaceful atmosphere in the country. He said therefore we decided to lodge a complaint against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-aap-delhi-mla-jarnail-singh-booked-126647
15-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Large gatherings barred, politicians take digital route to raise public issues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 14As the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way of working in almost every sector, politics has not remained immune. The life and routine of common people have undergone a tremendous change. To stay afloat, political leaders had to adapt to newer strategies afloat.According to some politicians, the biggest change that has happened in their lives is that they no longer get invites for functions such as marriages, anniversaries, bhogs, fairs, social gatherings, etc, which used to take a whole lot of their time of day.If there have been relatively less political rallies and meetings in the past four months, there has also been witnessed a change in their daily activities, too, as they remained engaged in distribution of ration, medicines, PPE kits, masks, truckloads of vegetables, sanitisation of markets and mohallas and sending migrants back via trains.By not holding their show of strength, politicians feared they would lose their face in the general public as their faces stopped featuring in the media where doctors, health workers and cops hogged the limelight. So, as soon as the lifting of lockdown restrictions began, they did not shy away from handing over memorandums to authorities concerned, organising public meetings and holding rallies to protest the policies of the government and tragic developments such as hooch tragedy. But they avoided holding press conferences, as that would have broken the the cardinal preventive norm of social distancing.While leaders of the Opposition parties in the state, ie the SAD-BJP and the AAP, lashed out at the ruling Congress over “inefficiencies” in the ration distribution system and its handling of the hooch tragedy, the Congress took on against the Centre by holding agitations against agricultural-related Ordinances. But none of the agitations involved huge gatherings and were mostly confined to a symbolic dharna, followed by the submitting of a memorandum to the DC.Weaker groups bore the bruntWhile no action was taken against leaders of the SAD, BJP and the Congress who violated the MHA guidelines, common people were immediately slapped with challans for violations of the Covid-19 norms.Cases were also registered against farmers for staging protests and labour leaders who protested against the state government over the hooch tragedy at Muchchal village.Allegations of bias in distribution of reliefDuring the lockdown, allegations of bias in the distribution of relief material flew thick and fast. Rajesh Honey, former president of the district unit of the BJP, accused Congress leaders of ignoring families aligned with the Saffron party, Shiromani Akali Dal, AAP and Left parties while distributing ration. He said Congress party workers and sympathisers were preferred. He referred to complaints constantly pouring in like the ones from Muslimganj, Mustafabad and many other areas of the city.Amarjit Singh Asal, a Left party leader, had pointed out that the people stuck in focal points and other industrial areas were those who were waiting for ration supply.Politicians, too, got infectedAmong politicians who tested positive for Covid in the region included Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi.Didn’t practise what they preachedWhat leaders have to say...During the lockdown, the biggest problem faced by us was to get access to officials. Only two persons are allowed to meet the officials these days. The availability of officials has also been an issue. Another problem that we are facing is that huge gatherings and agitations cannot be held. It took us a lot of time to tell the people to take to digital technology to report any issue to us. — Shwait Malik, BJP leader and Rajya Sabha memberThe biggest change that has happened in my working is that I no longer have to attend weddings, bhogs and melas. The job of a politician has been more of management during the pandemic. As a politician and representative of people, I have had to step into the public while trying to keep myself safe, too. After all, I have to honour my commitments made to masses during elections. — Gurjeet Singh Aujla, MPPublic meetings, which were the need of the hour owing to nagar panchayat elections which can be declared anytime, are not possible these days. But we are somehow trying to make up by initiating a drive “Tea with volunteers” in which five to seven persons visit. We are holding video conferences and following other social media platforms to remain in touch with voters. — Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, AAP leader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/large-gatherings-barred-politicians-take-digital-route-to-raise-public-issues-126649
