15-07-2020||Amritsar||62-yr-old loses battle to Covid, Amritsar death toll 56||With the death of a 62-year-old resident from the city, the district toll increased to 56 on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as Yudhveer Singh, was admitted to a private hospital.The district also reported 15 new positive cases in the last 24-hours. With this, the total count of positive coronavirus patients has reached 1,136. Of the new cases, three are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 12 are contacts of positive patients.One ILI case each has been reported from Jandiala Guru, Dhulka village (Baba Bakala) and Katra Karam Singh.Three contacts of positive patients from Mill quarters at Chehharta, two contacts each from Guru Gobind Singh Colony, Bhala Colony and Bhagtanwala, one contact each from Lakar Mandi, Raghubirpura (Sultanwind road) and Ganda Singh Colony tested positive. One of the new patients has been put on ventilator support.The district has discharged 920 patients from hospitals so far after complete recovery. At present, 160 active cases are either admitted to hospitals or are in home isolation.With the highest mortality rate of 4.92 per cent in the state, maximum casualties are that of senior citizens. Over 90 per cent of the deaths due to Covid-19 have been reported from patients above 60 years of age.The health officials said among the elderly patients, those with co-morbid conditions as diabetes and hypertension have more risk. The authorities said patients with such conditions must take ample precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/62-yr-old-loses-battle-to-covid-amritsar-death-toll-56-113158
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Covid victim’s family files  complaint against pvt hospital in Amritsar||The family members of deceased Covid-19 patient along with members of Adhi Dharma Samaj, an organisation working for the welfare of Valmiki community, filed a complaint against the owner of a private hospital here on Tuesday.The family alleged that the EMC Hospital billed them for Rs19 lakh for treatment of three members of the family.Rahul from Gilwali gate area, who is one of the members of the family, said: “My brother, father and mother were admitted to the hospital. I paid around Rs6 lakh, but later the hospital stopped the treatment of my brother as I could not pay. I shifted him to another hospital on June 27, where he expired after three days.”The hospital owner has earlier been booked by the police in a ‘false’ Covid-19 positive reports’ case.Rahul alleged that the hospital charged Rs6,000 per member for testing even though the government had capped the testing charges at Rs4,500. Rahul said his brother’s condition worsened as the EMC Hospital stopped treatment.He said of the total Rs19 lakh demanded by the hospital, Rs7lakh were charged for medicines for the treatment of my brother. He demanded that a case be registered against the hospital administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-victims-family-files-complaint-against-pvt-hospital-in-amritsar-113159
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Passengers still unwilling to take the Metro service in Amritsar||The Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) in Amritsar partially resumed bus service earlier last week, but passengers, it seems, are still unwilling to travel in it for fear of contracting the infection from a co-traveller.The bus service was stopped due to the Covid-19 lockdown and resumed on July 8. However, buses are operating at much less capacity as the ridership has gone down drastically.Earlier, the daily ridership of 84 buses operating on two BRTS routes in the city was 25,000 30,000 passengers. But after the authorities resumed the 40 buses recently, these have managed around 20 per cent of its earlier ridership only.Further, as the schools and colleges are closed, it, too, has affected the bus service as a maximum of riders comprise students. A worker at Guru Nanak Dev University, who earlier used to travel in the bus, said: “I use the cycle now. It is difficult, but I have heard that AC can increase the chances of catching the infection, if someone infected has unknowingly boarded the bus.”Passengers are apprehensive, as they feel that seats and safety rods in the buses might have been touched by an infected person.“Someone who is infected and does not know about it yet might have travelled in the bus and touched different places. If one has to travel, one should avoid touching things unnecessarily,” said Sukhchain Singh, a resident.The BRTS authorities, however, said ridership was less as people were avoiding travel and schools and colleges were closed. They said buses were being sanitised frequently. The public bus service was facing hardships before the Covid-19 situation, as people still had to become accustomed to travelling in public transport instead of using their own car or scooter. The BRTS management was hoping that the summer season would help in increasing the passengers as they would prefer AC buses instead of auto-rickshaws.CommuterspeakInstead of travelling in the bus, I use the cycle now. It is difficult, but I have heard that AC can increase the chances of catching the infection, if someone infected has unknowingly boarded the bus. — A worker at GNDUSomeone who is infected and does not know about it yet might have travelled in the bus and touched different places. If one has to travel, one should avoid touching things unnecessarily. — Sukhchain Singh, a residentOfficialspeakThe ridership is less as people are avoiding travel and schools and colleges are also closed. Buses are being sanitised frequently. The public bus service was facing hardships before the Covid-19 situation, as people still had to become accustomed to travelling in public transport instead of using their own car or scooter. The BRTS management was hoping that the summer season would help in increasing the passengers, as they would prefer AC buses instead of auto-rickshaws. — BRTS officials||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passengers-still-unwilling-to-take-the-metro-service-in-amritsar-113160
15-07-2020||Amritsar||It's a merry-go-round of problems at Circular Road||The Circular road running around the historic walled city is gasping for breath. Stretching about 7.3km, it is home to many traffic snarls, stray animals, vendors and shopkeepers. Already irregular in width — at places there is a width of 100ft and at densely commercialised spaces same is reduced to 60ft and more – it is crying for the attention of authorities concerned.With so much crammed in, the orbital road is one which commuters would really like to avoid but that is just a wish, for it connects the walled city with rest of the district. Availability for motorists to ply here depends upon commercial relevance of a stretch. For instance, the road between the Hall Gate to the Exit Gate of the ISBT invariably remains congested due to parking of vendors on either side.Rampant encroachments by shopkeepers is another major infrastructure lapse. Consider this, about 12 historic gates revolve around the stretch and with footfall of not only locals but tourists as well – most come to visit the revered Golden temple – the shopkeepers just can’’t resist to display their goods on the roadside to tempt people. This also gobbles up already limited space.Not only this, the stretch between Sikandari Gate to Hathi Gate has repair shops of two-wheelers lined up. The path from Lohgarh chowk to Khazana Gate, from Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh chowk to Sultanwind chowk is also dotted with shops. As a result, instances of road and platform encroachments can be seen. Come down to the thoroughfare between Lohgarh Gate to BK Dutt Gate, it is overrun by vegetable and fruit vendors.Adding to the menace and further highlighting the infrastructure loopholes are the stray cattle. A herd of stray animals like cows and buffaloes occupy footpaths, dividers regularly, even the operational roads are not spared at times. As scores of vendors are situated, stray animals like cows and buffaloes easily get the leftovers or stale, rotten veggies vendors throw in the open to fulfill their hunger.Thus, posing a threat to public and commuters. The claims made by authorities are fictitious, there is no decline in their number.On the other hand, they have continued to swell.One can say that Circular road is an infrastructure put on a carousel of swirling loopholes giving rise to a never-ending round of problems. Even the authorities have failed to address this long-pending issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-a-merry-go-round-of-problems-at-circular-road-113162
15-07-2020||AMRITSAR||Salad days of eating houses are long gone||Ever since the government allowed restaurants to get back to business, the new circumstances have shot up the operational costs of running one. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) released by the government has complicated their ways. It necessitates that an eating house has thermal screening installed, frequent sanitisation, extra hygenic care among other things.To no surprise, the general expenses of a restaurant had to rise. The bar on number of guests further elongated their bill sheets. The profitability of a restaurant depends on the number of people served at a given time. Higher the number of customers in a shift, more the profit.But as per the directions issued by the government, eatries are allowed to use only half of the tables, in other words they have to operate at 50 per cent capacity, which is punching holes in their pockets. For instance, it also takes into account operationalisation of electric gadgets like ACs, fans, lights, besides kitchen appliances like burning of the gas stoves.As Navdeep Singh Grover, proprietor of Astoria restaurant, puts it: “We have three halls but right now we are operating only one.”The number of visitors are not so great but Grover sounds optimistic as he adds, “The visitors are less but it’s increasing with time. Family tables comprising little kids and elderly are no longer visible. But then, they prefer takeaway or order home delivery.” His customers comprise youngsters and newly-wed couples.The chefs and waiters now have greater responsibility apart from just serving. They have to take all kinds of precautions right from washing of the vegetables and all raw products with chlorine and dipping them in the boiling water before they are morphed into delights. Sanitising of knives, chopping boards, utensils, tables, proper use of gloves, headcovers and at the same time maintaining social distance are things they have to keep in mind.Running accordingly with the present demand, restaurants have more or less abandoned the practice of cooking food in huge quantities. Now, they are cooking dishes in small quantities so that only fresh meals are served and in case they stumble upon a lean day nothing is wasted. Even salads are no longer part of the platter as customers demand for hot and thoroughly cooked food.Speaking outWe are following all SOPs, staff maintain hygiene and customers are assured of quality. We have three halls but right now we are operating only one. Though 15 tables are available, we serve at only 7 to 8 tables. — Navdeep Grover, Astoria proprietorMy family has been visiting a particular restaurant for over a decade now. I found that the quality, maintenance and norms were being followed thoroughly. So, I decided to take my family and friends there. — Gurpreet Singh, Green Avenue residentNo doubt we are operating restau-rant under loss, but keeping the establis-hment shut will only increase losses. So, we have no option but to operate to remain in the market. Hope things will change soon. — Arun Khurana, Aura restaurant, proprietor Before cooking for the day my team ensures that the kitchen, vegetables and other cooking materials are sanitised properly. We are cooking less these days, but our focus is on hygiene. — Manmohan Singh Negi, a cook||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/salad-days-of-eating-houses-are-long-gone-113164
15-07-2020||Amritsar||GDNU announces a slew of green initiatives amid Covid||Adding to its botanical heritage amid lockdown, GNDU recently opened its botanical garden, a first in the region, for its faculty and researchers. The botanical garden has diverse collection of trees and shrubs, besides a conservatory and a display area with plant species. Now, to create awareness and educate more people about its garden, GNDU’s department of botanical and environmental sciences has compiled a handbook on plant diversity of GNDU botanical garden, written and illustrated by Prof Avinash Kaur Nagpal, Dr Gurveen Kaur and Prof Satwinderjeet Kaur of the department. “The handbook will serve as an informational read for students and professionals of scientific and cultural fields, as well as plant lovers who have keen interest in floral diversity,” said VC Prof Jaspal Sandhu.He further informed that the botanical garden initiative was funded by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, under the Assistance to Botanical Garden(ABG) scheme for “Ex- situ conservation and propagation of RET species in the Botanical Garden of GNDU”. It’s engaged in collection, cultivation and conservation of rare, endangered and threatened (RET), medicinal, cacti and succulent plant species. The garden has expanded significantly to include new structures like conservatory, shade house, moss house for rescuing plant diversity and creating aesthetically pleasing refuges from modern life. The handbook is titled “Plant Diversity of GNDU Botanical Garden” and information on plant names (botanical and common), their families, flowering and fruiting times and global distribution of 44 species of trees and shrubs along with the illustrations for each plant species.In its bid to transform the campus into a green haven, the varsity authorities will also carry out large scale green drive, where volunteers of Baba Sewa Singh Khadoor Saheb will plant 2,500 saplings of varied species inside its campus. GNDU has also allotted space inside the campus for developing sacred forest, a concept of mini forest inspired by Miyawaki forest technique. It has already announced to adopt digital portals for administrative and academic purposes in a bid to go paperless.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gdnu-announces-a-slew-of-green-initiatives-amid-covid-113166
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Sidana International School honours its Class XII achievers||Sidana International School honoured its Class XII CBSE toppers on Tuesday. Hargun Khanna, who scored 97.2% marks and topped the school, was awarded with a medal for his outstanding performance. Hargun wants to become a doctor and thanked his teachers for their part in his academic success. Jeevan Singh and Gursahilpreet Kaur, both scored 94.8% marks and topped the school in the non-medical stream.In medical stream, Nipun Aggarwal with 96.8% marks secured the second position, while Parushi Kohli and Palakdeep Kaur scored 96.4% marks. The other academic achievers from school include Pulkit Bhatia (92.4% in non-medical), Nakul Sodhi (92% in non-medical), Aashima Jindal 98.2% with additional subjects in medical stream, whereas Priyareet scored 96.8% marks with additional subjects in medical. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sidana-international-school-honours-its-class-xii-achievers-113167
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Indians have had a history of braving all odds, says Rajmohan Gandhi||Noted historian, biographer and author Rajmohan Gandhi participated in an online lecture on international history organised by DAV College. Gandhi, who is the grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, was speaking from the USA, where he is based. Speaking on the subject of a changing world from a perspective of an Indo-American, Gandhi said Indians have had a history of braving the odds and the Covid-19 induced uncertain times require a humanist approach to deal with the pandemic.“Our strength as Indians has always been the ability to help others in need, and even today, we need our youths to take that responsibility of maintaining peace and establishing a society without bias, discrimination,” he said. He also added a few interesting observations about flaws and strengths of Indians living in USA.The lecture series has been started by the PG Department of History, travel and Tourism, DAV College and features eminent speakers from across the globe. The series is being held under the UGC-sponsored Gandhian Study Centre. More than 800 people registered themselves to hear to Prof Gandhi and others talk about topics related to international history.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indians-have-had-a-history-of-braving-all-odds-says-rajmohan-gandhi-113168
15-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Booh KVK bags two projects||The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh, working under the administrative control of GADVASU, has bagged two projects titled ‘Development of low-cost fruit fly traps for cucurbit vegetables and its demonstration at farmers’ fields’ and ‘Promotion of water saving technologies in horticultural crops for farmers’.Nirmal Singh, assistant professor (horticulture) and principal investigator of both projects, said the first project would be funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development and the second by the Department of Soil and Water Conservation, Punjab.Singh said the two-year project would be implemented at farmers’ fields in eight blocks of the district by training farmers. In fruit fly project, on-farm demonstrations will be conducted in cucurbit crops and low-cost fruit fly traps will be developed and distributed among cucurbit growers of the border district.He said low-cost fruit fly traps will provide pesticide, residue-free cucurbit vegetables and save labour charges. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/booh-kvk-bags-two-projects-113170
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Illegal construction of hotels in full swing in walled Amritsar||Though assistant town planners of Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, had identified 105 illegal buildings in the city, more than 50 such buildings were again constructed during lockdown. Despite the construction being banned in the walled city, the illegal construction of hotel around the Golden Temple has been going on in full swing.In November 2019, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu instructed officials of the Municipal Town Planning (MTP) wing to submit lists of illegal buildings in their areas during a review meeting. The Assistant Town Planners (ATPs) and building inspectors took more than six months to submit the list in their respective areas.On July 1, the MTP wing officials submitted a list of 105 ongoing illegal under-construction buildings. MTP official Narinder Sharma has taken action on a hotel building near the Fountain Chowk on Friday and demolished a portion of fifth floor of building. The hotel owner reconstructed the demolished part on Sunday night. The MC failed to take any action in this regard.The case of 216 illegally-constructed hotels in the walled city is sub-judice. Sarbjit Singh Verka, petitioner, in the case claimed that more than 500 illegal hotel buildings constructed in the walled city with the connivance of MC officials and politicians. On the directions of the HC, the Local Bodies Department had taken action against more than a dozen town planning officials in 2017. Now, Verka demanded vigilance inquiry of properties of the MC officials deployed in walled city area.It is worth mentioning that there were 105 illegal hotels in the walled city when Verka filed a writ in 2010. The SIT, constituted by the government in 2014, found that the number of hotels was 125.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-construction-of-hotels-in-full-swing-in-walled-amritsar-113171
15-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Mai Daultan’s name missing from Tarn Taran Civil Hospital board, residents fume||Sikh sentiments were hurt as the name of Mai Daultan was found missing from the board installed outside the 50-bed mother-child ward building in the local Civil Hospital here on Tuesday. The hospital was inaugurated by the Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday.He said to mark the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev, the Punjab Government had decided to name the 37 Mother and Child Healthcare (MCH) wards in the state after Mai Daultan, who took care of Guru Nanak Dev at the time of his birth. The minister had also said that it would be an appropriate tribute to Mai Daultan to name the wards after her.Virsa Singh Valtoha, SAD district president and party spokesperson, said the government had cheated the Sikh community as it had failed to fulfil its own announcement for which the Chief Minister and Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu should regret. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mai-daultans-name-missing-from-tarn-taran-civil-hospital-board-residents-fume-113172
15-07-2020||Amritsar||‘Fake’ Covid reports: Victims want Vigilance Bureau SSP to be part of Special Investigating Team||Even as the Punjab Government formed a special investigating team (SIT) to probe into the ‘fake’ Covid-19 reports scam, the victims sought the inclusion of Vigilance Bureau SSP Parampal Singh in it.‘Vb cannot probe private institutions’Chief Minister pointed out that the Tuli Lab staff had approached the court. They pleaded that the Vigilance Bureau can probe only government institutions and its employees and not the private organisations. Keeping that in mind, the probe was shifted to local police.Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh announced an SIT to investigate into the allegations against Tuli laboratory and private EMC hospital for issuing ‘fake’ Covid reports and fleecing the residents. The SIT will be headed by Commissioner of Police, Amritsar, Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill while Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal and Amritsar Civil Surgeon will be other members of the team.Earlier, the probe was shifted from the Vigilance Bureau to the local police, leading to resentment among the victims who criticised the government for transferring investigations to city police in abrupt manner.However, Chief Minister pointed out that the Tuli Lab had approached the court while pleading that the Vigilance Bureau can probe only government institutions and its employees and not the private organisations. Keeping that in mind, the probe was shifted to local police. After the victims expressed their resentment, an SIT has been formed to examine the case.He also said all the three members of the SIT belonged to medical professions and therefore they would be able to probe the case in a better manner. He said appropriate action would be taken after completion of investigation. He had assured that he was personally monitoring the case and justice would be done with the victims.Raj Kumar Khullar, father-in-law of Dr Anum Khullar, one of the victims of alleged nexus between Tuli Lab and EMC hospital said they welcomed the formation of SIT in the case, but they demanded inclusion of SSP Vigilance Parampal Singh in the case.On the complaint of Khullar, the Vigilance Bureau has booked five doctors, including a private lab and owner of EMC hospital on charges of murder, cheating, forgery and corrupt practices. During the probe, the vigilance came across more victims who were issued alleged fake reports and asked for treatment at the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-covid-reports-victims-want-vigilance-bureau-ssp-to-be-part-of-special-investigating-team-113173
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Christian body comes out in support of Bishop Franco||Members of a local Christian organisation raised concern over the cancellation of bail of Bishop Franco Mulakkal, accused of raping a nun, by the Kottayam Additional District Court on Monday. Office-bearers of the Christian Action Committee claimed as the bishop was home quarantined so he did not attend the court hearing.Christen leader Rohit Khokhar said the whole country was fighting a war against the novel coronavirus. If a person violates the home quarantine the police take action against him.Jatinder Gaurav alleged it was media’s propaganda that the Bishop did not appear in the court 13 times despite the rejection of his petition. “The Bishop was quarantined from July 6, so he did not appear in the court. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/christian-body-comes-out-in-support-of-bishop-franco-113174
15-07-2020||Tarn Taran||3 booked for molesting girl||Man booked for Rs15-lakh fraudAmritsar: The city police booked a man for duping a resident of Rs 15 lakh here on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Sun Sahib Road. In his complaint, victim Sukhdev Singh stated that he gave Rs 15.20 lakh to the accused for business. But the accused did not return the cash and cheated him. After a police inquiry, a case has been registered against the accused at the Chheharta police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-booked-for-molesting-girl-113188
15-07-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht seals records of SGPC’s publication wing||In the wake of 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, an Akal Takht Secretariat team today sealed the records of the publication wing of the SGPC at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, the designated place for the publication of holy books and maintaining records.Notably, the SGPC executive had urged Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to get an independent investigation conducted by a retired Sikh judge or a Sikh intellectual into the case.Akal Takht Secretariat official Jaspal Singh said on the directions of Giani Harpreet Singh, the records had been sealed in the presence of Takht’s additional priest Giani Malkiat Singh and other officials of the publication department. “We have sealed the records of ‘saroops’ from April 1, 2015, to date,” he said.The SGPC has already shifted the publication and binding wing officials and staff members, including supervisers, secretary, deputy secretary and additional secretary, so that the inquiry was not influenced.SGPC’s assistant supervisor (publication department) Kanwaljit Singh, upon his retirement, had revealed about the missing ‘saroops’ in the records.Meanwhile, SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh has gone on leave for 40 days. He boarded a Qatar Airways flight today. He said his tickets were already booked and he had availed the leave due to some domestic exigency. In his absence, SGPC’s personal secretary Mohinder Singh Ayali would officiate him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-seals-records-of-sgpcs-publication-wing-112943
