15-10-2020||Tarn Taran||1-kg heroin seized by Valtoha police, 2 held||The SSP said Sukhwinder Singh introduced Gursewak Singh and Gurpreet Singh to the smugglers on the mobile phone who threw the consignment from over the fence. The accused were on a motorcycle and when they were stopped by the naka party headed by the SHO, they fell down as they lost control over the motorcycle. The police recovered one kilogram of heroin from the suspects. They have been booked under Sections 21-C, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. The consignment valued at around Rs5 crore in the international market. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-kg-heroin-seized-by-valtoha-police-2-held-156143
15-10-2020||A day in the life of A public health administrator||He has his hands full amid the pandemic||Manmeet Singh GillTribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14Extended working hours, no weekly offs and switching between his different roles has become a routine for Amardeep Singh, deputy mass education and information officer with the district’s Health Department.Starting early by answering phone calls to addressing queries from the data (regarding positive cases and casualties) sent to the state authorities the previous day, Amardeep’s day also ends with feeding information regarding the day’s update to journalists till late in the evening. “A little confusion or a discrepancy in data means trouble,” he quips.Talking about his role ever since the pandemic struck, Amardeep says, “After I reach office in the morning, I work to ensure that the day’s video-conferencing of the district officials with the state authorities goes smoothly.”Once the meetings are over, it is time to catch up with three mobile sample collection teams. In between are the visits to private hospitals where serious patients are undergoing treatment or from where casualties have been reported. This is not it, visits to a few of the 68 sample collection centres in the district is another addition apart from data compilation and sending it to the state authorities.With the Health Department planning to rope in private hospitals for taking samples of suspected patients in order to increase testing, the training of hospital employees is also being organised under his supervision. “My day ends at around 9 pm daily; a little early as compared to the initial days of the pandemic when everybody was working till late night,” he shares.Being out for most of the day, he is extremely vulnerable to the virus as the persons he meet could be infected. Amardeep reveals he would worry a lot about his family. “Now, we all have got accustomed to the new routine. I take ample precautions on reaching home but inside I seldom worry,” he tells."After I reach office in the morning, I work to ensure that the day's video-conferencing of the district officials with the state authorities goes smoothly. My day ends around 9 pm daily; a little early as compared to the initial days of the pandemic, when everybody was working till late night." —Amardeep Singh, Deputy Mass Education, Info officer with Health Dept||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-has-his-hands-full-amid-the-pandemic-156056
15-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||This Romanian student won’t let Ollie go astray||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14Even though she is in the country on a student visa, her love of dogs forced her to legally adopt a stray dog as a pet. Francesca Filip, aka Franny, a student of social sciences, is at present keeping the animal with her at faculty hostel of the university.A Romanian national, Franny has named the pet, Ollie. Franny said she had spotted an injured dog on the street a few days ago. As she wanted to provide the animal medical help, she started searching for local organisations working for such animals.Franny said finally she found help from People for Animals (PFA) shelter home in the Rani Ka Bagh area. At the shelter home she fell in love with a cute puppy, which the PFA team had taken under its care. She said she would take Ollie with her to Romania after completing her study.Franny said, “Ifeel very bad when Isee the plight of stray animals in the holy city, especially when these animals are injured or sick.”People for Animal president Nidhi Adlakha said, “The dog Franny has adopted is an Indian breed. Mostly people adopt cross-breeds or exotic breeds. We all have to learn a lesson from Franny who despite being a foreigner has adopted a desi dog,” she said.Adlakha said most of the dogs seen abandoned on the streets were of Indian breeds. “Contrary to foreign breeds, the desi breeds have more tolerance for local weather conditions and thus have a better chance of survival,” she said. In a message to dog lovers, Franny said, “We should not buy pets. Instead we should adopt them. After all, we cannot buy love.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-romanian-student-wont-let-ollie-go-astray-156057
15-10-2020||---||Woman dies of virus, 25 new positive cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 14One more person lost his life to the contagion, taking the death toll to 423 in the district on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as 65-year-old Balkar Kaur, a resident of Kotli village near Ajnala.Meanwhile, the district health authorities reported 25 new positive cases. Of the new positive cases, 16 are persons who had symptoms of influenza-like illness and nine are contacts of positive patients.With the new cases, the total count of infections in the district has reached 11,285. With 121 recoveries reported on Wednesday, the total recovery count reached 10,298. At present, the district has a total of 564 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-dies-of-virus-25-new-positive-cases-in-amritsar-district-156058
15-10-2020||Neha Saini---||Despite govt guidelines, single screen owners, multiplexes unsure of opening||Tribune News Service Amritsar, October 14 After the Centre’s guidelines to reopen cinemas, schools and other entertainment parks, the multiplexes and single screens in the city are yet to make up their mind.  The Punjab Government has already issued guidelines in accordance with the Centre’s decision on reopening. But a majority of multiplex chains and single screens will refrain from opening immediately for reasons best known to them. “To reopen after a gap of several months is not easy as several maintenance issues have to be sorted out. Fifty per cent of the staff has been allowed to work but it will take us a few days to set things in order. We are yet to take a decision,” said a spokesperson for INOX cinemas at Trillium Mall. Similarly, Vijay Kumar, manager, PVR cinemas, too, said they were considering every possible option for reopening keeping in mind safety aspects post the Covid-19 lockdown. “We are in talks with our head office and we will abide by the guidelines. We cannot say anything with clarity about any specific date for reopening as of now.” Cinepolis chain of cinemas at Alpha One Mall, too, have considered reopening after a few days. Meanwhile, single screen owners are clear that they will not reopen until audience response across the country becomes clear. “There are no movies up for release and health concern, too, is there since Covid-19 is very much there. We will watch how things take shape once other cinemas reopen. Since reopening requires a lot of investment, we need to be very sure that we will get quite a number of viewers. People are still in no mood to go out for movies as the lockdown has had an impact on people’s jobs and families,” said Pramod Mehra, co-owner, Sangam Cinemas. A few single screen owners like Raj cinema will reopen with old prints to see if the audience is interested in watching movies. “Business will pick up near Diwali, as a few films are lined up for release,” said Pramod. The DC has already said cinema halls and multiplexes are allowed to reopen with 50 per cent staff and 50 per cent occupancy with adequate physical distancing while seating. Seats which are not to be occupied will be marked and several steps like digital payment of tickets and online advance booking ensured to avoid unnecessary crowding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-govt-guidelines-single-screen-owners-multiplexes-unsure-of-opening-156059
15-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Authorities stretched as progress of Batala roads hit||Tribune News ServiceBatala, October 14The construction work of new roads and recarpeting of the existing ones here has been cut short. The roads within the city’s limits are looked after by the Municipal Corporation (MC), while those on the outskirts are the responsibility of the PWD, whose officials, are under tremendous pressure to complete the pending works but are facing difficulties – the available staff is proving to be inadequate considering the large-scale works that have to be carried out in and around the city. The outbreak is at the heart of the issue.After the previous MC House was dissolved, the onus fell on the MC Commissioner Balwinder Singh’s shoulder. The first road that caught his attention was the 500 metre stretch running from Khajuri Gate till Pahari Gate. This passage was simply unmotorable and highly prone to accidents.Balwinder said the road was completed under the funds sanctioned from the Urban Environmental Programme (phase-1) of the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB). “We received a grant of Rs2.94 crore for the Khajuri Gate-Pahari Gate road and also for the thoroughfare running in front of the RR Bawa DAV College for Girls. The pandemic meant we had to do with a skeletal staff. We also had to face various other problems but we could not stop work because residents were regularly complaining that area had turned into haven for accidents,” said the SDM-cum-MC Commissioner. RK Bhatia, Municipal Engineer, was assigned the task to complete the twin projects within a stipulated time frame of two months, which he did.He added that the MC had recently received another grant of Rs12 crore under phase-2 of the programme. “This money is being spent on improving the condition of the two service roads under the Dera Baba Nanak railway overbridge and also on some roads running through the walled city,” he told.However, it is likely a demanding task — or so the residents claim — as scores of rehris dot the twin passages under the overbridge. “Rehriwalas are voters and no politician worth his salt will like to deprive them of their livelihood. The MC is headed by a bureaucrat but he will not commence work till the politicians direct him. Hence, the condition of these roads, which are widely used ones, will remain the same as it is now. The project is sure to be consigned to the back-burner,” said Rajinder Singh, a former municipal councillor. However, Balwinder was at variance with the views and added that the vendors will be moved to a suitable place before work commences.Jyotika Mahajan, a school teacher, has been keeping tabs from the get-go. According to her, not much is being done despite all the tall claims voiced by the MC. “Just take a look at the stretch of road running from the Jassa Singh Ramgharia chowk till cinema hall. Accidents occur every now and then. I have been hearing for last several months that work is about to start but till now nothing concrete has happened,” she said.Yet another passage that is suffering and in dire need of mending is the one running from Hansli bridge till Gopal Nagar. The MC Commissioner added that residents will not have to wait for long because tenders had already been floated. A senior PWD officer claimed that work will commence soon on the Amritsar bypass-Gurdwara Kandh Sahib road. “This stretch is used by devotees. Funds have been sanctioned and work will commence soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/authorities-stretched-as-progress-of-batala-roads-hit-156060
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Online exams at GNDU conclude||GNDU has finished conducting exams for exit classes as per the UGC guidelines. The varsity had conducted open book examinations in online mode for exit classes and over 43,000 students got registered for the exams. Controller of Examinations, GNDU, Dr Manoj Kumar said the varsity had announced dates for students who were unable to sit for exams. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-exams-at-gndu-conclude-156061
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Webinar dwells on challenges faced by women in society||To celebrate International Girl Child Day, Women Empowerment-cum-Grievance Redressal Cell, DAV College, Amritsar, organised an online lecture on ‘My Voice: Our Equal Future’ today. Dr Amandeep Kaur, Director, Amandeep Group of Hospitals, was the resource person. More than 100 participants attended the lecture.Principal Dr Rajesh Kumar focused on how girls play multiple roles in household, society and the economy. “But with the passage of time, the thinking of people towards women has not changed completely even today, problems such as child marriage, dowry and female foeticide are still prevalent in the society. The Government of India has also implemented a number of schemes to empower girls, under which ‘Beti Bachao and Beti Padhao’ is a notable scheme. Apart from this, the central and state governments are also launching other important schemes for betterment of girls,” he said.Dr Amandeep Kaur threw light on education, equality and empowerment of adolescent girls. She highlighted various challenges faced by girls in the society. “My Voice, Our Equal Future,” was the theme of International Girl Child Day and on this day as well as on other 365 days of year we all should celebrate the possibilities of a better world inspired by girls and young women. Girls around the world are lifting their collective voices to impact social change,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-dwells-on-challenges-faced-by-women-in-society-156062
15-10-2020||---||Shoes distributed among needy in east constituency||Amritsar, October 14A programme was chalked out at ward no 27, Krishna Nagar Dhobi Park, to distribute shoes to the sanitation workers and sweepers by the Meher Foundation under its initiative named as Jazba.The programme was organised by an NGO in the East Constituency. Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, was the chief guest on the occasion. He could not turn up due to unknown reasons.Meanwhile, around 400 pairs of shoes were distributed among the needy.Girish Kumar, husband of the councillor, said this programme was arranged by Sidhu only in collaboration with a Patiala-based foundation. “Sidhu could not come due to some personal reasons, but the Meher Foundation’s director has distributed the shoes to the needy,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shoes-distributed-among-needy-in-east-constituency-156063
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Farmers to intensify stir as talks with govt fail||With farmers’ association leading the protest against three agriculture-related Acts passed by the Union government recently, boycotting the meeting with representatives of the government today, the agitation is expected to be prolonged. The 31 farmers’ associations have already called in a meeting on October 15 to chalk out the future course. Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said: “The government has shown its non-seriousness, as no minister capable of taking the decision was present in the meeting.” He said the government officials present in the meeting could not have been able to take any decision if the talks had progressed.Ajnala said the farmers’ associations would intensify the protest and a programme would be announced after meeting on October 15. Meanwhile, the sit-in at the Buttari railway station, near Beas, being held under the banner of All-India Kisan Coordination Committee, has entered its 14th day. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-to-intensify-stir-as-talks-with-govt-fail-156064
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Improvement trust fails to demolish illegal construction||A team of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) visited Ashok Vatiak School, near New Amritsar on GT Road, to take action against the illegal construction. In the absence of police assistance, the AIT team failed to demolish the illegal construction. Barjinder Mohan, executive officer, AIT, said, “We took partial action on the school. They had constructed some rooms without taking building approval. The duty magistrate was not available due to farmer demonstrations in the city. Next time we will go with the police assistance to take the action”.  Suresh Sharma, an RTI activist,  said, “The AIT has been serving notices to schools management but they are ignoring. We welcome the action of AIT.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/improvement-trust-fails-to-demolish-illegal-construction-156065
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Two members of Jujhar gang arrested||With the arrest of two gangsters of the Jujhar gang, the city police claimed to have ended the terror of the notorious gang. The arrested gangsters were identified as Manak Singh and Karan Sharma, both residents of Sharifpura.Simarjit Singh alias Jujhar, the kingpin of the gang, was already arrested by the police and lodged in Hoshiarpur jail. One of his accomplices, Sahil Singh, was also arrested on September 9. Another gang member was arrested on Tuesday.Jagmohan Singh, DCP (Law and Order), stated that the accused had shot at Amreek Singh of New Amritsar, Sajjan Singh of Maqboolpura and Vicky of 88 Ft Road with intent to kill them on September 10, but they were badly injured. Jujhar Singh had taken the responsibility of the crime on his Facebook page. The police took him on production warrant for investigation.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-members-of-jujhar-gang-arrested-156066
15-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Agri laws: People from all walks of life feel heat of protest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14With the railway lines blockade by farmers entering third week, people from different walks of life have started feeling the heat.Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), said the rail blockade affected has had a far-reaching effect as far as the trade and industry of the border district was concerned. The loss of local businessmen was gain of their counterparts from Ludhiana, Panipat and Ambala where train and road connectivity remain uninterrupted.“Earlier, we lost trade in hilly states and now in the plains as well. Local market is the main supplier of warm clothes like shawls, blankets, tweeds, blazers, suiting shirting and other merchandise to the mountainous states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. But that season was lost as summer vacations were consumed by the pandemic. Now, the demand for the product of winter season is expected from central Indian states,” he said.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association in a communique to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh requested them to pacify the agitating farmers soon to bring back the wheels on the track.He said the deplorable state of tourism due to the pandemic first and now the railway blockade arecausing great harm to the hotel occupancy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-laws-people-from-all-walks-of-life-feel-heat-of-protest-156068
15-10-2020||Irrespective of sincere attempts by educational institutions in using all available means to bridge the gap induced by the outbreak and following restrictions inflicted upon the structure of learning and teaching||There is no match to Conventional classroom education||In a conversation with Neeraj Bagga, he, however, is all praise for the Information Technology which kept entire world connected during the Covid-19 pandemic.Q: How has your college been tackling the challenges posed by Covid-19?A: Initially, there were plenty of problems like many students neither had PCs not smartphones. Students somehow made arrangements but then network issues and costly net packs took a toll. Not all teachers were computer literate. So the faculty of Computer Department taught them the nuances of computer and now entire the faculty of the college is computer literate. Now, half of the syllabus of the academic session 2020-21 has been completed.Q. How did you carry out the process of online examination?A. The students of the second and fourth semesters were promoted without any exam. However, the exit exams of all graduate and post graduate classes were taken as per the guidelines of the Guru Nanak Dev University. Ten minutes before the commencement of the examination the college received online question papers from the university and the same were forwarded to the students through separate WhatsApp groups and the students revert with answers in the Portable Document Format (PDF). The PDF answer sheets were then printed and checked by the faculty in the college. So classroom test format was limited and online formalities were completed.Q: Do you think the digital shift, especially in colleges, is here to stay?A. There is no substitute to classroom teaching. Digital online class is a stop-gap arrangement in which students can become insincere by switching off the audio, hoodwink teachers by pretension. Eye contact of students and teachers is vital for imparting teaching. Internet connectivity, availability of electricity and affordability of computer will always remain suspicious.Q: How were the admissions this year?A. Sri Guru Teg Bahadur College for Women is being run in the walled city and is situated close to the Golden Temple. A large number of young women whose family can not afford transportation and education expenses in colleges, situated on the outskirts of the city and in civil line areas prefer to teach them there. As a fall out of the pandemic, nearly 15 percent decline in the admission was recorded in this session.Q: What infrastructural changes have been made for the digital sessions?A: The entire faculty was made computer literate and pedestal cameras were promptly procured to provide online education through blackboard to students. The faculty needs to be lauded for carrying out the activities deftly. So, we neither carried out any retrenchment nor reduction in salary.Q: What will be your concern once the classroom teaching begins?A: Safety is most important. The students will attend the school after a long time and maintaining social distancing will be an onerous task. We are contemplating modalities to hold classes. Like splitting a class with the student strength not exceeding 20 students. I anticipate that the parents will not also take risk in sending their children.Q: What’s your opinion on New Education policy (NEP)?A: The NEP is still on paper. No doubt, the policy is very ambitious. Its success will depend on whether it is implemented with resources and infrastructure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/there-is-no-match-to-conventional-classroom-education-156069
15-10-2020||The pear fruit grown in the district has been given top recognition at the national level. The district has been covered under the Union Government sponsored PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM FME Scheme) for producing pear fruit as the 'One District One Product' (ODOP). Officials of the Punjab Agro Industries Corporation (PAIC) say the PM FME is a Union Government sponsored five-year scheme launched in June this year. The scheme is funded by the Central and state governments in the ratio of 60||Amritsar district highest pear fruit producer in state||Admn recognises progressive farmer Manjit KaurManjit Kaur, a resident of Khadoor Sahib, has been given recognition by the district administration as a progressive farmer. She being adopter of 'natural way of farming' never uses fertilisers and tries to keep an ecosystem clean. She plows the land minimum and claims that organic farming systems are more profitable. Manjit Kaur was the regular invitee in the 'kisan melas' and other training functions to guide farmers for natural and organic farming. She had visited foreign countries to gather knowledge at the international level. Manjit was the holder of six acre agriculture land and was always of the views not to pollute the environment and it was this that she had never burn crop residue and mixes it in the fields. She not only grows traditional paddy, wheat crops but also grows vegetables, pulses etc. She provides eco-friendly material for bird shelters in her fields.Online poster making contest heldThe Education Department organised a district-level online poster making competition, results of which were declared recently. The competition was dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary of ninth Sikh Guru Teg Bahadur . In the secondary wing results, Sarabjit Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School, Mianwind, bagged the first position, while second and third positions were bagged by Gurpreet Singh of the GSSS Rataul and Ketan Sharma of the GHS Takhtu Chakk, respectively||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-highest-pear-fruit-producer-in-state-156070
15-10-2020||Amritsar||Chained woman rescued by Amritsar cops||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chained-woman-rescued-by-amritsar-cops-156072
15-10-2020||---||‘Rail roko’ stir extended till Oct 17||Amritsar, October 14The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has declared extension of its ‘rail roko’ agitation till October 17. For the past 20 days, the members have blocked the Amritsar-New Delhi rail track near Devi Daspura village in protest against the newly constituted farm laws.Committee state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the organisation did not accompany farmers to New Delhi for a discussion with the Centre.“It was expected that talks with the Centre will remain inconclusive because the invitation was received twice from a Secretary-level officer who will never be in a capacity to take decisions. He can only be a messenger of the government,” he said.“The Prime Minister said in Maharashtra that the new laws were formed to make farmers prosperous and they aimed to double their income by 2021. But these laws don’t say anything about the roadmap that could bring the prosperity. The condition of farmers has become worse,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rail-roko-stir-extended-till-oct-17-155776
15-10-2020||GS Paul||Missing 'saroops': SGPC again moves Takht to punish guilty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 14The SGPC, which is facing the heat from several quarters for acting ‘arbitrarily’ against those involved in the gross misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, has again approached the Akal Takht on the issue of awarding exemplary punishment to the guilty.Earlier, the SGPC had stepped down from conducting an inquiry into the issue and urged the Akal Takht to do the same. The Akal Takht-appointed probe panel, headed by Telangana High Court advocate Ishar Singh, zeroed in on 16 officials and staff members of the publication department responsible for the misappropriation of ‘saroops’.SGPC FACES WRATH OF SIKH ORGANISATIONSThough the SGPC immediately terminated the services of six officials and suspended others fearing ‘external interference’, it back-tracked from its decision of initiating criminal proceedings against them.The SGPC’s U-turn after nine days of passing a resolution on August 27 invited the wrath of several Sikh organisations.The Dharam Parchar Committee (DPC) of the SGPC has urged Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar, Giani Harpreet Singh, to award stern religious punishment to the culprits.The DPC, at its meeting held recently, said it was unfortunate that the erring officials and staff members of the SGPC misappropriated the ‘saroops’ and pocketed ‘bheta’.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said a resolution was passed appealing Giani Harpreet Singh to pronounce ‘misali saza” (exemplary punishment) so that a similar incident was not repeated in the future.He said the SGPC executive had withdrawn its decision of taking criminal action against the accused after receiving numerous messages from Sikh intellectuals and the Sant Samaj that the police or any external agency should not be involved in the religious affairs. “That’s why we have sought the Akal Takht’s intervention again. Earlier also, the inquiry was conducted by the Akal Takht only”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sgpc-again-moves-takht-to-punish-guilty-155790
