16-04-2020||---||Frontline warriors face discrimination||Amritsar, April 15Health professionals and other employees working at hospitals are facing discrimination from neighbours and other residents of their localities.Harjit Kaur, a safai sevak at Government Medical College here, has filed a complaint with the police accusing the village panchayat of asking her to not to return to the house and instead live at the hospital. The panchayat reasoned that she might risk the health of others.The management of Amandeep Hospital has also submitted a complaint to the Commissioner of Police and other officials against residents of the area and the husband of an MC councillor.Dr Amandeep Kaur, hospital director, said, “Residents did not allow nurses to come out of the hostel. The incident has disappointed the staff and they are feeling harassed. In such circumstances, it would be very difficult to continue uninterrupted services amid the ongoing Covid crisis.”The health professionals complained that the attitude of the residents is discriminating and they are feeling bad about it. “The truth is nobody wants to attend to a Covid-positive or suspected patients. But someone has to do it. The health professionals need encouragement and not discrimination,” said Surinder Kaur, a nurse.Sukhjit Singh, a grocery store owner, said, “When our boys go to deliver essential items at home, residents are often rude. We do not expect people to serve tea, but at least they can say a few encouraging words. Many instead literally throw the currency notes at us as if we are beggars.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/frontline-warriors-face-discrimination-71800
16-04-2020||---||Fall in prices of  vegetables, fruits a worry for farmers||Amritsar, April 15The wholesale prices of vegetables have started dipping after the restrictions on the entry of retailers in the city. Cauliflower is now selling at Rs 5 per kg, cucumber at Rs 5, beans at Rs 6, capsicum at Rs 12 and onion at Rs 11. Similar trend has been witnessed in the prices of fruits. Grapes are being sold between Rs 20-25 per kg against Rs 50 per kg prevailing earlier, while apples are being sold at Rs 40 against Rs 60 per kg earlier.Charanjit Singh Batra, commission agent and leader of the Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Union, said the number of bidders plummeted due to limited curfew passes issued to small vendors in the city. In addition, these bidders were facing inconvenience in reaching the market and arranging tempos to ferry perishable goods.He said the demand also fell as the wholesale market was reduced to cater to local market only. Otherwise, in this season about 20 to 25 trucks of fresh vegetables used to be transported to Jammu and Kashmir. Their sale to markets at Tarn Taran and other adjoining towns also ceased.Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, head, fruit section of the association, said the transportation rates had increased three times due to restrictions.He said the government had announced reduction in market fee to 1 per cent from the earlier 4 per cent, which had not been implemented from April1. The market committee said since the department did not receive any notification in this regard they could not introduce the same.Vegetable grower Bhupinder Singh Tirathpura, who is also a leader of the growers, said they were incurring huge losses due to lockdown.He said due to perishable nature of fresh farm produce they did not have any other alternative but to dispose these off at negligible cost.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fall-in-prices-of-vegetables-fruits-a-worry-for-farmers-71799
16-04-2020||---||‘Creative activities will help parents bond with kids’||Amritsar, April 15As the government has extended the lockdown, parents are in a fix over ways to spend their free time for another more than two weeks. Coming to rescue of such parents and children, the Majha House on Wednesday hosted a session with members of the HAQ Centre for Child Rights.Enakshi Ganguly, Farzana and Kavita are members of the Delhi-based NGO that works on child protection and creating an enabling atmosphere for children.The thrust of the conversation was about parents and children during the lockdown. “Most human beings are quite contrary. During normal circumstances, they lament that they do not find time to spend with their families and all that they would do if only they had the required time. And now when we have nothing in our hands but time, people are still complaining,” said Farzana.“This is once in a lifetime situation and we should make the most of it. We will never have so much free time with us. Cultivate hobbies, learn new things, pursue passions and play indoor games with children or involve them in household chores like cooking and setting closets. This will help form a stronger bond between parents and children,” said Kavita.Enakshi said both parents and children need to understand each other’s concerns and perspectives. She said parents should not dictate their own personal beliefs to children, but should try to make them understand their concerns. She added that children on the other hand should try to see their parents’ point of view.Taking queries posted by parents from across the country voicing their concerns and anxieties about their wards during the lockdown, Enakshi said, “It is not possible to keep children away from gadgets and online arenas absolutely. We can divide some time on a daily basis. They should know how much time they can spend online which will help them divide their time window throughout the day.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/creative-activities-will-help-parents-bond-with-kids-71797
16-04-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar school turns into hospital for Covid patients||The district administration has marked and begun the process of turning schools and colleges into isolation centres under its containment plan. The local meritorious school has been turned into a hospital under the plan and two private colleges — Global institutes of technology and management and Amritsar College of Engineering — and several hostels in GNDU will also be turned into well-equipped isolation centres.The administration has turned the school into a fully functional 1000-bed hospital. “As part of our Covid-19 preparedness plan, we are looking forward to setting up multiple isolation facilities in these institutions for any number of Covid-19 patients. The school has all the facilities of a hospital with the exception of ventilators. It has been set up for those patients who would not require oxygen support,” said ADC Himanshu Aggarwal.Apart from the school, both engineering colleges would serve as isolation centres for patients from the surrounding areas due to their location. Aggarwal said hostels of GNDU too had been asked to vacate and handed over to the administration for setting up isolation facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-school-turns-into-hospital-for-covid-patients-71796
16-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Families of cops prepare langar for underprivileged||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15Families of policemen living in residential quarters of the Police Lines are doing a service to poor people in the holy city. The poor people have been left to fend for themselves due to the curfew imposed till April 30 in view of the Covid-19 threat in the state.The families gather at the house of a head constable, Sukhninder Kaur, in the wee hours for preparing food. She had happily agreed to let them use her premises when she came to know about this selfless cause. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jaswant Kaur is looking after the arrangements. They prepare food for at least 2,000 persons on a daily basis.Before starting cooking food, they also make sure that all the volunteers are properly sanitised after medical examination to ensure that they are in sound health. Interestingly, cops are spending from their own pockets for the langar while a couple of philanthropists also provide ration after learning about the noble cause.While appreciating and terming it a noble effort on the part of cops, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said initially, women used to prepare food for just over 1,000 people and the number had now swelled to 2,000.A team has identified some areas, including slums, where a large population of daily wagers, migrants or labourers resides. “Cops who have been deputed to serve langar arrive and deliver it at designated areas,” said the Police Commissioner.The Police Commissioner has appealed to NGOs, which are already helping the people in distress, to approach the DCP (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh for providing any relief. He said the DCP was appointed as the nodal officer for the NGOs working in the field. He pointed out that at present NGOs were working on their own and this caused a gap and confusion about distributing relief material and essential goods properly.“This has resulted in many areas, including slums in need of relief material, being ignored. The NGOs should approach the DCP so that the essential goods are uniformly provided to needy and poor people,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/families-of-cops-prepare-langar-for-underprivileged-71794
16-04-2020||Amritsar||Activists make natural sanitisers||With the state government warning against the use of certain chemicals for sanitisation owing to their harmful effects, a group of youths has come out with neem, aloe vera and alum (phitkari)-based sanitisers.Belonging to the Jatha Himmat-E-Khalsa, led by Paras Singh Khalsa, the youths used to provide gatka training. Now they are also providing langar to the needy.Khalsa and his team has now made a natural disinfectant using neem, aloe vera, alum and sodium hydrochloride.“We conduct spray in residential areas and houses. The chemicals are harmful so we are using natural sanitisers. It is quite effective and safe for human use’’, said Paras.Docs asked to share data of suspected patients with govtDeputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon has asked private medical practitioners to share the data of suspected Covid-19 patients showing symptoms of the disease with the government by uploading it on www.asrcovid19helpline.in as soon as possible. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/activists-make-natural-sanitisers-71793
16-04-2020||---||Vallah sabzi mandi shut today||Amritsar, April 15The Vegetable Growers Association has demanded from the administration to ensure that its representatives be kept in the loop whenever a decision to close Vallah sabzi mandi has to be taken.The administration along with arthiyas on Tuesday decided to keep the mandi closed on Wednesday for violating norms of social distancing. However, the decision was reversed after the association took up the matter with the administration reasoning that vegetable growers should be informed well in advance.Later, the administration took the decision to keep the market closed on Thursday. Lakhbir Singh Nijampura of the Vegetable Growers Association said, “The farmers have to pluck the vegetables a day before going to sabzi mandi. The plucked vegetables have a short shelf life and farmers have to face losses.” The administration has also invited them for a meeting tomorrow to discuss the issue, he said.The vegetable growers have also stated that farmers are getting only Rs 2 per kg for cucumber while it is being sold for at least Rs 10 per kg by vendors. “We work for months, spend heavily on seeds and other farmer practices. But we get Rs 2 per kg and the vender who wakes up in the morning makes a profit of Rs 8 per kg,” said another farmer Kuldeep Singh adding that farmers’ should be allowed to sell their produce in the city.Restrictions on transportation limit fruit varietyFruit sellers in the city complain that due to restrictions on transportation of fruits from other states, the variety of fruits in the city is limited and even the quality is not good as they are getting stocks from cold stores. The most visible fruits in the market these days are papaya, bananas and kinnow.The shopkeepers say even sales have gone down as the customer is apprehensive and is not ready to take fruits home. Pawan Kumar, wholesaler at Hall Gate fruit market, said, “The stocks are limited and customers are too less.” The venders in streets are selling only papaya and bananas as most other fruits are not widely available, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vallah-sabzi-mandi-shut-today-71790
16-04-2020||Amritsar||Whatsapp group for cargo supply||Traders seek relief packageAmritsar: The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has shot off a letter to the Prime Minister's Office, demanding relief package for the industry in general and border areas in particular. Piara Lal Seth, the president of the PPBM, said small industrial units have been severely hit by the lockdown imposed to fight Covid-19. Industrial units in border areas were already beset with various difficulties and the curfew had only increased their problems, he said, adding that the micro small and medium enterprises and the service sector collectively contributed nearly 55 per cent of the country's GDP. Samir Jain, the general secretary of the PPBM, said their demands included waiver of half GST for six months after the lifting of curfew, waiver of interest for two months on cash credit (CC) limit and 20 per cent increase in the CC limit by banks. TNSMayor inspects shelter homeAmritsar: Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu inspected a night shelter home being operated by the Municipal Corporation for residents of other cities who are stuck here due to the nationwide lockdown. The Mayor checked if required facilities were being provided to them by administration. Rintu said the shelter home inmates were satisfied with the facilities being given. “They told me that the Municipal Corporation is taking good care of them. They are getting undisrupted supply of food and medicines every day and they thanked the civic body for this" Rintu said. He assured the inmates that the civic body would make sure they do not face any problem during their stay at the shelter home. TNSCivil Hospital gets ventilatorTarn Taran: Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Lok Sabha member from Khadoor Sahib, gave a ventilator, purchased from his MPLAD fund, to the local Civil Hospital on Wednesday. With this, the district has got its first ventilator. Dimpa appreciated the efforts of the district administration to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, owing to which the district has been put in 'Green Zone'. The Deputy Commissioner said a total of 21 samples were sent to for test, of which 12 have tested negative and the remaining reports were awaited. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/whatsapp-group-for-cargo-supply-71789
16-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Alert cop spearheads pandemic awareness drive in rural areas||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15When the outbreak of Covid-19 started progressing in other nations and spread its tentacles in some states of the country, SSP, Amritsar (rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal took upon himself the task to spread awareness on the pandemic.He started mobilising his force and people to be ready to face challenges in the aftermath of the deadly virus outbreak. Following the orders of DGP Dinkar Gupta, he held a meeting with senior officials and started an awareness drive.In consultations with senior colleagues, he got thousands of pamphlets printed and gave these to all village police officers (VPOs) for further distribution in their areas. The pamphlets were also pasted outside religious shrines to sensitise the residents about the novel Covid and steps to be taken to prevent it from spreading.An alert police official, Duggal said, "When reports started pouring in about the rising number of Covid patients and mounting death toll across the globe, I immediately felt the need to mobilise the residents, otherwise it would be very difficult to contain the spread of the disease. Thousands of volunteers are now working with the police to fight against this crisis."SSP Duggal says he starts his day at 6 am and takes stock of situation via social media groups formed for the purpose. Its members comprise senior police officials, SHOs and chowki in-charges. At 8.30 am, he holds another meeting with the same officials and police force and give them instructions about the activities to be done later in the day. After this, he personally visits various parts of the rural belt to meet residents and cops on duty to know about their grievances.Not only this, other policemen after being motivated by him started contributing from their salaries to provide langar to the the needy. "We are perhaps the first police district to start the langar sewa for the needy in these testing times," he said. He said while the police were taking all necessary measures for maintaining law and order and ensuring the strict implementation of the curfew, people were not taking the issue seriously.He appealed to the masses to exercise restraint, patience and help the police and the government to win the battle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/alert-cop-spearheads-pandemic-awareness-drive-in-rural-areas-71788
16-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Realtor tests his skills and aptitude as agriculturist||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 15The lockdown is doing many things to many people and for prominent realtor Manjit Singh Dala, it has offered him a new avenue to test his skills, attitude and aptitude as an agriculturist."Change is the essence of growth. Life is not about waiting for the storm to pass. It is about learning how to dance in the rain. And that is what I have been doing these days," he said.Before the curfew, Dala was one of the most famous real-estate dealers in Majha, selling and buying properties with monotonous regularity. He had a massive success in his adopted field where others of his ilk failed to find feet.Now, life has turned a full circle for him. Born into a farming family, experiencing agriculture was the last thing on his mind despite his father's orders to look after the family's farm assets when he was youngster.Slowly but steadily, he climbed the ladder of success in his profession as a realtor. Now, the lockdown has ensured that he is back to square one. These days, he has been trying his hand at harvesting his wheat crop.Dala, who used to be in his office in the city, 7 km away from his native village Dala, at 8 am sharp, has lost his way. Instead, he can be seen harvesting his crop starting from the wee hours till dusk. In-between his new found chores, he stays in touch with his business wheeling and dealing through his brothers Rinku and Sonu Dala.“As I leave for the fields accompanied by my two nephews Damanpreet and Mehtab and niece Gurleen Kaur, we step over discarded masks and gloves and often hear police and ambulance sirens. This is indeed a grim reminder that something ghastly is hanging in the air. Nevertheless, there is a lot of comfort which I normally missed earlier in walking together with the three of them at my side," he added.He feels that family time is an essential factor that helps create strong bonds and love. "Spending quality time does help cope with challenges, instill a feeling of security, fill kids with confidence and inculcate family values," he opined."We need to change our outlook and attitude towards the disease. We need to abide by government directions. There are chances that the scare will evaporate into thin air and consequently, we all will emerge safer and stronger," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/realtor-tests-his-skills-and-aptitude-as-agriculturist-71787
16-04-2020||Amritsar||20 booked for attack on cops||A police team was attacked by residents in the Gaggomahal area here on Tuesday. The accused tried to snatch weapon of a head constable and allegedly torn his uniform over his intervention during a group scuffle. The police booked 20 persons in the case.Head Constable Harjinder Singh stated that he received a call around 9 pm that two groups entered into a clash at Bank Wali Gali in Gaggomahal. The persons, who were scuffling each other, attacked on the police team. They tried to snatch rifle from Harjinder Singh. One of the accused Gagandeep Singh injured Harjinder with a wooden stick and torn his uniform.The accused fled the spot after attack. A case has been registered. No arrest has been made so far.Thieves steal computer from ACP’s officeThieves barged into the office of the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) and decamped with computer and other office items.Paramjit Singh, reader, ACP (North), stated in his complaint to the Civil Lines police that on April 12 he locked the office and went home. The next day when he came to office and found that thieves entered the office by breaking the lock of gate. The accused decamped with one computer, CPU, monitor along with UPS from the office.ASI Ashwani Kumar, in-charge, police post Court Complex, said they had initiated probe. A case under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC has been registered against unidentified accused. No arrest has been made so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/20-booked-for-attack-on-cops-71786
16-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Curfew norms go for a toss in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15A large number of residents on Wednesday violated the curfew restrictions and came out of their residences. Seeing the situation, the police immediately swung into action and asked them to return home. The police urged them to come out of their house only in an emergency situation.Urging the residents to stay indoors, Cabinet Minister OP Soni said ration was provided to 300 families. He added that 400 families were given cooked meal with the assistance of the Mata Lal Devi temple.Volunteers of the Youth Clubs associated with the Nehru Yuva Kendra have been guarding villages to prevent the entry of outsiders.Akanksha, district coordinator, Nehru Yuva Kendra, appreciated the role of volunteers of youth clubs in battling the coronavirus. Akanksha urged them to assist farmers in harvesting of crops and making them aware of Covid. She said they must find needy persons in their villages to provide them with essential items, including ration and medicines.The SDM’s office, Majitha area, distributed domestic appliances among sanitation workers so that they can perform their duties exceptionally in this crucial time.Students of ITIs at Beri Gate and Raiya prepared and distributed 2,000 masks among residents. They are preparing more masks for panchayats. However, the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid has impacted a large number people in various ways.Many people are postponing their marriages, dates of which were already fixed. Many are organising simple marriages functions without inviting relatives and friends. The couples visit gurdwaras and temples with their immediate relatives to complete the religious formalities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-norms-go-for-a-toss-in-amritsar-71785
16-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Procurement begins, but no arrival on Day 1||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 15Even as the administration has made arrangements for the procurement of wheat under the Public Distribution System (PDS) at grain markets in the district, no produce arrived from the fields here today. Experts said the crop was not fully ripened and it would take some more days before the harvesting picked up pace.Expect Speedy arrival after April 20: OfficialTarn Taran: With not even a single trolley of wheat arriving in grain markets of the district on Wednesday, Ajaypal Randhawa, District Mandi Officer, said the arrival was expected to pick up pace only after April 20.However, Tejinderpal Singh, a kisan leader, blamed the present situation to “faulty policies” of the state government and the non-availability of combine harvesters. He alleged that several combine harvesters from the state had been sent to MP, Rajasthan, Gujarat, where the crop ripe in advance. — OCA visit to Bhagtanwala Dana Mandi, the district’s largest grain market, revealed that not even a single farmer brought his produce today. Mandi board workers were, however, seen marking areas of the ground to ensure social distancing during unloading and weighing of the crop.Narinder Behal, a leader of the arhtiya association, said, “We expect that the produce will start arriving within the next few days. Due to the availability of large number of combine harvester machines in the state, the harvesting will take hardly 10 days.”Behal demanded that a farmer should be allowed to bring all his produce in one-go instead of issuing him a pass for one trolley. “Usually all fields of a farmer are harvested together. If he is to bring one trolley only, where would he store his produce from the remaining fields. It would require him to come to the market again and again,” said Behal, adding that the system should be made farmer-friendly.Farmers also complained that if the present system of token for one trolley was followed, they would have to keep the remaining produce at home and load it into trolleys again when they received a pass from the mandi board. “We are already short of labour hands and this unnecessary work load would burden us financially as well as physically,” said Gurnam Singh, a farmer.The arhtiyas, too, demanded that the produce coming from the fields should be directly weighed on ‘dharam kanda’ along with the trolley. “After the produce is unloaded, the empty trolley could be weighed to know the actual weight of grains. Then by taking a sample of one quintal, it should be cleaned with the power cleaner to know about the extent of other waste. The same cut can be applied to the entire produce and the farmer would get free within half an hour,” said another arhtiya, Joginder Singh. He said workers could later clean the entire lot and pack it in gunny bags.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/procurement-begins-but-no-arrival-on-day-1-71783
