16-09-2020||Amritsar||A dream cut short, she manages to keep her plates spinning||Drishti Nanda, one of city’s youngest food entrepreneurs and former Masterchef finalists was building up on her dreams of expanding her restaurant “Bakehouse”, when the pandemic struck. Two years into its opening, Drishti was doing well as a food entrepreneur and also running her culinary institute. “But then, a lot of things changed suddenly for everyone as the lockdown was announced. For me, it was one of the most difficult times, as I had to make a decision to shut my restaurant,” shares the young baker.Running on rentals, she had to work out the logistics of supporting her dream or taking a more practical approach and surviving the pandemic-triggered economical crisis. “I decided to shut Bakehouse and shift my business to ‘order only’ online delivery mode. Also, my focus is now to keepmy culinary institute running that I have now shifted to my home’s basement,” she says.Currently, she is taking culinary coaching classes out of her home apart from upholding her food delivery business. “Of course, it’s not what you can earn from a restaurant, but the focus now is on sustainability. The scope of running a business has completely changed from achieving higher business goals to just hanging in there until things normalise,” the 25-year-old tells.While the battering from the curbs has lend some bruises, Drishti hasn’t lost hope. “Working on rentals is out of question for many as a lot of businesses might not open again. But I hope that this shall pass too and with my culinary institute, I will rebuild my restaurant when the time is right. Whatever the situation, I want to keep cooking and innovating. I feel that if one door closes, a few more open up,” she says.Meanwhile, she has been conducting online food workshops and classes, teaching her followers to turn simple, everyday recipes into fine dining spectacles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-dream-cut-short-she-manages-to-keep-her-plates-spinning-141850
16-09-2020||Resuming his job as a Medical Lab Technician||‘I am now ready to donate my plasma’||Working as an MLT in the Paediatrics Department of the GNDH, he joined duty after a fortnight. He was able to register victory over the virus with the support of his family and right kind of diet."My wife arrived from Canada after meeting our son and daughter, who are settled there," he said.So, he ignored slight temperature and body ache. He also experienced trouble in the throat. His wife insisted on getting the check-up done.Similarly, his son Amrik Singh Sekhon, working at a Rehabilitation Centre in Edmonton, and his daughter Amandeep Kaur, a nurse at Caligari, called him up to undergo the test.So, he underwent the Covid test on August 26 and his report confirmed him to be a Covid positive.His brother, Gursharan Singh Sekhon, living in Italy, offered his vacant house for isolation."I consumed Erythromycin tablets to treat my sore throat,” he said. While keeping special care of his diet, he was regular in consuming turmeric milk, eggs, kadha (a decoction of different spices), fruit juices, and doing gargles with saline water and inhaling steam among other things.During his 33-year long career, Sekhon has earned the reputation of being an inspirational figure. He donated blood 73 times and is now planning to donate his plasma. Born and brought up in Faridkot, he donates blood on several occasions such as Shahidi Diwas of Sahibjades, Barsi of his mother and even family celebrations including his marriage anniversary. (As told to Neeraj Bagga)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/i-am-now-ready-to-donate-my-plasma-141851
16-09-2020||Amritsar||7 succumb to virus, 305 new cases in Amritsar||The district health authorities reported seven casualties due to the Covid-19 pandemic, taking the toll to 271 on Tuesday. Besides, with 305 new cases, the tally has risen to 5,405 in the district.The deceased have been identified as 52-year-old Hari Verma, a resident of Satkartar Nagar in Chehharta area; 62-year-old Ranjit Kaur, a resident of Chehharta; 24-year-old Lovepreet Singh, a resident of Bohliyan village in Ajnala; 74-year-old Surjit Singh, a resident of the area near Gurdwara Kehar Singh in Majitha town; 65-year-old Gurmeet Kaur, a resident of Gumtala; 62-year-old Ramma Kumari, a resident of Main Bazar Verka; and 50-year-old Baljinder Kaur, a resident of Gali Kamboj in Katra Karam Singh.Of the new cases, 170 were having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 135 were contacts of positive cases. Now, the total count of positive cases stands at 6,978. Of them, 5,067 patients have recovered and 1,640 are active cases.DC Gurpreet Singh said it came to light that a large number of people preferred to stay inside their houses despite having Covid-19 symptoms. They did not approach government hospitals offering treatment by qualified doctors. “These people like to procure medicines from chemist shops in their areas,” he said.Keeping in view a constant spike in the number of positive cases of Covid-19, the Deputy Commissioner called upon the people to comply with the norms and get themselves tested if they have any of the symptoms. Meanwhile, the Police Commissionerate, Amritsar, imposed Section 144, CrPC, around the isolation wards of asymptomatic patients, banning the assembly of five or more people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-succumb-to-virus-305-new-cases-in-amritsar-141852
16-09-2020||Amritsar||Protest over ordinances enters Day 2||The protest by farmers who gathered under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KSMC) against three agricultural ordinances continued on the second day at the bridge on the Beas on the second day here on Tuesday. The ordinances were tabled by the Narendra Modi government in Parliament for debate and passage during the current monsoon session.They blocked traffic between Amritsar and Jalandhar. However, farmer leaders said that they allowed essential and emergency services to pass. The Beas Police have registered a case against the agitators for causing inconvenience to public and blocking of roads.The protesters did not even care for their safety in these times of Covid-19 as they sat closely without wearing masks. Besides, the social distancing norm was also not followed by them.They came in buses and other vehicles. Holding banners and buntings, they raised slogans against the Union Government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They also raised slogans against the NDA government’s alliance partner SAD.Farmer leaders even flayed the SAD for endorsing the policies of the NDA. They said the Akali Dal had forgotten its major demand for federal structure in the country for the sake of plum seat for its leader in the Union Cabinet.After finding good support of farmers, their leaders decided to continue the protest till any positive response came out from the Central Government.Addressing them, Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said they were awaiting the response from the Centre.He accused political leadership of releasing misleading statements to end their agitation. He said earlier they were told that these ordinances were passed after taking endorsement from Chief Ministers (CMs) of all states, including CM Capt Amarinder Singh. Now, the latter claimed that he did not endorse any legislation of farming.He said three agriculture ordinances passed by the Union Cabinet like amendment to the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, to free up inter-state trade in agricultural commodities and provide a regulatory framework for contract farming were anti-farmers.He said the ordinances would dislodge small-time farmers to help private firms to take over.He said the government was offering the MSP on 23 crops but it was not buying all of these from farmers. He added that its agencies were procuring only 6 per cent grains from farmers, a majority of whom were from Haryana and Punjab. For instance, he said, maize was sold at Rs 1,100 in the markets of Punjab whereas its MSP was fixed at Rs 1,850.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-over-ordinances-enters-day-2-141853
16-09-2020||Amritsar||Cousin booked for raping minor||In a shocking incident, a three-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her cousin in Khiayal Khurd village falling under the Lopoke police station here. Though the incident occurred on Saturday, a complaint was lodged with the police on Monday after all efforts failed to reach a compromise, the complainant stated to the police.The mother of the victim stated to the police that she along with her daughter and nephew Akashdeep was present in the house on Saturday. She said at around 11am, she went for a bath leaving Akashdeep with her daughter.She said when she came out, Akashdeep ran away while she heard the cries of her daughter.She said she thought the victim was having some pain in stomach and took her to bathroom for toilet. She said when she removed her clothes she got suspected and immediately took her to doctor in the village which told her that she was raped and asked her to go to the police station and lodge a complaint.She said she narrated the incident to her family and after learning the incident relative also gathered.She said they tried to strike a compromise which could not be made and then they lodged a complaint with the police on Monday.A case under Section 376 (A), 376 (B) and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been registered against Akashdeep Singh.Gurwinder Kaur, Investigating Officer, said the medical examination of the girl was conducted and further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cousin-booked-for-raping-minor-141854
16-09-2020||Amritsar||City goldsmith was shot at by notorious criminal Jahaj: Police||Four days after a goldsmith Sajjan Singh was shot at by unknown persons, the investigations had revealed that he was shot at by notorious criminal Kamaldeep Singh, alias Jahaj, who is reportedly close to gangster Jujhar Ambarsaria.Jujhar had claimed the responsibility for the attack on Sajjan Singh. He claimed that he had an old enmity with the victim. Sajjan had suffered bullet injuries on his leg.Sajjan Singh and his wife used to visit the shrine on a regular basis. On Thursday, they were on way to the shrine on a scooter when two bikes intercepted them on the main GT road. They fired shots at him, leaving him seriously injured and fled away. His wife escaped unhurt. The police sources said that Kamaldeep was earlier booked by the police for shooting manager of a car agency in October 2016 in a robbery incident.He along with six others were nabbed by the police and sentenced to 10 years in prison. He came out on parole and did not return to jail. He was also involved in a firing incident in the Mohkampura area recently.The police said raids were on to nab Jahaj. Officials said Jujhar would be brought on production warrant for investigations in the case. Presently he is lodged in Hoshiarpur jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-goldsmith-was-shot-at-by-notorious-criminal-jahaj-police-141855
16-09-2020||Amritsar||Three booked for extorting money by impersonating FCI officials||The Civil Lines police have booked three persons for allegedly extorting money from an owner of eating joint located on the Madan Mohan Malviya road here yesterday.They have been identified as Raman Kumar Chaudhary of Mahan Singh Gate, Vikrant Mahajan of Basant Avenue and Varun Bhatia of Professor Colony here.Rajinder Sharma, the complainant alleged that all the accused posed as officials of the Food Corporation of India entered his restaurant Bombay Pav Bhaji located on the MM Malviya road here yesterday. He said they did also shot a video and forcibly took Rs 30,000 from him. Civil Lines police authorities said a case under Sections 384, 170, 120-B of the IPC has been registered against Raman, Vikrant and Varun while further investigations were under way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-extorting-money-by-impersonating-fci-officials-141856
16-09-2020||Amritsar||GNDU ranks 17th among 415 state universities in country||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) is the only university of Punjab which has bagged any position among the top state public universities in the country in the recent survey released by the ‘Outlook’ magazine.It is ranked at 17th position amongst 415 public universities of the country, said GNDU spokesman in a statement issued here today. Recently, it has also bagged 7th position among 10 top state public multidisciplinary universities as per "Week-Hansa Research Survey- 2020". This is a biggest honour for the University as it bagged the top position among the state funded universities.Fared well in other surveys tooThe spokesman pointed out that only Panjab University, Chandigarh, which is funded by the Government of India figures before it. He said on the various parameters as far as academic and research excellence is concerned GNDU bagged 281.77 points which is highest among the neighbouring universities.One of the major initiatives taken by this university in the recent past which has also been adopted by the University Grants Commission is the online viva for its doctoral students which not only reduces the timelines but also helps the university to get its students examined by eminent academicians from Institutes of National Repute.In departments which have tremendous rush for admission in the current academic year 2020-2021, the entrance test is being conducted by the National Testing Agency via NTA Remote Proctored Online Based Test which would be conducted on 18 th of September. The advantage of this test is that students can appear in the test while sitting in their homes with utmost propriety. This is again the only university which has tied up with National Testing Agency for such an activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-ranks-17th-among-415-state-universities-in-country-141857
16-09-2020||Amritsar||NGO contests challaning drive by police||The Minority People Welfare Society on Tuesday contested the challaning drive by the local police. They termed the challaning spree by the Punjab Police as the ‘government atrocity’ and urged the police authorities to firstly make people aware of the issue rather than just thrusting rules on them.In a communique to DGP (Traffic), Satnam Singh Gill, president of the association, said the police did not bother to listen to the pleas of people. He pointed out that due to lockdown restrictions, many people could not apply for driving licence. He said the association had sent some suggestions to the police for improving the working of the police and to build confidence among the common citizen. He said the police should lay emphasis to make people of the traffic rules rather than stressing on challaning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-contests-challaning-drive-by-police-141858
16-09-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Police summon 10 protesting leaders for violating Sec 144||The police have issued summons to 10 leaders of the farmer organisations, who are sitting on a dharna on the bridge of Harike head works since Monday.The leaders are Satnam Singh Pannu, Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, Jasbir Singh Piddi, Sawinder Singh Chutala, Dhanna Singh Lalu Ghuman (Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee, Punjab), Harjinder Singh Tanda, Major Singh Parangri, Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, Inderjit Singh Kot Budha and karamjit Singh Talwandi of different factions of the Kisan Sanghrash Committee. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the farmer organisations had obtained no permission for holding protest and blocking the national highway at Harike.Moreover, the administration has imposed Section 144 and there is a ban on the assembly of five or more persons in public places. The SSP said the virus could spread during protests. The summons have been pasted on the houses of the protesting leaders.Kisan leader Jasbir Singh Piddi’s wife confirmed that the police pasted a letter on the wall of their house on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the morcha led by the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee entered its ninth day on Tuesday. The Commission agents of grain market here also participated in the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-summon-10-protesting-leaders-for-violating-sec-144-141859
16-09-2020||Amritsar||BJP demands withdrawal of cases against party leaders||Following registration of a case against state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma and over 40 others for allegedly violating the Covid-19 guidelines in Pathankot, members of the district BJP announced that it was a clear case of political vendetta and threatened to hold public rallies against it.They demanded immediate withdrawal of the case. Addressing mediapersons here today, Suresh Mahajan, president of the BJP district unit, said Congress leaders were blatantly violating the Covid norms by inaugurating projects and other works.He said Congress leaders and workers should also be booked under relevant sections of the IPC, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Mahajan said the police were acting under the influence of Congress leaders.Anil Joshi, former cabinet minister, said it was another attempt by the government to curb the voice of opposition. However, he pointed out that the BJP and its workers would not be bogged down by this move. He added that they would continue to raise their voice against policies of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-demands-withdrawal-of-cases-against-party-leaders-141860
16-09-2020||Amritsar||400 Indian nationals return from Pakistan, thank authorities||Around 400 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan returned on NORI (No Obligation to Return to India) visa at Atari border here today. The persons who returned from Pakistan after seven months thanked the Indian High Commission and government for help them to return home.Arunpal Singh, protocol officer, Punjab Police, stated that health teams had been deputed to conduct the Covid-19 test. The results were provided on the spot. The persons, found negative, were asked to stay quarantined for 10 days at their residence. Those, who were positive, would be treated at local hospitals”. Shdmani, a resident of Indore, who returned from Pakistan said, “My family went Pakistan on March 8 to attend a marriage. They were stranded in the Pakistan for seven months due to covid-19. Shankar Lalwani our MP from Indore helped us a lot and made it possible to return my family to home.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/400-indian-nationals-return-from-pakistan-thank-authorities-141861
16-09-2020||Amritsar||16 booked for opening fire at Majitha CHC||Around 16 persons were booked for clashing and firing in the Community Health Centre (CHC) at Majitha on Saturday. However, no arrest has been made till now.Astina, staff nurse of the centre, stated to the police that on September 12 she reached on her duty at around 7.30 am. She said Mandeep Kaur, another staff nurse told her that Vikramjit Singh of Majitha had got admitted Baldev Shah in the hospital due to hand injury. Baldev was shifted in the emergency ward of the centre after treatment.She said suddenly at around 7.50 am there was ruckus in the centre’s premises with several shots of gun were fired. She said they ran into their rooms for safety. She said she saw guns at the hands Vikramjit Singh and Baldev Shaw while around 12 persons barged into the centre complex and started scuffling with each other. She said Vikramjit fired around three gunshots following which the scuffling people fled away.On the basis of her statement, the police have booked Bladev Shah, Vikramjit Singh, Jugal Kishore and Akashdeep Singh besides 12 unknown persons for firing and creating ruckus. No arrest has been made till now. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-booked-for-opening-fire-at-majitha-chc-141862
16-09-2020||Amritsar||Govt will make arrangements for education of Manpreet, 2 sisters: CM||The Chief Minister on Monday talked to Manpreet Singh, a young child, whose video of selling papad and roasted chana went viral on social media recently.Capt Amarinder Singh talked to him through three video calls on the mobile phone of Deputy Commissioner Gurdeep Singh Khaira. He assured him of all types of help.‘A true example of Punjabiyat’Appreciating Manpreet Singh, the CM said he was a true example of Punjabiyat as he was striving to earn a livelihood for the family and refused to take offerings. He instructed the Deputy Commissioner to help the family in every possible way. Impressed by his grit of selling roasted chanas, papad and golgappas to earn a livelihood rather than having easy money, the CM announced a Rs 5-lakh grant for him.The government would also make arrangements for the education of Manpreet Singh and his two elder sisters, said the CM.Appreciating Manpreet Singh, he said he was a true example of Punjabiyat as he was striving to earn a livelihood for the family and refused to take offerings. He instructed the Deputy Commissioner to help the family in every possible way.Impressed by his grit of selling roasted chanas, papad and golgappas to earn a livelihood rather than having easy money, the CM announced a Rs5-lakh grant for him. Manpreet Singh said he felt very happy talking to the CM who appreciated and encouraged him. He said he would work hard and study to strengthen the economic condition of his family.He also expressed his gratitude to the Punjab CM for providing financial support to them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-will-make-arrangements-for-education-of-manpreet-2-sisters-cm-141863
16-09-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Mystery shrouds 32-yr-old’s death||Death mystery of Gurbinder Singh (32) of Emma Khurd village, 20 km from here, has been haunting the district police, as cops have not been able to crack the case even after two weeks of the incident.Gurbinder Singh was brutally murdered on the intervening night of September 1 and 2 in his village. A case under Sections 302, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC had been registered by the Chabal police against as many as 12 persons, including two women. Kulbir Kaur, mother of the deceased, recorded a statement to the police in this regard, who said his son was kidnapped by the accused when he had gone to the fields on September 1 evening.The accused include Manjinder Singh, Harpal Singh, Sehajpreet Singh, Heera Singh, Daljit Singh, Sarabjit Singh, his Gurbir Singh of the same Emma Khurd, Ram Singh of Chabal, Jagga Singh of Swaragapuri, Amritpal Singh of Mianpur, Balwinder Kaur and Prabhjot Kaujr (both from Amritsar).None of the accused has been arrested till date as the police was re-investigating the matter.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) has been formed to investigate the case. “The SIT members were SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Walia , DSP (Sub Division) Sucha Singh Bal and DSP (Investigation) Kawaljit Singh,” said SSP.The SSP said he was investigating the case from different angles. “Two of the female friends of the deceased and three others too have been found to be involved in the investigation,” said SSP.He said the case of illicit relations and the old rivalry too cannot be ruled out. Kulbir Kaur said the accused after murdering his son took away his licensed pistol and the mobile too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mystery-shrouds-32-yr-olds-death-141864
16-09-2020||Amritsar||A tale of 250 yrs: From Bagh Akalian to Akali Market & now, a multi-storey inn||The historic Akali Market which was once one of the most visited places in the holy city lies in utter neglect now.The market was constructed in the 1930s to generate revenue for the Akal Takht.A triple-storey ‘deodhi’ in the chowk of Paparan Walla and Misri Bazaar, still manages to attract visitors, but the inside picture of the market and the Bagh is disappointing.A few metres away from the Darbar Sahib complex, the market has over 100 shops and most of the traders deal with the iron and steel. Both the market and Bagh Akalian are neglected by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), which is the custodian of the property. Shopkeepers alleged that the SGPC wants to get rid of from the 90-year-old tenants to fulfill its desire to construct inns and rest houses.Shopkeeper in the market claimed that the place used to have a glorious past.Shopkeepers claim that roads outside the shops remain filled with the debris and garbage. There are no arrangements to drain out the rain water, they said.Bagh AkalianBefore the annexation of Punjab by Britishers, the city was known for its beautiful gardens and ponds. Anand Gabha, in her book “Amritsar, a study in Urban History”, mentioned that Bagh Akalia was attached to Akal Bunga (Akal Takht). The Bagh was one of the most prominent gardens in the city. It was also shown in the map of 1849 prepared by the British administration. The Bagh was developed in the Misl period and later renowned Sikh warrior Akali Phoola Singh used to take care of it. Later, the garden became the assembling point for the Akalis activists, who used to take part in the ‘morchas’ (political movement against British rule) during the early nineteenth century.Akali MarketAfter taking possession of gurdwaras from mahants in 1920, the SGPC was formed to manage historical Sikh shrines in the country. The Bagh Akalian belonged to the Akal Takhat. Dr Joginder Singh, a historian and former head of history department, Guru Nanak Dev University, says: “There were not many income resources to gurdwaras soon after the Akalis took possession from the mahants. Then, Akal Takhat Jathedar Mohan Singh Nagoke took the initiative and constructed a big market in Bagh Akalaian in the late 1930s.”Plan to build multi-storey inn in limboThe SGPC is making efforts to construct a multi-storey inn with a parking facility adjoining the Bagh Akalain but to no avail. On April 23, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal again laid the foundation stone of the Mata Tripta Niwas, which has been dedicated to the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. Spread in an area of five acres, the new inn with 1,000 rooms has been proposed in the market. Earlier, the SGPC kept an amount of Rs10 crore in the 2018-2019 budget to carry out the first phase of the project but it could not take off as a dispute arose with tenants who had moved court.ShopkeeperspeakMy father was the first tenant in the market when it was established. We are earning our livelihood from this small shop for the past 90 years. Earlier, the Bagh was managed by the SGPC. There were mashkis (persons for watering the plants) and gardeners were deployed. The SGPC used to take care of market. Now, the garden and market has turned into garbage dump. — Vaid Parvesh Kumar, a tenant at shop number 1 at main DeohriMost of the traders have left, but they still claim possession on the shops. Now, the SGPC is forcing us to leave. SGPC officials deliberately dump debris and garbage on the roads. There is no sewerage system inside the market and even the Municipal Corporation can’t help as it is private property. — Joginder Singh (80), an iron wire trader in the market||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-tale-of-250-yrs-from-bagh-akalian-to-akali-market-now-a-multi-storey-inn-141865
