16-01-2021||---||Thousands of tractors to leave for Delhi on Jan 20||Amritsar, January 15The rail roko demonstration by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee continued for the 114th day at Manawala here on Friday.Farmer body leaders claimed that on January 20, thousands of tractor trolleys from Tarn Taran district, to be led by Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra and Harpreet Singh Sidhwan, would leave for Delhi. Union workers are approaching farmers at the village level urging them to take part in the Delhi protest with their tractor trolleys in a big number on January 26.Sarwan Singh Pandher, state general secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said repeated meetings with the Central Government failed to bear fruit and even the 9th round meeting also proved futile on Friday.Now the farmer unions are making their preparations for January 26 for a peaceful tractor parade in Delhi. “The farmers’ movement is a mass movement which is aimed at repealing the agriculture laws. Some of our opponents want to create a mess among the general public about the January 26 programme but we will not allow this to happen,” said Pandher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/thousands-of-tractors-to-leave-for-delhi-on-jan-20-199244
16-01-2021||=||Bridges on defence drain sans safety grills||Amritsar, January 15Bridges on defence drain, which connect residents of the villages alongside the international border with the mainland has its safety grills missing. The defence drain was dug up decades ago to serve twin purpose; a strategic military barrier in case of infiltration and to get rid of excess rainwater.Around hundred villages lie beyond the defence drain in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts alone. Starting from Attari till Khemkaran, around 40 bridges connect these villages. Due to absence of safety grills, bridges have turned into a nightmare for commuters, especially during foggy season.In 2016, seven school children had died after their school bus fell into the defence drain near Mahawa village. The drain at numerous points has very narrow bridges, which not only makes commuting difficult for two-wheelers, but also for pedestrians.Kulrattan Singh, a resident of Attari, said, “There was much hue and cry when seven children had lost their lives. Ideally, the government should have come forward and ensure that all bridges have proper safety grills. But even after four years, the situation is same and everybody has forgotten the tragic accident.”Residents of the border belt stated that bridges were a big cause for concern and every time during elections, politicians promise to get them repaired. “But after elections, promises are often forgotten. No improvement is witnessed in the last two decades,” said another resident, Jagdev Singh.Residents had asked the MLAs and MPs to widen bridges, but no action has been taken on the ground despite repeated pleas. The political parties claimed that they were helpless as bridges on defence drain were under the jurisdiction of the Indian Army.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bridges-on-defence-drain-sans-safety-grills-199225
16-01-2021||---||Swachh city: Amritsar gets open defecation free ++ status||Amritsar, January 15Amritsar got open defecation free ++ status (ODF plus plus) from the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The central team had visited the city to check infrastructure. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu appreciated the efforts of the sanitation wing of the Municipal Corporation and cooperation of the city residents.“It is a very positive response by the government. The city got open defecation free ++ status. This will help the city to improve its ranking in the upcoming Sanitation Survey in 2021. We are taking several steps to get first position in the Swachhta Survey 2021.”Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Amritsar Municipal Corporation, said, “After an inspection by the Quality Council of India, an agency of the Central Government, Amritsar city got the ODF Plus Plus status. It is an honour for the entire city. Tireless efforts made by the sanitation wing and operations and maintenance wing of the MC enabled to achieve this.”Health officials of the MC stated that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had certified the city as open defecation gree in 2019 under the Swachh Bharat Mission.The MC built community toilets in slums and public toilets in several markets in the city. As per the guidelines of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, the MC has to construct public toilets after a gap of every 500 metres. A large number of toilet booths were installed on the roadsides and markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/swachh-city-amritsar-gets-open-defecation-free-status-199242
16-01-2021||---||Suspended ASI among 5 booked for murder bid||Amritsar, January 15The city police have booked a suspended Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) among five persons on the charge of firing and murder bid that took place on Lohri. A monetary dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident while police officials claimed that the matter was under investigation.Those booked were identified as suspended ASI Balwinder Singh, his wife Manjinder Kaur, their son Jass, and Vikram alias Puppi, all residents of Ek Roop Avenue on Majitha Road, and Lovepreet Singh of Gobind Nagar on Majitha Road.Amarjit Singh, who was injured in the incident, told the police that on Wednesday he had come to his uncle Paramjit Singh’s house at Ek Roop Avenue. He said when they gathered around a bonfire to celebrate the festival in the street, Lovepreet, Vikram and Jass who were standing near the road turn started abusive language. The victim said he, along with his uncle Paramjit Singh, went there and asked them to stop this.He said at around 10.30 pm, all the accused reached the spot where they were celebrating Lohri. Balwinder Singh challenged them while Lovepreet fired shots with his pistol. The victim said Jass also fired in the air. In the incident Amarjit got injured while the accused fled the spot after throwing bricks at the residence of his uncle Paramjit Singh. He said his uncle later took him to hospital where he is under treatment.Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said a case under Sections 307, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against the suspects and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/suspended-asi-among-5-booked-for-murder-bid-199224
16-01-2021||---||Youth booked for rape, father under SC/ST Act||Amritsar, January 15The Chheharta police have booked a youth on the charge of rape and his father for making casteist remarks. They were identified as Gurbaaz Singh and his father Karamjit Singh, both residents of Chicha village falling under the Gharinda police station here.In her complaint in July last year, the 27-year-old victim had alleged that she had an affair with Gurbaaz, who belonged to a Jat Sikh family while she belonged to a Mazhbi Sikh family. She alleged the accused established physical relations with her on the pretext of marrying her. She said as her family went to his residence with a marriage proposal, his father Karamjit Singh used foul language and allegedly made casteist remarks against them and pushed them out of the house.Perturbed over the incident, she lodged a complaint with the police. However, a case was registered against them under Section 376 of the IPC and Section 3 (2) (5) of the SC/ST Act on Thursday.The Chheharta police said the case was registered following a probe conducted by the women cell and taking the opinion of the district attorney in the regard. The police said the accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-rape-father-under-sc-st-act-199245
16-01-2021||---||Mayor inaugurates mechanical road vacuum sweeping machine||Amritsar, January 15The mechanical road vacuum sweeping machine purchased under the Smart City Mission was inaugurated by Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu in the presence of Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal and Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi at the zone number 8 office of the MC at Chheharta here on Thursday.On the occasion, the Mayor said the sanitation system of the city was being upgraded and modernised so that the sanitation work could be done in a fast and proper way.The Mayor said the modernisation of sanitation equipment would help in improving the ranking of the city in the upcoming cleanliness survey being conducted by the Union Government.Komal Mittal, who is also CEO of the Smart City Mission, said the mechanical road vacuum sweeping machine purchased under the Smart City Mission had been handed over to the municipal corporation. It was bought for Rs 47.50 lakh and can clean 6 to 7 km of the road in an hour,” she added.Earlier, the MC had hired a private firm to clean the roads with mechanical sweeping. The services of the firm were terminated in 2019 and the MC was sweeping the roads manually. Now the MC bought some mechanical machines to clean the roads mechanically.On the occasion, the “wall of kindness” built by the sanitation department of the MC was also inaugurated by the Mayor outside the zone number 8 office. He appealed to the people that those who had extra clothes, food items or any other usable item, could leave it on this noble wall and needy people would collect them from here.MC health officials Dr Sanjay Kanwar and Dr Yogesh Arora were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-inaugurates-mechanical-road-vacuum-sweeping-machine-199233
16-01-2021||
||RTI activist: Cancel registration of pvt hospitals claiming fake medical bills||Amritsar, January 15  Suresh Sharma, RTI activist and Punjab Ekta Party leader, on Friday demanded the cancellation of registration of private hospitals which were found involved in claiming fake medical bills under the Punjab Government’s Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna. Recently, the health authorities de-empanelled five private hospitals after they were found guilty of claiming fake medical bills by admitting dummy patients under the scheme. The de-empanelled hospitals were Akashdeep Hospital, New Life Hospital, Verma Hospital, Manu Arora Hospital and Sandhu Life Care Hospital. However, Akashdeep Hospital was later given a clean chit by the district authorities and the Health Department. According to health authorities, State Health Agency is carrying out a probe into the claims by as many as 87 private hospitals in the city. Earlier too, various private hospitals had come under the scanner for bungling funds under the Ex-Serviceman Contributory Health Scheme (ESCH) by claiming fake bills. The Army authorities had even lodged a complaint with the cantonment police station here. Around 24 persons, including doctors and several Army veterans, were booked for fraud and forgery. Three of them were later arrested while further investigation was under progress by an SIT in the regard. During a press conference here, Suresh Sharma said as per the RTI information he gathered from the government, around 40 private hospitals had sought huge claims under the scheme. Though a majority of their claims were rejected by the Punjab Government, a thorough probe was needed to expose those involved in the racket and bungling government funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rti-activist-cancel-registration-of-pvt-hospitals-claiming-fake-medical-bills-199231
16-01-2021||---||Online school bag: Educare app makes learning easy||Amritsar, January 15The Punjab Educare mobile app, launched during the lockdown to help students in online learning, has become the epicentre of digital education sourcing as the date sheet for board classes has been released by the department. In view of the board exams that will begin from March 22 onwards, the mobile app is being used to provide maximum learning material to students.The District Education Department too is making efforts to promote the use of the app among students and teachers that all the required learning materials of all the classes are available as per the student’s needs.Dubbing it as an online school bag for students due to its teaching techniques, including downloading the entire syllabus of the students according to their class, the app has been downloaded by more than 12.70 lakh students and teachers across the state. The District Education Department says that the number of users of this app and website across the state has crossed 21.11 lakh.This app includes the revised syllabus from pre-primary to Class XII, model test papers, daily slides, today’s word, daily homework for all classes, flight, exam series, maps, etc. Information, results of monthly tests, PAS (Punjab Achievement Survey) provides useful information on student performance, various activities for learning to speak English and animated videos, diet information and other learning outcomes are also uploaded on the application. In addition, the syllabus of secondary classes, textbooks, videos and lectures on various subjects have been uploaded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-school-bag-educare-app-makes-learning-easy-199232
16-01-2021||Ever since the region was rocked by Batala hooch tragedy in August last year||Cops pat themselves||Kiss of the angels, curse of the devilVillagers engaged in manufacturing of hooch are a stubborn lot. A fortnight ago, Rajwinder Kaur Bajwa, Assistant Commissioner (Excise), had led a team which raided Budha Bala village located in a difficult terrain across Beas river in Qadian. The squad had seized thousands of litres of hooch, called ‘lahan’ in local parlance. That was touted as a high profile seizure and excise officials ensured it got enough publicity to ostensibly deter others from engaging in this nefarious activity. However, the obstinate villagers had other plans. Barely had the embers of Bajwa’s raid died down, the bootleggers were back in business, this time with renewed vigour. There were reports that these villagers had produced a record 30,000 liters of ‘lahan’ within a week. Yet again, Bajwa constituted a team and again Beas river was crossed to raid Budha Bela. This time, ETO Rajinder Talwar and excise officials Harvinder Singh and Gulzar Masih were added to the raiding party keeping in view their experience and expertise in nabbing offenders. The ‘lahan’ was confiscated and destroyed. Wine shop owners heaved a sigh of relief as their businesses suffered losses as people were more intent of consuming hooch instead of buying legal liquor. One thing is sure. The villagers know the tricks of the trade better than the mandarins manning the Excise Department. As they say, liquor is the kiss of the angels as well as the curse of the devil. It can conceal but can also reveal. Bajwa’s take on this is: “People should understand that liqour is not necessary either for health or for so-called gracious living. It is the very cause of untold sorrow, suffering and material loss. Moreover, alcohol does not make you fat. It makes you ‘lean’ against tables, chairs, floors and ugly people.” The officer, for sure, has a sense of humour!Every vote mattersGurdaspur Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC-General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu (pic) has been tasked with generating awareness among women about the importance of casting their franchise through cultural programmes. This assumes significance as elections to the Batala MC are slated to be held in February. In the first phase, Sandhu has planned to ask Asha and Anganwadi workers to take part in these programmes whose theme will be ‘importance of your vote.’ Sandhu opined, “While there are some who genuinely cast their vote, many women sit back and relax on voting day while and others are cajoled into voting for particular candidates. The importance of voting is lost among hustle and bustle of domestic life. While everyone sits and complains about this and that, and makes suggestions that the government should change this and that, the elections come and go without half female population paying scant attention. The first ever polls to the Batala MC are due shortly. This can act as a rehearsal for the 2022 Assembly polls. Women should know the significance of their vote and how it can change society.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-pat-themselves-199252
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent||After encounter, robbers leave behind stolen SUV||Tarn Taran, January 15On January 14, six armed men robbed an SUV (Bolero) near Gohalwar village on Tarn Taran-Amritsar road. Assistant Sub-Inspector Gajjan Singh, in charge, Doburji police post, said Nachhatar Singh was behind the wheel and heading towards Amritsar along with his owner.The ASI said when they reached near Gohalwar village, six armed robbers who came in a car stopped their vehicle. He said the accused fired at Bolero, thrashed the driver and took away Bolero.Immediately, Nachhatar informed the police. The ASI said as soon as they received the information, he rushed to the spot with the police party. He said they saw a Bolero on the highway and signalled it to stop.The ASI said soon there was exchange of fire between them and robbers. He said robbers fled from the spot leaving behind Bolero.The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 379-B, 341, 323, 148 and 149 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.ATM loot gang busted; 2 heldThe Sarari Amanat Khan police have arrested two members of a gang responsible for breaking ATMs. Sub-Inspector Hardeep Singh, SHO of the police station, said the arrested accused had been identified as Pargat Singh of Basarke village and Manpreet Singh Gopi of Tajechakk village in Amritsar. Two oxygen gas cylinders, one gas cutter, one iron rod and a motorcycle have been recovered from them, while their another accomplice Baldev Singh, alias Baba, fled the spot, the police said. The SHO said the gang members were planning to rob HDFC Bank ATM in Dhand village when the police party raided the spot and arrested two of the three gang members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-encounter-robbers-leave-behind-stolen-suv-199239
16-01-2021||---||Organic market to promote natural crops||Amritsar, January 15Pushing for ‘Vocal for Local’ and organic lifestyle, agriculture department of Amritsar Group of Colleges, kicked off the first edition of its IFriday Organic Market at its agro farms located on Tarn Taran road.Witnessing the shift towards consumption of organic products, the market is an initiative to promote organic farmers and vendors.Ragini Sharma, director (finance), Amritsar Group of Colleges, said, “This market will allow farmers to use different organic techniques to grow crops and sell their products directly to customers on weekly basis.”The IFriday Organic Market will be held from 10 am to 4 pm every Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/organic-market-to-promote-natural-crops-199238
16-01-2021||---||11 jail inmates arrested in 7 different cases||Amritsar, January 15The city police have arrested as many as 11 jail inmates in seven different cases registered with the police in the past one year. After their interrogation they were sent back to jail.Among those arrested included gangsters and cross-border smugglers. They were booked for different violations of jail manuals, including possessing prohibited materials like mobile phones and clashing with other prisoners.They were identified as Satnam Singh, alias Satta, of Modhe village, Davinder Singh, alias Goldy of Gurdaspur, Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu, of Rani Vallah village, Amanpreet Singh, alias Rinka of Gate Hakima, Nayak Rahu of Ambala Cantt, Basant Singh of Rajatal village, Gurjant Singh, alias Janta, of Sarai Amanat Khan, Gurjit Singh of Jamalpura, Malkiat Singh of Rajatal village, Kuldeep Singh, alias Babbu, of Hawelian village, Jaspal Singh of Khadur Sahib and Harjit Singh of Harike.Mukandbir Singh, investigating officer, said that they were nabbed from jail complex. They were, however, sent back to jail after preliminary questioning, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-jail-inmates-arrested-in-7-different-cases-199246
16-01-2021||Our Correspondent||Residents hold march in Tarn Taran in support of farmers||Tarn Taran, January 15Tarn Taran residents organised a candlelight march in the city expressing their solidarity with the agitating farmers in Delhi. Women, tiny-tots, retired persons, and businessmen participated in the march. The march was started from the local Gandhi Municipal Park and passed through different bazaars of the town. Devinder Sohal of the CPI, Tara Singh Khehra, a retiree employee, and Gurpreet Gandiwind were among the others who addressed the residents and condemned the Central government for not accepting the demands of the agitating farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-hold-march-in-tarn-taran-in-support-of-farmers-199249
16-01-2021||Amritsar||Zomato strike enters 6th day||‘No vaccine till we get regular jobs’Tarn Taran: Employees of the Health Department under the banner of ‘Sehat Mulazim Sanghrash Committee’, Punjab, on Friday submitted a memorandum to Civil Surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta and warned the government that they would not take vaccine till their demands were accepted. A deputation of the local district unit, led by Gurbir Singh Pandori, state leader of the organisation, submitted a memorandum of demands to the Civil Surgeon. He said the main demands of the employees were regularisation of the jobs, decrease in probation period of 1,263 employees to two years, special increment to frontline workers performed duties against Covid-19 and withdrawal of criminal cases registered against health employees on the orders of Finance Minister Manpreet Badal. The committee warned the government of intensifying its agitation if their demands were not met. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/zomato-strike-enters-6th-day-199243
16-01-2021||Recently||The cast of Kyun Utthe Dil Chodd Aaye shoots in extreme cold of Amritsar||Says a cast member, Shagun Pandey, “I consider it a privilege that all of us got a chance to seek blessings at the Golden Temple before the launch of the show.Playing hockey in temperatures as low as five degrees and that too in shorts was difficult.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-cast-of-kyun-utthe-dil-chodd-aaye-shoots-in-extreme-cold-of-amritsar-199260
