16-07-2020||---||Virus claims two more lives, toll 58||Amritsar, July 15With two more casualties from Covid-19 in the district on Wednesday, the toll increased to 56. The deceased have been identified as Ranjit Singh, a 65-year-old resident of Avtar Avenue in the Kot Khalsa area, and Tarsem Singh, a 47-year-old resident of Channanke Ghanshampur village in Tarsikka block.While Tarsem Singh was admitted at Government Medical College, Ranjit Singh was undergoing treatment at DMC Hospital, Ludhiana. The district also reported 11 new positive cases on Wednesday. The total count of positive cases increased to 1147.Of the new cases, eight are with influenza-like illness (ILI) and three are contacts of Covid patients. Of ILI cases, one case each has been reported from Beas, Ajnala, Pritam Nagar (100 Feet Road), Majitha Road, Haripura, Radha Soami Hospital in Beas and Dashmesh Nagar. One contact of a positive patient from Vijay Nagar (Batala Road) and two contacts of a patient from Pritam Nagar (100 Feet Road) tested positive.According to the health authorities, 23 persons were discharged after complete recovery. With this, the total number of cured patients increased to 943. The district had 146 active patients on Wednesday.The mortality rate due to Covid-19 in the district has now reached 5.05 percent, the highest in the state. The high death rate, apart from being a cause of worry, has also raised question marks over the efficacy of treatment facilities. Surprisingly, Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts, which have reported more number of cases than the city, have a lesser mortality rate.Two new cases in Tarn TaranTwo more cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district on Wednesday. The number of patients admitted at the Civil Hospital has risen to 12.One of the two cases was a 54-year-old cop from Mughal Chack Pannuan village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-claims-two-more-lives-toll-58-113630
16-07-2020||Neha Saini||DAV’s Deepanika tops district with 98.4%||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 15Girls once again outperformed boys in the CBSE Class X examinations, the results of which were announced on Wednesday.Deepanika Gupta from DAV International School emerged as the district topper with 98.4 per cent marks. Coming from a family of academicians, her father Amardeep Gupta is the principal, DAV College, Dasuya, and her mother Jijina Mahajan is a professor at BBKDAV College in the city. Deepanika scored 492 marks out of 500.The second position in the city was jointly shared by Mehr Sethi of DPS and Sirjanpreet Kaur of Spring Dale Senior School, who both scored 98.2 per cent marks. The third position in the city too was shared by Harkirat Chaddha of DAV Public School, Saanvi of Police DAV Public School and Avneet Kaur of DAV International School who scored 98 per cent marks.Overall, 7,584 students had registered for the CBSE Class X exams (in 2020) from Amritsar. Just like the CBSE Class XII results this year, there are more girls in the Class X achievers’ list. The other meritorious students from the city include Dimplepreet from Police DAV Public School with 97.6 per cent, Shivansh Mangal from Shri Ram Ashram School with 97.4 per cent, Paritosh Sharma from DPS with 97.4 per cent, Gaurang Gupta from Spring Dale Senior School with 97.3 per cent, Savreet from DPS with 97.2 per cent and Tanveer Kaur from DAV Public School with 97.2 per cent marks.Students, family members term results encouragingExcited over their excellent results, the achievers and their families termed this year’s results overwhelming and encouraging. “The results were overwhelming for us as a family for so many reasons,” shared Amardeep Gupta, father of district topper Deepanika.“Since the lockdown and cancellation of exams by the CBSE due to the Covid-induced crisis, the students were under a lot of stress. But the results have motivated them towards their academic future ahead,” he said.Sirjanpreet said she had expected good results, but emerging among the top three positions in the city is like an icing on the cake.Manmeet Singh, father of Mehr Sethi, said the results had relieved students and their parents of undue stress. “The past few months have been quite stressful as there was a lot of uncertainty. Also, we were wondering how the assessment would be done for the exams this year and if it would do justice to the hard work done by the children.”Post the results, the top rankers in the city are working towards their future academic goals. A Class XI student at DAV International, she wants to go for the non-medical stream and pursue engineering in future. She credited her academic success to her own hard work as she did not take any coaching or tuitions from any institute.Mehr Sethi and Sirjanpreet, joint second position holders, want to pursue a non-science career. Mehr wants to become a CA and her goal is to get admission in SRCC, the best commerce college in the country. Sirjanpreet wants to pursue psychology as she finds it an interesting subject with immense potential.The only boy among the top three achievers in the city, Harkirat Chadda, who scored 98 per cent marks, wants to take up non-medical and pursue research in the field of artificial intelligence.Besides, several meritorious students from different schools of the city heaved a sigh of relief after the announcement of the results. Manmohit Singh from Senior Study School, Putlighar, topped the school with 96.2 per cent marks. Also, 27 students of the school scored more than 90 per cent marks. Simran Khosla from Springdales school scored 97 per cent marks.Raghav Khanna from Shri Ram Ashram School scored 97% marks, followed by Bhavya who got 96.2%. Among other achievers were Shivay Gupta, Hardik Sharma, Lovisha Mahajan, Bhavika Arora and Rishabh Sharma from Bhavan’s SL school who scored 95% marks. Sharanpreet Kaur from Khalsa College Public School was among the top scorer of the school with 94.4%.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/davs-deepanika-tops-district-with-98-4-113633
16-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja 
||Parking contractors continue to charge despite end of pact||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 15  The MC has allowed free parking at its parking lots up to the award of contracts. On the directions of MC Commissioner Komal Mital banners were displayed in the parking lots of MC on Wednesday. Earlier, influential contractors were collecting illegal parking fee since April 1 under the nose of MC. Suresh Sharma, an RTI activist, raised the issue on Monday and alleged connivance of MC officials and councillors in the illegal collection of parking fee.  Taking strict action on the contractors, a team of land wing of the MC cracked a whip on the illegal contractor today. The team of land wing found some persons collecting illegal fee at Kairon Market parking. On seeing MC team they fled the spot. The MC employees seized their bench and other goods. Apart from this, all parking lots were also checked.   Sandip Rishi, Additional Commissioner, MC, deployed the zonal superintendents to keep a check on any illegal activity at parking lots. There are total 15 parking lots of MC but only nine were functional. The contract was ended on March 31 but the contractors were charging fee till Tuesday.         “The parking lots will be auctioned through e-tendering process. The tenders were delayed due to the outbreak of Covid-19. No one can charge fee till the contracts not get renewed. We will keep a tab on the parking lots and take appropriate action against mischievous persons”, said Daljit Singh, land superintendent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parking-contractors-continue-to-charge-despite-end-of-pact-113635
16-07-2020||
||Khasa rly station gets e-train handling system||Amritsar, July 15 A state-of-the-art electronic interlocking system was made operational at the Khasa railway station, which falls between the Amritsar and Attari railway stations, on Wednesday. Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (Ferozepur Division), said the latest optical interlocking technology was used to ensure the trouble-free transmission of messages regarding the status of trains and platforms. He said the shift to electronic interlocking would bring perceptible change in handling of trains at the railway station. Implementation of the electronic interlocking would end cabins constructed on either side of the station from where levers used to be managed to provide signals to trains, he said. In the new system, signals are worked from an integrated mechanism in a signal cabin set up at the platform, which features a display of the entire track layout with indications of sections that are occupied, free, set for reception or dispatch, he said. The Khasa railway station receives all international cargo being traded between India and Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khasa-rly-station-gets-e-train-handling-system-113638
16-07-2020||
||CBSE Class X: Pupils with special needs come out with flying colours||Amritsar, July 15  Fighting the stigma attached with children with special needs (CWSN), a batch of  eight students from Springdale Senior Secondary School celebrated their hard work as all of them passed the CBSE’s Class X exam with flying colours. The highest marks in the batch were bagged by a student with dyslexia, who scored 88 per cent marks.  Special educator Prerna Khanna, who is herself a parent of a child with special needs, while sharing their moment of success, said: “I am training these kids for the past five years. It’s a proud moment for the school and parents, as our kids have performed really well. We have been working with the children for the past five years, training them to get through not just their learning deficits, but also communication deficit. This year, CBSE’s relaxations regarding CWSN students also helped them in getting their choice of subjects, a scribe, and extra time, but still, we had to overcome a lot of challenges.”  The school is running an inclusive educational programme for the past nine years and accepting CWSN into the mainstream to enable equality and inclusivity to such children.  Fighting the stigma associated with such children, Prerna says the results were not just mere academic success, but also go beyond a measure to encourage more parents to accept and provide such children the best of education.  “The highest marks in the batch were bagged by a student with dyslexia. We have children who suffer from intellectual disability, hearing and visual disabilities and physical disabilities. What’s more challenging is not to teach kids but to make parents and others stop feeling this stigma.” The school has also started buddy programmes and scribe volunteer programmes to engage other students in sensitising initiatives. “We focus on developing sensitised school community through several programmes, so that the idea of inclusive education is practiced. We also provide individual teacher support and other innovative concepts for making learning holistic for our children with special needs,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbse-class-x-pupils-with-special-needs-come-out-with-flying-colours-113640
16-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga 
||Sports bodies demand resumption of activities||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 15 The Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown has not only affected sporting events across the world, but it also has disrupted the preparations of budding sport persons.   The entire sporting career of young players depends upon the hours toils on the ground. Sports and vital regular exercise have been missed even during the gradual unlocking of the lockdown. Sports organisations sought resumption of at least those disciplines in which body touch is not possible.    Chandan Madaan, selector of Punjab Ranji Trophy team, said it was a strange dichotomy that crowd can easily be noticed at public places and on roads but the sports facilities like cricket stadium were lying locked. He said players being a disciplined group of people can easily be regulated in comparison to group of people at a public place. So ensuring social distance at cricket stadium like Gandhi ground which hosts national level tournaments is possible.  He informed that 500 to 700 players were attached to the cricket stadium and their game was suffering on account of lockdown. He suggested that they could be allowed in small batches of 50 at a given time. There are many nets, apart from the main pitch in the Gandhi ground.  A tennis coach, Navin Gupta, said the probability of body touch was remote in this game in which a minimum of two and a maximum four persons can play on a net at a given time. He suggested that playing a four-person can be withheld in the time of Covid-19. He said there were not more than 200 players in entire city. To cater to them, five grounds are available like Maharaja Ranjit Singh tennis ground, Lumsden Club, Amritsar Club and two private tennis grounds on the city’s outskirts. Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC, said sports were only allowed without spectators. He said as per the government instructions on sports complexes, stadia and public parks were allowed to open between 7 am to 8 pm without spectators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sports-bodies-demand-resumption-of-activities-113642
16-07-2020||---||Wound care centre inaugurated at SGRD Hospital||Amritsar, July 15An advanced Wound Care Centre was inaugurated at Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital here on Wednesday. Orthopaedic Surgeon, Dr Hardas Singh, was the chief guest on the occasion. He said, 15 per cent of population had developed foot ulcers, resulting in 45,000 lower limb amputations every year in the country. Dr Vikas Kakkar, head, plastic surgeon at the hospital said  plastic surgery had evolved from simple to complex reconstructive procedures from head to toe. From birth of child with cleft lip to amputation of limbs require plastic surgery. Advanced cosmetic and Aesthetic surgery like rhinoplasty, liposuction,face lift, tummy-tuck procedures are now in demand. Dr AP Singh, Dean, said on the occasion of National Plastic Surgery Day, the state- of- the-art advanced Wound Care Center was dedicated to the needy people. He added that center would help deal with all complex and neglected wounds like diabetic foot ulcer, bed sore, lymphodema, leg ulcers and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wound-care-centre-inaugurated-at-sgrd-hospital-113645
16-07-2020||Amritsar||At Rs 80/kg, tomato goes off the menu||High prices of vegetables, especially tomatoes, are burning a hole in the pockets of consumers as the commodity is selling at Rs80 a kg in the market. A month ago, the prices were as low as Rs15 a kg.Farmers said at the time of peak production, a crate of tomatoes weighing 20 to 25 kg was sold at Rs50 in the Vallah sabzi mandi. Now its price has shot up to Rs500. However, as local farmers have already harvested the crop, only traders and farmers who had stored the product in cold storage facilities are making the most of price rise.The tomato being a must ingredient in all summer season vegetables, residents are forced to buy it even at the high price. But many have decided to go without tomatoes. Even the price of cucumber, which was Rs10 a kg around a month ago, has now reached Rs80 a kg.Prices of other vegetables, too, have shot up as during the rains, the production goes down. More rains are not conducive for vegetable crops as these result in the growth of weeds. “Most farmers prefer to sow basmati by clearing their fields, so the supply of vegetables reduces,” said Nirmal Singh, a farmer.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, the president of the Vegetable Growers Organisation, said: “Local farmers sow basmati after uprooting the tomato plants. At present, it (tomato) is either coming from other states or from cold stores.”Nizampura said farmers and end consumers were always at a loss and traders always ended up earning huge profits from the price rise. “When farmers sold tomato at Rs2 a kg earlier this season, its retail price was still around Rs15 a kg. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/at-rs-80-kg-tomato-goes-off-the-menu-113647
16-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Students of govt schools go digital, answer bi-monthly exams online||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 15It is quite fascinating to see how schools and higher educational institutions have infused the online methods of teaching and holding examinations in wake of the Covid outbreak. The same is being adopted by the students of government senior secondary and high schools who have been appearing for the bi-monthly online examination nowadays. The Education Department had initiated the online bi-monthly exams for class VI to XII on July 13.Earlier, online webinars were organised for the training of teachers to conduct online examination as well as the assessment of answer sheets. These were attended by officials of the Education Department along with 30,000 school teachers across the state. The expert made the teachers aware about the use of digital platforms, applications and techniques to conduct the examinations, carrying out online evaluation and declare results.Here’s how the whole process goes about: the teachers provide the question paper to students on the WhatsApp groups. The students attempt the questions and then send it back to teacher within the time limit mentioned of the respective exam.However, in the early stages many teachers did face difficulties in coping with the process as a significant number of students in the government schools are underprivileged and their parents cannot afford to have a smart phone. So, teachers have stepped up for them and reach as far as the border area to distribute the question papers by visiting the pupils’ home. Some even arrange the question papers at village gurdwaras or schools and then collect the answer sheets from the same spot.Meanwhile, some have prepared the ‘Google form’ to answer the objective questions. They send in those to students to answer it online. The question papers are being prepared by the office of the Education Department. Every examination is of 20 marks and there are both objective and subjective questions. The teachers would declare the results next week.Quotes:Najeet Kaur, a student of class XII at government school, Manawala, said, “Earlier we were worried about the study that how we will prepare for the final examination without attending the classes. The Education Department adopted the online techniques for studies and examination. It is good for students.Gurleeen Kaur, another class XII student of government school, said, “The teachers made the WhatsApp groups of students and send us study material regularly in these groups. They also put the question papers in the group. We click the photographs of answer sheets and send it to teachers. This way the examinations are being conducted smoothly.Muskan, a student of class XIIth said, “Our teachers prepared the question papers and called some of the students at school. She handed over the papers to them which they further distributed to the students in their neighborhood. Then she collected the papers after some hours.Mohit, a student of class XIIth, said, “I have studied the syllabus for the bi-monthly examinations and now appearing for it. It is good for the students that schools are conducting examination otherwise we could not prepare the syllabus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-of-govt-schools-go-digital-answer-bi-monthly-exams-online-113649
16-07-2020||Gurdaspur||Jiya Lal Mittal School students bag top 3 ranks in Gurdaspur||It was after a lot of effort that the confusion got cleared. The first three positions in the district were bagged by students of Jiya Lal Mittal School. Apoorav Tandon bagged the first place by securing 96.8 per cent marks. She was followed by Navneet Kaur (95.6 per cent) and Andika (94.8 per cent) who came second and third.Other students who excelled were Ronit Saini (92.4 per cent) of TC International School and Chetna Saini (92 per cent) of Sumitra Devi Arya Senior Secondary School, Dinanagar. School principal Upma Mahajan said Chetna would be felicitated when the school reopens. — TNSManjot on top in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Manjot Kaur of the local Majha Public School emerged topper with 96 per cent marks in the district. She was followed by Ranbir Kaur of the local Mamta Niketan School and Rupinder Singh of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Patti, who came at second position with 95.2 % marks each, while Damandev of the local Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School secured the third position with 95 per cent marks. Dr Raman Dua, principal of Majha Public School, said Manjot Kaur who emerged topper was a very industrious and disciplined student who did not get even a single holiday in the whole year. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jiya-lal-mittal-school-students-bag-top-3-ranks-in-gurdaspur-113650
16-07-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Will start getting a good volume of biz from beginning of next year’||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 15Amit Mehra, proprietor of Parag International Export Division, is a registered manufacturer and exporter of blankets since 1985. Coming from a family which has been traditionally into the textile business since generations, he started the blanket and wool fabric export business in 1985 and now owns a reputed company, which is known for making quality blankets and fabrics. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Amit said he understands the art of weaving very well. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?We were badly impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic as we are running a 100 per cent export house. All our clients are based in the US, France, Germany, Scotland, Canada, Brazil, Russia and other European Union countries. We lost a few potential customers and orders of some of them were badly affected. Some of our shipments were on the way and we still don’t have any idea whether we get payments for that or not. We have many orders which are yet to be shipped but customers have put these on hold as the market situation continues to remain very bad in the US and Europe. So, a huge stock of blankets is piled up in godowns and factories.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Of course, I am very positive and feel that this pandemic would help provide a huge market for Indians as China has been throughout the world. I am sure we would get a good volume of business in the beginning of the next year. New enquiries from various countries, which were previously buying Chinese products, have started pouring in. So, my future outlook is positive.Did you pay salaries to your workers during the lockdown period?We are a tech-savvy company and paid salaries on time to all the employees. We even helped our employees by providing groceries, food items, medicines, face masks, sanitisers to them during the lockdown. Each and every employee is enjoying health insurance policy for Covid-19 in addition to ESI benefits. We even paid advance to those employees who were in need. We can grow if our employees are happy and satisfied.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We are into bulk exports, so sometimes customers reach us through our website and in the near future, we are planning to start an online trading platform. In the wake of the pandemic, innovation is the mantra for achieving sustained customers, employee engagement and growth.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?We should make new strategies and start new products. The government should develop infrastructure so that parties’ orders could be reached to them on time. Understanding customers’ mood and taste, we should focus on product innovation. We should keep innovating and communicating with our customers. Cash flow is very important so we should have alternate roadmap to meet this cash flow and capital shortage.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It seems to be a crisis for the moment but I am very positive that the future of the Indian industry is very bright. We can acquire Chinese export share if we unite, change our mindset and commit to giving quality, consistency and shipments on time. We should promote ‘Make in India’ logo on every shipped product and I am sure we would cover our all losses incurred during the lockdown period.What are your expectations from the government?It should adopt a practical approach to revive the industry and export incentives like GST refunds and others should be released soon so that exporters do not have to run from pillar to post for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-start-getting-a-good-volume-of-biz-from-beginning-of-next-year-113651
16-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Inderpuri residents live with wastewater pond up close||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 15The Inderpuri locality houses around 1,500 homes. That’s too many lives resting in the lap of danger for an old sewerage disposal site here is a also living place for vectors. With wastewater gathering and no outflow in place, it is hell unleashed upon the dwellers.The residents state that years ago new sewerage lines were laid after which the problem reared it’s ugly head. An area resident told that the sewerage water from the disposal site earlier went to Bhalla wala Khoo area. “But now it remains at the place and the residents are forced to live with the stench," he adds.The residents want the all residences connected with the main sewerage lines so that no wastewater is thrown in the open. They state that though they live in a city which the government is developing into a smart one, their area is in a pitiable condition.“It seems that government is spending huge amounts in already developed posh colonies and has forgotten about us,” says resident Satnam Singh, adding, “Instead of spending money on beautification projects, the government should first provide basic needs to people.”Cases of people falling ill here are too frequent. “We believe that it is because of the dirty water pond in the middle of the area. After all, how can one be healthy in such a smelly and unhygienic surroundings?,” reasons Pammi, another resident. She is afraid of letting her kids out in such conditions.Vikas, a teenager, has to think twice before inviting friends to his house. He says: “We feel embarrassed whenever a relative or a friend comes to our place and sees us living like this. Recently, health teams visited the place to quarantine a person and they were astonished.” He said that government should do something to solve the problem.Arjun, a dweller of the locality, as if channeling his peers’ wish, says, “If people could afford, they would have sold their houses and started living somewhere else.” But only a fool would buy a house here. “We are stuck here and there seems no solution,” he laments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inderpuri-residents-live-with-wastewater-pond-up-close-113652
16-07-2020||Amritsar||Rs 30 per patient, Amritsar doctor sets example||A doctor in Majitha has been selflessly serving patients for the past four decades. Dr Sudesh Kumar runs a private nursing home in the rural belt of Majitha. He has been prescribing generic medicines, a much-talked about terminology these days vis-a-vis ethical practices in medicine.Dr Kumar, who studied at Government Medical College, Amritsar, charges not more than Rs 30 from a patient, which includes the cost of consultation, diagnosis and medicines.“I am a doctor of the ‘masses’ and not the ‘classes’. I grew up in a humble environment. I used to pedal to DAV College from Majitha daily in 1964 and then to the medical college in 1968. My father was a tailor and I could realise how hard it was for him to afford my course fee. I completed my MBBS in 1974 and could not join the government duty in Kapurthala and Sarangdev as there was no bus service. So, I started private practice at my hometown in 1975. I started from charging just Rs 2-3 per patient in the 1970s. Presently, I charge not more than Rs 30 for a two-day antibiotic dose,” he said.Today, the doctor is successful and owns a full-fledged nursing home at Majitha. “I examine patents from 7 am to 8 pm daily. Both my sons and daughter are also doctors and work independently,” he said.Dr Kumar procures generic medicines directly from renowned pharmaceutical manufacturers. “I use generic ones the most. It solely depends upon your doctor’s prescription and integrity. The doctors, on many occasions, get swayed by medical representatives of big pharmaceutical companies who allure them to prescribe their brand of medicines. Ultimately, the burden falls on the patient’s pocket,” he said.When asked about the difference between generic and branded medicines, he said, “The difference is of price. The generic medicines are at least 90 per cent cheaper than the branded ones. Unlike generic, the branded drugs are priced exorbitantly due to marketing. They are protected by patents for several years whereas the fact is that pharmaceutical ingredients and potency of both medicines are exactly the same for diabetes, viral fever, cough cold and other diseases,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-30-per-patient-amritsar-doctor-sets-example-113420
