16-12-2020||---||The sacred relation between a guru and his disciples||Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, DECEMBER 15When Dharampal, a visually impaired, goes back in time on the wings of memory, he is grateful to his teacher Baldev Krishan Sharma for colouring his life.He was 13 when he was admitted to the Andhvidyalaya, being run by the Durgiana Temple. “I was admitted for studying and inculcating a skill to lead a decent life,” he recalls. “He taught me how to play harmonium, sitar, tabla, violin, flute and mandolin. Otherwise, I was learning cane work for making baskets for bicycles and chairs,” the 58-year-old added.He even inspired him to study to become at least a graduate. And Dharampal did the needful; he graduated from Guru Nanak Dev University aged 27 and in the following year got a job of tabla instructor at SR Government College for Women (SRCGW). “I will retire after two years”, he revealed and is also teaching all these instruments to youngsters at his home.Apart from teaching, the father of four also performed at live concerts and functions. He is a regular at his college functions and programmes. His performances include playing at Jalandhar’s famed Harivallabh Sangeet Sammelan and Durgiana Temple’s Raag Sabha being held during Holi every year.He has taught his son, Saurabh Kumar, a variety of instruments like harmonioum, violin and flute, while his daughter Urvashi has done MA in Performing Arts (sitar).Now, he wants to return the favour to the society which has given him so much to lead a dignified and self-reliant life. So, he, along with other unsighted persons, is running Bibi Bhani Kanya Netrahin Vidyalaya which provides free of cost boarding, lodging and education to 22 girls to have same life as his.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-sacred-relation-between-a-guru-and-his-disciples-184825
16-12-2020||---||Biting cold fails to dent youth’s enthusiasm, to leave for Delhi||Amritsar, December 15Though the cold wave is sweeping the region, it has failed to dent the enthusiasm and resolve of farmers and their supporters to go to Delhi to participate in the ongoing agitation against the Central Government.A group of youngsters from CKD College of Nursing here has announced to move to Delhi from December 17. The students on Tuesday took out a rally and expressed solidarity with the farmers. Seeing their enthusiasm, many from the faculty have decided to join the protest.“We have arranged two buses. Being nursing students and faculty, we would take care of the medical needs of the protesters,” said a faculty member. When asked about how long they would plan to stay in Delhi, she said, “Till the college authorities allow our absence from work.”While these students are getting ready to fight the ruling dispensation’s coldness with the warmth of their hearts, the farmers too are upbeat and ready to stay in Delhi despite harsh weather conditions.“We all have heard stories about how our ancestors braved enemies and harsh weather conditions. For me, staying in Delhi in such cold weather is like visiting the past,” said Sukhreet Singh, who has just returned from the protest site and is planning to go back again.Sahib Kaur, an elderly woman, said, “Both my son and grandson have already attended the protest for one week. It is my turn now.” She said despite the harsh weather conditions, she wanted to join the protest. “What would I tell Dharamraj when I die? Would I tell him that I was sleeping in my quilt when my children were forced to sleep on roads out in the cold weather,” she said.The farmers stated that they knew that the government would try to beat them by delaying the decision on the farm laws.“The government thinks that winter would scare us into return. What they do not know is that it was in this month that two sons and mother of Guru Gobind Singh were martyred,” said elderly Chatar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/biting-cold-fails-to-dent-youths-enthusiasm-to-leave-for-delhi-184826
16-12-2020||---||GNDU offline exams: Students from Haryana a harried lot||Amritsar, December 15GNDU has released the date sheet for offline conduct of exam for odd classes that will be conducted from December 14 to January 27, 2021. But the move has seemingly put students hailing from interiors of Haryana in a fix.With the ongoing farmer agitation that doesn’t seem to be ending anytime soon, students are facing connectivity issues and have also shared their concern with teachers.“The first and foremost problem for us will be that with no train or bus services available due to farmers’ protests, it will be very difficult for us to travel from our native places for the exam in such a short notice. We had shared this with the department heads and teachers, but none could give us any clear idea as to how this issue would be solved,” said a student of BBA, who lives in Fatehabad.One of his classmates, who hails from Bhiwani, said: “Our families are also worried as missing out on exams is not an option for us and the ongoing farmers’ agitation has suspended all travel from several parts of Haryana, especially the rural belt.”“The university is allotting hostels on the basis of distance ie. students from remotest areas will be given preference while allotting hostels. With a cap out on room allotment due to Covid 19, accommodation is also a concern for us as we would have to look for a PG or other option if we don’t get rooms.”“In a situation where Covid-19 cases are still rising and being reported, how safe will it be for us is the question?” asked another student of BBA, who hails from Sirsa.Citing the case of Punjabi University, Patiala, and several other prestigious institutions such as the IITs that are conducting online examinations, students demanded that the same process can be adopted by the university for the convenience of the students.Meanwhile, varsity authorities maintain that they would be open for all possible solutions to students’ problems.“If any student is facing any genuine issue regarding connectivity, we will be dealing it on case-to-case basis and so far we have not received any request for change of examination dates,” said KS Kahlon, registrar, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-offline-exams-students-from-haryana-a-harried-lot-184827
16-12-2020||---||BSF seizes PVC pipes from border villages||Amritsar, December 15A huge quantity of drugs was apparently sneaked into Indian territory by cross-border smugglers at Rajatal and Daoke border villages here on Sunday.The BSF seized confiscated PVC plastic pipes which were inserted in the barbed fence at these two places. BSF officials have submitted complaints to the police which have registered two separate FIRs in this regard and started further investigation.KND Bargohen, Commandant of Company B of 71 Battalion posted near the Daoke border outpost, in his statement to the Gharinda police stated that at around 8.30am on Sunday, jawans patrolling the barbed fence on the Indo-Pak border noticed signs of insertion of PVC pipes in the electrified barbed fence, besides footprints of cross-border smuggler who might have made attempts to sneak in the contraband. Similarly, another complaint was submitted by Om Parkash Swami, Commandant of Company E of 71 Battalion of BSF posted at the Rajatal border outpost, revealed that at around 8.25am, a patrolling party saw footprints and signs of insertion of plastic pipes near the barbed fence.The police have registered two separate FIRs under Sections 3, 34 and 20 of the Indian Passport Act and Section 14 of the Foreign Act against unknown intruders in this connection. Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said cases were registered following the complaints submitted by the BSF authorities and the police have activated our human intelligence to find the smugglers who would be involved in the smuggling.“Though nothing can be confirmed whether the contraband was sneaked or not, but attempts were surely made as the preliminary investigation suggests,” he said. With fog engulfing the region, there is almost zero visibility at the international border making the task very challenging for BSF jawans. On Tuesday, the Punjab Police claimed to have busted a module allegedly involved in the drug and arms smuggling from across the border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-seizes-pvc-pipes-from-border-villages-184828
16-12-2020||---||‘NEP — a milestone in nation building’||Amritsar, December 15The Amritsar Group of Colleges (AGC) conducted a webinar today on “National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 — Challenges in Higher and Technical Education in Punjab,” with heads of several prominent universities and institutes on the speaker’s panel.Eminent educationalists and experts, including Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, Vice- Chancellor, MRSPTU Bathinda, Prof. Lalit K Avasthi, Director, NIT Jalandhar, Prof. Shyam Sunder Pattinaik, Director, NITTR Chandigarh, Prof. R P Tiwari, Vice Chancellor, Central University Punjab, Bathinda, were the keynote speakers for webinar.Prof Tiwari, Vice Chancellor, CPU, emphasised on sharing knowledge-based resources to make education accessible to all by following fundamental principles of non-discrimination, solidarity, equality of opportunity and universal access to education. Prof Buta Singh Sidhu, Vice-Chancellor, MRSPTU, Bathinda, said emphasis on the development of the creative potential of each individual is the key to NEP 2020. “Push towards vocational courses will help students to enhance their God gifted talents and benefit the society. Also, the role of accreditations to propagate the way for grants, scholarships and research in varied ways will also have to be highlighted in the reformed policy.”Prof Shyam Sunder Pattnaik, Director, NITTTR, Chandigarh, stated there is a realistic road map for the implementation of NEP-2020. He said teaching fraternity had been given a different and much required responsibility of mentoring. Dr V K Banga, Principal, Amritsar College of Engineering and Technology, shared that NEP 2020, is a milestone document in the context of nation-building, built on the foundational pillars of access, equity, quality, affordability and accountability.“This National Education Policy (NEP) aims at transforming India into a vibrant knowledge-driven society and a global knowledge superpower by making both school and college education more holistic, flexible and multidisciplinary, suited to the 21st century needs and aimed at bringing out the unique capabilities of each student,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nep-%E2%80%94-a-milestone-in-nation-building-184829
16-12-2020||
||Self-employment mela: 38 applicants get loan from bank||Amritsar, December 15 The district Rozgar and Karobar Bureau organised a self-employment mela at Government ITI, Chhehharta, on Tuesday.  Deputy Director of the  Employment Bureau, Vikramjit, said a total of 147 applicants had turned up for the event out of which 38 applications for loans from bank were approved on the spot.  He said the administration had helped 4,816 applicants avail of loan facilities from banks to start their businesses under self-employment programme in the months of October and November.  The next self-employment mela on the same lines would be organised at the Saroop Rani Government College on December 18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-employment-mela-38-applicants-get-loan-from-bank-184830
16-12-2020||Our Correspondent 
||Harike Wildlife Sanctuary to get Rs 15 cr, says Dharamsot||Tarn Taran, December 15  An amount of Rs 15 crore would be released soon by the state government to make Harike bird sanctuary more attractive.  It was revealed by Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Minister for Forest, Social Security and Minorities, Punjab, in his visit to the Harike Wildlife Sanctuary at Harike Pattan, 35 km, here today. He said the visitors could now visit the sanctuary for amusement and to view the migratory birds.  The minister also launched a unique portrait presenting the serene beauty of Harike Pattan, prepared by Punjab-based lawyer and nature photographer, Harpreet Sandhu. The portrait depicts the scenic beauty of the wetland - Harike Pattan which is famous for migratory birds. Harpreet Sandhu said the famous nature spot of Punjab is a paradise and well-known for its flora- fauna and migratory birds, surrounded with natural lake situated deep inside the sanctuary in Harike. Chief Wild Life Warden Punjab, RK Mishra, Harminder Singh Gill, MLA Patti was also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harike-wildlife-sanctuary-to-get-rs-15-cr-says-dharamsot-184831
16-12-2020||
||Cleanliness drive along Fatehgarh Churia bypass||Amritsar, December 15 The Municipal Corporation initiated a special drive to streamline the sanitation system in the city under the directions of Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal. The MC has cleared the garbage heaps lying along the Fatehgarh Churia bypass to Gumtala bypass.  The city Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu stated that there have been several complaints from residents of the area about the sanitation issues in their vicinity. We have been taken these complaints seriously as thousands of people across the state visit the same road to reach the international airport and Attari Border.  In recent times, a large number of residential colonies developed alongside the road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanliness-drive-along-fatehgarh-churia-bypass-184832
16-12-2020||Strap||Sipping from the cup of misfortune||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 15Prem Nath Mahajan, a tea-seller at Machhi Mandi corner of Hall bazaar, is brooding over the surreal cascade of circumstances his eyes has witnessed after unleashing of Covid-19. “I have lost 80 per cent customers,” his lips tremble in the nipping weather as he speaks of the misfortune. Selling tea for last 26 years, he has never before been in this darkened corner. The lockdown ate into his business like termites. His shop was closed for three months and Prem spent all his savings in between, only to reopen in August hoping to revive business. “I am surprised that we sit idle even in the shivering cold. Otherwise, people used to beeline in winters at tea shops,” he remembers. Since people are suspicious about the roadside eateries, he has stopped using glasses. Instead, disposable paper glasses are now the best bet, which still doesn’t satisfy his customers. Prem works 12 hours a day after opening his shop at 6 in the morning providing tea to the nearby shopkeepers and has a good clientele in workshops and godowns, where workers beckon him many a time during the working hours. “The morning walkers sit together at my shop after their daily exercise and sip tea. They discuss politics and local issues. I have good relations with these elderly people and enjoy their company. Apart from this, sweepers, milkmen, guards, newspaper hawkers are early morning customers. Sometimes, the devotees returning from Darbar Sahib and commuters also taste my tea and mathis,” Prem elaborates. However, he is rueful of government’s initiative to support the marginal shopkeepers. “The government should support the small traders amid the outbreak. We lost our business but even then paid power bills of closed shops. The government has to waive off the bills and taxes until the business finds its footing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sipping-from-the-cup-of-misfortune-184834
