17-08-2020||Amritsar||Robotic knee-replacement surgery on 115-kg patient in Amritsar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/robotic-knee-replacement-surgery-on-115-kg-patient-in-amritsar-127415
17-08-2020||---||Amritsar: COVID-19 patient jumps off hospital building||Amritsar, August 17A COVID-19 patient admitted at Government Medical College here allegedly died by suicide by jumping off the hospital building on Monday morning.The deceased has been identified as Swaran Singh, a 46-year-old resident of Sandhpur village near Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district.The victim was admitted to the hospital on August 15, after which his swab sample was taken and tested positive. Though the authorities presume that he might have been upset due to his disease, the exact reason behind his suicide is still unknown.The victim had survived the fall but succumbed to his injuries and trauma after 15 minutes.The hospital’s medical superintendent, Dr Raman Sharma, stated that the patient was an opium addict and an alcoholic. He added that he had interacted with the deceased during his round to the ward on Sunday evening.“The patient had complained of breathlessness and stomach ache,” he said.The authorities stated that a psychiatrist had also provided counselling to the patient on Sunday evening to uplift his morale.The hospital authorities stated that the deceased broke a windowpane of the washroom to get to the balcony.The officials said: “The deceased was sharing the room with two more positive patients. The iron grills will be fixed alongside all glass windows to prevent such mishaps in the future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-covid-19-patient-jumps-off-hospital-building-127404
17-08-2020||---||6 deaths take Amritsar district toll to 111||Amritsar, August 16With six deaths and 97 new positive cases in the past 48 hours, the district death toll and Covid case count have reached 111 and 2,762, respectively. The district has 486 active cases while 2,165 persons have defeated the virus.Four deaths reported on Sunday included Raj Kaur (67), a resident of Main Bazaar on Sultanwind Road; Surinder Kaur (70), a resident of Tej Nagar; Rajinder (44), a resident of Prem Nagar; and Jatinderpal Singh (50). Two casualties reported on Saturday have been identified as Subhash Chandar (61) of Putlighar and Bachni (78), a woman resident of Indira Colony.The district reported 20 new cases on Sunday and 77 fresh cases on Saturday. The new cases reported on Sunday include 10 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 10 contacts of Covid patients. Of the ILI cases, two each were reported from Ram Tirath and Sant Nagar Verka and one case each was reported from Bhalla Colony (Chehharta), Katra Bhagghian, Jawahar Nagar (Batala Road), Guru Arjandev Nagar, Loon Mandi and Chande village. Besides, three contacts of Covid patients from Military Hospital, two from Corporate Hospital and one each from BSF, Khasa; IVY Hospital; New Amritsar and Prem Nagar tested positive for the virus.The new cases reported on Saturday included 48 ILI cases and 29 contact cases. The ILI cases included two each from Ram Tirath, Dayanand Nagar (Lawrence Road), Medical Enclave, Pandori Waraich village, Cheema Bath village, Brahm Nagar (Lawrence Road), Subhash Colony, Gali Gill Wali, Chabhal Road, Government Railway Police, Baba Sawan Singh Nagar, Basant Avenue, Guru Amardas Avenue, Thaithian village, Taragarh village, Uttam Avenue (Sultanwind Road), Ganda Singh Colony, Sangatpura village, Professor Colony, Katra Bhai Sant Singh, Babhowal village, Jaj Nagar, Chogawan Village, Jethunangal village, Chande Village, Katra Charan Singh, Gopal Nagar, Kot Atma Ram, Shareefpura, Ganda Singh Wala, Maqboolpura, Sohian Kalan village, New Jail Road, Katra Ahluwalia, Janta Colony (Maqbool Road), Ranjit Pura (Chehharta), Kamla Devi Avenue, Gheo Mandi, office of the Commissioner of Police, Verka and Putlighar. The contact cases included three each from Sandhya Enclave, Military Hospital and Bhai Mani Singh Road, two each from Ram Nagar, B-Block Ranjit Avenue, Baba Sahib Chowk, Shahid Udham Singh Nagar, New Amritsar and Kashmir Avenue, besides one case each from Green City; Bhullar Avenue; BSF, Khasa; Government Medical College; local airport; Majitha; Gopal Nagar; Khandwala; and Dashmesh Avenue (Majitha Road).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-deaths-take-amritsar-district-toll-to-111-127316
17-08-2020||---||Civic body to instal 40 plastic bottle crushing machines||Amritsar, August 16A plastic bottle crushing machine was inaugurated by Mayor Karamjit Singh and Commissioner Komal Mittal at the Municipal Corporation head office in Ranjit Avenue under the Smart City Project here yesterday. The MC planned to install 40 such plastic bottle crushing machines at major places of the city in two phases under the Smart City project at a cost of about Rs. 2.54 crore. A Mumbai-based company will install and manage these machines for five years.In the first phase of this project, these machines would be installed at major places of the city such as A-Block, B-Block, C-Block of Ranjit Avenue, Anand Park, Model Town Mata Mandir, Hall Bazaar, Amrit Talkies Chowk, Company Bagh, Kabir Park and Durgiana temple.The machine is capable of crushing and storing around 3,000 bottles and cans daily. A representative of the company Pranjal Jha said the rest of the machines would be installed soon. On the occasion, the city Mayor congratulated its residents on the Independence Day and also conveyed the message that people should not throw plastic bottles and cans on the road and make maximum use of these bottle crushing machines being installed under the Smart City. “This will not only keep the city litter and pollution free, but will also provide discounted coupons to the people.” The coupons will be sent to the users via Paytm and the intercity app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-instal-40-plastic-bottle-crushing-machines-127317
17-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria hoists Tricolour in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 16Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkarian unfurled the national flag at the district-level function in Tarn Taran on Saturday. The minister in his address appreciated the contributions made by martyrs in the country‘s freedom struggle. He highlighted different development schemes launched by the state government like ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’, ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ under which the school students were given smartphones. The minister claimed that 13 lakh youths had been given jobs under the rozgar scheme. He said the government had waived off loans worth Rs 4,700 crore of more than 5.5 lakh farmers.Lok Sabha member Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MLAs Ramanjit Singh Sikki, Harminder Singh Gill, District and Sessions Judge Harpreet Kaur Randhwa, Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and SSP Dhruman Nimbale were among the prominent personalities present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minister-sukhbinder-singh-sarkaria-hoists-tricolour-in-tarn-taran-127318
17-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers observe ‘black day’, take out rallies||Tarn Taran, August 16Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, observed ‘black day’ on the Independence Day on Saturday by taking out rallies at various places in the district against the policies of the Centre and the state government.Satnam Singh Pannu, the state president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, said rallies were taken out in Tarn Taran, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Patti and villages, including Valtoha, Chabal, Harike, Sarhali, Khadoor Sahib, Fatehbad, Amarkot, Sursingh and Shahbazpur. He said women workers, too, participated in the rallies.“The agriculture-related Ordinances passed by the Union Government are meant to spoil the lives of crores of people in the farming sector by depriving farmers of the Minimum Support Price fo theri crops. The Ordinances and the other similar policies were a part of the privatisation agenda of the government,” said Satnam Singh Pannu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-observe-black-day-take-out-rallies-127319
17-08-2020||---||‘Stray’ pigs spark fear among Amritsar residents||Amritsar, August 16Pigs roaming around in the city and feeding on garbage heaps are not stray animals as they have owners who have found a way of their rearing them for their vested interests without spending a penny.Though the Municipal Corporation does not allow rearing a buffalo or a cow in the city, some residents have resorted to rearing pigs. It was around two years ago that the MC had caught around 30 pigs from posh areas of the city.Residents complained that the MC must take action against owners of the pigs in the city as they have been risking the life of people. They complained that while the owners of the pigs were residing in posh areas, they had to bear the brunt of the swines in their localities.However, the residents of areas as Islamabad, inner localities or Chehharta, localities alongside railway tracks where certain people have been rearing pigs are the most troubled. “We cannot file a complaint with the police or other authorities as this work attracts the ire of the pig owners,” said a resident of Inderpuri. He said besides, the authorities do not take such complaints seriously.The pigs can also been seen roaming in streets and scattering garbage heaps while looking for food. “The owners must tame such animals and feed them. It causes inconvenience to us,” said another resident Sujata Kumari. She added that the fear of animlas had restricted the movement of their kids. The residents complained that the pigs are often a cause of road accidents especially involving two wheeler riders. A resident of Islamabad areas said he had been badly injured due to the menace in a road accident three years ago and was severely injured.The residents demanded that all pigs should be removed from the city and their owners should be identified. “We already are facing problem due to stray cows and dogs. To add to it, some people are rearing pigs illegally. Authorities seem to have turned deaf to our demands,” said another resident Joginder Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stray-pigs-spark-fear-among-amritsar-residents-127320
17-08-2020||Amritsar||Unsafe houses demolished||Ritik Arora is dist NSUI chiefTarn Taran: Ritik Arora has been nominated as the district president of the NSUI by Akshai Sharma, state president of the National Students’ Union of India in a communiqué released here on Friday. Earlier, Ritik was the district vice-president of the NSUI and the Youth Congress. Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, MLA, has blessed Ritik Arora and advised him to work hard to strengthen the Congress party organisationally in the district. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unsafe-houses-demolished-127321
17-08-2020||---||Arrested gangster Yama procured weapons locally||Amritsar, August 16Investigations have revealed that gangster Ranjodh Singh alias Sunny Yama, had procured four weapons recovered from him locally. The State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) has launched a manhunt to nab the suspect from whom Yama had sourced the weapons.Earlier, cops had brought Jaggu Bhagwanpuria on the police remand to know if he had any links with the weapons seized from Yama.The gangster was nabbed by the SSOC around a week ago, along with illegal weapons and around 100 live bullets. Yama was wanted in around two dozen cases, including that of murder and attempt to murder.Yama, a resident of Fairland colony on the Fategarh Churian road, is a son of former Sub-Inspector.During his personal search, the police seized a .30 bore pistol while two 9mm pistols were recovered from his car. His interrogation led to seizure of another .32 bore pistol. A total 109 bullets were also seized from him.A case under Section 120 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act was registered at SSOC police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrested-gangster-yama-procured-weapons-locally-127323
17-08-2020||---||State nearing target of 22,000 daily tests, says minister Soni||Amritsar, August 16The Covid-19 pandemic cast its shadow on the 74th Independence Day celebrations at the Attari-Wagah border and the district-level ceremony held at Guru Nanak stadium on Saturday as the events remained low-key affairs.At the border, there was no exchange of sweets and only customary parade by a BSF squad was held. Surjit Singh Deswal, Director General, BSF, was the chief guest at the event while included a 10-km ‘Independence Day walk’.74th Independence Day at the Attari-Wagah border in Amritsar on Saturday. Tribune photoIn the city, Medical Education and Research Minster OP Soni unfurled the Tricolour and took salute from contingents of the Punjab Police.In his address, Soni said with an investment of Rs1,200 crore, the state government would open three new medical colleges at Mohali, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur and a cancer institute in the holy city. “The new colleges will double the number of government-run hospitals in the state from three to six. In addition, sanction for recruitment 850 doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and others has been accorded,” he said.Soni said admissions in MBBS courses at AIIMS, Bathinda, had started and a piece of land in Ferozepur had been earmarked to open a satellite centre of the PGI, Chandigarh. “Earlier, we would dispatch samples for Covid-19 testing to a lab in Pune, but now we are near the target of testing 22,000 samples daily in the state,” the minister said.He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had ensured release of MSP of the last seven harvests within 48 hours of procurement. “Loans of farmers amounting to Rs4,700 crore have been waived off. The government also distributed 15 lakh packets of ration during the lockdown period,” Soni said.He said the government had provided youths with 58,000 jobs in government sector and about four lakh in private sector.He said reservation for freedom fighters in residential schemes of GAMADA, PUDA and others had been increased from two to three percent. For the benefit of 24 lakh beneficiaries under various social welfare schemes, the monthly pension had been increased from Rs 500 to Rs 750 per month, the minister said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-nearing-target-of-22-000-daily-tests-says-minister-soni-127324
17-08-2020||---||1 arrested with 20 stolen liquor boxes||Amritsar, August 16 With the arrest of one person, the police have confiscated over 20 boxes of liquor looted from a liquor vend located on the Mukerian-Gurdaspur road in Hoshiarpur district two days ago. During interrogation the police recovered five more boxes from the possession of the accused identified as Harpal Singh, alias Pala, of Batala. He was now residing at Verka here. The police also confiscated two sharp weapons and a Bolero used in the crime. He was in police custody for further interrogation while raids were on to nab his accomplices, said Nishan Singh, SHO, Verka police station, here. Among others booked in the case include Raju, Jatinder Singh and Sukhwinder Singh. The police have registered a case under the Excise Act, Arms Act and theft against them. Nishan Singh told that the accused used to target liquor vends located at secluded places on the roadsides. They used to broke the walls and load the liquor boxes in Bolero vehicles and flee. Harpal was nabbed following a tip off. While 20 boxes of liquor of different brands were recovered on the spot, five boxes were recovered during his  police remand. He was produced before the duty magistrate which extended his police remand by two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-arrested-with-20-stolen-liquor-boxes-127325
17-08-2020||---||Support pours in for health warrior manhandled at Ludhiana dera||Amritsar, August 16Different associations of the Health Department employees have demanded a strict action against the persons who manhandled a multipurpose health worker on the Covid-19 duty, at a dera, in Ludhiana district.Health employees stated that the multipurpose health worker Mastaan Singh had visited the dera on instructions of the senior officials after some patients tested positive there. “Instead of cooperating with the health employees, a sadhu and his followers at the dera manhandled him and recorded the incident. They even uploaded the same on the social media,” said Shamsher Singh Kohri, Convener, Punjab State Pharmacy Officers Association.Ashok Sharma of the association said if the government failed to take action, it would send a wrong message. “Why would an employee risk his life and put his dignity at stake if such incidents take place. The government should take the strictest possible action against the culprits,” said Sharma.Coordination Committee of Paramedical and health employees unions has also condemned the incident. President Narinder Kumar said, “Government does not seem to be concerned about the incidents of violence against health employees. The Ludhiana incident is shameful and government should ensure dignity and safety of health workers.” The nursing association at Government Medical College has also demanded action against the culprits.Meanwhile Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandak Committee (SGPC) has also demanded action against the culprits stating that the health worker’s turban was removed by the culprits and his religious symbols were desecrated. He added that government should take action in this regard so that the employees don not feel disheartened.“Besides, the government should also take action against the culprits as they had hurt the religious sentiments and sensibility of the masses,” he said, while making an appeal to the Chief Minister for the immediate arrest of culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/support-pours-in-for-health-warrior-manhandled-at-ludhiana-dera-127327
17-08-2020||Tarn Taran||45-yr-old killed in road accident||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/45-yr-old-killed-in-road-accident-127328
17-08-2020||What should the government do to ensure proper disposal of lahan?||Hire experts to dispose of lahan in scientific manner||Dispose of lahan in scientific wayThe police dumped a huge amount of seized ‘lahan’ into the already polluted Sutlej without any qualms. The river has already been under the watch of the National Green Tribunal as it carries the bulk of toxic waste that the Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana empties into it. That is not the way to destroy the confiscated ‘lahan’. It not only pollutes the river but also increases demand of biochemical oxygen posing a threat to aquatic life. Consequently, the aquatic organisms become stressed, suffocated and eventually die because the ‘lahan’ that claimed over 100 lives has the potency to exterminate aquatic life. The flora and fauna are not immune to its deadly effects. It can also contaminate the ground water. Hence, the ‘lahan’ ought to have been disposed of in a scientific manner after getting its samples tested. The authorities concerned aver that there are no proper rules on how to dispose of ‘lahan’. If there are no such rules they should be framed because the illicit business of ‘lahan’-making has not sprung up overnight, rather it has been thriving for a long time. The Punjab Pollution Control Board, which stood as a mute spectator, should have issued show-cause notices to the police for throwing ‘lahan’ into the river.Tarsem S BumrahDo no rules exist on lahan disposal?The disposal of ‘lahan’ (illicit liquor) in the river not only leads to the pollution but also rises levels of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), posing a threat to life in water. The greater the BOD, the more rapidly dissolved oxygen depletes in the water. ‘Lahan’ is produced by fermenting a mixture of water, jaggery, dry fruits and other ingredients, but once it ferments, it contains alcohol and several other byproducts which are impure and poisonous. Even jaggery and its related products, such as molasses, are highly harmful for aquatic life. There are no proper rules on how ‘lahan’ should be destroyed and hence officials dump it in water, which otherwise is wrong and should stop immediately. The Punjab Police should punish the culprits.Saahil HansInstal a plant for better disposalSuch actions, as committed by the Excise Department of Punjab, do contaminate soil and groundwater of the area. Ultimately, this is then used for drinking, irrigation, livestock and what not. It can prove really dangerous. No denying that rules are already there for proper handling, storage, transportation and disposal of hazardous waste as per provision under Rule 25(1) of Hazardous Waste (Management, Handling and Transboundary Movement), 2008, but who cares for its implementation? The most easy and feasible solution for disposal of such consignments of ‘lahan’ is to instal a plant, as installed in dyeing and processing units to treat the hazardous chemical mixed residual water. Further, the most lucrative proposal is to ask some research institute to come out with an out of box idea to recycle ‘lahan’ to turn it into a commercially viable healthy product.Naresh Mohan JoharSutlej on the decline, under ngt lensHooch tragedy in Punjab has shaken the nation. Large quantities of ‘lahan’ has been recovered in the following crackdown. And the Excise Department disposes it into the Sutlej, the river already under watch of a National Green Tribunal (NGT). What kills humans, can kill aquatic life too. The act of draining not only leads to the pollution but also high levels of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). The greater the BOD, more rapidly dissolved oxygen depletes in the water. Flora and fauna will be highly affected. There has to be some other way to dispose ‘lahan’ instead of throwing it in the Sutlej. The river has already home to mega wastes the Buddha nullah stream of Ludhiana dumps into it everyday. Already industries, domestic, dairies wastes are piling up and now the government’s very own department, without realising its environmental impact, did their part well in polluting it further. Some scientific method should be used before disposing after reducing its toxic effect. Ecosystem balance should also be kept in mind before releasing it in waters.Amarjit KalsiScientific approach need of the hourThe disposal of ‘lahan’ in the river not only leads to the pollution but also high levels of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), posing threat to life in water. An expert from Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has exponded already on what the BOD does to the aquatic life in water, exposing all to life-threatning dangers. It might also contain high levels of ethanol and methanol. Government should hire some experts who should destroy the ‘lahan’ in the scientific way, so that it should not be harmful to the environment.Rohit Kumar SehdevAll involved should be behind the barsAccording to Section 13A of the Punjab Excise Act, ‘lahan’ means any solution made from gur or molasses or both, to which a fermentation agent has been added to promote fermentation or which has undergone the process and from which spirit can be obtained by distillation. Even if not fermented, it is highly harmful as it increases Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) in the water, which further deteriorates the natural oxygen levels required for survival of flora and fauna. ‘lahan’ is even more harmful with toxic by-products and alcohol content. ‘lahan’ is produced by fermenting a mixture of water, jaggery, dry fruits and other ingredients but once fermented, it contains alcohol and several other by-products which are impure and poisonous. Even the jaggery and its related products, such as molasses, are highly harmful for aquatic life. There are no proper rules on how ‘lahan’ should be destroyed, hence officials dump it in waters which should stop immediately. There has to be some other way to dispose ‘lahan’ instead dumping it in river. The Excise Department cannot dispose an alcoholic product in the river. The NGT, in 2018, had slapped a fine of Rs 50 crore on Punjab government for failing to control pollution in Sutlej and Beas. On the disposal of the seized intoxicants, liquor etc, the Section 59 of the Act empowers the Financial Commissioner of the state to make rules. In its absence, quantity recovered should be allotted to nearest distillery and chemically tested for its further use depending upon its purity. Even the drinkers of ‘lahan’ should be behind the bars.Dr Gursharan Singh KainthQUESTIONThe state government has imposed night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am in all cities. Do you think it will help in checking the spread of Covid-19?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 20).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hire-experts-to-dispose-of-lahan-in-scientific-manner-127334
