17-05-2020||Neha Saini||Creating online content, independent artistes from Amritsar are pitching in for re-invention||Self-isolation has had a very different impact on the lives of the performing artistes and professionals in the entertainment industry as the long-term effects of COVID-19 pandemic means cinema halls, theaters, community spaces and clubs would remain closed.While the community of creative performers is down, but it’s not out! Continuing to create content online, Amritsar-based independent artistes are capitalising on the unlimited access to the worldwide web.Staying anchoredActor-writer Sukhmani Sidana is creating content via Instagram and her social media platforms. The actor, who was seen in hit web series Sacred Games and Manmarziyan, has been spending her time with her family in Amritsar since the lockdown.“It is only relevant to create online content as it helps re-inventing oneself and stay connected to the audience. I have been hosting a talk show on IGTV every week where I interact with friends and co-actors from the industry. It’s a light-hearted, fun show that has been getting good response and what’s amazing is that I have learnt a few skills like editing and creating motion posters while doing the show,” shares Sukhmani.The young writer is also working on two scripts for web series to be produced by Ekta Ravi Kapoor. “I think that digital platforms are the future of entertainment as in the post-COVID 19 world, we have to re-invent and re-build.” She cites the example of Ayushmann Khuranna – Amitabh Bachchan’s upcoming film Gulaabo Sitaabo that will be released on digital platform due to the current situation.Sukhmani has, till date, featured actors Parul Gulati, Minnisha Lamba, Sonal Chauhan and Kritika Kamra on her talk show. She has also been busy giving auditions, “Now people are conducting web auditions and many actors are auditioning through live feeds or videos.”The drama continues…Even the theatre fraternity, which is one of the worst hit, has found itself a new address with digital platforms. Giving a virtual theatre experience to the audience, Amritsar-based senior actor and theatre artiste Gurinder Makana has come up with live streaming of plays on digital platform called Kahaani Depot. It is a free-for-artistes platform started by Akbar Rizvi in 2017 that features live performances by artistes pan India. Music, folk art, theatre, you name it and the platform will have creative content to suit your taste.Makana recently performed a Punjabi play based on the story, Ram Gau, at Kahaani Depot. “It was the first virtual theatre performance by an artiste from Amritsar. Ram Gau was a story written by HarpreetSekhon and first directed by noted director Kewal Dhaliwal in his acclaimed Punjabi play Gaddi Chadan Di KaalBarhi Si in 2004. My performance was planned as the COVID-19 lockdown and its impact on theater artistes and the fraternity will be long lasting. So, like all other creative forms, theatre too will have to innovate and improvise, establish its base through such streaming channels to find audience,” shares Makana.The 33-minute performance by Makana was assisted by his wife, who has arranged for few props and handled the camera as Makana enacted the play. Ram Gau is an insightful, sensitive story of a village headmaster, who leaves his village post-retirement to live with his family in Canada, only to suffer from neglect, loneliness and dejection. Makana will now direct another live digital play, titled Pairan Nu KaradeJhanjhran, based on a story written by Canada-based writer Baljit Kaur.“The play will be enacted by Suvidha Duggal, another noted theatre artiste from Amritsar,” he informs.Makana says that independent theatre artistes used to be paid for each show or on a weekly basis by the production company. “But due to the lockdown, the fraternity has been out of finances and artistes are dependent on their family income. It’s important to create online content or channels through which theatre can be mobilised, for revival and survival.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/creating-online-content-independent-artistes-from-amritsar-are-pitching-in-for-re-invention-85889
17-05-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Need to tweak business methods to tide over coronavirus crisis’||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has impacted almost everyone, including students. Ramesh Mittal, chairman, Lovely Group, discusses the current scenario and shares his views on extraordinary circumstances during an interview with Deepkamal Kaur. Excerpts:How has your work been affected due to the lockdown? What are your future plans?We do business in four sectors — retail, food, automobile and education. Since our retail business Lovely Wannabuy comes under essential services, it went on even during the lockdown. After the Thursday orders of the government to resume bakery and sweets with home delivery, we have resumed that too through Swiggy and Zomato. We have initiated technological steps to ensure proper sanitisation and increase shelf life of our products without addition of any preservatives. Automobile centres have opened in green zones and educational institutes will only open after receiving orders from the government.Nothing stays forever. There can be a dramatic change and we just need to focus on evolving technology and adapting to diversity in the market so that people keep on investing in your business. — Ramesh Mittal, Chairman, Lovely GroupWhat efforts have been taken to ensure education of students does not suffer?With regard to the education sector, every institute is getting affected like ours. Since we were technology-ready and we had systems in place for imparting online education, we started it within three days of the university getting shut. We have completed all our semester work on the LPU Live app, including giving projects and assignments to the students. We are expecting that classes will start by July-end or mid-August. We, somehow, are not very hopeful of good international students taking admission to our institute this year. We have offered 20 per cent scholarship for frontline warriors, their siblings and their children if they want to get enrolled with us. We have also set up a 1 million US dollar fund for promoting any invention or idea related to Covid-19.Most of the international students who were here have returned, so how do you expect that classes will start soon?Since travelling will have to open sooner or later, international students will be able to come back only when they feel safe. Till the time, they will be with us. We will conduct online classes for them as we cannot run away from our responsibility. We might have to use the offline and online mode of education simultaneously.The lone Covid-19 case at LPU had caused panic. What is the situation now?We really got worried at that time, but timely action helped us check any further spread. Since almost all students have gone back home, there is no reason to worry now.How have you been paying salaries to your employees? What efforts are you making to keep your labourers with you?We have paid almost full salaries to our employees. We of course are worried about a likely shortage of labourers as Shramik trains started running when we were about to reopen our sweets and bakery shops. The decision of the government to start trains at this time has come as a double whammy for us. It can have an adverse impact too as we will have to enhance technology for less manpower. It will eventually lead to the rise in unemployment.Has Covid-19 impacted your expansion plans?We were expanding the automobile business in Ludhiana when the lockdown was announced. So, some of our plans have slowed down, but not shelved off. For the automobile sector, most people think that there would be a few buyers owing to less income. But, we are looking at the positive side as we expect more people will use cars now. Owing to the Covid threat, people will avoid travel in public transport and hence, our sales can go up again.What is the message for your staff, students and parents?Be positive. There is a lot of negative news all around. But, only positive sentiments can help us on this stage. Start respecting doctors, nurses and policemen more as they are the ones who have been helping us come out of this trouble. We have started providing counselling to them as well.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown?Nothing stays forever. There can be a dramatic change and we just need to focus on evolving technology and adapting to diversity in the market so that people keep on investing in your business.Do you see the current scenario as a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge as well as an opportunity. It is a challenge because nobody knew that this kind of situation would arise. Those who will be able to deliver products and services by bringing in changes in the systems will be able to create an opportunity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-tweak-business-methods-to-tide-over-coronavirus-crisis-85702
17-05-2020||---||Miscreants ‘burn’ 3 cars in Gole Bagh||Amritsar, May 16Three cars were allegedly burnt in Gole Bagh area near the Durgiana Temple by some unknown persons here in the wee hours of Saturday. Unidentified persons had taken the responsibility of torching the cars. They had pasted a note in Punjabi on a wall of the park.The police have started a probe. A forensic team also reached the spot and started collecting evidence.A Fire Brigade official said the department received a call around 4 am that three cars were engulfed in a fire. He said though efforts were made to douse the flames, but it had already destroyed the cars completely by the time Fire Brigade team reached there. He said they could not verify the reason how the cars caught fire.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh said the matter was under investigation and nothing could be said at the moment. He said the forensic team was called to investigate how the cars caught the fire. As for the paper pasted on a wall of the park, he said it was being looked into.The police reportedly stumbled upon CCTV camera footage of the incident, but the DCP said it was being analyzed. He said the Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (City-I) would be marking an enquiry into the case.In the paper, anonymous persons claimed that the Covid-19 pandemic proved that all the religious preachers were wrong. Some objectionable remarks were made against a Jalandhar-based sect and said more vehicles would be burnt after May 18 if the supporters of the sect did not leave the sect (ashram) premises.BJP MP Shwait Malik, along with other party leaders, visited the spot and directed the Police Commissioner to identify and arrest the anti-social elements who were trying to disturb the peaceful atmosphere during these challenging times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/miscreants-burn-3-cars-in-gole-bagh-85691
17-05-2020||---||Blind murder case solved; 3 arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 16With the arrest of three persons, the city police on Saturday claimed to have solved the blind murder case in which a 47-year-old woman, Sarabjit Kaur, was found murdered in Sandhu Colony falling under the Sadar police station here on May 6.Her son, Gurkirat Singh, was a cop posted at the Gharinda police station here. The incident came to light when she did not respond to the repeated calls of a relative who later called him. Gurkirat called his neighbour who went to his house to find her lying in a pool of blood. He rushed back home in the evening.Her throat was slit with some sharp weapon. The house was ransacked. Gurkirat said around 35 gm of gold jewellery, Rs 22,000 and a cell phone were missing from the house.Those arrested were identified as Gurpreet Singh of Jons village, Lakhwinder Singh of Dera Nihanga village and Amritpal Singh of Jons village. One of their accomplices Beant Singh was yet to be arrested. The police said that all the accused used to do sanitary work in the house and they knew that she used to live alone in the house in the day as her son goes on duty at Gharinda, while another son was in Canada.The police recovered the weapon used in the crime while a scooter and stolen jewellery was also recovered from the accused.Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said the perpetrators used to do sanitary work in the house. Beant Singh was a contractor. The arrested learnt from him about the victim being alone in the house. He said raids were on to nab him also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blind-murder-case-solved-3-arrested-in-amritsar-85692
17-05-2020||---||Re-carpeting of Majitha Road begins in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 16Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with MLA Sunil Dutti inaugurated the recarpeting work of Majitha Road near Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here on Saturday. The Municipal Corporation (MC) had floated tenders for works worth Rs20 crore for recarpeting of city roads before the outbreak of coronavirus. But these works could not be started due to lockdown.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said in the first phase, the road would be constructed from Majitha Road Puli to SSSS Chowk and thereafter from Majitha Road Bypass to the Puli. After that, circular road would be recarpeted from SSSS Chowk to Kachihari Chowk. Similarly, all major roads of the city would also be constructed.“MCA has played an important role in protecting citizens from Covid-19. All councillors, officers, employees of the Municipal Corporation, especially the Health Department officials and the sewermen have worked tirelessly day and night for the cause of the people of Amritsar,” said Mayor Karamjit Singh.Councillor Sameer Dutta, Sandeep Sharma, Pardeep Sharma, Riteish Sharma, Bobby, Rambali, Anek Singh and Municipal Corporation officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/re-carpeting-of-majitha-road-begins-in-amritsar-85694
17-05-2020||---||Accountant dies in road accident||Amritsar, May 16Gurpreet Singh (32), an accountant and resident of Shiv Nagar, was killed in a road mishap near the Jandiala Guru-Tarn Taran bypass on the Amritsar-Jalandhar road here on Saturday. He was returning from Ludhiana when the incident took place.The passersby pulled his body out of the car which immediately caught fire. According to the police, Gurpreet was killed on the spot due to suffering critical head injuries. He is survived by wife, 5-year-old son and 8-month-old daughter.Investigating officer ASI Durlabh Darshan Singh said the car was being driven rashly. The victim was coming from Ludhiana. He said the car (PB-89-4019) hit an iron road divider and overturned several times before coming to a halt. Then it caught fire.Several passersby standing near a dhaba rushed towards the car and pulled Gurpreet out of it. However, he had died due to critical injuries sustained in the mishap. The ASI said the police initiated action under the CrPC and handed over the body to the family after a postmortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/accountant-dies-in-road-accident-85695
17-05-2020||---||Amritsar theatre artistes perform play online||Amritsar, May 16Depicting the horrifying realities that lie behind the mad run for ‘dollar dreams’ among Punjabi youth, including young women, the play, Pairan Nu Karade Jhanjharan, was live-streamed by artiste Suvidha Duggal here on Saturday.Performing for the first time on a social media platform, Kahani depot, Duggal enacted the moving story of a young girl, who migrates to Canada dreaming about dollars and a luxurious lifestyle. What she gets is an open secret.“The story is based on a Punjabi book written by Canada-based writer Baljeet Kaur Randhawa, about the harsh realities of migration. A young girl who wants to go to Canada to become independent, aspiring for freedom and good life, is shocked and later adapts to a life full of hardships, working round the clock and facing several issues like gender-based crimes and fraud. The play was directed by Gurinder Makana and it was a unique online theatre experience that I feel is the future of performing arts in near future,” said Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-theatre-artistes-perform-play-online-85696
17-05-2020||---||Farmers express disappointment over relief for agriculture sector||Amritsar, May 16The All India Kisan Sabha and the Vegetable Growers Organisation (VGO) have expressed disappointment over the relief announced by the Centre for the agriculture sector. Farmer leaders said the government should waive off farm loans and decrease oil prices to help the sector.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura of the VGO said: “Crude oil prices have decreased in the international market but the consumers in the country have not benefitted from the decrease as the government has not reduced the prices at a proportional rate.” He said diesel is used in agricultural machinery and contributes a major share of the input cost.The farmer leaders said during the lockdown, agriculture sector has come to the rescue of people by ensuring uninterrupted supply of vegetables and milk. Partap Singh said: “While people are staying put at their homes, it is the farming community that is making sure that they get essentials.”He said the government should implement the Swaminathan Commission report as it is the only long-run solution to the problems of the agriculture community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-express-disappointment-over-relief-for-agriculture-sector-85701
17-05-2020||Amritsar||Man held with 280-gm heroin||Minor’s marriage: Five bookedTarn Taran: A case under Sections 376, 120-B, 4/8/9 of the Pocso Act and Child Marriage Act was registered on the complaint of Parkash Kaur of Panjwar village, whose 17-year-old granddaughter was married to Heera Singh on May 13 by ignoring norms. The accused are girl’s mother Ramanjit Kaur, Angrej Singh, Granthi Baljit Singh of Panjwar village, Heera Singh and his mother Maya Kaur of Fatehpur village. Granthi Baljit Singh performed the rituals. The accused are at large. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-280-gm-heroin-85697
17-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||He has a key role in multiple tasks initiated to combat disease||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 16Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, Amritsar, has been involved in various tasks initiated to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the city.From day one, Singla has been working on key positions in two separate projects of the district administration and the civic body. He has been performing his duties round the clock without availing his single day off.Initially, a social stigma was attached to coronavirus patients and people used to refuse to be quarantined. We could not take any legal action in the absence of any law or order. So, we used to counsell suspected patients to motivate them for being quarantined in their houses. Some of them had torn quarantined stickers outside their home. Later, people started understanding our concerns and our teams did not face any major issue. — Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, MC, AmritsarHe was appointed as the nodal officer of rapid action teams formed to identify and quarantine the suspected persons. The administration had constituted 20 such teams to carry out the contact tracing exercise and quarantine the contacts of Covid-19 patients. Nitish and his teams quarantined more than 2,000 persons and provided all essential services to them."Initially, a social stigma was attached to coronavirus patients and people used to refuse to be quarantined. We could not take any legal action in the absence of any law or order. So, we used to counsell suspected patients to motivate them for being quarantined in their houses. Some of them had torn quarantined stickers outside their home. Later, people started understanding our concerns and our teams did not face any major issue," said Nitish.In another initiative, the civic body has established a Covid-19 control room and Nitish has been appointed as a nodal officer of it. Around 4 lakh calls were made from the control room to know the well-being of residents and get information about their health. More than 15,000 residents reported some health issues, but only 15 persons were found ill.A woman resident of the Gate Hakima area showed symptoms of the coronavirus. Later, she had tested positive for Covid.Nitish said the MC of Amritsar was the first body in the state to adopt this technique. "We verified claims of all respondents and our rapid response teams kept a regular tab on them. Now, we are getting calls from residents for ration and medical assistance. It was a good initiative and residents appreciated it," he added.He has also been ensuring that the supply of essential items provided by MC remain undisrupted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-has-a-key-role-in-multiple-tasks-initiated-to-combat-disease-85700
17-05-2020||I belong to a poor family and know the issues of needy persons in this time of crisis better than anyone. Instead of waiting for the government’s aid for needy families||‘Worried about people who received no help’||There are a total of 128 villages in the Attari constituency. We arranged ration for the needy families at 80 villages and organised langar at 30 villages. The constituency has the largest Scheduled Caste population. A large section was deprived of permanent source of income. So, we decided to provide aid to widows, elders and the handicapped.Later, the government sent 8,000 ration kits. These kits were insufficient for my constituency. I even raised the issue with Capt Amarinder Singh during video-conferencing that the area needed at least 15,000 ration kits. We distributed ration kits by rising above party lines. There are around 15 Akali Dal sarpanches in our constituency, but I distributed the aid equally.The challenge was to motivate people and make sure they stay inside and don’t take the law into their own hands. I made sincere efforts in this regard. Frankly, I have not stepped out till date. We have two domestic helps. We asked them to stay at home and are doing all chores on our own. We are paying domestic helps, but ask them to follow the instructions of the government.Though it was free time which I never got in service and political life, I couldn’t enjoy it. I know the disparity between well-off families and the poor. I was worried all time about those who don’t have money to buy flour. I made efforts to coordinate with all links to serve them but there must be some homes, where no one reached to help. I am worried about them.(As told to Charanjit Teja)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/worried-about-people-who-received-no-help-85703
17-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||This bureaucrat is finding ways to fight Covid-19 scare||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 16Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu, ADC (General), who sees the coronavirus as an opportunity, is of the view that the pessimist notices difficulties in every opportunity while the optimist sees opportunities in every tough situation.In times of this pandemic, people often ask when the world will return to its normal days and ways. I say do not wait for normal days. Assume that abnormal days are normal days. Today's abnormal is now our new normal. The smart person is one who adapts to the changing world. All days are normal as long as you adjust yourself to the changes. — Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu, ADC (General)Sandhu is a busy man these days. He is among those officials who have been working hard to find ways and means to fight the Covid-19 scare.As he readies for another day, Sandhu calls up an officer in Chandigarh and requests him to arrange at least four dedicated direct trains from Gurdaspur to Bihar for migrant workers.“Now, migrants have to travel to Amritsar to start their journey to their destinations. We have to ferry them in buses till Amritsar. If we have dedicated trains from Gurdaspur itself, the sufferings of these people will get mitigated to a great extent,” he says.Thereafter, he proceeds to make plans for people returning from foreign countries to their native places in Punjab. “Many may turn out to be carriers. We have been making arrangements for their isolation,” he says.“Our nation and the world are facing a crisis of unmanageable proportions. To win the war, we must exhibit the highest level of self-leadership possible. This current crisis requires from each of us new faith in divinity and humanity. It also requires a new patriotism grounded in self-discipline, compassion, and undying respect for our own life and the lives of others,” he says.In a message to the people, he says, “In times of this pandemic, people often ask when the world will return to its normal days and ways. I say do not wait for normal days. Assume that abnormal days are normal days. Today’’s abnormal is now our new normal. The smart person is one who adapts to the changing world. All days are normal as long as you adjust yourself to the changes.”Sandhu has a piece of advice for everybody around him. “This too shall pass. The threat is real and the fear is growing bigger on mind. And that is what needs to be thrown out,” he believes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-bureaucrat-is-finding-ways-to-fight-covid-19-scare-85704
17-05-2020||---||147 patients discharged, only 1 active case left in Amritsar district now||Amritsar, May 16With the change in government policy regarding hospital admissions of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients, a total of 147 positive cases admitted to the Government Medical College and Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital were discharged on Saturday. With this, the district is left with only one active patient, who was diagnosed on Saturday.Shivdular Singh Dhillon, DCAll patients were discharged after following proper procedure as per the revised guidelines. Patients have been asked to observe home quarantine for at least 10 days.The authorities have discharged 296 patients till date, while four Covid-19 patients had died during treatment. The district has reported 301 positive cases till date, of which 147 were discharged on Saturday. However, one of these patients was a resident of Fatehgarh Sahib and his name was deleted from the list of positive cases from the district.A health official said, “After the deletion of name of Fatehgarh Sahib resident, we were left with 300 positive cases. Today another positive case from Tarsikka has been identified, the count again reaches 301.” He said all asymptomatic positive patients do not require hospitalisation as per the fresh government guidelines and thus have been discharged.As per the government’s fresh guidelines, all cases very mild, mild, symptomatic, pre-symptomatic, asymptomatic can be discharged from isolation centers provided they are asymptomatic for the last three days. The officials stated that the new guidelines would decrease the workload on health machinery and they would be able to focus more on critical patients.The sources in the department stated that with repatriation of state residents from other states as well as countries expected in the coming days, a mammoth task of testing and taking care of positive cases lies ahead for the local administration.Dubai-returned 18 persons quarantined in hostelTarn Taran: Eighteen persons, including three pregnant women, who had returned from Dubai, were quarantined at Bibi Amro hostel of Sri Guru Andev Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here, on Friday. The college is being run under the patronage of Padma Shri Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib.They had reached the Amritsar airport on May 13 and were brought to Khadoor Sahib next day by the administration. They will spend 14 days in the hostel. “We are providing them organic food and all other items of basic necessities,” said Baba Bada Baldev Singh, a follower of the sect.One of the quarantined persons, Rasal Singh of Marhana (Tarn Taran) village, said they faced hardships when they reached the airport on May 13 at 9 pm. The administration pressurised them into staying at private hotels which was beyond their capacity. He said they had lost work in Dubai and returned without money. “Here we are very comfortable,” he said.It was worth noting that 155 devotees from Hazur Sahib and 45 persons from ‘Majnu ka tilla’ in Delhi were also quarantined at different institutes of the college in Khadoor Sahib.57 patients test -ve, sent home Tarn Taran: As many as 57 people, whose report came out to be negative, were sent back to their homes from hospitals on Saturday. SDM Rajnish Arora said of these, 29 were admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital, while the other 28 were at the local Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty hospital. As many as 85 patients have already been discharged from hospitals with 29 patients under treatment. Civil Surgeon (CS) Dr Anoop Kumar said all patients still under treatment were healthy. He said discharged patients were advised to keep themselves in quarantine at their respective homes. The discharged patients expressed gratitude to doctors, staff and the district administration for providing them adequate facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/147-patients-discharged-only-1-active-case-left-in-amritsar-district-now-85690
