17-09-2020||---||Pensioners’ union begins chain fast in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 16Members of a local unit of the Punjab and UT Mulazam and Pensioners’ Sanjha Front today commenced the chain hunger strike in front of the Deputy Commissioner office. The first batch of pensioners who sat for the hunger strike comprised Prem Chand Azad, Sawinder Singh Bhatti, Sukhdev Singh Pannu, Kuldeep Singh Udoke, Ravi Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Maluk Singh Tanda, Gurmit Singh, Harpal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Bikramjit Singh and Jaimal Singh.Sukhdev Singh Pannu, Joginder Singh, Gurdeep Singh Bajwa and Kuldeep Singh Udoke, all conveners of the front, demanded that the government must implement the report of the Pay Commission, which was swept under the carpet about three years ago. They said their other demands were release of the five instalments of the dearness allowance, a fixed Rs 2,000 medical allowance, Rs 18,000 salary to the ASHA workers, mid-day meal and Anganwari workers and others demands.Tarn Taran: On the call of Punjab UT Mulazam and Pensioners Joint Front, five members of the district unit of the organisation sat on a hunger strike today.Employees from different departments organised a rally at the local bus stand. Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, leader of the employees, said Sarabjit Singh, Manjit Singh, Sukhbir Singh, Gurbinder Singh and Jarnail Singh were members of the first batch. Balkar Valtoha and other leaders criticised the state government for its indifferent attitude towards employees’ demands. The leaders alleged the state government was thinking of reducing the salary and allowances of employees instead of giving any benefit to them. The leaders demanded release of the sixth pay commission report and payment of DA arrears. The speakers also demanded regularisation of the services of contractual, daily wage, outsource and other employees. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pensioners-union-begins-chain-fast-in-amritsar-142362
17-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||IELTS centres go online to offset lockdown losses||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16IELTS coaching centres are among the worst-hit institutions in the city due to the lockdown. These along with tuition centres owners had recently urged the government for allowing them to resume business.Nevertheless, this seems unlikely for now considering the fact the number of Covid cases and deaths are rising day by day in the state. Recently, the police also booked owners of several IELTS centres for running business violating the state government’s directions.Ankit Manglani, who runs an IELTS coaching centre in Ranjit Avenue area, said, “Things are going to worsen in the near future as the situation has worsened. We have to pay rents and salaries. It was becoming very difficult for us to survive in this financial crunch.”Manglani said, “I got created a mobile application for providing IELTS online coaching classes. We worked hard for making it a success,” he said, adding that he, along with his team, worked for almost 18 hours daily. “I have a staff of around seven persons, including those handling the entire technological aspect. We are now one of the few IELTS coaching centres in the state that has transferred the entire work online,” he said. “Now, we are getting a good response from students across the country,” he claimed.Earlier, we used to have 100 to 125 students from Amritsar city and nearby areas. But, with jumping into online education, we are now catering to students not only from across the country but some students from middle-east countries including Qatar and Dubai besides Canada, he claimed. “We have now students from Delhi and Mumbai also,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ielts-centres-go-online-to-offset-lockdown-losses-142364
17-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Proud parents on cloud nine as son selected in British army||Jalandhar, September 16It was a proud moment for the parents of Harminder Pal Singh (33), who was recruited in the British army.“I am on cloud nine. Three years of my son’s hard work and focused preparation has finally yielded results,” an elated Salukhan Singh, Harminder’s father, told The Tribune, adding that he was filled with pride and honour, as his son was now a part of the Royal Regiment of Artillery, commonly known as ‘The Gunners’, which is the frontline fighting force of the British Army.Over 150 Sikhs in British armyIn a telephonic conversation with The Tribune, Harminder Pal Singh said there were about 150 Sikhs in the British army. There are 205 Sikhs in the British air force and navy combined. Also, one of his companions is Amritdhari (baptised) Sikh, and they have been allotted separate rooms to do the paath.Born and brought up in Jalandhar, Harminder, a resident of Ramneek Avenue here, is an electronics and communication engineer, who passed out from Lord Krishna College, Kapurthala. His father said his son always wanted to join the Army, as he was fascinated by the lives of officers, but his dream only got a push when he visited England on a visitor visa in 2017 and met his brother-in-law, who, too, is serving as an officer in the British army, and who gave wings to the dreams of Harminder by motivating him to at least give it a try.His father said Harminder after completing his studies moved to Australia in 2008 and after working there for nearly eight years, he came back to Jalandhar in 2016.“My son came back because he wanted to do some reputed job. In the meantime, we fixed his marriage, too! Thereafter, when he visited England, his brother-in-law, Nishan Singh, asked him to join the British army. Inspired by his words, he immediately started his preparation as well as physical training. Eventually, in February 2020, he got selected and just a few months ago he joined the Royal Artillery,” he said. “It’s really a proud moment for everyone in the family, as getting a reputed job in a foreign country is not easy. People are losing jobs already due to Covid and employment has become a serious issue. Thus, I am very much thankful to God for showing us this day. There is no bigger happiness for a father than to see his son live his dream,” said Salukhan, who performs kirtan here, adding that Harminder’s two younger brothers Maninderpal Singh and Jagwinderpal Singh, were also living in Australia at present. While one was still studying, the other one was working.Meanwhile, Ranjit Kaur, wife of Harminder Singh, said her son, who is just 3-year-old, was very fond of wearing military uniform. She said he also wants to be a soldier like his father when he grows up.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/proud-parents-on-cloud-nine-as-son-selected-in-british-army-142366
17-09-2020||Amritsar||Fit India: NCC cadets  in Amritsar take part virtually||Inspiring many, who have been suffering from pandemic blues, the cadets of 2PB Air Sqn NCC, DAV College, participated in Fit India Movement that was virtually organised by the unit. Cadets of NCC Air Wing did various activities like cycling, yoga, running, dancing, painting, playing badminton, gardening and shared live videos throughout the event duration.Rajesh Kumar, Principal, DAV College, encouraged and appreciated the cadets for their attempt to motivate and elevate spirits for their fellow students during the time of distress. Commanding Officer of 2PB Air Sqn NCC Amritsar, Group Captain, Lalit Bhardwaj, also briefly shared how these activities would help individuals to be mentally and physically strong.“As part of our activities, many of our cadets have been writing blogs and articles to keep themselves distracted from the negativity during pandemic. Physical activities like exercising is also advised as an immunity building measure against any infection. These activities are very important for all as it increases muscles strength and proves that a healthy mind can exist in a healthy body,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fit-india-ncc-cadets-in-amritsar-take-part-virtually-142367
17-09-2020||---||Include Punjabi in J&K official Languages Bill 2020: INTACH||Amritsar, September 16The exclusion of Punjabi language from the list of official languages of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) will cause a setback to the cultural heritage of Punjab and would be injustice to the significant Punjabi speaking population in the region.This was opined by Punjab state convener and member governing council, INTACH, and professor of applied linguistics, Dr Sukhdev Singh.He appealed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to review the decision. “The Punjabi language has been a major language in the region comprising present Indian Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu Kashmir and the present Pakistan. The languages like Dogri are so closely related to Punjabi that Dogri has been considered a dialect of Punjabi before it was declared a language”, he said.Although Dogri is now said to belong to the Western Pahari group of languages, it has so close affinity with the Punjabi language that many scholars argue “Dogri is a spoken form of Punjabi”.Dr Singh said, “Unlike most Indian languages, Dogri is a tonal language like Punjabi. Both these languages are closely related and therefore Dogri was listed as a dialect of Punjabi in the national census before it was declared an independent language. The similarity between the languages eliminates the barriers in communication and cultural exchange. Besides, there is a sizeable Punjabi speaking population of Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims in Jammu and Kashmir .”The Punjabi language was a recognised language in the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. It is also included in the list of languages of the government-supported Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages, which was set up in 1958.Dr Singh said the Central Government should review the decision of excluding Punjabi, Pahari and Gojri from the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill 2020, in view of the facts related to the cultural diversity.He argued that Punjabi needs to be recognised the second language in the neighboring Indian states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir respecting the linguistic rights of the people and their culture.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/include-punjabi-in-jk-official-languages-bill-2020-intach-142368
17-09-2020||---||Industrial waste dump shifted to green belt in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 16An industrial waste dump of a local mill has been shifted to the green belt of the highway near the Amritsar-New Delhi railway line. Ironically, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and Municipal Corporation were unaware of the gross violation of the rules.The industrial unit had set up a dump near Vallah village on the Verka-Vallah Bypass Road around one year back.The health wing of the Municipal Corporation had issued a notice to the mill and asked to shift the dump from the city as industrial waste was a health hazard.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “We found that they have shifted the waste near the railway line. It is a violation of the rules. Even they shifted the industrial waste inappropriate manner. We have asked to PPCB officials to look into the matter. We will also investigate the matter”. Sukhdev Singh, SDO, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), said, “The matter was not into our notice. We will check and take appropriate action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industrial-waste-dump-shifted-to-green-belt-in-amritsar-142369
17-09-2020||---||Amritsar district reports 12 deaths, 258 positive Covid-19 cases||Amritsar, September 16The district health authorities reported 258 new Covid-19 cases and 12 casualties on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 5,405 and death toll to 283. Total 201 positive cases have recovered completely and discharged from hospitals.The deceased have been identified as Neelam, 45, of Batala road; Daljeet Kaur, 70, of Kotla Sardar village in Ajnala Tehsil; Sandeep Kumar, 30, of Ibban Kalan on the Chabhal road; Ramandeep, 24, of Kot Khalsa Guru Nanak Pura; Kuldeep Singh Kanwal, 61, of Bazaar Gol Masjid Sharifpura; Nathi Ram, 68, of Gali Number one in Gopal Nagar area; Atul Sharma, 47, of Kangra Colony; Kamesh Kumara, 65, of Sandhu Colony on Batala Road; Sakattar Singh, 45, of Guru Bazaar in Chheharta area; Kultar Singh, 45, of Kashmir Avenue; Narinder Kumar Arora, 78, of Batala Road; and Dalbir Kaur, 50, of Khaper Kheri village.Of 258 new cases, 120 are influenza like illness (ILI) and 138 are contacts of positive cases.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira called upon employees of all government departments to get their Covid-19 tests done. He said the staff come in contact with public and they were vulnerable to get infected.In a communiqué dispatched on Wednesday to all government offices in the district, he has asked them to get their tests done by September 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-12-deaths-258-positive-covid-19-cases-142370
17-09-2020||Amritsar||2 fire incidents reported in Amritsar||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-fire-incidents-reported-in-amritsar-142371
17-09-2020||---||Farmers in Amritsar lift 3-day blockade over Beas bridge, stir still on||Amritsar, September 16The agitating farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) lifted the three-day blockade of the bridge over the Beas, 35 km from here, on the Amritsar-Jalandhar GT Road, at 3 pm on Wednesday.Sarwan Singh Pandher, Gen Secy, KMSCThe members of the state core committee of the KMSC will meet here (in Amritsar) on Thursday to chalk out the next course of action. They lifted the protest to end the inconvenience to the public, but did not call off the stir.Sarwan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC, said: “The members of the state core committee of the KMSC will meet here (in Amritsar) on Thursday to chalk out the next course of action.”Meanwhile, the members of the KMSC would continue to hold ‘Jail Bharo Andolan’ at the district headquarters from tomorrow.They are protesting against the tabling of three agriculture ordinances — amendment in the Essential Commodities (EC) Act, to free up inter-state trade in agricultural commodities and provide a regulatory framework for contract farming in the parliament for their ratification.Earlier, holding banners and buntings, they had been raising slogans against the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They also raised slogans against the NDA government’s alliance partner SAD. They feared that these ordinances after becoming law would dislodge small-time farmers to help private firms to take over.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-in-amritsar-lift-3-day-blockade-over-beas-bridge-stir-still-on-142372
17-09-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||Transition time: Need to make digital teaching a two-way communication||AS one of the oldest educational institutions in the city, Hindu College has an illustrious history and alumni to boast of. Established in 1924 by Hindu Sabha, a philanthropic body led by eminent leader Sir Gopal Dass Bhandari, the institution was initially run as a school. The college has a long list of eminent alumni, including former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw, cricketers Bishan Singh Bedi, Madan Lal and the recent ones like star comedy artiste Kapil Sharma. In an interview with Neha Saini, Its current principal Sanjeev Sharma, who has been an educator for the past three decades, talks about the college’s progression over the years, the sudden shift it had to make towards digital teaching and the pressure of conducting exams for exit classes amid the pandemic. Excerpts:Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has announced the schedule for exams of exit classes. How prepared are you to conduct the exams according to the schedule?We are going to follow the schedule and rules finalised by GNDU. With such a short time given for preparations, it will be a challenge, especially to reach out to private students. We have 150 private candidates pursuing various courses from our college and so far, only five of them have reached out to us with details for examination. Ideally, the university should have allowed private students to sit for the exam at university premises, as limited number of students would have made it possible to ensure health safety. But now we have to wait and see how the first exam goes.Sanjeev Sharma, Principal, Hindu CollegeThe college was established as an alternate seat of academics and it has set very high standards in education. But over the years, we have seen a downfall, the reasons of which cannot be pinpointed. But it's directly related to the overall downfall in the standards of higher education in the country.With the sudden shift towards online mode of functioning being witnessed after virus outbreak, how has Hindu College fared so far with digital platforms?As far as teaching is concerned, we have set up virtual classrooms and prepared our faculty through workshops on online classes. But the admission process has been hit due to the pandemic. I feel that the transition towards digital education has not been smooth and there are huge gaps needed to be filled. We get several students from the rural belt who are still not aware of the changes in education. Also, the admission process has been slow as not many students are finding hard to arrange fee and means to access digital classes.What steps have to be taken to facilitate students as well as faculty for the digital transition?We are offering fee waivers and delayed fee options for students finding it hard to arrange funds. Nobody could have predicted such a drastic shift in education sector in India and so, everyone in the education sector was unprepared for it initially. With time, we have trained our faculty and regular online classes are being conducted for the new session. We are also investing in building infrastructure and plan to continue with digital transition even after the things normalise. But one challenge remains. It is of making online mode of teaching a two-way communication just like conventional classroom teaching.Hindu College has been part of the city’s history since its establishment. It was an important seat of academics as well as sports. How has its progression been over the years?Indeed, Hindu College has given many celebrated names to the country in the field of politics, sports and science. The college was established as an alternate seat of academics and it has set very high standards in education. But over the years, we have seen a downfall, the reasons of which cannot be pinpointed. But it’s directly related to the overall downfall in the standards of higher education in the country. With the technological advancements in the field of education and focus towards practice-based learning, the onus is now on getting a job after a degree, rather than seeing education as tool of individual development. The student culture and even teaching standards have fundamentally changed. Education has become a commodity and this perspective or treatment needs to change.What, in your opinion, can be done to make required changes?I feel that the National Education Policy can be a trigger for the change. The old one had become outdated and this change in definition was long overdue. We need to create a climate of learning for students that grooms their mind and personality while sharpening their skills for employment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transition-time-need-to-make-digital-teaching-a-two-way-communication-142373
17-09-2020||Five months after Dubai philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi stopped dispatching ration kits to Gurdaspur district following the callousness of officials in distributing the same||Philanthropist has a change of heart, to set up labs in Gurdaspur district||SAD picks Kahlon for Dera Baba Nanak constituencyThe Shiromani Akali Dal has thrown up a surprise by declaring old warhorse and former Assembly Speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon as its candidate for the Dera Baba Nanak Assembly seat, thereby ending all speculations. The veteran of many a political battle has already sounded the election bugle by holding rallies, both small and big, in the constituency. Other ticket aspirants have now taken a back seat, although it remains in the realms of speculation whether Kahlon will be able to take his detractors along with him or not. To the politically naïve, he is the same man who disqualified Capt Amarinder Singh from the 13th Vidhan Sabha in September 2008. Capt Singh was later reinstated by the Supreme Court. SAD insiders claim that the party has commenced preparations months in advance, knowing well that Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the incumbent MLA, is a hard nut to crack. The Rs 172-crore developmental initiatives Randhawa has brought to the area in the wake of construction of the Kartarpur corridor are bound to stand him in good stead. The passage, during the five months in which it remained operational before the Covid struck, may not have attracted many but the fact remains that the developmental works have given an aura of invincibility to the minister. Kahlon has been brought in for two reasons. One, the only leader who could challenge Randhawa was Langah, who now stands decimated with his sleaze video doing him and his party a lot of damage. The former Speaker will fill the void created by Langah’s departure. Second, before the delimitation in 2012, a majority of villages falling in Kahlon’s former seat of Fatehgarh Churian were shifted to the Dera Baba Nanak constituency. The veteran leader has a grip on these villages. Kahlon has already commenced operations by holding ‘nukkad’ (corner) meetings almost everyday. Randhawa’s real brother, Inderjit Singh, was also in contention but his hopes, too, have vanished into thin air.Giving wings to dreams of children from poor familiesRomesh Mahajan, who is the project director of the Red Cross De-addiction centre, keeps himself busy these days in imparting education to under-privileged kids. For several years, he treated drug addicts in his centre on Babbehali road. Now, he is trying to change the destiny of 36 poor kids living in slums in the Ram Nagar area. These children were forced into begging by their parents, but now Mahajan has taken them into his fold. He pays for the salaries of teachers and also for stationery and furniture. Meals are also provided free of cost. Mahajan has earned the sobriquet of being a ‘Good Samaritan’. For the uninitiated, Mahajan has served as personal assistant to at least 10 Deputy Commissioners. It is only after his retirement that he has diverted his attention towards making Gurdaspur a better place to live in.(Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/philanthropist-has-a-change-of-heart-to-set-up-labs-in-gurdaspur-district-142374
17-09-2020||Chandigarh||Amritsar-Bandra train to halt at Chandigarh railway station from September 22||One of the three new pairs of special clone trains that will ply on the Ambala Railway Division is going to halt at the Chandigarh railway station from September 22, the division notified.Amritsar-Bandra-Amritsar weekly express will halt at the city station for five minutes at 11 am every Tuesday and 10:25 am every Wednesday.The advanced reservation period (ARP) will be 10 days. Reservation for these trains will start on September 19.Considering the huge demand for travel on specific routes, the Railways has decided to run 20 pairs of clone special trains from September 21. These clone trains will run on notified timings and will be fully reserved trains. The other two clone trains that will ply on the Ambala Division are Amritsar-Jaynagar-Amritsar tri-weekly express and Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri-Amritsar weekly express.These trains are to be operationalised on routes having high patronage and demand. The Clone trains have not been operated by the Railways in the past. These trains being proposed are based on the patronisation of already operating special trains with limited stoppages and faster transit time. The clone trains will be primarily three AC trains and run ahead of the already operating special trains. The clone train will have speed higher than the existing special train. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-bandra-train-to-halt-at-chandigarh-railway-station-from-september-22-142193
17-09-2020||---||Missing Saroops: Sikh bodies file plaint, protest on||Amritsar, September 16Protesting Sikh bodies today filed a police complaint demanding criminal proceedings against the SGPC officials who were held accountable for misappropriation of 328 “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib.The sit-in site was shifted a few yards away from the SGPC headquarters main entrance gate. The protest will continue till September 18 when the SGPC has called up its executive body meeting.Accompanied by lawyer Simranjit Singh, Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee members led by Balbir Singh Muchchal visited the Police Commissioner’s office to file a criminal complaint against 16 SGPC officials who were pointed out by Akal Takht-constituted probe panel.Muchchal said, “We had asked the SGPC to review its earlier decision of taking criminal action against the culprits in its next executive body meeting and file a complaint with the police. In the meantime, we got the complaint registered with the police,” he said.He said the SGPC had been asked to make available the record and data related to “saroops”. As the “morcha” continued for the third day, the Sikh activists objected to barricading as it hindered the movement of devotees. Three sides leading to the Golden Temple — Guru Ram Dass Langar Hall, Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib and Jodha Ghar — were blocked.Activist Sukhjit Singh Khosa said a nine-point demand charter was discussed with the SGPC representatives. “They admit that our demands are justified, but they are hesitant to implement these. Our protest will continue till the FIR is registered against the guilty.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sikh-bodies-file-plaint-protest-on-142266
17-09-2020||GS Paul||‘Drop box’ for school admissions||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 16In a first, the Education Department has come up with an innovative way to reach out to students seeking admission.Special admission boxes have been placed at the entrance gates of government schools and at key spots in urban areas. In rural areas, the boxes have been installed at gurdwaras and temples in the vicinity.Those interested are just required to drop their credentials, such as, their name, four passport size photos, proof of age, previous class result, any ID proof and their contact number. The provision is available for all students seeking admission to either primary or senior secondary classes.So far, 1,11,994 students have enrolled themselves this year, as against 98,692 enrolments last year. There has been a spike in the number of admissions by 13,302. Most of the new admissions have been students who migrated from private schools.District Education Officer (Secondary) Satinder Bir Singh, who came up with this initiative, said compared to last year, there had been a spurt in the number of admissions in government schools by 11.63 per cent. For admission to Classes XI and XII too, a surge has been witnessed, with 3,000 and 4,000 new enrolments, respectively.The idea has caught the attention of Secretary, Education, Krishan Kumar, and will be shortly adopted in Patiala and other districts.At a time when parents and managements of private schools are at loggerheads on the issue of school fee, many government SMART schools have caught the fancy of parents. Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Chheharta, has enrolled 498 students from private schools; GSSS, Mall road, saw admission of 254 private school students; and GSSS, Mahan Singh road, admitted 294 students of private schools.Satinder said, “We have digital classrooms, and e-content will also be made available to students. We are not short of any private school.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drop-box-for-school-admissions-142269
