17-06-2020||Amritsar||Administration announces second containment zone||Cabinet Minister OP Soni, along with DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon and Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, visited the zone to instill confidence in people. They also visited different streets of the zone.Soni said the spike in positive cases was the outcome of increased testing as 1,700 tests were conducted in the past few days. He said areas in the containment zones were regularly sanitised. In nine different streets of Gate Khazana, situated inside the walled city, 18 positive cases have been detected.The streets are Gali Hatim Tai, Gali Jattan Wali, Gali Mai Ram Ji, Gali Nakada Wali, Gali Suthariya Wali, Khai Wali gali, Gali Malka Wali, Gali Mochiyan Wali and Katra Khazana.These localities are spread for over half a km area and around 3,000 people reside here. The containment zone may be defined as an area around the epicentre of maximum cases in a village/ward based on the number (15 or more) of cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-announces-second-containment-zone-100292
17-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja
||Kusht ashram management ‘expels’ youth from premises||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 16 A person staying in the leprosy centre of Guru Ram Dass Kusht Ashram on Chabaal Road, was not allowed to enter the premises by the ashram management after he reportedly raised the issue of discrimination during the time they were in a quarantine. The victim, Inderpal (22), said as his parents were leprosy patients, the ashram allotted a residential quarter to them. Inderpal also resides with them inside the ashram. On June 3, his brother and sister-in-law, who work in Delhi, came to meet them. “We asked them to go for the Covid-19 test. My brother tested positive and was admitted to the hospital. Other members of the family tested negative, but we quarantined ourselves in home. The authorities asked the ashram management to provide food to them.” Inderpal said the ashram management would throw food at them. “My sister-in-law is pregnant and needs milk. Sometimes they missed delivering us food. I met the ashram president and asked them to provide us food regularly. They got annoyed. On June 13, my brother was discharged from the hospital and returned home. The ashram management stopped providing food to us and banned my entry inside the ashram.” Inderpal called the police on the helpline number at 11 pm on Sunday. The police reportedly visited the ashram and asked the president to allow Inderpal to stay in the ashram home which the management refused. On Tuesday, Inderpal visited the Deputy Commissioner’s office and submitted an application to intervene in the matter. “I have already apologised to the management. If they will ask me to apologise to them I will do it again. Allow me to stay with my parents. I have no relative in the city. I have also lost my job due to Covid-19 and have no single penny with me,” said Inderpal. He has been sleeping on the footpath since Sunday.        Arjun Yadav, president of the ashram, said, “The health authorities had asked them to remain in quarantine till June 20. He had visited the ashram office and misbehaved with office-bearers. We have asked him to take a room on rent and stay away from the ashram. He violated quarantine and guidelines of the government. So, we will not allow him to enter the ashram.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kusht-ashram-management-expels-youth-from-premises-100209
17-06-2020||---||Agriculture officials continue protest, submit memo to Deputy Commissioner||Amritsar, June 16Members of the Agriculture Technocrats Action Committee, a joint organisation of agriculture technocrats, staged a protest and sought action against persons accused of the attack on the employees of the Agriculture Department, Husandeep Brar and Nidhi Chaudhary, on June 8.The members submitted a memorandum, demanding arrest of the suspects, to officials of the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Gurdial Singh Bal, the convenor of the committee, said the role of employees the Agriculture Department was no different from that of health and police officials. “The authorities must act strictly in the case to boost the morale of the entire working class,” he said.Sukhbir Singh Sandhu, the president of the Plant Doctors Services Association, said all employees would wear black badges as a mark of protest against the attack until the suspects were arrested. He said if the government failed to take action, the employees would intensify their protest.Gurinder Singh Dhanjal, Deputy Director, Horticulture; Pritpal Singh, president of Agriculture Officers’ Association; Kuljit Singh, Mastinder Singh and Satwinder Singh Sandhu were also present at the protest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-officials-continue-protest-submit-memo-to-deputy-commissioner-100211
17-06-2020||---||Civic body launches mobile app for water bill, property tax payment||Amritsar, June 16Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal inaugurated an app, ‘Municipal Corporation Amritsar’, that provides residents with various facilities such as payment of property tax, water and sewerage bills on mobile phone.The app is available on Google Play and a download link has been provided on the Municipal Corporation’s website www.amritsarcorp.com. Residents can also lodge complaints regarding facilities being provided by the Municipal Corporation or apply for a new connection of water and sewerage without visiting the citizen facilitation centre.The Mayor said using the app, residents could contact officials of the MC . More services provided by the civic body would be added to the app soon, he said. The Mayor appealed to the residents to stay at their homes to keep them and loved ones safe.“The Punjab Government has allowed payment of arrears of water and sewerage bills and property tax without penalty till June 30. City residents will also get a special discount of 10 per cent for one-time settlement. We urge them to avail maximum benefit of the discount and pay their dues on time,” said the Mayor.Among others present on the occasion included MC Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, Joint Commissioner Nitish Singla and Superintendent Rajinder Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-launches-mobile-app-for-water-bill-property-tax-payment-100213
17-06-2020||---||Kin of murdered youth protest ‘police failure’ to arrest suspects||Amritsar, June 16Family members of Suraj Kumar, a resident of Haripura, who was shot dead by two armed assailants on June 6, held a demonstration in protest against the alleged failure of the police to nab the prime suspects in the incident.They said though the family members handed over several persons who were known to the suspects, they were let-off by the police. Satpal, father of the deceased, said even after 10 days, the police were yet to arrest the suspects, Shambhu and Chandan, who had fired at Suraj. Both were residents of the same locality. The police had arrested the girl, a relative of the deceased, who was the reason behind the incident.Satpal told the police said the girl had illicit relations with the suspects and his family had asked her to snap ties with them. Enraged over this, the suspects shot his son dead, who was planning to get married on June 15.On Saturday evening, Suraj was with some children on the ground floor of the house when other family members were on the first floor.Satpal said suddenly they heard gunshots. They rushed downstairs and saw Suraj in a pool of blood. When he came out, he saw Shambhu and Chandan running away from the spot while threatening and abusing them.Rakesh Kumar, a relative of Satpal, said the dharna was held in the Islamabad area. The family members and residents raised slogans against the police. The dharna was lifted after the police assured them of arranging a meeting with senior police officials and expediting the probe to nab the culprits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kin-of-murdered-youth-protest-police-failure-to-arrest-suspects-100215
17-06-2020||---||Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner assumes charge||Tarn Taran DC assumes chargeTarn Taran, June 16Kulwant Singh  assumed the charge of Deputy Commissioner of Tarn Taran on Tuesday. Kulwant Singh, a 2012-batch IAS officer, was the Deputy Commissioner of Ferozpur before taking the charge of the Tarn Taran DC.Before assuming the charge, Kulwant Singh paid obeisance at the local Darbar Sahib. He took the salute from a team of the Punjab Police at the DAC. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-deputy-commissioner-assumes-charge-100216
17-06-2020||---||No let-up as Amritsar reports 3 more fatalities; 15 cases||Amritsar, June 16With three more succumbing to Covid-19 today, the death toll in the district has mounted to 24.The deceased were identified as Nirmal Singh (49) of Haripura, Seema (51) of the Bhushanpura locality and Krishan Singh (66), a resident of Ajit Nagar. Both Seema and Nirmal Singh had co-morbidities.Meanwhile, the district also reported 15 fresh positive cases. While seven are suffering from ILI (influenza-like illness), eight are the contacts of already positive cases.The patients with ILI belong to Chogawan, Krishna Square, Rayya, Haripura, Ajit Nagar, Habibpura and Othiyan. Besides, four are the contacts of a positive case from Lahori Gate, three from Anngarh and one from Gole Bagh. The tally of positive cases in the district stands at 644.While 464 patients have already been discharged after recovery, 157 are active cases. In the city, two areas have been declared as the containment zones so far.Officials are fearing community spread, as most positive cases have no contact or travel history.Since June 11, the district has reported a total of 13 deaths and 118 positive cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-let-up-as-amritsar-reports-3-more-fatalities-15-cases-100218
17-06-2020||---||Scorching heat adds to woes of patients coming for samples||Amritsar, June 16Amid the scorching heat and absence of facilities, those coming to give swab samples for Covid-19 testing at the Civil Hospital here are facing hardships.A glass cabin with a small fan has been installed outside the hospital building, wherein a health employee remains deployed to collect the samples. However, the patients have to stand in a queue and wait for the sample collection in the scorching heat.“The temperature is around 40 degrees Celsius. It is hard to wait outside in the sun. The authorities should at least erect a tent and install fans for the comfort of the public,” said Sukhdev Singh, who visited the hospital.Another visitor said even drinking water was not available. “You cannot drink from water coolers installed there in view of the Covid threat," he said.The situation of the health employee collecting the samples and other staffers managing the paper work, sample sealing and handling is even worse as they have to wear PPE kits.An employee said, “The glass chamber is like an oven in the afternoon. The PPE kit makes you sweat profusely. And the worst of all is you cannot even touch your face with the gloves.”The employee said giving the duty in the glass chamber was nothing short of a nightmare.Suspected patients from containment zones, contacts of positive cases, general medical cases and employees on the frontline duty are coming to the Civil Hospital on a daily basis for their swab samples.62-year-old Covid patient crematedTarn Taran: Veer Singh (62), who died of Covid-19 on Monday, was cremated under the Covid-19 protocols at his native township Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran on Tuesday. It was the second death due to Covid-19 in the district. The first person to lose the Covid battle was a resident of Patti town. Dr Swaranjit Dhawan, District Epidemiologist, said Veer Singh was a heart patient and was under treatment in a private hospital in Amritsar. In the meantime, the authorities of the private hospital took his samples for Covid-19 which came out positive. Dr Dhawan said Veer Singh died of cardiac arrest, but as he was Covid-19 positive for which he was cremated under the set protocol.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scorching-heat-adds-to-woes-of-patients-coming-for-samples-100219
17-06-2020||Tarn Taran||55-year-old shot dead by nephew||Bizman robbed of Rs 2L, cell phoneTarn Taran: Five armed persons robbed an Amritsar-based businessman of Rs2 lakh and a mobile phone near Dhotian village on the Jamarai-Sheron road on Monday night. According to the police, the victim was returning from Faridkot after collecting cash from his clients. In his complaint to the police, the businessman stated that when he reached near Dhotian village, a car came from behind and stopped in front of his car. Five persons travelling in the car took Rs2 lakh and a mobile phone from him, he said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/55-year-old-shot-dead-by-nephew-100227
17-06-2020||Lockdown and Industry||‘Covid taught businessmen to have backup plans, save for tough times’||SANIL Kapoor is the director of Sanil Chemicals Pvt Ltd, a multi-brand trading company with its head office on the MM Malaviya road. The company has been into the trading of textile and rubber chemicals since 1984 and handles sales operations of many multinational firms in North India. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he shares the effect of the lockdown on his industry. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?Since we are a trading house, most of our operations are dependent on transportation and with the lockdown in place, we were almost out of every option. As we have been inoperative for quite a long time, we had to put on halt all our future projects.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?A majority of our business activities require procurement of products from various industries. At present, we can say that we are slowly and steadily getting back to the normal working routine as the industries have started functioning. Keeping in view the tight liquidity in the market, all expansion plans have been put on hold.Have you released salaries of workers during the lockdown?During the lockdown, a lot of people suffered due to financial problems, but we made sure that our employees do not face such hardships. We released their salaries as per the company's policy.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We directly deal with companies and consumers. The share of online trading in our business is also negligible.What lessons, as a businessman, have you learnt from the lockdown?The most important lesson that I have learnt during the lockdown is that nothing is above Mother Nature and the only thing that is constant is change. One must, at all times, remain prepared with reserves and backup plans.How do you take the current crisis, as a challenge or an opportunity?One must always make the best out of every situation and never give up in adverse circumstances. These tough times brought up a lot of challenges for us, but we decided to take the crisis as an opportunity to bring in new business ideas and explore new markets for the future.What are your expectations from the government?We expect from the government to explore more opportunities for the industry and better economic situation. Given the current situation, we are quite hopeful that the policies implemented by the government will prove to be fruitful for the economy and the industry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-taught-businessmen-to-have-backup-plans-save-for-tough-times-100228
17-06-2020||---||MCA student develops app to help small traders sell their products in pandemic||Amritsar, June 16Ravi Bhardwaj, a student of MCA final year at the Amritsar Group of College, has developed an application --- "GillsonKart - online shopping from local traders" for Gillson Technologies, Mohali.He said through this application, small traders could sell their merchandise during the lockdown. The Fazilka police have also appreciated the initiative of the youth. The application can be used even after the pandemic ends. The youth was issued a volunteer appreciation letter by Gillson Technologies for his contribution for the project. GillsonKart delivers essential commodities on the doorstep and has been helpful during the Covid crisis. It is an android-based application. The web portal of the app is also available.Ravi was an integral part of the project from the beginning till the end and his efforts were applauded both by Gillson Technologies and the management of is college. Dr VK Banga, Principal, congratulated him on his commendable efforts and wished him luck for the future.A proud momentThe android-based app developed by Ravi Bhardwaj, a student of MCA final year at the Amritsar Group of College, helps small traders sell their merchandise online during the lockdown. The application can be used even after the pandemic ends. The youth was issued a volunteer appreciation letter by Gillson Technologies for his contribution for the project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mca-student-develops-app-to-help-small-traders-sell-their-products-in-pandemic-100230
17-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Lockdown proves to be blessing in disguise for baker Simran||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 15In January this year, 23-year-old Simran Arora had started marketing her home baked products with the help of a social media account and spreading the word publicly. But things went haywire for Simran, a trained baker from the Academy of Pastry and Culinary Arts (APCA), Bengaluru, when the government announced the nationwide lockdown in March.However, the early days were tough to deal with, but soon she realised that the curse was a blessing in disguise. “I did not get any orders early on but soon realized that people have more faith in home baked products than in commercial bakeries with dozens of workers,” said Simran, a resident of the Green Avenue.She added that her business is growing with each passing day. “My clients are mostly people who know me or are friends of friends. The orders are growing everyday and I cannot say my business has been hit due to the lockdown or restricted movement,” said the baker, who markets her products through an instagram account (storyofachubbygirl).A journalism graduate from the BBK DAV College, she had started baking as a hobby. “I would bake products for my family and friends. And everyone suggested that I should do it professionally. But I wanted to learn before going professional,” she said.Simran is also following all the precautions that are a must amid the pandemic. “The food business is not about taste alone. It is also about trust,” she says, before adding: “If I have been getting orders it is because people believed that it is healthy and hygienic. So I take extra care of cleanliness and sanitisation.”The young baker, who feels the cooking is more of hobby than profession for her, is a food lover herself and loves to showcase her cooking skills and feed people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-proves-to-be-blessing-in-disguise-for-baker-simran-100231
