17-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Veggie prices going through the roof is no worry for her||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 16Living in the city, Kulwinder Kaur (60), always missed the fresh and ‘straight-out-of-her garden’ veggies of her village. To help her tide over the blues, her son set up a vegetable garden on the terrace.Presently, Kulwinder Kaur grows carrot, radish, coriander, green chilly, tomato, cauliflower, brinjal, methi, different kinds of gourds and many other seasonal vegetables. “Not only are we able to get fresh vegetables but it also keeps me occupied in my free time,” she said.Her son, Jagmeet Singh, an MSc in soil and water conservation and presently employed as an agriculture sub-inspector at Kapurthala, had designed the terrace garden keeping in view his mother’s interest.“In cities, most people do not have sufficient space to grow plants and vegetables. A terrace garden is a viable alternative for such people,” said Jagmeet. The space for growing vegetables has been created by constructing a concrete slab alongside the length of the roof. Kulwinder said initially, they had constructed only one slab to which additions have now been made. With people always worried about the indiscriminate use of pesticides on vegetables, Kulwinder boasts of growing them naturally.“To keep insects and pests away, a spray of ‘neem’ water (neem leaves boiled in water) once a week is sufficient. In place of fertilizers, we use spray of cow dung cake by dissolved in water,” she revealed. Talking to The Tribune over the phone, Jagpreet said growing vegetables directly on the roof by putting soil should be avoided as it causes dampness. “The concrete slab should be at least one-feet high from the roof. It also needs to have pores at the base so that excess water seeps down,” he said, adding that the side walls of the slab could be as high as two feet.Jagmeet added that more height of the structure means more soil which is essential for growing vegetables, including carrot, radish and potato.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/veggie-prices-going-through-the-roof-is-no-worry-for-her-171529
17-11-2020||---||GNDU students give regular classes a miss||Amritsar, November 16Guru Nanak Dev University and its constituent colleges reopened on Monday to hold regular classes for students as per the instructions of the state government. Though no student came to attend classes, most colleges and departments of the GNDU began the process to conduct physical classes for final term students.Vice–Chancellor Prof Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu informed that institutes of higher education in the state could reopen from November 16. Day one was all about preparing the ground for safe implementation of standard operating procedures (SOPs).Prof SS Behal, Dean Academic Affairs, GNDU, said, “Students are more than willing to attend offline classes. We have started the process of allotting hostels and arranging things for smooth and safe conduct of physical classes. We will give preference to out station and international students while one room, per student will be allotted in hostels for now. In a day or two, students will start coming.”Meanwhile, students of most colleges in the city did not attended regular classes today. The institutes opened to initiate the process of commencing offline classes.Sanjeev Sharma, Principal, Hindu College, said, “We will start classes from November 17. In the first phase, we will only take practical classes. After a few days, we will begin with offline courses.”200 attend classes at Khalsa CollegeAround 200 BA final year and postgraduate students attended regular classes at Khalsa College on Monday. While the institute continues to conduct online classes as well, the first day attendence was termed low by the college authorities. DS Rattaul, Deputy Director (Media), Khalsa College, said, “We anticipated that students would be willing to attend offline classes. The first day attendence was not quite impressive, but we hope that it will go up with time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-give-regular-classes-a-miss-171531
17-11-2020||---||Farmers remember Kartar Singh Sarabha on his 105th martyrdom day||Amritsar, November 16The 105th martyrdom day of legendary freedom fighter Kartar Singh Sarabha was observed by farmers during the ongoing protest against the three agriculture-related laws here on Monday.Sarabha, who attained martyrdom at the young age of 19 years, is believed to have inspired martyr Bhagat Singh and it is stated that a photograph of him was found in the pocket of Bhagat Singh at the time of his arrest.Speaking at an event organised by the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha at Bhandari Bridge, Prof Amarjit Singh Sidhu said Kartar Singh was the youngest martyr of the Ghadar movement. He said Sarabha went to San Francisco in California (the US) and became an active member of Ghadar Party under the leadership of Visakha Singh, Baba Sohan Singh Bakna and others.Addressing a gathering, Jamhoori Kisan Sabha president Dr Satnam Singh Ajnala said the present political crisis in the country demanded that the youngsters learn from the sacrifices made by Sarabha and come forward to oppose the fascist and capitalist forces.Farmers’ leader Rattan Singh Randhawa said the country was facing the same challenges from the divisive forces which existed at the time of Sarabha and Bhagat Singh. He said the government, which should be working for the welfare of masses, seemed to be on the payroll of capitalists. He said the youth must join the old guard in defending the country and the farming community.The farmers, sitting on the protest at the Butari railway station for the last 47 days, also took out a motorcycle rally to mark the martyrdom day. The rally which started from the railway station passed through different markets of nearby town Khalchian. The farmers raised slogans such as ‘Long live Kartar Singh Sarabha’ throughout the march.Tarn Taran: The Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) and the Sarb Bharat Naujwan Sabha organised events on the martyrdom day of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha. CPI leader Prithipal Singh Marimegha urged citizens to work for realising dreams of Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha.Another CPI leader, Devider Sohal, condemned Prime Minister Narendra Modi for dividing the country on communal lines even when unemployment was at its peak. The duo stressed that the Bhagat Singh National Employment Guarantee Act should be passed in Parliament to ensure that youth get employment. Workers of the RMPI held a protest in the town and called youth not to get misled by communal policies of the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-remember-kartar-singh-sarabha-on-his-105th-martyrdom-day-171532
17-11-2020||---||Swarnkar Sangh seeks CM’s intervention in gold trade||Amritsar, November 16The Swarnkar Sangh, Punjab, on Monday sought Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s intervention to protect gold jewellery trade that is going through a rough phase during these unprecedented times of Covid-19 pandemic.The association alleged harassment at the hands of the mobile wing of GST authorities. It said jewellers were facing difficulties and needed support in these testing times.Satinder Pal Singh (Prince Kanda), president of the sangh, condemned the word ‘smugglers’ allegedly being used by the GST authorities for the jewellers after a trader was detained by GST officials.Citing an incident, he said that on November 4, a trader was detained by the mobile wing of the GST. He had purchased jewellery from the local market with the invoice and was returning to his state. He said he was asked to produce e-way bill entry which was not mandatory and exempted under the rules of the CGST Act. The trader was penalised by the GST authorities.He alleged that it was disheartening for the jewellers who were the highest tax payers in the country. Traders of other states, who come to Punjab for procuring jewellery, were now feeling insecure, added the sangh president.Kanda said our traders were being treated as criminals. They were not allowed to call anyone. He said even the traders were asked to pay for the valuation of the jewellery which was to be made by the tax authorities without issuing any receipt which was purely against the rule of law.The members of the association urged the CM and state tax authorities to look into the matter seriously and take necessary steps to remove ‘tax terrorism’ prevailing in the state. Kanda said that they had already filed petitions with the authorities concerned and the Director General of Police, Punjab, regarding the illegal detention of jewellers in the past.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/swarnkar-sangh-seeks-cms-intervention-in-gold-trade-171533
17-11-2020||---||MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla flags overcharging of Vande Bharat flight tickets||Amritsar, November 16MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla has raised malpractices in selling tickets under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission (VBM)’ by travel agents through a communiqué to Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister for Civil Aviation.In the communiqué, he stated that ever since the permission was granted to travel agents to sell Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) tickets, malpractices on the issuing of VBM flight tickets of Air India emerged and the role of insiders cannot be ruled out. People involved in the travel trade and the passengers were questioning the system.It has also been reported in media sting operations that Air India insiders keep the inventory closed to help a few agents surreptitiously, he alleged.The Lok Sabha MP said his office has also been receiving similar complaints from the distressed passengers belonging to entire Mahja region who are settled or studying in Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Almost all of them have been overcharged and had to travel on expensive tickets. On some occasions it has been reported that travel agents refused to supply passengers with original invoice and also hesitate to process the refund of the tickets to avoid suspicion.VBM flights were started to save Indians stranded elsewhere in the world, but it is turning out to be an exercise to mint money for a cash-strapped airline, he claimed.“This kind of malpractices cannot happen without a nexus within the organisation. I therefore request your good office to intervene into this matter and create a foolproof system to issue VBM tickets and initiate a strict action against the nexus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-gurjeet-singh-aujla-flags-overcharging-of-vande-bharat-flight-tickets-171534
17-11-2020||---||Beautification also means doing up stretches||Amritsar, November 16The road from the bus stand to old Sabzi Mandi situated behind the Chittra Palace is in horrible condition. A large number of major commercial establishments, godowns, bakeries and stores are located here. The residents across the city visit the market to get hardware goods. The traders are on the receiving end as losses are incurred because people avoid coming due to big potholes on the stretch.Similarly, the other half of the road to Ram Bagh twins the trouble. That part accommodates the commuters when outer circular road witness bottlenecks. It had been re-carpeted a few years back but the damages are palpable again at some spots. The main path from Ram Bagh Deodhi to Namdahri Samark is also in pitiful condition leaving locals with no alternative in the area to avoid a turbulent ride. Vijay Kumar, a trader said, “It is sad that the main markets of the city are facing such problems. Rambagh is one of the major commercial areas. The road links old Sabzi Mandi with the Ram Bagh Gate. There are several godowns located on the road. The load carrier witness inconvenience, while loading or unloading of goods.”Davinder Sharma, a resident, chimed in, “The government has spent crores on the beautification and facade improvement in the area but not a penny dedicated to the roads.”The old Sabzi Mandi road is a good alternative to avoid the traffic on the main route and it also links Bhandari Bridge with Ram Bagh. “But government ignored such important roads in the city,” he added. However, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu has assured the re-carpeting of all the city roads. “We have re-carpeted major roads. Now, it is time for the inner ones. The development work is in full swing. We will give a complete overhaul to the face of city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beautification-also-means-doing-up-stretches-171535
17-11-2020||Our Correspondent ||Cleaner of truck electrocuted||Tarn Taran, November 16 Mudras Ahemad (19), son of Muhammad Iqbal, a resident of Jammu & Kashmir, was electrocuted at Thatha village near Chabal, 16 km from here, on Monday. Inspector Jaswant Singh, SHO, Chabal police station, said that the deceased had come here with Nisar Ahemad, the driver of the truck to unloaded the goods. The driver of the truck had parked the truck beside the roadside in the afternoon to have meal. When he entered the truck  Mudras Ahemad went atop the truck and touched the high voltage cables passing across the truck and died on the spot. The SHO, along with the police team, visited the spot to collect the first hand information.Caption- A police team inspects the spot where the cleaner of a truck was electrocuted near Chabal village on Monday. Photo: Gurbaxpuri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleaner-of-truck-electrocuted-171536
17-11-2020||Neha Saini||Tourist hot spots reopen in Amritsar||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, November 16After an eight-month hiatus, some of popular tourist attractions in the city have reopened, inviting tourists to visit these places.The Covid-19 pandemic had severely hit the buzzing tourism industry in the city and some of its victims were historically popular places like Gobindgarh Fort and Attari-Wagah border. As these tourist hotbeds have reopened, the revival of tourism is expected.Deepa Sahi, founder and director of Mayanagri One Pvt Ltd, a company that is running entertainment and tourism-related activities at the heritage Gobindgarh Fort through the public-private partnership (PPP) mode, said the reopening would certainly set a pace for gradual increase in tourist activities.“The new normal for tourism is definitely being watched and implemented with caution, but the dry spell in the sector would not continue. We reopened on November 10 and it took us four-five days just to free the place from the Covid. We are prepared for tourist footfall, which is very low. We are going to take a call on which other activities should revive and how flexible we can be with our tourist flow after 20-30 days,” said Deepa Sahi.The fort had been running a 7D show, ‘Sher-e-Punjab’, based on Maharaja Ranjit Singh, and another show ‘Kanda Boldiyan Ne’, a multimedia sound and lights show, with laser lights, computer animation and projection-mapping technologies along with other tourist activities.Around 3,500 persons visited the fort a day before the lockdown. Deepa said the lockdown came as a blessing as it helped in completing the development and restoration work being carried out by the Punjab Tourism and Heritage Development Board. “The fort was under renovation when the lockdown hit and we have roughly nine acres of it for activities. We are planning to develop a kids’ activity centre and an open theatre and shows based on the culture of Punjab. We are hopeful that these things would help in increasing tourist footfall,” said the director of Mayanagri One Pvt Ltd. The Punjab War Heroes Memorial and Museum, another popular site of history and tourism in the city, reopened on Monday for tourists. The museum management had been running virtual events and webinars to engage the interested audience.“We were getting lots of requests to reopen it, especially after Unlock 5 was announced. As far as the new normal for us is concerned, we will reopen with all health safety guidelines in place and these would be followed strictly. We have set up a sanitization tunnel for visitors and staff. No groups will be allowed and only individual tours will be given in the beginning. We have also cut short our regular tours and its timings,” said Col HP Singh, project director of the museum.The museum will now allow only one-hour tour, which were earlier open-ended, of the galleries. Also, the popular 7D theatre show will not be opened to maintain social distancing norms. With some economic cushioning during the lockdown, the museum did not lay off its staff and also switched over to solar power to reduce expenses. “We are excited to welcome visitors after re-opening,” said Colonel Singh.Sadda Pind also reopened on Monday, though it is currently putting in place health safety measures.Meanwhile, the Jallianwala Bagh remains shut for tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourist-hot-spots-reopen-in-amritsar-171537
17-11-2020||---||US House hailed for recognising Guru Tegh Bahadur’s service to humanity||Amritsar, November 16The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Monday acclaimed the New York (the US) Assembly for recognising Guru Tegh Bahadur as the protector of human rights and the Sikh community for its selfless deeds worldwide, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of the World Sikh Parliament’s Councils for Religion along with Civil and Human Rights organised the 345th martyrdom day and the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur at the Gurdwara Sikh Center of New York recently. On the occasion, state and city officials from New York joined members of the Sikh community and recognised Guru Tegh Bahadur’s sacrifices to uphold human rights and justice.CKD president Nirmal Singh said it was a proud moment that the Guru’s birthday and martyrdom day would be commemorated in the New York Legislative Assembly which had passed a resolution in this regard.Dharam Prachar Committee chairman Bhag Singh Ankhi and honorary secretary Swainder Singh Kathunangal said, “The move has further enhanced the dignity of the Sikh community globally. The community’s social service beyond racial discrimination also won accolades and Sikhs have won the heart of the local government on foreign soil,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/us-house-hailed-for-recognising-guru-tegh-bahadurs-service-to-humanity-171538
17-11-2020||---||Six booked for hurting religious sentiments||Amritsar, November 16The Kotwali police have booked six persons for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by vandalising an idol of Bhagwan Valmiki in Hathi Gate area on Diwali.The accused have been identified as Sagar and Lala Ghumeyar of Haweli Arur Singh, Leli of Katra Moti Ram, Aaloo of Balmik Mohalla, Akash Chapan wal of Lohgarh and Rajiv Kumar, alias Rinku, of Katra Moti Ram area. The accused were allegedly gambling and a quarrel led to the incident. Chand Kumar, a local resident, said on November 14 (Diwali night), he along with Aman and Nikhil were performing prayers and some persons were gambling under the street light near Bhagwan Valimiki Temple.He said as they asked them not to gamble near the temple, they started arguing and called their accomplices. He said, the other group started throwing bottles and bricks, which led to tension in the area. He said the accused thrashed him and used foul language. Chand said the accused vandalised the temple, broke windowpanes of houses and passed caste-based remarks.Sub-Inspector Baljinder Kumar said a case under Sections 323, 295, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC had been registered against the accused. The police have arrested Rajiv.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-171539
17-11-2020||---||Contagion hampers sale of woollens, dry fruit||Amritsar, November 16The Covid-19 pandemic has drastically reduced sale of woollens and dry fruit in the market.Ravi Mahajan, a trader, said customer response had been subdued in comparison to the last year. He attributed it to the fall in income of people due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19. Sale has been almost half than the last year, he said.Shekhar Kapoor, a retailer of woollen garments at Telephone Exchange Chowk, said, “Moderate winter had been there for the last one month. During this period, day’s temperature was at a higher side, thus people were managing with full arm T-shirts (sweat shirts) and warm shirts.”Showers on November 15 plummeted the temperature. He said sales would depend on the next one-and-a-half month.BK Bajaj, a dry fruit importer and processor, said there was a 30 per cent shortfall in the sale of dry fruit this season. “It reflects that purchasing power of people took a beating due to the lockdown,” he said and added that the market would limp back once economy improves. Majority of traders look forward to marriage season and anticipate increase in sales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contagion-hampers-sale-of-woollens-dry-fruit-171540
17-11-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Urban Haat project still far from reality||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, NOVEMBER 16A long lost demand of people involved in the tourism industry, locals and tourists to enjoy 24-hours street food remains up in air. The Urban Haat project, which was to promise other features as well, hasn’t moved an inch from inauguration in last many years.The Amritsar Development Authority (ADA) had outsourced the Urban Haat to Food Library, a Bathinda-based firm, involved in catering and hospitality. The ADA had announced its opening in August last year. However, the plan did not fructify. Constructed with an aim to boost the city’s tourism, the replica of the famous Lahore Food Street has been crying for attention of the authorities, as the project is non-functional even after being inaugurated three years ago.The ADA had sublet it to the firm in November 2018. The company was to pay Rs 81 lakh annually to the ADA and has rights to accommodate food brands. The company was provided ample of time to make arrangements and had even set the date for collection of rent from July 11, 2019.It is also worth mentioning here that then BJP-SAD government in the state had restored and revamped the abandoned 124-year-old colonial-era building of Victoria Jubilee Hospital in consultation with the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage to attract tourists to taste city’s varied cuisine in 2015.The project was inaugurated by then Deputy Chief Minister, Sukhbir Singh Badal, in May 2016 amidst much fanfare by organising the ‘Amritsar Heritage Festival’ in which people from 20 different states had taken part.Amarjit Singh, marketing head of the Food Library, said, “We are all set to make the Urban Haat functional. The repair, paint and beautification work on the heritage building took too long and required heavy investment. Though, the company has not earned a penny from the project but was investing from its own resources to turn it into a world class premises.”Over 20 national and international food brands are likely to open their outlets and nine of these confirmed their presence. He informed that the Urban Haat will be opened for limited hours this month and a grand opening is on cards next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/urban-haat-project-still-far-from-reality-171542
17-11-2020||Amritsar||Two held with heroin, weapon||No casualty, 33 more test +veAmritsar: The health authorities reported 33 new Covid-19 positive cases with which the total count of infections has reached 12,341. The district reported no death in the last 24 hours. The fresh cases include 25 influenza like illness cases and eight contacts of positive patients. A total of 474 patients have died due to the virus till date. Meanwhile, with recovery of 19 patients, the total recovery count has also increased to 11,488. At present, the district has a total of 379 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-heroin-weapon-171543
17-11-2020||WHEN two cops of Gate Hakima police station died of Covid||‘Support from seniors was quite heartening’||Nevertheless, it was the constant moral support of my senior police officials and with the help of our neighbours that we emerged victorious, said Inspector Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Gate Hakima police station.I don’t know how I got infected with the disease, though at the back of mind, I knew that it could happen to anybody. “I got myself tested thrice and my reports came out to be negative. I did not get myself tested until I got the symptoms,” said Sukhbir Singh.I and my family remained in the isolation ward before we were sent for home quarantine for over two weeks. It was heartening to see Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill inquiring personally about my health-related concerns. He even made arrangements for our scans when we were under treatment.While in the field, I had heard of the social stigma the Covid patients face. However, we were lucky to have neighbours in the New Amritsar locality that they used to remain in touch with us over phone and used to ask for any need we have. They even used to help us with the cooked food.One can win the battle against Covid if he is determined to tide over any crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/support-from-seniors-was-quite-heartening-171545
17-11-2020||Amritsar||Covid shadow on pilgrims’ visit to Nankana Sahib||Amid the Covid-19 threat, uncertainty looms over Indian devotees’ proposed visit to Pakistan to attend the 551st birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak.Pakistan had extended invitation to Indian Sikhs to grace the three-day celebrations scheduled at Janam Asthan, Sri Nankana Sahib, beginning November 27. The occasion falls on November 30. However, it will be the discretion of the Indian government to grant the permission.Around 1,500 applications were received by different organisations, of which 500 applications were endorsed by the SGPC to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) for furnishing of visa formalities.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh said ‘absolutely’ no communication was received from the MEA. “The chances that the ‘jatha’will be allowed to visit Pakistan are bleak,” he said.Yet, Ferozepur-based International Bhai Mardana Yadgari Kirtan Darbar Society head Harpal Singh Bhullar seemed hopeful. “We have not received the official nod from the MEA yet, but a few days back, we were approached by agency officials enquiring about the antecedents of the applicants. This indicated that the process was on to grant permission,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-shadow-on-pilgrims-visit-to-nankana-sahib-171376
