18-09-2020||---||Amritsar district logs 181 new cases, 1 death||Amritsar, September 17With one more Covid-19 casualty reported by the district health authorities, the toll reached 284 on Thursday. The district also reported 181 new positive cases, taking the case load to 7,417. With 302 persons recovering on Thursday, the number of those who have defeated the virus has reached 5,570.The district administration and Child Development and Project Officer (CDPO), Majitha, under the guidelines issued by the Department of Women and Child Development, imparted training and motivation to the anganwadi workers and motivated them to create awareness among people about Covid through door-to-door visits in villages.Meena Devi, CDPO-cum-nodal officer, said the anganwadi workers of Majitha, Urban-2, Urban-3 and Verka blocks participated in the training programme where they were apprised of symptoms of Covid and ways to prevent its spread. They were asked to download the COVA app and villagers were asked to cooperate with anganwadi workers, she said. The nodal officer said for the convenience of people, the government had started sending mobile sampling vans to villages. The facility is free of cost. People will also be asked by workers to avoid spreading rumours about Covid.Meanwhile, prominent Sikh businessman based in Dubai and founder of Sarbat Da Bhala Trust who has set an example by spending crores of rupees for welfare of people, presented a vehicle for last rites to the Red Cross Society here on Thursday.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira hailed SPS Oberoi for the initiative and said Oberoi had done a great service to the local Red Cross Society by providing the vehicle which was a requirement.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-logs-181-new-cases-1-death-142658
18-09-2020||---||On PM’s b’day, NSUI observes ‘national unemployment day’ in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 17Asserting that crores of youngsters have been left in the lurch by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, National Students’ Organisation of India (NSUI) president (Punjab) on Thursday criticised the PM for “wreaking havoc on economy and plunging youngsters, farmers and migrants into desperation”.“Only peacocks are celebrating, while the whole nation is crying,” said Akshay Sharma, adding that the PM was celebrating his 70th birthday when the nation was reeling under the impact of the pandemic and economic crisis.The student outfit observed the day as ‘national unemployment day’ by putting up stalls of tea, ‘pakodas’ and vegetables outside Guru Nanak Dev University as a show of protest against the rising unemployment in the country. “Why has the government forgotten the promise of giving 2 crore jobs every year? Look at what the PM has done to our farmers, students and migrants. Every section of society has faced the Modi regime’s onslaught for asking questions. After students, farmers are up in arms. It is sad to see educated students being forced out of jobs as a result of ‘wrong policies’ of the government. Our economy has slumped to the worst-ever low of minus 23.9 per cent, which is among the lowest in G20 countries. This is a PM’s gift to the nation,” Akshay quipped.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party organised a blood doantion camp here on the occasion of the 70th birthday of the Prime Minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-pms-bday-nsui-observes-national-unemployment-day-in-amritsar-142659
18-09-2020||---||Breakthrough: 2 identified in Sultanwind robbery case||Amritsar, September 17In a breakthrough, the Sultanwind police have identified two persons in a robbery case in which a woman was looted by six persons on Bhai Manjh Singh Road a week ago.One of them was identified as Gurdyal Singh, alias Gochha, of Dolenangal village falling under the Beas police station in the Amritsar rural area. He was a proclaimed offender in an NDPS case registered with the Beas police last year.Sultanwind police station SHO Perneet Dhillon said that the police had identified two persons in the case while further investigations were on to identify the remaining suspects. He said the police were hoping to nab the suspects soon as raids were on in this connection.As per investigations, after declaring proclaimed offender by the court he has been living in the city on rent.Six armed persons robbed a woman of Bhai Manjh Singh Road in the Sultanwind area here on last Thursday. While escaping, the accused indulged in firing that left one person injured. The police had managed to find CCTV grab of the suspects on the basis of which the police identified Gurdyal Singh.Victim Harbhajan Kaur said they run a small grocery store on the ground floor of the house. They opened the shop at around 7 am. She said six persons came on bikes and four of them gained entry through the shop. She said the accused were armed with sharp weapons and pistol and had covered their faces.Immediately entering through the shop, they thrashed and tried to strangulate her. As the people started gathering, the accused decamped with around Rs 35,000 and four mobile phones, she alleged.Her son Rajinder Singh, who also reached the spot after getting the call, was pushed by the accused who fired while running away. The bullet hit his friend Arshdeep Singh who was accompanying him. Rajinder had gone to the Khalsa Nagar area for some work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/breakthrough-2-identified-in-sultanwind-robbery-case-142660
18-09-2020||---||Case slapped against Jahaj for jumping parole||Amritsar, September 17  The police on Wednesday slapped another case against notorious criminal Kamaladeep Singh, alias Jahaj, for jumping parole here. The case was registered following a complaint lodged by the Superintendent of the Ferozepur Central jail. As per the complaint, the accused was released on parole for eight weeks and was to return on August 15. However, he did not come back. A case under Section 8 (2) and 9 of the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoner (temporary release) Act was registered against him. His name recently figured in a recent shooting incident in which he had shot at goldsmith Sajjan Singh and is allegedly close to gangster Jujhar Ambarsaria who is currently lodged in Hoshiarpur jail. On his directions, he had shot at Sajjan Singh who sustained a bullet injury on his leg. Jujhar had claimed responsibility for the attack on his social media platform. Sources in the police said Kamaldeep was earlier booked by the police for shooting the manager of a car agency in October 2016 in a robbery incident. He along with six others was nabbed by the police and sentenced 10-year imprisonment. He was released on parole and did not return to jail. He was also involved in a firing incident in the Mohkampura area recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/case-slapped-against-jahaj-for-jumping-parole-142661
18-09-2020||---||GNDU releases datesheet for exit sem exams||Amritsar, September 17 As per the Punjab Government directions, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) is conducting the examinations for the last semester of various courses from September 21. The date-sheets have been uploaded on the university website www.gndu.ac.in for the candidates appearing in regular and private full subjects or re-appear of the final semesters (for the final semesters). Manoj Kumar, professor in-charge (examinations), said the date-sheets of semester undergraduate, semester postgraduate, semester undergraduate diploma, semester postgraduate diploma and annual undergraduate can be downloaded from the website of the university.  A list of centres for the exams of private candidates, their contact numbers and necessary information regarding the examinations will be available on the website of the university .||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-releases-datesheet-for-exit-sem-exams-142663
18-09-2020||---||After 9th dirtiest city tag, Amritsar Mayor chalks out cleanliness strategy||Amritsar, September 17The planThe Mayor stated that a plan had been prepared to ensure smooth functioning of the sanitation system in which the city had been divided into five zones with two sub-zones. A total of 27 sectors have been created. He will conduct inspection once in 15 days in each sector along with MC Commissioner and concerned sanitation officials.After getting ninth rank among the dirtiest cities in the country, with a population of over 10 lakh category, under the Swachh Survekshan Survey 2020, Mayor Karamjit Singh held series of discussions with the councillors of different wards in all five assembly constituencies in Amritsar.The Mayor held a meeting with councillors of the Amritsar East Assembly constituency and said that the city was ranked ninth among the dirtiest cities in the survey which was very disappointing. He said that the entire responsibility of cleanliness did not lie with the sanitation department alone but it was the responsibility of every citizen to keep their surroundings clean and dump the garbage in dustbins. The Mayor said that the councillors had elected him as the first citizen of the city and therefore he considered the first responsibility for the lack of cleanliness as his own. He said that besides development works, sanitation works were also important and with our own efforts this shortcoming could be removed.Karamjit Singh Rintu said during the pandemic everyone had served the people of the city with utmost diligence and delivered door-to-door rations to the needy but unfortunately we had lagged behind in terms of sanitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-9th-dirtiest-city-tag-amritsar-mayor-chalks-out-cleanliness-strategy-142664
18-09-2020|| The Jallianwala Bagh||Jallianwala Bagh massacre: A heart-wrenching event in history||the bagh. One of the walls with bullet holes has a plaque reading: The wall has its own historic significance as it has 36 bullet marks, which can be easily seen at present and these were fired into the crowd on the orders of General Dyer. Moreover, no warning was given to the crowd gathered there against the Rowlatt Act before Dyer opened fire. As many as 1,650 rounds were fired.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-massacre-a-heart-wrenching-event-in-history-142665
18-09-2020||Amritsar||Man held with 300-gm heroin||Miscreants loot Rs90K from manTarn Taran: Two unknown youths riding a motorcycle looted Rs 90,000 from a person who was returning home from the village bus stand here on Wednesday. The victim, Balkar Singh (60), in his complaint to the police stated that he had withdrawn the amount from the Patti ICICI bank branch and was holding the cash in his hand. The miscreants, who appeared on the scene, attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon and snatched his cash. They managed to flee the spot. The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC. Balkar Singh has been admitted to a private hospital in Valtoha. ocSmartphones for 1,727 studentsTarn Taran: As many as 1,727 students of Class XII of different government schools were given smartphones in the second stage of the ‘Smart Connect Scheme’ of the government here on Wednesday. Satnam Singh Bath, DEO (Secondary), said Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, local MLA presided over a function organised at the Government Senior Secondary Smart School where 17 students of the host and the local Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary Smart School were given smart phones. Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill presided over the function organised at Government Senior Secondary School, Patti. As many as 6,413 students of the Class XII will be given smart phones in the district, said the DEO (S). OCNational nutrition month celebratedTarn Taran: The Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Booh (Tarn Taran), organised an awareness workshop on “Ensuring Nutritional Status of Women and Children” under the celebration of National Nutrition Month here on Thursday. IFFCO officers, anganwari supervisors, anganwadi workers, farm women and farmers participated in the programme and discussed with experts amelioration of their nutritional status. Dr Balwinder Kumar, Deputy Director (Training), laid emphasis on the use of biofortified wheat and rice for household consumption. Vegetable seed kits supplied by the Union Government were distributed among the participants. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-300-gm-heroin-142669
18-09-2020||Working as a ward attendant at the Gynaecology Department of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for the past 17 years||‘Voluntary testing will break the cycle of fear’||Varinder had never availed any medical leave or taken a long vacation all these years, but when he tested positive a month ago, he made sure he spent his time well in isolation.“I had already told my family once the pandemic struck that as a frontline worker, I was the most vulnerable to infection. I had been preparing them and myself mentally to not get bogged down by it and so, when I tested positive, I asked my family not to visit the hospital to keep them safe from any kind of infection,” said Varinder.Self-motivated all throughout his isolation and recovery period of 21 days, Varinder was hospitalised for five days, following which he was sent for home quarantine, as his symptoms were not critical.“I shared the room with seven other patients, three of whom were my colleagues. We used to chat, play some games and just think about what we were going to do once we went home after recovery. We supported and motivated each other through that quarantine period and that’s how all of us were able to recover, more importantly not with fear, but with confidence in our healthcare team,” he said.Varinder said his biggest feat was not letting Covid-19 break him and his family mentally. “It’s very important for people to provide support system to the families of Covid-19 patients. None of my family members tested positive and I had the support of my colleagues,” he said.He emphasises on increased testing for Covid-19 to break the cycle of fear surrounding the pandemic. “The best preventive measure, apart from following mandatory safety guidelines, is to get yourself tested in case of any doubt. There is so much rumour-mongering regarding Covid-19 testing, which is adding to public fear and confusion,” he said.He wants the government to provide more safety net to healthcare workers. “There are so many healthcare workers, who have either lost their lives while fighting Covid-19 on the frontline or been infected. The healthcare staff is working non-stop, exhaustively during the pandemic and we need to be better equipped while we perform our duties.” (As told to Neha Saini)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/voluntary-testing-will-break-the-cycle-of-fear-142673
