18-07-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Prime land in Gurdaspur ‘encroached’, authorities mum||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, July 17Prime land worth crores of rupees on the Hardochanni road has been usurped by unscrupulous elements following an unholy nexus between municipal committee (MC) officials and ‘land sharks’ who are allegedly being protected by a top Congress politician. The scandal came to light after a former Gurdaspur market committee chairman, Yogesh Bhandari, filed a series of RTIs which revealed the connivance of some officials.Interestingly, the land grabbers had the audacity to demolish an Octroi post located on the busy road, ostensibly to enable buyers to have a clear view of shops, proposed to be constructed on the land, from the road itself. The miscreants then constructed and sold several commercial and residential buildings on the land, making massive profits. The building plans, however, have not been approved by the MC.On February 2, 2017, Bhandari, who is also the president of the Sukhda Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association, based in the area where the structures were sold, filed an RTI with the MC, seeking details of the “approved building plans” of 42 under-construction shops. The MC replied that it “does not provide information to third parties.” Later, Bhandari approached the State Information Commission (SIC) which overruled the decision of the MC and asked it to provide the respondent with details in 15 days. The commission also asked the Additional Chief Secretary, Local Bodies, to “look into the alleged scandal involving illegal constructions.” The MC’s reply revealed that no approval had been given.Astonishingly, the miscreants went ahead and got the plots registered in the names of persons who purchased properties on the land.Also, while the revenue records say the width of the Hardochanni road, running in front of the colony, is 99 feet, the Tehsildar, in a reply to a RTI query filed by Bhandari, said the width was 66 feet. “This proves that a part of the road land has been encroached upon by the land grabbers. The administration has been showing reluctance to act against the encroachers,” said Bhandari.Sources revealed that the administration was wary of taking action as “the land sharks were being led by an influential person who is said to be close to a leading Congress politician from the city.”An MC official said he was seized of the matter and “appropriate action will be taken against the defaulters.”The issue||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-land-in-gurdaspur-encroached-authorities-mum-114350
18-07-2020||---||Amritsar district records single-day spike of 43 Covid-19 cases; count 1,213 now||Amritsar, July 17The district witnessed a spike of 43 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases to 1,213.Meanwhile, city residents and health officials took a sigh of relief as no casualty due to the virus was reported in the district and the death toll remained at 59.Of the new cases, 27 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 16 are contacts of Covid positive patients. One ILI case each was reported from Gharinda, Chatiwind, Nangali Bhatha, Nangali Verka, Gobind Nagar, Azad Nagar, Chora Bazar in Gobind Nagar area, Maheka, Thathian, Gadli, Rajesh Nagar, Chowki Wali Gali Khalsa College, Ghanupurkale, Ajnala, Bahoru, Transport Nagar, Fateh Singh Colony, Circular Road, Sundar Nagar, Jaspal Nagar, Bharat Nagar, New Abadi Ratan Singh Chowk, Krishna Square, Malakpur, Ganda Singh Wala on the Majitha road and two from Lodhi Baba Bakala.Five contacts of Covid patients were detected from Shastri Nagar Lawrence road, three contacts from Jandiala Guru, two contacts each from Gali number five in Shariffpura area, Shariffpura area, Majitha Road and Sultanwind Gate. So far, 965 patients have been discharged and there are 189 active cases in the district.Rural police to deploy 100 cops in Covid reserveAfter the Punjab government ordered creation of Special Covid-19 reserves to tighten the noose around violators of safety norms, the Amritsar Rural police have freed around 100 cops from non-essential duties for the purpose.The DGP had directed all district police chiefs, including SSPs and Commissioners of Police, to withdraw 50 per cent of the cops on attachment with the Central police office (CPO) immediately and deploy them to enforce guidelines to check the spread of the coronavirus. The police personnel have been asked to report to their parent unit concerned by Saturday morning.The decision has been taken in view of the rise in cases of violation of Covid safety norms. Though the police had been registering cases against violators, people continued to flout norms.Amritsar Rural SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said around 100 cops had been withdrawn from the district police office and they would be deputed in the field to ensure implementation of the safety norms. Similarly, the city police are also in the process of withdrawing the cops attached with CPOs.2 new cases in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: A Medical Officer posted at the Community Health Centre, Ghariala, in the district tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The patient has been admitted to the Civil Hospital. A town resident also tested positive. The two new cases took the district Covid tally to 18 on Friday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-records-single-day-spike-of-43-covid-19-cases-count-1-213-now-114351
18-07-2020||---||Short film Replay portrays mental illness through the lens of theatre||Amritsar, July 17In the wake of mental health crisis during the lockdown, Phulkari’s theatre wing called ‘Little Theatre’, has made a short film to spread positivity and cheer in the community. While most of us are facing the lockdown blues, the film, with its three different characters, is a slice-of-life depiction of everyday struggles and how these characters overcome their struggles.The film titled ‘Replay’, has been released online today by the members. “The three different characters include a teen, who suffers from self-esteem issues, a middle-aged woman, who is undergoing soul searching amid crisis and a young professional striving hard for his ambitions. They all get to a point in their lives where ending their lives seems to be the only option to them.The film is an attempt to generate dialogue about mental health issues and how suicide is never a solution. In the given circumstances, the film sends out a strong message about the community and family support for any one suffering from mental illness,” said Ruby Swani, coordinator of the Phulkari’s campaign — Mind Matters. The film is a part of this campaign.It has been directed by Seema Maheshwari, and features actors Reena Kundra, Ravneet Singh Sidana, Krishna Maheshwari, Saurabh Khanna.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/short-film-replay-portrays-mental-illness-through-the-lens-of-theatre-114352
18-07-2020||Neha Saini||Living on streets, 35-year-old woman reunited with family||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 17A ‘homeless’ woman was reunited with her family today. Thanks to the social media and the All India Pingalwara Charitable Society, 35-year-old Sonia, who was reportedly found living off the streets at Gate Khazana area,and was rescued by the Pingalwara team when they got to know about her through a viral video clip on the social media.Col Darshan Bawa, coordinator, Pingalwara, said their team was informed about the girl by a Good Samaritan Gurdeep Singh Rajan, who is a member of an NGO. “On July 12, we received a call from him in the afternoon that a video clip has been shared on the social media which shows a homeless woman living in streets at the Gate Khazana area. She had been residing in the area for the past few days and some residents used to offer her food and clothing. Our team, led by Gulshan Ranjan, took an ambulance and rescued her, who was then taken to the Civil Hospital for Covid-19 testing. She was also found to be mentally unstable and couldn’t tell us anything about herself.”He further added, “As a procedure, we published information notice about the girl in case her family was looking for her. Today, her family including her mother and other family members, came to our office, claiming that the girl’s name was Sonia and she had run away from her home in village Wadala, Ram Tirth road, last month. After thorough verification, we found that the family was telling truth.”Sonia, who seemingly was happy to meet her family members again, was then handed over to her mother. This is not the first time that Pingalwara has managed to reunite homeless with their families. “We feel contented to help the needy. Once again, our principles and ideology of serving the humanity has reunited a family with their child,” shared Col Bawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/living-on-streets-35-year-old-woman-reunited-with-family-114353
18-07-2020||---||Capt Amarinder Singh shielding his party leader on ration issue: Manoranjan Kalia||Amritsar, July 17Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia has accused Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh of shielding his party leader, who was allegedly found with the ration meant for the downtrodden in the Covid-19 lockdown.Addressing mediapersons here on Friday, Kalia referred to the alleged recovery of ration in custody of MLA Rajinder Beri in Jalandhar recently. He said neither the Congress government took note of it nor marked any inquiry.He said the public had right to know whether the officials had handed over the ration meant for the downtrodden to the MLA or he was distributing among his supporters exercising his influence.He said his party demanded registration of a case against the said leader and impartial probe to unearth the truth. He stated that as per the norms only officials of the concerned department could distribute the ration among economically weaker sections.He alleged the Capt Amarinder Singh government was involved in distillery, insurance, and PPE kits scam during the Covid-19 period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/capt-amarinder-singh-shielding-his-party-leader-on-ration-issue-manoranjan-kalia-114354
18-07-2020||---||Roads in illegal colony dismantled||Amritsar, July 17The Town Planning Wing of the Municipal Corporation on Friday dismantled roads and boundary walls in an illegal colony on the Airport road in Khairabad. Officials of the MTP wing stated that a local resident, Kuldeep Singh, had developed the colony by constructing roads in fields. The MC employees dismantled the roads and walls.On July 13, a team of the MTP wing led by Assistant Town Planner Krishna Kumari had visited the illegal colony where thecoloniser and his men reportedly thrashed the building inspectors.Iqbalpreet Singh Randhawa, Municipal Town Planner, had filed a complaint with the Police Commissioner and demanded action against the coloniser. The Cantonment police had registered a case against coloniser Avtar Singh.Meanwhile, another team led by building inspector Paramjit Singh sealed two buildings in the Civil Lines area.On Thursday, Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal shuffled the areas of assistant town planners and the building inspector to increases the efficacy of work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/roads-in-illegal-colony-dismantled-114357
18-07-2020||---||3 booked for culpable homicide||Amritsar, July 17Around 20 days after a youth, identified as Ravisher Singh (23) of Shahpur village, was found dead near Dhayanpur Canal Bridge, the police have booked three persons, including a woman, on charges of culpable homicide and destruction of evidence.Those booked were identified as Ranjit Kaur, her two sons Kulbir Singh and Sandeep Singh, all residents of Baba Bakala.Santokh Singh, an uncle of deceased Ravisher Singh, told the police that on June 27 he was going to pay obeisance at the Baba Bakala Sahib gurdwara and reached near Dhayanpur Canal Bridge where he found people gathered. He said he went to the spot and found Ravisher Singh dead. He said at that time it appeared that he had fallen from bike and succumbed to injuries. The police initiated action under the CrPC.He said he along with deceased’s father investigated the incident. He said Ravisher was a drug addict and had ‘close’ relations with Ranjit Kaur. He said they found that Ravisher died of drug overdose in the residence of the suspects. He said later the suspects dumped his body near the canal to give it a shape of accident. The police said a case under Sections 304, 201 and 34 of the IPC had been registered against the suspects and raids were on to nab them.Body found in canalTarn Taran: The Chabal police found a decomposed body of an unidentified person from the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) near Thathgarh village, 25 km from here, on Friday. The body had been kept at the Civil Hospital mortuary. The victim seemed to be in his late 40s who may have died around four days ago, DSP Sucha Singh Bal said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-booked-for-culpable-homicide-114359
18-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Kanwaljit is Tarn Taran Municipal Council EO||Kanwaljit Singh took charge as Executive Officer (EO) of the local Municipal Council on Friday. The post was lying vacant for the last many years.Earlier, he was superintendent in the Municipal Council here. The EO during meeting with officials and other employees of the department said his first priority was development of the town founded by the fifth guru of the Sikhs, Guru Arjun Dev.A delegation of the Safai Sewak Union, led by Romesh Kumar Shergill, president of the organization, met the newly appointed EO and assured him of all cooperation. The union apprised him of their demands. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kanwaljit-is-tarn-taran-municipal-council-eo-114360
18-07-2020||---||Rain lashes Amritsar, leaves many areas inundated||Amritsar, July 17Heavy rainfall lashed the holy city, flooding the Punjab Roadways workshop and some low-lying areas on Friday. The rain that lasted around one hour exposed the poor drainage system in the city. Besides, it led to water-logging on the GT road, BRTS track and some areas of the walled city. Though the Municipal Corporation got most of the main sewer lines desilted in many areas, these remained water-logged for hours.As the area in and around the Punjab Roadways workshop near Gobindgarh Fort was water-logged, its workers could be seen wading through the stagnant water. Some were seen riding motorcycles with shoes in their hands. The buses were standing in a pool of water.“Whenever it rains in the city, we face the similar problem. Rainwater accumulates in the workshop and remains there for three to four days. We are unable to move in rainwater. The buses, which are parked inside the workshop for repairs, got some technical snags as water entered the engines,” said an employee of the workshop.Commuters, especially motorcyclists and pedestrians, had a tough time as water got accumulated in potholes, and roadsides. Several vehicles came to a sudden halt on roads due to water-logging and drivers had to push their vehicles to the roadside to give way to other commuters. Rainwater also got accumulated in parking lots.Gurvinder Singh, a resident of the low-lying area near Daburji Road, said, “It is not happening for the first time. It is unfortunate that the government has not learnt lessons from its past mistakes. Water-logging was also seen on the GT road and its services lanes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-lashes-amritsar-leaves-many-areas-inundated-114361
18-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Looking into abyss: Road from Nandan to Ram Bagh Chowk a crying shame||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 17There are bad roads. Then there are ghastly mishaps. No surprises, it is bound to happen. This is a spectacle the shopkeepers and residents on the road leading from the Nandan chowk to the Rambagh chowk have been witnessing time and again.It’s been almost a decade since these potholes developed but the authorities concerned have preferred to turn a deaf ear to the plight of the people here. These potholed roads turn into death traps in the night as these are not visible due to lack of street lights.“The government dreams of providing world class facilities under Smart City projects. However, unlike in foreign countries where they provide at least provide an alternative to the people so that they could not suffer, the authorities here prefer to adopt an indifferent attitude towards public," said Prof Mohan Singh, a local resident.Earlier, it was due to the construction of an elevated road and now the construction of a bus stop for the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system. These construction works, being carried out for past decade, have let authorities slip from under people's noses. Whenever apprised of the troubles, the authorities put in the excuse of the construction works. Instead of mending the road, they say they would resurface the road completely once the work's dusted and done.Salinder Singh, a dhaba owner, says that daily at least one commuter falls prey to half a feet deep potholes and suffers injuries, sometimes minor and at times serious ones. "The conditions are becoming worse day by day. With rains round the corner, it is surely going to take another wrong turn," he adds. Salinder has been living in the area for past four decades and works with this father at the dhaba. "Since the construction of elevated road, the god and the authorities have forsaken this road," he rues.Sonu, another shopkeeper, says that in absence of street lights, the area engulfed in dark is all the more accident prone. This also paves the way for the unscrupulous elements to seep in. "Thieves have targeted a dairy on the road twice in the past," he shares, before adding what others are aslo wishful of, "The civic authorities should at least get the patches on the road done besides installing streetlights."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/looking-into-abyss-road-from-nandan-to-ram-bagh-chowk-a-crying-shame-114362
18-07-2020||Neha Saini||Online exhibitions pop up, breathe life into independent brands||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 17Usually, the festive season in city is preceded by a series of lifestyle shopping exhibitions that have now become a major attraction for city shoppers and is a big business opportunity for local niche brands to stretch their sales. But since the Covid pandemic is still lurking around, there is no way that these exhibitons can showcase their goods, well at least for now.On the lookout for new outlets, the exhibitors, who primarily consist of local and independent brands are now adapting to hosting of online pop-up exhibitions. There are not many options left otherwise. Almost all have gone online. These exhibitions are collaborations between individual brands offering services like fashion and lifestyle, make-up artists, home furnishing dealers and many other service providers.The concept of an online pop-up exhibition is quite similar to the ground exhibitions. It brings an array of service providers and products direct to the consumers, only via digital platform though. The products and brands displayed are offered along with heavy discounts and promise safe and sound home deliveries. The individual links and contacts of brand owners and businesses are provided where the orders can be placed. However, still in it's early stages, a few online pop-up exhibitions in city in the past few days have received a decent response as it also offers a convenient alternative to shoppers looking for some retail therapy.Still, there is much work to be done. The method is relatively new and is yet to find support on all fronts. There a few industry professionals who think that adapting to the wired exhibitions is challenging task for both the exhibitors as well as consumers. The reasons thrown in vary from limited awareness of digital platforms to low interest of consumers for digital exhibitions. Which is fairly agreeable. While small businesses are suffering financial crunch due to the lack of marketing avenues, innovative concepts like digital exhibitions and previews might present a futuristic option. As far as consumers are concerned, this is perhaps the best option to shop currently.Speaking outThe possibility of hosting ground exhibitions in given circumstances is highly impossible for at least one year. So, we have to look for the next best viable solution, which is online exhibitions. Luvika Nayyar, an online pop-up exhibitorUntil such business exhibitions are allowed, it is not possible to host ground events. Online pop-ups are yet to pick up buyer interest and offer limited growth opportunities. Tannu Grover, organiser of lifestyle exhibitionsOnline exhibitions are a safe option to shop for things until things get normal and retailing begins. It is also a way to support local businesses as many of these brands provide select items, not available in shops. Manisha Behl, consumerThe business is definitely not the same as ground exhibitions on the digital pop-ups, but it is a way to reach out to the consumers and make the individual brands visible again. Binti Kumar, an exhibitor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-exhibitions-pop-up-breathe-life-into-independent-brands-114365
18-07-2020||Amritsar||Youth dies of  ‘drug overdose’||13-year-old boy crushed to deathTarn Taran: A 13-year-old boy was killed on the spot while his mother sustained serious injuries when their moped collided with a tractor-trolley near Kot Budha village on Friday. The Patti Sadar police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC against the tractor-trolley driver who fled the spot. The victim has been identified as Akashdeep Singh while his mother has been identified as Baljit Kaur, a resident of Kot Budha village. OCThieves make bid to break open ATMTarn Taran: Thieves made an unsuccessful bid to steal cash from an ATM of HDFC Bank installed outside the bank at Dhand village, 25 km from here, on Thursday night. A case under Sections 457, 380, 371 and 427 of the IPC had been registered by Sarai Amanat Khan police. Sumit Mahajan, branch manager of the bank, said the incident came to light in the morning when the staff came to the bank. The incident occurred at 3.25 am but CCTV cameras failed to capture the incident due to some lapse. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-dies-of-drug-overdose-114366
18-07-2020||INDUSTRY AND LOCKDOWN||‘Every challenge throws up ample opportunities in the long run’||SUMIT AGGARWAL, Chief Executive Officer of Star Power Distribution Pvt Ltd, which is distribution partners of TATA Power Solar and TATA Power, said inquiries from people have increased after the easing of the lockdown. He had established the company in 2014. He did a Bachelor’s in Information and Technology from Hindu College, Amritsar. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, he said his company has its offices in Delhi, Sonepat and Amritsar. Some of his customers included ITC, Kapurthala, the Radha Soami Satsang Beas sect, and DAV College. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?It adversely affected the solar business as customers were reluctant to invest due to financial constraints caused by the lockdown. Those commercial and industrial projects, which were on the verge of final closure before the lockdown, were put on hold after the pandemic-induced lockdown was imposed. Even after the easing of the restrictions, these companies have kept the proposals on hold as they are waiting for things to normalise.We used to notice that people avoided solar energy, but now a large number of people are not just showing interest in it but are also installing solar power panels on the rooftop of their houses. Environmentally conscious people are going for green fuel. — Sumit Aggarwal, CEO of Star Power Distribution Pvt LtdDo you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Currently, inquiries from people, willing to install solar powers on their residences, have come as a great relief. Contrary to the earlier trend of my marketing team contacting people, now people themselves are calling us to make inquiries regarding the installation of solar power plants. Now, 5 per cent of these inquiries have materialised. Commercial and industrial inquiries are on hold and we expect the business will start picking up the pace after October 2020.Did you pay salaries to your employees during the lockdown period?We paid salaries to our direct and indirect employees during the lockdown period.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Negligible. Since it is a costly item, customers do not buy solar power panels online until they get fully satisfied by personally seeing the product.What lessons you have learned from lockdown as a businessman?The biggest lesson I have learned is that we as a businessman have to operate on lean assets to keep expenditures under control with minimum dependency on banks. For instance, we should not invest in big factories and warehouses.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Every challenge offers opportunities in the long run. So, this crisis will throw up opportunities as time passes. We used to notice that people avoided solar energy but now a large number of people are not just showing interest in it but are also installing solar power panels on the rooftop of their houses. The government did not spare power tariffs during the lockdown period. Increasing of power tariff is an annual feature. Environmentally conscious people are going for green fuel.What are your expectations from the government?If a hundred per cent online system is introduced in a government office then a lot of improvement can take place in business. It will save precious time and energy of industrialists in making rounds of government offices. Second most important thing is clear and a stable policy. With the change in each government comes alteration in policies. Obviously, these are largely politically driven. But this is also the major reason for the FDI not coming into the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/every-challenge-throws-up-ample-opportunities-in-the-long-run-114367
18-07-2020||Amritsar||Jallianwala Bagh revamp nears completion||Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik today held a meeting with officials of the Archeological Survey of India regarding renovation of the Jallianwala Bagh.Malik, who is also a member of the Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said around 80 per cent work had been completed. The site had been closed for the public since February 15 and the restoration would get over by July-end.“Jallianwala Bagh is among the most-visited monuments, but it was lying neglected and lacked basic amenities. I repeatedly raised the issue in Parliament and apprised PM Narendra Modi about the dilapidated condition. The Centre granted a package to renovate it,” he said.In November 2018, the then Union Minister of Culture Dr Mahesh Sharma was left fuming after he saw the poor upkeep and directed officials concerned to prepare a blueprint for its makeover.Malik had immediately issued a sum of Rs 10 lakh from his Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme. The package was announced by the Centre as a part of commemorating the 100th year of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Restoration work and allied services worth Rs 19.36 crore are being done under the Ministry of Culture.In the first phase, the developmental works include a five-minute light and sound show in Hindi, Punjabi and English for visitors. The entry and exit points have been repositioned, walk-in through a narrow passage has sculptures on both sides of the wall and the landscape comprises a ‘white lilies pond’. Now, a glass wall panel surrounds the Martyrs’ Well and passage from the entrance to the well is also being redesigned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-bagh-revamp-nears-completion-114416
