18-04-2020||---||Rural pharmacists halt work as 2 of 41 Pak nationals who crossed over from Attari turn Covid positive||Amritsar, April 18Rural pharmacists Association has stopped all work after Pakistan media reported that two women, among the 41 Pakistani Nationals, who had crossed from India on Friday have tested positive for coronavirus.The rural pharmacists stated that employees from their cadre had been in contact with the 41 Pakistani Nationals.“Rural pharmacists are working without PPE kits and N95 masks. We would not join duties unless we are provided safety equipment,” said, Senior Vice President of the association, Navjot Kaur.The district has 91 rural pharmacists in total, under the panchayat department, who have been assigned special duties during COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-halt-work-as-2-of-41-pak-nationals-who-crossed-over-from-attari-turn-covid-positive-72911
18-04-2020||Amritsar||Students in border areas not happy 
with online classes||As most of the colleges and private universities have started organising digital classrooms for students living in the rural and border belt, access to these classrooms has somehow become a challenge.The online classes began from April onwards for most undergraduate and postgraduate courses to help students complete the syllabus ahead of any examination. But, students are not happy with these digital classrooms."The Internet connection is slow and poor in villages near the border. So, it is difficult to get connected to these classrooms. Besides, while covering the syllabus, it is not possible to clear all concepts online," said Harpreet Kaur, a student of MCom-II at the Khalsa College of Education for Women. Harpreet's village is in Taran Tarn and she said most of her friends, who live in rural areas along the periphery of Amritsar, also face the issue."The quality of study is compromised when you cannot login in due to slow Internet. We watch YouTube learning videos or search for books further to get the grip of any topic," said Ruby, a student of MSc Botany, who lives near Attari.Shubhdeep, another student of BTech from Taran Tarn, said he studied through self-research or accessing some online libraries. "It is true that sometimes the connection gets lost in between a class and we have to later call a friend to get the rest of the details. Online libraries and e-learning videos are quite helpful in this regard," he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-in-border-areas-not-happy-with-online-classes-72679
18-04-2020||Amritsar||Scribe booked for rumours||Woman accuses kin of rapeAmritsar: A married woman has accused her brother-in-law of raping her at Bhakha Tara Singh village. The incident had occurred on March 9 but a complaint was lodged on Wednesday evening. The victim said she was alone at home when the accused, identified as Baldev Singh, entered the house. She said as she went to the kitchen for making tea, the accused followed her. He allegedly caught hold of her and dragged her to the living room where he raped her twice. She said the accused threatened her to kill her in case she raised an alarm. A case has been registered against Baldev who is yet to be arrested. TNSSSP dhruv Dahiya donates bloodTarn Taran: SSP Dhruv Dahiya donated blood at the Blood Bank of the Civil Hospital here on Friday. He exhorted the residents to cooperate with the administration to keep the spread of Covid at bay. He said the district police with the help of a Amritsar-based company was providing medicines and tonics to the policemen doing duties at the nakas to improve their immunity to fight diseases. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/scribe-booked-for-rumours-72675
18-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Former cop  joins fight against Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 17Even after four years of his retirement from the Punjab Police, former inspector Tarlok Singh has volunteered his services for the welfare of the public during the curfew.Tarlok Singh, a resident of New Pawan Nagar, served as station house officer in various police stations of the district and retired from services on May 31, 2016.“I read news that the police need some volunteers to serve the public during the curfew in Ropar district. So I decided to join the police here and now work at a checkpoint near Damuhi Mandir,” said Tarlok Singh.The 64-year-old former cop says he is still physically fit and do exercise for two hours daily. “I have no health issues and I do exercise for two hours daily to keep myself fit. I have experience of the curfew duty as during the militancy days I had worked with the then senior police officials,” he added.Tarlok Singh joins duty at 9 am daily and works for eight to 10 hours voluntarily. He interacts with people who step out from home by violating the curfew and convince them to stay home.Head constable Racchpal Singh, who is serving at the same checkpost said, “Tarlok Singh is an experienced police official and we are learning from him how to tackle the public during the curfew. He has good communication skills and convinces the public to stay home and not violate the curfew.”Tarlok Singh also takes care of needs of fellow cops as his residence is near to the checkpost. “ I am satisfy from life. Both my sons are well-settled and with the grace of the Almighty, I am enjoying good health. So it is the need of hour to serve the humanity. If senior police officials wish to get my services on any other front too, I am always ready,” added Tarlok.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-cop-joins-fight-against-covid-72672
18-04-2020||---||2 booked for murder attempt in Hardoputli||Amritsar, April 17The rural police booked two persons on charges of murder bid and arms act after they shot at a local resident over a minor dispute in Hardoputli village falling under Jhander police station here on Wednesday. Those booked were identified as Manjit Singh and Sukhdev Singh of same village.Gurwinder Singh, the complainant alleged that he was present at his home when the duo entered his house by jumping over the wall and shot at him. When he raised the alarm the accused fled away from the spot.PO nabbed with weaponA patrolling party of the Lopoke police, headed by DSP Attari and SHO Lopoke, on Thursday nabbed a proclaimed offender with a firearm from a resort located on the Preet Nagar road in Lopoke. He was identified as Gagandeep Singh, alias Kaula, of Chogwan. Sub-Inspector Harpal Singh said a local court had declared Gagandeep a proclaimed offender in many criminal cases. He said on Thursday the police got a tip-off that the accused had come to a resort. A team was immediately dispatched and the accused was nabbed. The police found a revolver and six rounds from him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-for-murder-attempt-in-hardoputli-72671
18-04-2020||Admn wants to convert these into isolation wards||GNDU students asked to pick up their luggage from hostels||First, the decision to convert hostels into isolation wards rests completely on the district administration. The university has no say in it. We were requested to hand over two boys’ hostels and one girls’ hostel for this purpose. We had requested that our health centre can be used for the same, but officials need more rooms. We will ensure all safety and precaution while clearing out rooms if any student is not able to come or send acquaintance. The entire process will be video-graphed and every item will be labelled so that nothing is misplaced.Prof KS Kahlon, Registrar, GNDU.Neha SainiTribune news serviceAmritsar, April 17Students of Guru Nanak Dev University, who have been allotted hostels, have written to the government authorities, including the CM’s office and the Vice-Chancellor, objecting the process of converting the hostels into isolation wards.In letters addressed to several officials, the students have requested to reconsider the decision.“We have been asked to vacate our rooms and take away belongings till Sunday. This is being asked when we have returned to our native places. In the lockdown, we are unable to come to the hostels to collect our belongings,” said the students.“Many students residing in the university hostels are from other states. Other students have left their important documents such as DMCs, copies of thesis work and laptops in the hostels. The university authorities have asked to us to send any local relative to collect the items or they will remove these on their own. There are chances that these documents may get misplaced. If this happens, who will be responsible?” said Ajay Kumar, who is in Fatehabad in Haryana.Naman Anand, a LLB student, who lives in Hisar, said the decision had been taken without considering the difficult situation of the hostellers. “I live in boys’ hostel no. 1 that has 300 rooms and each is shared by two students. The university has given us two options, either authorise any of our local classmate or relative to pick up our stuff. Otherwise, they will break the locks and get the stuff out on their own. There are many students who do not have any relative or classmates to pick up their stuff.”Dinesh Chadha, advocate and state adviser to the CYSS, a students’ union of the AAP, said the authorities shouldn't impose such illogical decisions on students.Meanwhile, the university authorities said they would exercise all necessary protocol to ensure the safety and security of the students’ property.“First, the decision to convert hostels into isolation wards rests completely on the district administration. The university has no say in it. We were requested to hand over two boys’ hostels and one girls’ hostel for this purpose. We had requested that our health centre can be used for the same, but officials need more rooms. We will ensure all safety and precaution while clearing out rooms in case any student is not able to come or send acquaintance. The entire process will be video-graphed and every item will be labelled so that nothing is misplaced,” said Prof KS KAhlon, Registrar, GNDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-asked-to-pick-up-their-luggage-from-hostels-72670
18-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Farm body submits 15-point memo to SDM, seeks bonus||Tarn Taran, April 17A delegation of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab, submitted a 15-point memorandum to the Chief Minister, through Sub-Divisional Magistrate Ranjish Arora here on Thursday.The delegation said if their demands are not met, they would lodge a three-day statewide protest from April 28. Members of the organisation said they were demanding a special package for farmers and labourers as "they have been heavily affected by the lockdown".Jasbir Singh Piddi, a leader of the organisation, said the process to procure wheat through e-pass would result in harassment of farmers. He said the the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee wanted the government to complete the procurement of wheat by May 15. "We want the government to abolish the condition of procurement of just 50 quintals wheat from a farmer in one turn.Our other demands include Rs 200 bonus per quintal to farmers, Rs 10, 000 every month to labourers who have gone jobless due to the lockdown, supply gunny bags on the doorstep of farmers and payment of for procured wheat within 48 hours," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-body-submits-15-point-memo-to-sdm-seeks-bonus-72669
18-04-2020||---||Rain leaves farmers worried||Amritsar, April 17Moderate showers this morning left farmers and labourers worried as the harvesting of wheat crop is in the final stages.The farmers were expecting that the harvesting would start from the next week as the early-grown crop was now almost mature. However, with moderate showers, a dip in the day temperature has been reported.The farmers were fearing that the harvesting might be delayed by two or three more days due to bad weather conditions. However, the administration has made arrangements for the procurement of wheat under the Public Distribution System at grain markets in the district, though no produce has arrived till date.Gurdev Singh, a farmer from Pandori village, said, “More rain can damage the wheat crop, and a dip in the temperature will further delay the harvesting.”Experts said the crop was not fully ripened and it would take some more days before the harvesting picked up pace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-leaves-farmers-worried-72668
18-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||This teacher imparts online lessons to 80-odd students||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 17For government primary schoolteacher Sukhbir Kaur, who is also a mother, TV anchor, social worker, the lockdown does not mean that her life has locked down. The fact remains that this is the time when she has found keys to put her life on the fast forward mode. From day one, she has kept herself busy by either helping the poor whose lives have got stuck in the labyrinthine lanes near her Ram Sharnam colony house or imparting online lessons to her school’s 80-odd students.“Teaching is a passion for me. On the very first day when the curfew was imposed, I made up my mind to do something constructive. Otherwise, I would have slipped into self-induced hibernation. Some of my students called me up to say they wanted to make best use of their time. They did not want to sit idle and just twiddle their thumbs throughout the day listening to sirens of ambulances and police vehicles. That is when I thought of teaching online. I consider myself less of a teacher and more of an awakener,” she said.Unlike a normal working day, which is spent in teaching at the school and completing unfinished household chores, Sukhbir remains busy with making people aware of the significance of social distancing through her self-made video and audio clips. Besides, she also informs the administration through video-conferencing about areas where people gather in large numbers. She takes online classes and visits narrow alleys to tell people that “they should not worry as the pandemic will surely blow away”.“Some remain busy complaining, some remain busy doing something constructive. I am into the latter. The satisfaction I get in remaining busy is immense. My life has suddenly developed a hectic pace,” she added.After dusk, she spends some quality time with her family members, which she used to miss before the lockdown. But she has a regret that she is not in a position to devote time to her hobby of anchoring panel discussions on Doordarshan.“Earlier, people remained busy with their pose rather than their purpose. Now, the disease is threatening mankind in a way no other catastrophe has done, people have changed and their priorities have changed. They are no longer busy with their pose. Now, they have a purpose in life to defeat the disease,” said Sukhbir as she readies to take another online class.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-teacher-imparts-online-lessons-to-80-odd-students-72667
18-04-2020||---||Six dogs ‘poisoned’ to death in Shastri Nagar||Amritsar, April 17In a shocking incident, six dogs, including a pet, were found dead in the posh Shastri Nagar area on the Lawrence Road in the wee hours here on Thursday. But one more stray dog (the seventh one), which was also poisoned, is out of danger. They were reportedly poisoned to death by some unknown person. The incident left animal lovers shocked who rushed to the area after coming to know about the incident on social media.The MC collected and disposed of five carcasses of dogs. However, an NGO managed to secure one carcass, the postmortem of which was conducted on Friday.Residents of the area said the suspect served curd laced with poison to kill the dogs. Nidhi of the NGO said the incident was highlighted as a pet dog was among the dead. She said the residents said around 13 stray animals, including two cats, crows and dogs, died in a similar way last month. But at that time the incident did not come to their knowledge.She said she had talked to Maneka Gandhi, a senior BJP leader, who further talked to the local police authorities following which an FIR was registered. A case under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act was registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-dogs-poisoned-to-death-in-shastri-nagar-72666
18-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||Deserted landmarks to mark Heritage Day today||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 17 Deserted local landmarks will this year mark World Heritage Day tomorrow. The tourism in the city is dependent solely on religious and national heritage sites. The Golden Temple, the Jallianwala Bagh and the Retreat ceremony at Attari are visited by a number of people on a daily basis.  However, the outbreak of deadly Covid has left all these places deserted this time. APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said it would take almost one year for the hotel and tour and travel industry to recover.  He said even after the curfew was lifted, people would avoid visiting crowded places and life would not be the same now.  Before moving out for leisure activities, people would need time to re-establish themselves in their professional life, business and industries. “The mentality of tourists is that they move out only after achieving a comfortable position in their lives,” he said. Chatha said luxury hotels were paying between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 60 lakh per month in the lockdown period.  He said restaurants would have to focus on take-away business as people would avoid dining out.  The theme for this year’s day is ‘Shared cultures, shared heritage, shared responsibility’, which reflects the global context of heritage as part of cultural identity at a time of rapid population shift, conflict, and environmental uncertainty. The theme recognises that heritage – whether places, landscapes, practices, or collections – are frequently connected with and valued by multiple and diverse groups and communities.  Gurinder Singh Johal, a veteran guide, said having been associated with the tourism industry for the past two decades, the worst thing was not being able to walk down those stretches to share the holy city, talk about, walk around its squares, its rich food, customs with visitors.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deserted-landmarks-to-mark-heritage-day-today-72665
