18-05-2020||---||2 held for rape, illegal confinement; victims rescued||Amritsar, May 18The police have rescued two women from an illegal detention at Ram Tirath temple here. The duo was allegedly kept in confinement and being raped by temple priests.The incident came to light when member of the Punjab SC Commission Tarsem Singh Sailka lodged a complaint against the priests.As per the complaint, the priests had kept the two women, both residents of Ghaniyet Ke Bangar in Batala, in illegal detention on the temple premises. Taking cognisance of the complaint, SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal dispatched a police team headed by SP Amandeep Kaur and DSP Gurpartap Singh Sahota to the site and rescued the women.  The police team, accompanied by SC Commission member Sailka and Tehsildar Jagsir Singh, also nabbed priests Girdari Nath and Varinder Nath.Later, based on the complaint of the women, the police registered a case of rape and illegal detention against four priests. Besides Girdari Nath and Varinder Nath, the police also booked Nachhatar Nath and Suraj Nath.The two are absconding and raids are on to nab them, said the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-rape-illegal-confinement-victims-rescued-86510
18-05-2020||Residents share their opinion on how well the state has tackled the covid-19 threat?||State govt failed on many fronts to contain Covid-19||it is Time for govt to overcome weaknessesLast month, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state was not too high to lose sleep over it. But the problem began when the state started witnessing a spike in the number of cases after the pilgrims, stranded in Nanded (Maharashtra), were brought back to the state. All the pilgrims were safe there on the gurdwara premises. Instead of spending so much on their return, the government could have used the amount for arranging for their proper stay at health facilities at Nanded for at least a month. It was because of political pressure that the pilgrims were brought back, which led to the spread of the virus in some districts. Apart from that, the health workers and the Punjab Police deserve to be commended for doing a great service to people at personal risk. It is time the government overcame its weaknesses and took wise decisions. Now, people stranded in other states of the country and in foreign countries will return home and the government must arrange for their return in such a way that no more cases are added to the tally.Rashtardeep Singh SandhuProvide basic facilities at quarantine centresThough the state government is leaving no stone unturned to restrict the spread of Covid-19, it has faltered on many fronts. First and foremost, the state government has not been able to mitigate the fear of the virus from the minds of residents. This has led to the concealing of symptoms of fever and flu by people. They are afraid to come forward for voluntary testing lest they should end up in isolation and quarantine centres where the facilities to keep patients engaged purposefully are minimal. Moreover, sanitary conditions at government hospitals leave a lot to be desired. The government must come forward to allay the fears of people and provide better facilities at public hospitals. Another factor that may hamper the administration’s efforts to contain the disease is utter neglect of poor and impoverished workers by their employers. Even after repeated appeals by the PM, factory owners are not willing to fulfil the basic needs of migrant labourers in this hour of need. This may lead to malnourishment of the weaker sections of society. Undernourished people are more susceptible to contract the disease because of their poor immunity. The government must prevail upon the employers and join hands with factory owners to take care of the health of their workers.Rajiv SharmaTeamwork can help check spread of virusThe Capt Amarinder Singh government has failed miserably in its fight against the coronavirus disease as members of his Cabinet have been more interested in their fight against the bureaucracy. Kerala was the first state to report a Covid-19 positive case in January. The state witnessed the maximum number of positive cases from among migrant labourers coming from abroad before and during the lockdown period. With their sincere efforts, they were able to check the spread of the coronavirus. By March, after two months of reporting a positive case in Kerala, Punjab should have prepared itself in a better way to deal with the virus. With sincere efforts and teamwork can the state defeat Covid-19.Naresh JoharState govt doing its level bestSince the imposition of the first nationwide lockdown, our government has been doing its level best to make us safe and sound. But I am worried about the underprivileged and poor. Are they getting essential items of daily use easily? Are they getting food, clothing and shelter. The government should impress upon people the need to stay home to be safe. If people still do not obey, the government must take stringent action against violators. As one can see a crowd outside the liquor vends, the customers must be made to follow the social distancing norm. We appreciate the government for doing everything it can to save the countrymen.IzleenStart screening on the doorstep in stateIt should start screening and conduct other necessary tests of people on the doorstep across the state. It should put a ban on spitting in public places in the state. Before opening offices, factories, shops, etc, these places should be sanitised properly almost daily. Unless the situation is brought under control, nobody should be allowed to roam aimlessly in streets. Schools, colleges and universities should be asked to teach the importance of hygiene to students. A chapter on this topic must be included in the curriculum.Rohit Kumar SehdevExemplary punishment to check violationsI think the Punjab Government has taken many a step to contain the virus. Still, lots of efforts need to be taken by it in this regard. As we know, Covid-19 has spread in almost all parts of the country, we need to implement certain policies to check its further growth. First of all, the public should change their lifestyle. For example, everybody should wear masks while moving in public places and the government should make sure that they are easily available at cheaper rates. Masks should be provided free to the poor. Other measures like washing hands frequently, avoiding unnecessary travel and social gatherings, disinfecting phones, doorknobs frequently, etc, must be taken. If you are unwell, do not step out of the house. Do not shake hands and keep a distance from a person who is not your family member or those who do not live in your house. Exemplary punishment must be given for not obeying the social distancing norm. Places such as grocery shops, banks, mandis, etc, should be monitored. In these testing times, everyone should act as a responsible citizen and follow the recommendations of the Health Department.Anureet KaurEnsure security of medical staffNo government in the world has any previous experience of handling a Covid-like disease. The Government of India took time to act but that was a considered response based on the experience of Western countries which could not impose a lockdown. Fortunately, there has been full support from the state governments so far. As far as Punjab is concerned, CM Capt Amarinder Singh went ahead and announced a fortnight longer lockdown. Taking care of the medical fraternity and providing them much-needed security and adequate time to take rest should be the priorities of the government. We still have a few weeks for schools to open and authorities to decide how to restart the education system. Teachers must not be made to suffer. I remember in the 1970s, malaria claimed around 800,000 patients every year but with the serious efforts of the government coupled with the public support, it has been eradicated now. A well-oiled public healthcare system should now be created.Prof Mohan SinghSet up quarantine centres outside cityMany people have been brought back from different states and many more are yet to return. Why not? After all, it’s their right to be with their family members at home in these tough times. Before that, they just have to spend some time in quarantine centres and when they are medically fit they can move to their homes. But should these quarantine centres be based in cities? One fails to understand why the government is setting up quarantine centres in cities. Do the medical staff or other volunteers, who come in contact with Covid-19 patients, not spread the infection to other people living near such centres. The government should have quarantined Nanded pilgrims on the borders of the state and given them medical treatment and fulfilled all their needs there.Shivam SharmaState failed to screen nanded returneesI wish our PM had given time, at least two-three days, to all people to return to their homes before imposing the national lockdown. As it was not given, we have been seeing a spike in the number of coronavirus cases, not only in Punjab but everywhere. Cases started rising as people, especially migrant labourers, began to rush back to their home states, that too in panic, pain and confusion. Even no social distancing norms were followed by them. Coming to our state government, it failed to conduct health check-ups of many who returned from Nanded and other places. I doubt they did serious planning. As per media reports, there was no sign of hygiene and cleanliness in most of the quarantine centres. On the other hand, people do not hesitate in throwing norms and precautions to the wind and step out of their houess without any purpose. People should cooperate with the government by following all the norms and guidelines. Let’s not forget that ‘prevention is better than cure.’Rameshinder Singh SandhuRelieving the plight of migrant labourersOne is deeply moved by the plight of daily wagers and migrant labourers. Migrant workers, along with their family members, can be seen walking, encumbered with heavy bags, all the way to their far-off native villages in UP, Bihar, Jharkhand, etc. Though the Centre and state governments have appealed to employers to pay salaries to their workers, it seems requests have fallen on deaf ears. Most of the labourers have lost their jobs, leave alone getting salaries during the lockdown period. So, they are left with no option but to leave for their home. Thank God, some organisations in Punjab are organising langars and distributing ration. At least, many labourers will not have to sleep on an empty stomach. The government should arrange transportation for migrant labourers so that they reach their homes safely and join their families in this hour of crisis.Amarjit KalsiGovt must increase health budgetThe Punjab Government has made satisfactory efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic with its limited resources. Kudos to our Covid warriors in the Departments of Health, Police, Sanitation and others who have been tirelessly working day and night for us. The government should boost the morale of pandemic warriors by giving them adequate monetary benefits and recognition. Workplace security of all frontline warriors must be ensured so they can service with compassion, hope and human touch in this times of crisis. Money, socio-economic and cultural factors should not become a hindrance in the treatment of patients. The government should increase budget allocation to the health sector. More NGOs and other charitable institutions should be motivated and involved in humanitarian works. Weaker sections of society should be protected. People should also come forward to help the government.Janak Raj Sarangal QUESTIONThe schools are closed for indefinite period due to Covid-19 pandemic. Do you think that online teaching can compensate for the classroom teaching, which is completely amiss for the past nearly two months?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 21).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-govt-failed-on-many-fronts-to-contain-covid-19-86308
18-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Survival a challenge this year for automotive sector’||Kanav Aggarwal, chief executive officer of Jaycee Motors, dealer of Maruti Suzuki, Maruti Suzuki Nexa and Royal Enfield, talks about the automobile sector and the impact of the lockdown on it in an interview with Neeraj Bagga. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted the sale of cars?The coronavirus has spelled trouble for all sectors. So, the situation is similar for the automobile sector. The sale of cars has dipped since September and the number of enquiries has reduced sharply. The first quarter of the year saw a 25 to 30 per cent fall in the sale of four-wheelers in comparison to the corresponding period last year. There was a 12 to 15 per cent dip in the sale of two-wheelers in the first quarter this year as compared to same period last year. The district administration has prohibited the opening of showrooms. But, service centres were allowed to open with limited staff. Two months after the lockdown, most of the vehicles will require maintenance service.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?In the coming days, the sale of cars will be demand-driven rather than desire. Apparently, it will depend on the need of an individual. Impulsive buying will not take place. The entire business will depend on the behaviour of the market.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to employees?We paid salaries of March and disbursed partial salary of April. Since the service centre has been permitted to open, I have been figuring out how to call employees so that they must be paid well and on the social distancing norm must be followed. We have installed the sanitising apparatus to ensure complete sanitisation of vehicles.What is the share of online trading in your profession?The share of online trading is very limited till date. However, enquiries have increased from five to 15 per cent during the lockdown.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?Survival has become a challenge in the current year. Health is paramount. We introduced Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to disinfect all vehicles to keep the entire staff healthy.What are your expectations from the government?The government must stand by entrepreneurs. It is expected from the government that it looks after employees in the toughest period when the sales have vanished.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/survival-a-challenge-this-year-for-automotive-sector-86309
18-05-2020|| ---||Gunshots fired in Chheharta, 3 hurt||Amritsar, May 17 Panic gripped in the Baltian Wala Chowk in the Chheharta area when several unknown persons indulged in indiscriminate firing here late last evening. An old enmity between two groups is stated to be the reason behind the incident.  According to eyewitnesses, the accused were armed with firearms and they arrive on four cars in the area. Those injured in the firing were identified as Bira, Lakhwinder Singh and Sajan. They were taken to hospital for treatment.  According to information, the people closed down their doors and windows after hearing gunshots. They immediately sounded an alert to the police.  Bira told the media that the accused had a dispute with their neighbour. He said last night the accused came to the scene on car and started firing. People ran here and there and he was hit by a bullet in the melee while Lakhwinder Singh and Sajan were also injured.  The police authorities said the matter was under investigation and perpetrators were being identified. The police are also analysing the CCTV footage of the area to nab the accused.  Man attempts suicide in Gaggomahal; 3 booked  A man, identified as Balwant Singh (57), a resident of Gaggomahal village in the district, attempted suicide by consuming some poisonous substance after he was manhandled by three persons of the same village over a dispute. The victim was rushed to hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. The police have booked Pappu, his wife Jyoti and Beeja of the same village in this connection. No arrest has been made so far. Manjit Kaur, wife of the victim, told the police that they had a land dispute with the accused. He said around 7 pm on Saturday, her husband was returning home after taking dry fodder when the accused entered into a brawl with him. They manhandled him and also pulled his beard due to which he felt insulted. He later consumed poisonous substance. He was immediately rushed to hospital where he is under treatment. The police have registered a case under Sections 306, 511 and 295 of the Indian Penal Code against the accused. ASI Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating officer, said raids were on to nab the accused who were absconding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gunshots-fired-in-chheharta-3-hurt-86294
18-05-2020||---||Cops reveal their softer side, solemnise marriage of a poor girl||Amritsar, May 17Rickshaw-puller Bir Singh and his wife Rajni were in distress a couple of days ago as they had nothing for solemnising the marriage of their daughter Anu, which was fixed for Sunday.At this juncture, the Punjab Police came to their rescue and not only arranged for funds for the marriage, but also made all arrangements to welcome the ‘baraat’. The couple has two daughters. Due to lockdown, Bir Singh could not earn for the past two months and whatever earning he had was utilised in the survival during the lockdown period.Chheharta police, headed by SHO Rajwinder Kaur, said the customs were performed by them as maternal uncles and other relatives. The SHO did ‘kanyadan’ of the girl along with her parents.The SHO said they came to know about the plight of the girl’s family through some mediapersons and they decided to help the family. On Saturday, the Shagun ceremony was performed and they contributed from their own pockets for the same. Rajinder Singh, ASI in charge Mahal police chowki, made arrangements for the marriage.“The Punjab Police have worked day and night for the welfare of people during these challenging times, which arose due to unprecedented health crisis in the country,” she said. “We wanted to ensure that the girl has no regrets that her marriage was not conducted like other girls and that she could not fulfil her dreams. We wish the newly-wed couple a happy life ahead,” she said.Anu, the bride, thanked the Punjab Police for helping her family. She said she had never thought that it would even happen since the curfew restrictions were imposed due to Covid-19 around two months ago.The groom, Gopi, was also in for a surprise, when the cops of Chheharta police station welcomed him. A resident of Majjupura village, he said he witnessed a new face of Punjab Police that paid from their own pockets for the marriage. “I also belong to a poor family and I will never forget this moment. I salute the cops who helped us during our marriage,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-reveal-their-softer-side-solemnise-marriage-of-a-poor-girl-86295
18-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Illicit liquor, lahan seized; 11 held||Tarn Taran, May 17In a massive crackdown on those persons who were selling illegal liquor, teams of different police stations conducted raids at more than 20 places and recovered about 3 lakh ml of illicit liquor and 75 kg lahan here on Saturday. The police have booked 20 persons, including a woman identified as Sarabjit Kaur of the local town.The police had recovered just 1,000 ml of illicit liquor during the last 55 days of the lockdown imposed due to the Covid-91 threat. On the instructions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the police conducted raids at suspicious places.The move comes after the new wine contractors resumed work either from Friday or Saturday.The police recovered 30,000 ml of illicit liquor from the house of Sarabjit Kaur of Mohalla Guru Ka Khooh. She is a habitual seller of illicit liquor. The city police recovered illicit liquor from the residence of two more persons while the Sadar police raided the houses of five persons of Pandori Gola and Jeeobala and recovered about 25,000 ml of illicit liquor. Besides, the police teams of Goindwal Sahib, Chohla Sahib, Verowal, Sarhali, Chabal, and Sarai Amanat Khan too arrested accused with a huge quantity of illicit liquor. Cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act have been registered against the accused by the police stations concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illicit-liquor-lahan-seized-11-held-86297
18-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||It’s shopkeepers vs cops in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 17Shopkeepers in the holy city are confused over the opening of shops as the authorities have failed to introduce a system to be adopted for opening shops to the shopkeepers as well as cops at the ground level. They accuse the cops of harassing them.“We have the orders of the Deputy Commissioner with us in which the authorities state that shopkeepers can open their establishments from 10 am to 7 pm, but cops are not ready to listen and force us to close the shops saying that they don’t have any instructions from higher police officials,” said a grocery shop owner in the Putlighar area.Amid the curfew restrictions, the district administration had devised a system to open the markets so that the people could purchase their goods they needed. On May 13, the administration said while wholesale markets would remain open from 6 am to 10 am, the retail shops would function from 10.30 am to 3 pm. Later, the timings were extended by four hours.The shops on either side of wide roads would open on alternate days while establishments in the narrow walled city were categorised in three categories or zones and they would be allowed to open as per the days allotted to them. This way, they would be opened on two days of a week. However, salons, gyms, shopping malls, spa and beauty parlours would remain closed till further orders.“We are yet to get accustomed to this system, now the government has decided to lift the curfew but the lockdown will continue till May 31. We don’t know what would be the new instructions now. Who would be allowed and who would not be,” said another shopkeeper in the Lawrence Road area.The same problem is being felt in rural areas also. A senior rural police official said the message was not being conveyed at the ground level to the shopkeepers and to the cops as well, creating a trouble and confusion. We are making every effort to smoothen the system so that people were not inconvenienced and the government guidelines of social distancing, wearing mask and sanitization were maintained.DCP (Law and order) Jagmohan Singh said there may be problem in some area. “We have been in touch with traders and holding meetings on a regular basis to improve the system. Things would improve soon,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-shopkeepers-vs-cops-in-amritsar-86298
18-05-2020||Amritsar||Lockdown hits revenue collection of Amritsar Municipal Corporation||The Covid-19 lockdown has hit the revenue collection of the Municipal Corporation, posing finical challenges for the civic body. However, the MC has resumed its development works in the city.At a recent meeting with councillors, Mayor Karamajit Singh Rintu said all development works would be resumed and some of the projects would be inaugurated. The Mayor said tenders for development works were floated before the outbreak of the coronavirus and now, the work would be initiated.On Saturday, the Mayor inaugurated re-carpeting of the Majitha road.During the lockdown, residents have the option of paying taxes and bills online, but many did not pay their dues. MC staff involved in recovering pending dues were performing Covid-related duties. Therefore, recovery of taxes suffered.As the government is now going to lift the curfew and give several relaxations in the lockdown, MC officials are planning to focus on the recovery of tax."In this time of crisis, our main focus is on providing the undisrupted supply of potable water and other essential services. Sanitation was our priority to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. Now, we will ask the staff to make efforts to collect revenue," said Nitish Singla, MC Joint Commissioner.The state government had announced rebate on the one-time settlement of property tax and water sewerage bills before the outbreak of Covid-19. The MC staff were expecting good recovery of taxes. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-hits-revenue-collection-of-amritsar-municipal-corporation-86299
18-05-2020||---||3 fresh cases in district, count rises to 304||Amritsar, May 17The district reported three new Covid-19 positive cases here on Sunday. With this, the total count of positive cases in the district has increased to 304. Civil Surgeon Jugal Kishore said the three new patients had returned from the UAE recently.At present, the district has four active cases admitted to Covid care centre of Government Medical College here while 296 patients were discharged till Saturday evening.However, the government’s decision to discharge all asymptomatic cases in accordance with the Centre Government’s revised discharge policy for Covid-19 patients has come as a major shock for the general public.In the absence of any authentic information from the government side, it has only led to erosion of general public trust in government machinery and triggered many rumours being circulated on social media.Many people are questioning the move to discharge 286 patients in the last four days. People want to know whether they would act as disease spreaders or not as they have been allowed to go home.The district had discharged only 10 patients after it reported first case on April 7 to till May 12. Even the district’s first positive case, a resident of Guru ki Wadali village was discharged after 36-day stay in hospital.The district administration claimed that the asymptomatic patients who have been discharged are made to sign an undertaking that they would observe home quarantine for 14 days. Besides, the contact and details of a healthy family member who would take care of the patient is also being noted for further correspondence. The administration officials stated that the patients had been discharged as per the government policy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-fresh-cases-in-district-count-rises-to-304-86301
18-05-2020||Amritsar||Expert for direct sowing of paddy||Man killed, wife hurt in mishapTarn Taran: A 24-year-old man was killed while his wife received serious injuries when they met with an accident near Sarhali village, 25 km from here, on Saturday evening. The police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 337, 338 and 427 of the IPC against the driver of ‘peter rehra’. ASI Lakhwinder Singh, investigating officer, said the victim had been identified as Sajan Singh. His wife, Harpreet Kaur, was referred to an Amritsar hospital from the local Civil Hospital. Sajan, who was a resident of Patti town, was coming from Chohla Sahib village, along with his wife, on a motorcycle. When they reached near Sarhali village, their bike hit the vehicle which was parked on the roadside and was without tail lights. The driver of the vehicle has fled from the spot. OCFinancial help for drivers soughtAmritsar: The urban unit of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, seeking aid for taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers. Ashok Talwar, president of the unit, said business of taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers had been badly hit by the curfew. “The taxi and auto drivers who have bought their vehicles on loan are unable to pay instalments,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expert-for-direct-sowing-of-paddy-86304
18-05-2020||---||This versatile actor stays connected to audience through digital platforms||Amritsar, May 17The lockdown has failed to dampen the spirit of city-based versatile actor Gurinder Makna, who has enacted in 30 Bollywood films, two Hollywood films and numerous Punjabi movies so far. He says that with the availability of various digital platforms, it is not difficult to stay connected to the audience. His solo act play, ‘Ram Gau’ was recently live streamed on digital platforms, which has been much appreciated.Talking to The Tribune, Makna said, “There is so much to do during the lockdown. I started with water colour portraits of frontline corona warriors such as as doctors , nurses and others.”He said his home had literally turned into a theatre, where members of his family were donning different roles in his plays. Makna said he had also increased the frequency of short comic video clips during the lockdown to entertain people. “Depression is the worst of all ailments and people should remain happy. Sometimes these small videos make people laugh and I feel contended,” he said.Apart from streaming his plays live on digital platforms, Makna is also helping his fellow actors do the same. “I feel that a lot would change post Covid-19. It would not be the same world anymore. The things we have learnt or are doing now would remain central to our lives in the times to come,” he said.A patwari with the Punjab Revenue Department, Makhna has also penned six books. He had started his Bollywood career with Ram Gopal Verma’s ‘Jungle’. His other films included ‘Leather Life’, ‘Munna Bhai MBBS’ and ‘Lage Raho Munna Bhai’. His two Hollywood films included ‘Mango Dreams’ and ‘Zoops in India’.His family too joins himCity-based versatile actor Gurinder Makna says his home has literally turned into a theatre, where members of his family are donning different roles in his plays. Recently, his solo act play, ‘Ram Gau’ was live streamed on digital platforms, which has been much appreciated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-versatile-actor-stays-connected-to-audience-through-digital-platforms-86305
18-05-2020||---||He sanitised slums, govt buildings||Amritsar, May 17Vicky Dutta, a social activist and president of Jai Ho Club, has been working on several fronts during the lockdown imposed by government to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Vicky was the first person in the city who started carrying out sanitisation of slums and government buildings. Later, the Municipal Corporation and the Amritsar Improvement Trust also carried out sanitisation drives.“Our club used to carry out fogging during summers so we had the equipment such as spray pumps. I met pest management experts and asked for a solution in this situation. They advised me to use the sodium hypochlorite solution. We took more spray pumps and initiated the work on a large scale. Slums and government buildings were our priority. We had initiated the sanitisation drive from Hindustan Basti,” he said.Apart from this, Jai Ho Club used to distribute ration among 150 families daily. “We have distributed around 20,000 ration kits. Similarly, packed cooked food is being distributed in the Shakti Nagar area,” said Vicky.The NGO led by Vicky also identified the houses having newborn babies and distributed milk for mothers and children. It also arranged langar of bread and rusks near slums.Vicky’s NGO also refilled 30 LPG cylinders of needy persons who were unable to pay for the same due to job loss. “We found that residents of Dhobian Wali Gali near Shakti Nagar were unable to cook food due to non-availability of gas. Almost 35 households of the washermen community were sitting idle due to job loss. We were providing them ration, but they were unable to cook it. Daily wagers did have enough money to refill their LPG cylinders. So, we arranged 30 gas cylinders for them,” he added.Vicky said, “Recognising our services, the Union Government used a clip of club activists disinfecting the localities in a documentary, which was released by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-sanitised-slums-govt-buildings-86306
18-05-2020||Balwinder Laddi||‘Pandemic brought me closer to people’||WE learn more in crisis than in comfort. I may be a politician, but let me be very clear on one thing. These are not ordinary times, where we play politics and juggle with the safety of society. These are times that demand prompt decisions and utter responsibility towards not just ourselves, but also towards humankind. The virus scare has given me a chance to be among my constituents. I have already distributed more than 7,000 ration kits and more are coming. Rest assured, politics has been kept out of this process and unlike other local satraps, I have not kept in mind political affiliations of my people.Wherever I go, I see people throwing social distancing norms to the wind. I tell them that there is a fine line between solidarity and stupidity. Which side you want to be on is entirely up to your common sense.I would like to thank Radha Soami Satsang for the help they have extended in these times of distress. Be it distribution of ration kits or opening their doors to create isolation centres, their followers have been in the forefront. I salute them.I have been telling people to be more responsible as far as following rules is concerned. We cannot fix a sickness of society merely with strategy. That strategy has to be followed by the responsibility of the citizens. Have faith. Things will work out fine.(As told to Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-brought-me-closer-to-people-86307
