18-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Decades on, poor road infra bane of Khemkaran residents||Tarn Taran, October 17Over 70 years have elapsed since the country gained Independence but residents of Khemkaran border area are still waiting for civic amenities. Their area still cries for proper road connectivity. The condition of link roads in the area always remains in bad shape. Besides, the condition of the 50-km-long Khemkaran-Amritsar National Highway is also deplorable, adding to the residents’ worries.Earlier, it was known as the Khemkaran-Amritsar state highway. Eight years ago, the highway was upgraded as the national highway with its width being increased from 22 feet to 33 feet. This highway project is still far from completion. The road has become a lifeline for border area residents. Thousands of residents travel daily from the area to Amritsar and vice-versa. These include students, employees, farmers, traders, etc.Sahib Singh, a resident of the area, said people welcomed the project of the national highway as the road has been given divider facility which was to make the highway an accident-free zone. He said the part of the highway from Bhikhiwind to Khemkaran, which has been completed, was neither properly designed nor built as sewerage water of villages could be seen accumulated in the Bhikhiwind, Amarkot and Cheema parts of the highway.This defect was raised during the district-level officials’ meeting presided over by then Deputy Commissioner many times last year but the highways authorities paid no heed as a result of which residents are facing troubles.Arsal Singh Sandhu, state president of the Border Area Kisan Sangharsh Committee, said there was hardly any link road which was in good shape and smooth. He said that the link roads — Bhagwanpur to Makhi Kalan, Makhi Kalan to Dialpur, Algon Kalan to Kalsian with Margindpur-Bhagwanpur, Mehmoodpur to Maddar, Maddar to Van, Assal to Machhike-Rattoke, Tahli Chaunk to Manawan, Bhura Kona to Noorwala, Bhuram Kona to Bhura Karimpura, Valtoha to Bahadur Nagar, Khemkaran to Mehindipur, etc — had not been repaired over the years.Daljit Singh of Dialpur village said it was the routine work of the PWD that it took years to lay bitumen after the first layer of stoning on the link roads in the area which forced the residents to change their route to reach their destinations by covering miles. He said it was this due to the bad condition of link roads that private bus operators were unwilling to ply their buses along these routes. As a result, residents faced conveyance problem and found it difficult to go to nearby townships for shopping and other works.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/decades-on-poor-road-infra-bane-of-khemkaran-residents-157316
18-10-2020||---||Covid-19: 1 death, 33 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, October 17The death toll in the district mounted to 429 after one more person succumbed to the disease on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Tarsem Singh, a 65-year-old from Dhardeo village. The district health authorities have also reported 33 new cases. The new cases include 21 influenza-like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients. With this the total count of infections in the district has reached 11,399.Meanwhile, with recovery of 81 more patients, the recovery count has also increased to 10,550. The district, at present, has a total of 420 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-1-death-33-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-157317
18-10-2020||---||It’s celebration time for toppers in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 17It was a day of contentment and excitement for the successful candidates of the NEET-2020 as they celebrated with their families after results were declared here on Friday.Satyam Wahi secured first rank in the district, while Nipun Aggarwal became the first candidate from Batala to score maximum marks ever in NEET. Nipun scored 670 out of 720 and his AIR stands at 130. He is third in Amritsar district.His father owns a rice sheller and his elder sister, who is studying BDS from Manipal University, is his inspiration. “I want to pursue cardiology as I have always been curious about it. I think that my result was quite satisfactory as the lockdown and uncertainty over competitive exams this year was quite taxing for students,” Nipun said.A student of Sidana International School, Amritsar, he attributes his success to his family. “They sacrificed a lot to ensure that I got enough study time and my focus never shifted because of any other distractions. I had stayed away from social media completely and my parents limited their social interactions as well as they provided me with all resources to pursue my goals,” he said.His father Rohit Aggarwal was evidently proud of his son’s academic success. “I am happy that both my kids will become doctors and pursue noble profession. This pandemic has made us all realise the importance of doctors and healthcare professionals. It’s a proud moment for me as a father,” he said.Hardik Vyas, who scored 665 marks out of 720 and stood fourth in the district, said: “I dedicated the lockdown completely to my studies.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-celebration-time-for-toppers-in-amritsar-157318
18-10-2020|| Amritsar||Development works at Amritsar court complex begin||Dinesh Bassi, Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), inaugurated the development works at court complex. Bassi was also honoured by the Bar Association.Bassi said that there was a big problem of parking, toilets and seating arrangements at the complex. Keeping all these in view, all works have been commenced by the AIT. The work of repairing the Bar Association office has also been started. This will provide relief to lawyers and people coming to the court. Bassi said that development works would be done in the first phase at a cost of Rs 8 lakh. Vipan Dhand, head of the Bar Association, thanked Bassi and honoured him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/development-works-at-amritsar-court-complex-begin-157319
18-10-2020||---||Four jail inmates booked for possessing narcotics in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 17Four inmates of the Central Jail here have been booked after the recovery of mobile phones and narcotics powder from their possession. The accused have been identified as Manpreet Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran, Buta Singh of Sursing, Jagroop Singh of Goindwal Sahib, and Gurwinder Singh of Chananke village near Mehta.Officials of the jail stated that during the checking of barracks at the jail, around eight grams of narcotics powder and three mobile phones were recovered from the possession of the accused.A case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act and under sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act have been registered against the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-jail-inmates-booked-for-possessing-narcotics-in-amritsar-157320
18-10-2020||Bikramjit Singh||‘Staying positive key to defeat virus'||“Staying in a positive frame of mind is the mantra to defeat the deadly virus. We should not let the negative thoughts creep in," he said.Bikramjit Singh, a constableAll things suddenly changed after my colleague died of the virus and I tested positive. I knew it was going to be difficult times, but I was mentally prepared. You know Punjab Police personnel were at the forefront during the unprecedented health crisis we are facing. Bikramjit contracted the disease on duty. One of his colleagues in the Faizpura Chowki lost his battle to the virus while chowki in-charge was also hospitalised due to severe chest infection, though he had not contracted the disease."I had cough problem. But when my colleague collapsed and chowki in-charge was hospitalised the entire staff was medically examined. I tested positive on the third day of the test conducted by health authorities," he said.Initially, I was worried for my family and for my minor daughter. I was repeatedly getting calls from health authorities from here and Chandigarh which was causing anxiety. Later, I was allowed home quarantine for 17 days.“All things suddenly changed after my colleague died of the virus and I tested positive. I know it was going to be difficult times, but I was mentally prepared. You know Punjab Police personnel were at the forefront during the unprecedented health crisis we are facing," Bikramjit said.“It was very depressing when you cannot talk to your family members and you are contained in one room for a long time. I am a religious person, therefore it was my daily routine to pray to the Almighty," he said.“Besides I used to do exercises daily to keep myself mentally and physically strong to fight the virus. My family used to talk to me from a distance which also helped me in diverting my mind and remain in a positive frame of mind,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staying-positive-key-to-defeat-virus-157326
18-10-2020||---||Issues regarding upscale market in Ranjit Avenue, Amritsar discussed||Amritsar, October 17Members of the District Shopping Complex, Ranjit Avenue, convened a meeting to discuss various burning issues concerning the upscale market here on Saturday.HP Singh Chugh, president of the complex said: “Despite being one of the biggest and sought after commercial areas of the state, there were many infrastructural lapses which warranted immediate attention of the authorities”.“For instance, footpath and other surface infrastructure need repair. There are no dustbins in the areas and people are compelled to throw waste on roads and footpath”.Sanjay Vasudeva, general secretary said cycle track would not come on the market area and it would be diverted to internal roads of the Ranjit Avenue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/issues-regarding-upscale-market-in-ranjit-avenue-amritsar-discussed-157329
18-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||A cassette wala manages to survive in the age of internet||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 17The present-day ‘digital natives’, equipped with i-pods, internet and countless mobile apps for music, might find it strange and difficult to grasp that Raju Arora, owner of Mani Music Palace near Pipli Sahib Gurdwara in Putlighar area, still sells cassettes or tapes.At a time when cassettes’ successor music CD (compact disc) too has become extinct, Arora is perhaps the only person having a shop dedicated to old music paraphernalia. The demand for cassettes has gone down after the popularity of CDs in the 21st century.Raju Arora, owner of the shopThe happiness which I see on the faces of music lovers when they find an old cassette which they had been looking for years encourages me to continue in the business. Some of them are ready to pay anything for an old cassette but I always charge them what is just. Earlier this week, a person from New Amritsar came looking for a CD of Naseeb Apna Apna (an old Hindi movie). Then there was a customer who purchased a set of seven cassettes. old customers still visit Arora’s shop for buying cassettes. Just this morning I received a message from one of my old customers residing in the US. He has sent a list of 41 cassettes. I have 27 of them in the shop. For some years, the music companies continued to produce cassettes along with CDs. However, with the internet taking over, the sale of CDs too diminished. It was around 2014, the music companies altogether stopped producing cassettes.But old customers still visit Arora’s shop for buying cassettes. “Just this morning I received a message from one of my old customers residing in the US. He has sent a list of 41 cassettes. I have 27 of them in the shop,” said Raju.“Earlier this week, a person from New Amritsar came looking for a CD of Naseeb Apna Apna (an old Hindi movie). Then there was a customer who purchased a set of seven cassettes,” said Arora, adding that almost every day someone comes looking for old cassettes or CDs.With change in times and preferences of music lovers, Arora’s profits too have come down but to stay afloat he has diversified and opened a ready-made garments shop. Raju also owns Saral Audio and Video Recording company, a firm named after his son Saral Arora.“The happiness which I see on the faces of music lovers when they find an old cassette which they had been looking for years encourages me to continue in the business. Some of them are ready to pay anything for an old cassette but I always charge them what is just,” he adds.Arora had opened the shop on October 19, 1990. “Before opening the shop I learned the business from my paternal uncles — Narinder Thukral and Brij Mohan Thukral — who owned TMC cassette company,” he revealed.Talking about the change in times, Arora said, “Most of the kids these days do not even know what a Walkman, Tape recorder (player) or a deck is? They would find cassettes outdated. But those who had got a cassette of selected songs recorded and gifted it to their loved ones would still travel all the way to Putlighar to visit the shop and meet Raju Arora.” He boasted that in those days orders for cassette recordings from youngsters were so huge that he would ask them to collect the cassette after three days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-cassette-wala-manages-to-survive-in-the-age-of-internet-157330
18-10-2020||Amritsar||NRI threatened, Jail inmate booked in Amritsar||Sachar is senate member of GNDUAmritsar: Senior leader and district Congress committee Amritsar rural president Bhagwant Pal Singh Sachar has been appointed senate member of Guru Nanak Dev University for two years by the Governor and Chancellor of the university. Sachar said that he would leave no stone unturned to take the university to the pinnacle and strengthen the higher education sector in Punjab. "Guru Nanak Dev University has been ranked among the reputed universities in the country for its outstanding contribution in the field of higher education as well as in research and skill development. The Punjab Government would extend all possible support to make it the best regional university," he said. Bhagwant Pal Sachar is a member of the governing council of Khalsa College, member of the Chief Khalsa Diwan, president of Guru Khalsa High School, Shamnagar, vice- president of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Public School, Hidayatpur (Dhade). He is also member in-charge of Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School, Majwind. Sachar, a civil engineering graduate, is associated with the political arena as well as religious and social organisations.. TNSEffigy of Prime Minister burntAmritsar: Activists of the Lok Bhalai Insaf Welfare Society burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his stubborn stance on the three legislations on farming recently passed by Parliament here on Saturday. They held a sit-in outside a shopping mall where stores of Reliance company were operational. As a precautionary measure the management of the shopping mall closed the entire unit. Baldev Singh Sirsa, president of the Lok Bhalai Insaf Welfare Society, said ignoring the stir of farmers by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi showed his priority. He preferred to please the corporate sector at the cost of annoying the hard working farmers who form the bulwark of all sections of the entire country and toil hard in the fields for the rest of the people. He demanded that the Union government should immediately withdraw the three legislations on farming recently passed by the Parliament. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nri-threatened-jail-inmate-booked-in-amritsar-157331
