18-12-2020||Though much of the original structure of the city had changed in the period between 1628 and 1765 due to the Mughal invasion and then again at the time of Partition due to large-scale burning of buildings||Standing the test of time||Shopkeepers sitting on ground with white sheets spread underneath and a heap of ledgers besides them is a common sight. And, these are not small businessmen mind you, but wholesalers with their annual turnovers running into several crores. Sitting away from the glitter and glamour of modern office spaces, these traders are the essence of old city set up by Guru Ram Das.The remnants of the traditional building style — some restored, others in a shambles — can be spotted while strolling in the by-lanes of the old city. Each time the city was rebuilt, residents experimented with new styles but locals’ preference for old names remained intact. Katras (neighbourhoods) named after leaders of Sikh misls, forts, bungas (resting places for devotees), gardens, and havelis, mostly built in the period from 1765 to 1802, are still known by these names.Karmon DeodiKarmon Deodi was demolished in December 1838 on the orders of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Mai Karmon was a revenue officer close to Sada Kaur, Maharaja’s mother-in-law. The Maharaja got it demolished on the pretext that the low height of the deodi would pose hindrance for the movement of elephants as Lord Auckland, the then Governor General of British India (1836-1842), was to visit the Golden Temple on December 11. However, historians believe that it was a move to show Sada Kaur her place in the durbar. Well, only a Maharaja can afford to antagonise his mother-in-law! An electricity transformer has been installed at the place, but even after 182 years of its demolition, the place is still known as Karmon Deodi.A prominent ‘hikmatkar’ (one who practises medicine) Shado Nai had set up the practice around two centuries ago. Seven generations later, the shop is still visited by patients with various ailments. The House of Surgery also provides minor surgical facilities. Even the street is named after Shado Nai. In Punjab, most people from the community, apart from being barbers, were professional cooks and ‘hikmatkars’.Bheedi (narrow) GaliThe narrow lanes in which only a single person can cross at a time without his shoulders touching the walls are a prominent feature of the street structure in the old city. Though the city has numerous such lanes, the one near the Partap Bazaar is known by the name of Bheedi Gali.Bazaar Kanjrian (now Partap Bazaar)As the courtesans operated from the area, the market was known as Bazaar Kanjrian or Bazaar Mughla. The chajjas (wooden balcony constructed on the street side) were used by the courtesans to attract prospective clients. These structures can still be seen in the market.Raja MarketRaja of Poonch, Shiv Rattan Dev Singh, owned several properties around the Golden Temple, which were later purchased by immigrants from Sialkot. One of these properties, Raja Market, still bears his name. Lala Wasti Ram had played a prominent role in making the deal with the Raja’s munshi in 1950. Most importantly, shops still have wooden benches for customers to sit. Lala Wasti Ram’s son Surinder Bhatia (77) is president of the market. Surinder says though they were the owners of the property, they feel proud that it once belonged to Raja Shiv Rattan. A scene from Diljit’s movie ‘Punjab 1984’, wherein Sonam Bajwa comes to buy clothes before her marriage, was shot at this market.Chajjas as a symbol of affluenceThe old Ambarsariyas loved chajjas (balconies) carved out of wood with intricate floral designs. Despite numerous variations and experiments with European style, chajjas outside the residences of prominent residents were a common feature. The owners of buildings constructed in the early 20th Century, were more swayed by European style, but their love for chajjas did not fade with time.Angreji PallaThe Angreji Palla (English door) had been in prominent use as the European style became quite prevalent. It became so popular that even commoners used it in their homes until recently. However, later with the popularity of ply-board doors and other variants, that are budget-friendly, its popularity diminished over time. In the picture, one can see the abandoned building at the entrance of Korian Wali Gali, the crawling street, where Indians were not allowed to walk but had to crawl as dictated by the British.Baskets hanging outside windows still commonThe practice of a hanging a basket outside the windows is still prevalent in many parts of the city. Women in the area used the basket to buy groceries, vegetables and other items from street vendors. It enabled them to avoid climbing and descending the stairs to make purchase. While the vendor would put the items in the basket, the women would send the money down using the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/standing-the-test-of-time-186044
18-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Intense cold wave grips Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17With minimum temperature hovering around 2 degrees Celsius, the intense cold wave has gripped the city and its surrounding areas.The intense cold weather has impacted general life and market places can be seen deserted late in the evening.Even during the day, people can be seen sitting around fire in market places to keep themselves warm. The below normal daytime temperature has forced people to wear warm attire while moving out of their homes.While the intense cold continued for the third consecutive day on Thursday, residents, thankfully, woke up to a clear sky, as fog had disappeared. Residents stated that cold wave has come a week early than usual. With weather forecast reports predicting the condition to persist for a few days, residents are expecting tough days due to harsh winter season.Roads, public parks and playgrounds, which used to brim with activity and enthusiasm a week ago, can now be seen deserted during the early morning hours. Doctors, too, have advised residents, especially the elderly, to avoid jogging during the intense cold.“People, especially children and the elderly, should avoid exposure to cold, as it might result in health troubles,” suggested Dr Sandeep Aggarwal, paediatrician at Government Medical College.“Usually the intense cold season in the city starts from the last week of December and continues till the first week of January,” expressed an elderly. While the intense cold is the topic being widely discussed in most social interactions, residents are worried about the plight of farmers protesting in Delhi for the past more than three weeks.“Though I love winter season as it gives me a chance to roam around dressed in heavy jackets, this time I am feeling guilty. While people are sleeping on roads, how can I be cheerful?” asked a medical student Manpreet Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/intense-cold-wave-grips-amritsar-185732
18-12-2020||---||Hygiene, health become part of platter at eateries||Amritsar, December 17Workers donning masks, gloves and caps while cooking and serving food at dhabas in the city was not a usual sight in the pre-Covid period. After the pandemic struck, taking these measures became the need of the hour. Earlier, there was no implementation of standard guidelines of the Health Department ensuring the sanitation at dhabas. The pandemic has brought the dhaba owners back to the basics.Sham Sunder Kala, owner of Kale da Dhaba at Kacheri Chowk, said, “Though, we never ignored the guidelines of the Health Department, after pandemic, we are taking the sanitation issues more seriously. Customers are being asked to sanitise their hands. Cooks and other workers wear mask, gloves and caps as per the directions of government. We are concerned about the health of public and our workers.”Janak Raj, another Dhaba owner at Majitha Road, said, “People rely more on multinational food chains when it comes to sanitization. The local food joints are being looked down upon when it comes to maintaining hygiene. So, it becomes important for us to allay their fears. We made it mandatory for workers to wear face masks.”Not only dhaba owners, even the roadside vendors are following the basic guidelines. Vendors can be seen serving food by wearing gloves. Even the Health Department officials used to issue challans of vendors occasionally.The residents are also observing the positive change at food joints.Jasjit Kaur, a resident of Silver Estate, said, “I rarely dine out or visit roadside vends.We do have concerns about hygiene, but we welcome these measures. It should sustain forever.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hygiene-health-become-part-of-platter-at-eateries-185733
18-12-2020||---||Vendors seek alternative space||Amritsar, December 17 Vendors at 22 Number Phatak in Islamabad submitted a memorandum to the Municipal Corporation Commissioner and demanded alternate space to construct kiosks. The MC had removed 10 kiosks for the construction of railway overbridge.  Ved Parkash, one of the vendor, said, “I am running my small business for the last several years. It was my sole source of income. We have families to feed. Earlier, the MC had vacated our kiosks at Putaligarh. The MC should provide us some alternative space to run our businesses”.  Amarjit Singh, another vendor, said, “We have cooperated with the MC and vacated vends. Now, the MC should provide us space to install kiosks on compassionate grounds”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vendors-seek-alternative-space-185734
18-12-2020||---||Cops freeze property worth Rs 3.10 cr of 2 peddlers||Amritsar, December 17  The Tarn Taran police have freezed Rs3.10 crore’s properties of drug smugglers and bootleggers, including that of Gurpal Singh, who was among the prime suspects in hooch tragedy, which claimed life of more than 125 persons in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala in July. Gurpal is a brother of another prime suspect, Rashpal Singh, who is on the run. Tarn Taran Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman Nimbale said Gurpal of Pandori Golan village was booked under the NDPS Act in November 2014. He said the police had seized 206-gm heroin and 150-gm intoxicant powder.  The competent authorities gave go ahead to freeze his properties worth Rs2.43 crore, which including two palatial houses and two residential plots, he said. The Senior Superintendent of Police said they were also looking into details of properties owned by Rashpal. Similarly, the police freezed properties of another drug peddler identified as Rashpal Singh of Dhun Dhai Wala village falling under the jurisdiction of Goindwal Sahib police station. Nimbale said the police had confiscated 750-gm heroin from his possession in September. His house worth Rs 66 lakh has been freezed following orders from the competent authorities. The Tarn Taran police have freezed properties of as many as 89 smugglers valued at Rs 114.72 crore to date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-freeze-property-worth-rs-3-10-cr-of-2-peddlers-185735
18-12-2020||Gs Paul---||Ex-servicemen head for Singhu border in Delhi||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 17 Amid farmers’ protest against the newly enacted farm laws, a group of ex-servicemen from Amritsar has shown solidarity with them. On Thursday, around 90 retired defence personnel left for Singhu border to join the protests. Col Gurmukh Singh (retd) told that the purpose of move was to enliven the slogan ‘jai jawan-jai kisan’ and extending a helping hand and moral support to the farmers who have been keeping the flame of the fighting spirit ignited.  “You cannot separate the ‘jawans’ and ‘kisan’ as you can find generally in Punjab, both belong to the same family. Our joint aim was to help the farmers, who amid the biting cold have been staging sit-ins at New Delhi borders for their rights and future prospects. So, the initial thought was to boost the morale of the farmers at this juncture. Together, we rose around Rs5 lakh to be utilised for what was required for the protest,” he said.  Col Sarparinder Singh Sandhu (retd) said that if we are successful in our first attempt to help farmers at Singhu border, we could extend our services to farmers at Tikri border too. He said that a positive approach has been adopted that was devoid of any ill-will. “We are over 350 ex-servicemen who joined hands for the cause, but we could not allow all to go to Delhi border. We will extend services in batches. For the purpose – to maintain sanitation at the protesting site – we have also been taking along the professional sanitation workers. We are also carrying tinned milk for the farmers,” he said. Subedar Davinder Singh appealed the Centre to revoke the farm laws that were never had sat with the farmers. “We fail to understand that when the farmers themselves were reluctant to accept, why was there a hitch to revoke the new law? The Centre should shun ego and repeal the laws that were framed keeping in view the interest of big corporate houses,” he questioned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-servicemen-head-for-singhu-border-in-delhi-185736
18-12-2020||---||38 +ve cases reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 17  With 38 new positive cases, the Covid-19 count increased to 14,107 in the district on Thursday. The new cases include 26 influenza like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients.  The district didn’t witness any death due to the virus on Thursday. The toll stood at 533 today. Meanwhile, with recovery of 41 patients, the recovery count reached 12,856. At present, the district has 718 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/38-ve-cases-reported-in-amritsar-185737
18-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||4 cell phones seized from 4 jail inmates||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17Days after busting a “drone module” allegedly involved in smuggling of drugs and weapons from across the border, the police have booked two peddlers for running the racket through mobile phones from the Amritsar Central Jail.The accused have been identified as Simranjit and Surjit Masih. The duo was booked following a tip-off provided by Lakhbir Singh, alias Lakha, of Chak Mishri Khan village, and Bachittar Singh of Guru Amar Dass Avenue, who were arrested by the Amritsar (Rural) police in the drone module racket.The police had recovered a heavy-duty quadcopter drone with a full-supporter stand and one SkyDroid T10 2.4GHz 10CH FHSS transmitter, along with mini receiver and camera support from Lakhbir and Bachittar.The jail authorities seized six mobile phones during the search operation, besides Simranjit and Surjit, mobile phones were also recovered from Sarabjit Singh and Vikramkjit Singh, while two cell phones were found abandoned in dustbins.The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against the accused.Investigations were under progress to ascertain how they managed to sneak in the prohibited material inside the high security jail complex.Investigating Officer Sarabjit Singh, in-charge, Fatehpur police chowki, said the accused would be brought on production warrant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-cell-phones-seized-from-4-jail-inmates-185738
18-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Police add murder, rape charges to FIR||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17Over four months after the mysterious death of a nurse, Jyoti Masih, working in a private hospital on the Majitha road here, the police have added the charges of murder and rape in the case following the autopsy report.The medical board constituted for the postmortem examination of her body in its findings has revealed that she had died of asphyxia.“After going through autopsy findings and viscera reports, board is of the opinion that likely cause of death in the case is due to asphyxia and possibility of sexual abuse cannot be ruled out,” said the report signed by three members of the medical board.Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said that on the basis of the report we have added the sections of murder (302 IPC) and rape (376 IPC) in the FIR. He said though the section of rape has been added, but it needs to be investigated.A Special Investigation Team headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sandeep Kumar Malik is probing the case.The 21-year-old nurse was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her hostel room in August. The police had booked four persons for causing death by negligence (304-A, 34 IPC) at that time. Those booked were identified as Gurpreet Singh, Sanjay Sharma, manager of the hospital, his wife Kirti Sharma and Munish Kumar, all employees of the hospital.The family members had demanded registration of murder case while pointing out that the victim was having sharp injuries on her neck and feet and an empty injection near her body. It appeared that she was injected poison, which led to her death, they alleged.The autopsy report said no poison was detected in the viscera.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-add-murder-rape-charges-to-fir-185739
18-12-2020||Neha Saini||Amritsar schools for special kids stare at closure||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 17City schools imparting education to special kids are on the verge of closure due to drying up of funds amid Covid-induced uncertainties, putting the future of around 250 kids and 25 teachers in jeopardy. The online medium of schooling amid the pandemic is also proving to be an impediment.There are three main schools devoted to the cause of children with special needs in Amritsar. Government-affiliated Pehal Resource Centre has 128 students. Dharminder Gill, centre coordinator, says, “We haven’t received any funds from the government or private donors after the Covid lockdown was imposed. The collaborations with NGOs and other agencies are on hold. We are barely surviving.” The other institutes, Ibadat and Agosh, running completely on donations, have also been facing a major financial crunch. “With sharp decline in donations, we are struggling to make ends meet. Arranging salaries has become a herculean task,” says Shilpi Ganguly, principal at Ibadat.A majority of the children in these schools are those with intellectual disabilities, including cerebral palsy and autism, who need physical activity-based learning. Then there are visually impaired kids who cannot take online classes without Braille documents while those with hearing disabilities require sign language instructors.“The learning of students from poor families, without any means and devices, has been put on hold in the absence of an inclusive mechanism of digital learning and support system. A learning hiatus in such children can further impede their growth and even trigger behavioral changes,” says Shilpi. The literacy rate among special kids in our country is already dismal, she adds.The parents, meanwhile, are finding it tough to make their children learn through virtual medium. “Special kids cannot operate smartphones or laptops without assistance. Individual learning plans have to be made keeping in mind specific needs,” says Prerna Khanna, whose son has cerebral palsy. “As a parent, one has to constantly sit through online class, document everything and try not to miss on any detail,” she adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-schools-for-special-kids-stare-at-closure-185773
