19-09-2020||---||Bus owner killed over ‘timings’||Amritsar, September 18A dispute over the timings of buses turned ugly when a bus owner was allegedly killed by three persons and his body was dumped near a drain here on Thursday. The victim has been identified as Gurpreet Singh (33). His body had marks of injury by sharp-edged weapons while fingers of his one hand were chopped.The suspects have been identified as Dilpreet Singh, alias Babbu, his two brothers Gurpreet Singh and Gurmukh Singh of Mehalan Wala village falling under the Jhander police station here. Further investigations were underway, said Sub-Inspector Rajinder Singh, investigating officer (IO) in the case.Amrik Singh, the father of the victim, told the police that as per routine, his son took his mini-bus and went on his route three days ago. He said at 3.30 pm on Tuesday, he called his wife and told her that he would be return home within 15 minutes. However, he did not come. On this, they filed a missing report with the Rajasansi police station.On Thursday, he said Amrik Singh’s family was informed that Gurpreet’s bike was parked near a drain and when he reached there along with other family members they found his body in the bushes. He had sharp weapon injury marks on the body which revealed that he had been murdered.Amrik suspected that Gurpreet, Gurmukh and Dilpreet had killed him. He said he had a dispute with him over bus timings. The trio had thrashed Gurpreet Singh earlier, too. He and his brother had four buses. They sold three buses as they would often have disputes regarding timings. He alleged that the suspects had threatened to kill his son some days ago.On the statement of Amrik Singh, a case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC has been registered against Dilpreet, Gurpreet and Gurmukh Singh, said the IO.Meanwhile, family member of Gurpreet Singh on Friday staged a protest outside the Civil Hospital here as there was no arrangement for upkeep of the deceased’s body at the hospital’s post mortem house. They raised slogans against the hospital authorities.The dharna was lifted after Senior Medical Officer Dr Charanjit Singh ordered a probe into the incident. The body was handed over to his family members after the postmortem.Already sold three buses, says father of victimThe father of the victim has alleged that the suspects would often fight with his son over the issue of bus timings, due to which he sold three of his four buses. A few days ago, they had threatened to kill his son, he said. On September 15, when the victim did not return, the family started searching for him and found his body, with injury marks, near a drain on Thursday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bus-owner-killed-over-timings-143067
19-09-2020||
||5 nabbed for Sultanwind robbery||Amritsar, September 18  With the arrest of five persons, the police on Friday claimed to have solved a robbery case in which a woman was looted in the Sultanwind Road area here a week ago. Those arrested were identified as Daljit Singh of Bharariwal, Kuldip Singh of Majitha, Vishal Singh of Majitha, Gurpreet Singh of Rori village (Majitha) and Sukhdev Singh of Kot Mit Singh on the Tarn Taran road here. The police recovered two snatched mobile phones, two sharp-edged weapons, a motorcycle and a toy pistol from their possession. Two of their accomplices, including Gurdyal Singh, alias Gochha of Dolenangal village in Beas, and Arsh Gupta of Harkrishan Avenue Link Road Sultanwind were yet to be arrested. Perneet Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, said the accused had committed the robbery on the directions of Sukhdev Singh, a resident of the same locality. He was in need of money. Investigation revealed that Gochha had fired a gunshot that led to the injury of a youth. He said further investigation was under progress. Gochha was a proclaimed offender in an NDPS case registered with the Beas police last year. Six armed persons had robbed a woman, identified as Harbhajan Kaur, of Bhai Manjh Singh Road in the Sultanwind area here on September 10. While fleeing, the accused started firing leaving one person injured. The police had managed to find CCTV grab of the suspects on the basis of which the police had identified Gurdyal Singh. The victim said they ran a small grocery store on the ground floor of the house. She told the police that six persons came on bikes and four of them gained entry to the shop. She said the accused were armed with sharp-edged weapons and a pistol and had their faces covered. Immediately after entering the shop, they thrashed and tried to strangulate her. As people started gathering, the accused decamped with around Rs 35,000 and four mobile phones, she said. Her son, Rajinder Singh, who also reached the spot after being informed, was pushed by the accused who fired while running away. The bullet hit his friend Arshdeep Singh who was accompanying him. Rajinder had gone to the Khalsa Nagar area for some work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-nabbed-for-sultanwind-robbery-143068
19-09-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Frequent recovery of cell phones from prisoners a nuisance for agencies||Tribune News Service Amritsar, September 18  The frequent recovery of cell phones from prisoners, including terrorists, gangsters and smugglers, has become a headache for security and intelligence agencies as steps taken by the authorities have proved insufficient to curb the sneaking of mobiles inside high-security jails. On Wednesday, the jail authorities confiscated burnt remains of mobile phones from a Khalisan Zindabad Force operative, Shubhdeep Singh, who was nabbed in connection with the seizure of drones used for smuggling arms and drugs from across the international border. Shubhdeep was in touch with the two alleged KZF operatives Harjeet Singh alias Raju and Shamsher Singh Shera, both residents of Mianpur village in Tarn Taran, nabbed by the Punjab Police two days ago. With their arrest, the police claimed to have averted a major terror incident in Punjab. Following his arrest, Shubhdeep had thrown his mobile into the hearth used for cooking food. He later threw the burnt remnants of mobile phones in the gutter. A case was registered against him. Sources in the police department and in the Amritsar Central Jail preferring not to be named said that nearly 160 mobiles were recovered from prisoners and abandoned in different parts of the complex so far this year. In the past, the police had recovered from gangsters Bagga Khan, Akul Khatri and Amanpreet Singh Rinka at different points of time. A mobile phone was also confiscated from terrorist Maan Singh. A family member of a jail inmate who died of alleged drug overdose in the recent past had also said the deceased used to interact with them on videoconference on mobile. “The mobiles were easily available in the jail complex and all you have to do is pay the price,” he said. The same was reiterated by an officer of the intelligence wing of the Punjab Police. “We have informed the Punjab Government a number of times that smugglers, gangsters and terrorists caught in the past were operating their networks from the jail using mobile phones. However, the problem still persists,” he pointed out. A jail official said the government had deployed paramilitary forces inside the jail premises for security but there were flaws in the construction of the Amritsar Central Jail as the outer boundary walls were high enough. Unscrupulous elements throw prohibited material, including mobile phones, into the complex. He also did not rule out the involvement of certain staff members in it. Investigations carried out in previous mobile seizure cases reveal that mobiles are allegedly sold on the jail premises at a price. A smart phone is sold anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000. The prices could go up to Rs 40,000 as per the security situation inside the jail. While inmates try to sneak in mobile phones by hiding them in their private parts, black sheeps take from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 for slipping the same into the jail, said the sources in the jail. Meanwhile, a mobile phone was confiscated from a prisoner, identified as Bhupinder Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur. He was in possession of a mobile phone when search parties made the seizure. Another unclaimed mobile phone was seized from a dustbin in the jail complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/frequent-recovery-of-cell-phones-from-prisoners-a-nuisance-for-agencies-143069
19-09-2020||---||‘Outer circular road to be developed as smart road’||Amritsar, September 18The outer circular road from the 12 gates around the walled city would be developed as a smart road under the Smart City Mission, said Cabinet Minister OP Soni after inaugurating the work here on Friday.The project cost of the 7.4-km-long circular road would be 125 crore and the work would be completed in 28 months. Post construction, the company concerned would handle the maintenance work for the next five years. Marshals would be deployed to prevent encroachments, he said.Minister Soni said at present, the road was in a dilapidated condition, leading to frequent traffic jams, besides problems to pedestrians due to encroachments. “In the coming months, the road would become one of the most beautiful roads of the historic city,” said Soni. He said the road development would also boost tourism as tourists would be able to travel up to the historical wall city and areas around the 12 gates, which would give a fillip to business of shopkeepers in these areas.“Lights would be installed on road sides to add to beautification and a parking lot would also be established to facilitate travellers and streamline the traffic,” said the minister.On the occasion, Smart City CEO Komal Mittal said the project would be one of the major initiatives taken under the Smart City Mission and under it, desilting of sewerage would also be done, along with lying of new sewage lines as per requirements.She said all electricity wires and other cables would be taken underground, eliminating the need of digging for lying of cable lines in the future. Besides this, all electricity poles and transfers would also be removed and replaced with new compact substations. The CEO said 1.8m-wide cycle tracks would also be constructed on both sides of the road.Besides footpaths for pedestrians, parking facilities for cycle rickshaws and auto-rickshaws would be set up. Landscaping would be done for beautification of the road, along with installation of street furniture, establishment of green belt, bus stop shelters, lights, sign board, digital advertising boards, etc.New street vendor zones would also be provided to vendors where they can put up stalls without encroaching footpaths, said Komal Mittal.Among others present on the occasion included Deputy Mayor Yunis Kumar, Market Committee Chairman Arun Pappal, councillor Vikas Soni, Surinder Shinda, Mahesh Khanna, Dharmvir Sareen, Parmjit Chopra, ADCP Sartaj Chahal, Inder Khanna, Rajiv Soni and Rajesh Kumar.The road will have footpaths, parking lots, underground wires, bus stop shelters, beautification lights, sign board, digital advertising boards, street furniture, green belt, street vending zones, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/outer-circular-road-to-be-developed-as-smart-road-143070
19-09-2020||---||5 Amritsar residents succumb to virus, 400 new infections||Amritsar, September 18The district health authorities reported the death of five persons due to Covid-19 taking the toll to 289 on Friday. Besides, 400 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 7,817 in the district.A total of 208 positive patients, who have been cured, were discharged from hospitals.The victims have been identified as 45-year-old Vivek Sehgal; 57-year-old Sawinder Kaur; 45-year-old Narinder Singh; 45-year-old Asha Vij and an unknown body.Tarn Taran: Meanwhile, the Covid-19 sample report of Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh came out negative here on Friday. The report of District Revenue Officer (DRO) Arwinderpal Singh too was declared as negative. A team of the Health Department had collected samples of 45 officials and employees working in the District Administrative Complex (DAC) on Wednesday. DC Kulwant Singh has urged all the residents of the district to get themselves tested to defeat the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-amritsar-residents-succumb-to-virus-400-new-infections-143072
19-09-2020||       ||Illegal structure pulled down near ammo dump||Amritsar, September 18An illegal structure falling in the ammunition dump area at Vallah was pulled down by the authorities concerned recently.The Army has put restrictions on raising structures within 1,000 yards of the ammunition dump. Owing to this reason, the area has not been provided basic amenities like sewerage, roads, etc.About eight structures were already standing in the same area but the authorities are strictly enforcing the law that no new structure should come up.The area houses the wholesale fruit and vegetable market of the district. The development of infrastructure for the market has been put on hold as the Army objects to the setting up of the market.Even as the issue of shifting the ammunition dump from the wholesale fruit and vegetable market at Vallah was taken up with the Union Defence Ministry, some people resort to illegal construction of houses and even shops in its residential areas.Sanjeev Kumar, SHO, Police Chownki, Vallah, said he was not aware which authority pulled down the under-construction structure but he recently held a meeting with the traders and asked them to strictly abide by the norms. Otherwise, he would be constrained to register cases against the violation. He also suggested them to set up a separate parking area in the market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-structure-pulled-down-near-ammo-dump-143073
19-09-2020||Our Correspondent||App to track stolen vehicles in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 18The district will launch “eNakabandi” application to keep an eye on anti-social elements and trace stolen vehicles.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale on Friday gave one-day training to the SHOs and other gazette officials of the district.At the initial stage three high tech nakas will be set up at Harike headworks, the road starting from Kapurthala connecting Goindwal Sahib and on the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road at Gohalwar village. The app will provide information about the vehicles being checked. The data will help us crack cases of stolen vehicles. The SSP said in spite of strict vigil drugs and illicit arms were being recovered along the Indo-Pak border in the district. He said the movements of many gangsters were observed in the Tarn Taran area and some of them have unidentified hideouts and harbourers in the district. In bid to check over-speeding and identifying vehicles at fault, the police are all set to install hi-tech speed radar cameras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/app-to-track-stolen-vehicles-in-tarn-taran-143074
19-09-2020||---||Passing-out parade of Customs’ canines held||Amritsar, September 18As many as 10 dogs and their handlers passed out during the customary parade of the first batch of Customs’ canines Customs K-9 Centre at Attari here on Friday.The ceremony was flagged off by Sungita Sharma, Zonal Member, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, New Delhi, through an online mode in the presence of Ranjana Jha, Chief Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Delhi Zone, New Delhi.The mesmerising event was comprised of breathtaking canine drill in which all the 10 trained detector dogs and their handlers presented their obedience, discipline and agility skills.AS Ranga, Commissioner of Customs (Preventive), Amritsar, said this was the first such project for the Indian Customs through which the canine squads were being trained in detection of various contrabands such as narcotics, wildlife, fake currency and tobacco. He also presented the commendation certificates, mementoes to the passed-out dogs and their handlers.Sungita Sharma laid emphasis on the changing of the modus operandi of smuggling activities which were challenging to bust without the help of sniffer dogs.Ranjana Jha discussed how the dog squad would go a long way in strengthening the anti-smuggling functioning across the country once they were deployed in their respective customs formations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passing-out-parade-of-customs-canines-held-143075
19-09-2020||Amritsar||MC suspends two sanitation employees||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-suspends-two-sanitation-employees-143078
19-09-2020||---||Academician-turned-poet  comes up with debut book||Amritsar, September 18Having being engaged in academic preoccupations, taking her to various parts of the world in the last two decades, Kiran Sandhu, an associate professor in the School of Planning, GNDU, has come up with her debut book of poetry titled “Celestial Descent”.A master’s in development and planning from the prestigious University College, London, and a PhD in Urban Environmental Planning from Griffith University, Australia, Kiran has authored academic books in the past, but this is her first literary publication. Her shift from academic genres to the creative realm of poetry, she says, was spontaneous.“It began as small encounters with the self, gradually manifested into a forage inside the larger dimensions beyond the self and perhaps the quest that will take a lifetime or beyond. I aspire to reach out to the readers who are beginning to or have perhaps already began their inward journey to go beyond the self,” says Kiran, who is currently based in Amritsar and shuffles between India and Romania, her second home, being married to a Romanian Citizen.As the title indicates, the book is based upon the spiritual genre and man’s quest to discover the mystical realms of life and creation. It has 27 poems arranged under four sub-heads: Divine Encounters, Nature’s Musings, Revered Touch and The Oneness. “The poetry is about every individual’s search, quite contrary to what we might think is beyond the material self. It’s about the deep conversations one might have while sipping tea with the Buddha or having an engaging discourse with Rumi, the Sufi Mystic. For poetry lovers, I feel that the book will speak to them, might be worth adding to their collection,” says Kiran.The book is available on Amazon India and International. Currently its kindle version, which can be read on smartphone or laptop is free to download from Amazon for a limited period of time along with free Amazon kindle app. Her debut is not only her attempt to express creatively, but also a means to support a cause. Kiran says that the sale proceeds from the book are to help the poor rickshawallas in the city, who are facing tough times under the current pandemic. “I am already running a small initiative for them to support them through these difficult times,” she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/academician-turned-poet-comes-up-with-debut-book-143079
19-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Covid turns biz upside down, boutique owner starts tiffin service||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 18Rashmi was eagerly waiting for the wedding season to draw in which would have meant soaring of orders at her boutique. But Covid struck and turned her business upside down. Her sales witnessed a sharp decline. Initially, she felt that it would be a short-term crisis and things would get normal within a few months. But six months into the crisis, the business is still in the doldrums. To stay afloat, Rashmi decided to start a tiffin service from home last month.“I faced huge losses in the boutique business as clients started cancelling their orders. I was waiting for the situation to normalise, but the things actually got worse. In the past six months, I have also exhausted my savings. I am the sole breadwinner in the family and I was without any other source of income, so I decided to start a new business to support my family,” said Rashmi.Rashmi had been running her boutique for the past several years and the place was popular among women in the New Amritsar area. She was hopeful that before the start of wedding season, she would get a good number of orders. But due to the Covid-induced restrictions on gathering at marriages, people are choosing simple marriages or postponing their programmes.“My regular customers told me that since no one is allowed to go out unnecessarily, there’s no use of getting new dresses. Unless the government gave relaxations, there was no hope of business getting back on track,” she said.Rashmi quickly made up her mind to start a home restaurant and offer tiffin service. “My family members and relatives used to praise my cooking skills and often advise me to start some restaurant. But I was busy with my boutique and had no time to experiment with any other sector. Now that I had to do something new for livelihood, I chose to exhibit my cooking skills,” she said.A large number of corporate employees, trainees and students reside in the New Amritsar area and there is no major market in nearby localities where one can get quality food.Rashmi said: “There is an option of fast food available in the main market of New Amritsar but if you want to eat a traditional thali or chapattis you have to go to GT Road. The tenants in my neighbourhood would often discuss with me the non-availability of homemade food in the area. So it was an opportunity for me to start the tiffin service and and get the first mover advantage. I wanted to provide good food at an affordable price.”Rashmi received a good response to her new startup and the number of clients is increasing with every passing day. “I use quality ingredients to prepare food that is safe and healthy. For me, it is a good experience and also feels like a service as with this I am feeding many. My customers are appreciating the food prepared by me and encouraging me to continue with the work,” added Rashmi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-turns-biz-upside-down-boutique-owner-starts-tiffin-service-143365
