19-05-2020||Amritsar||Administration lists Lockdown 4.0 rules in Amritsar||The district administration lifted the curfew on Monday and introduced lockdown within the border district.The city continues to fall under the containment zone and the district administration has forwarded a proposal for categorising different pockets in red, green and orange zones to the state Health Department. Their announcement will be made only after receiving the proposal.Restrictions liftedThere will be no restriction on any kind of agriculture activities.All sports complexes and stadiums are allowed to open without spectators.Except Central and state government departments dealing with emergency services, all government and private offices can be opened with 50 per cent staff at any given time. Public dealing in banks is allowed between 9 am to 1 pm.All offices and shops are advised to take conscious decisions to ensure social distancing and gathering on their premises. Work from home should be encouraged by heads of all offices.Maintaining 6-ft distance and wearing of masks is mandatory. Any person violating these norms is liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases ActHowever, night curfew will remain in place between 7 pm to 7 am and the movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain strictly prohibited during this time.Movement of peopleBetween 7 am to 7 pm movement shall be allowed without passes for permitted activities such as shopping, going to office/ work place. Non-essential travel should be avoided.Protecting the vulnerableThose above 65 years in age, people with co-morbidity, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years should stay at home, except for essential requirements and health purposes.For occasionsFor cremation and last rites of a deceased person, not more than 20 persons are permitted to gather. For marriages, not more than 50 persons, including the bride and groom, are allowed.Movement of vehiclesAll types of goods and cargo carriers, medical professionals, nurses, paramedics, sanitation staff, ambulances and other essential duties, including, police, magistrate and their supporting staff, fire, electricity etc. shall be allowed 24x7.Four and three-wheelers will be allowed with a maximum capacity of two persons, apart from the driver; two-wheelers without a pillion rider, car pooling, sharing by taxi aggregator shall not be permitted.Opening of shopsShopping malls would not be allowed to open. All shops would be allowed to open between 7 am and 6 pm. To ensure that there is no crowding or violation of social distancing norms, the SDM/DCP concerned may stagger the opening and closing time of various categories, keeping in view the circumstances.Restaurants and eateries can open only for home delivery and takeaways, but no dine in. Shops offering services such as salons and barber shall be allowed to open subject to compliance of SOP issued by the Health Department. Services such as electronics, plumbers, IT repairs etc. shall be allowed.Essential shops such as food, groceries, milk, medicines eateries offering takeaway service, workshops and service centres for automobiles etc. will be exempted from staggered rotation.e-commerce, industries and industrial establishments are allowed to operate in both rural and urban areas.Similarly, all legal construction activities are allowed.Life in city gradually limps back to normalNormal life is gradually limping back as the lockdown replaces the curfew in the holy city. Devotees paid obeisance at the Golden Temple on Monday. Officials of the Health Department carried out screening of each devotee. Besides, they had to undergo a sanitiser tunnel before entering the temple.Jatinder Kaur Sonia, president of District Congress Committee (urban), performed sewa at the Golden Temple. Construction work resumed at several sites, shopkeepers were seen sitting at their shops waiting for customers.All kinds of shops including, FMCG, provisions, groceries, tailors, saloons were opened. People did come out on road but traffic remained moderate. Cops were seen asking people to maintain social distance and barricading on many roads was removed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-lists-lockdown-4-0-rules-in-amritsar-86807
19-05-2020||I am busy like never before. In the current unprecedented health crisis||‘We all have to fight Covid with courage’||My office is open round the clock. If anybody approaches me for help, I am there for it. Not only in my constituency, I am attending calls coming from individuals from all over the holy city and from Punjab.I have the portfolio of Medical Education and Research with me therefore during this time, my priority is to make sure every patient gets proper treatment in government hospitals, where isolation wards have been set up for quarantine of suspected patients. When pilgrims from Nanded Sahib arrived, I made sure proper arrangements were in place in the hospital and quarantine centres.I am also attending video-conference meetings with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other Cabinet colleagues to solve whatever problems we are facing in dealing with this health crisis. The health crisis and subsequent curfew and lockdown period has been challenging and we all have to fight it with courage.(As told to PK Jaiswar)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-all-have-to-fight-covid-with-courage-86808
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Junior resident doc of GMCH tests +ve; 6 active cases in dist now||After a brief lull, the district reported one new Covid-19 positive case on Monday.A junior resident doctor at the general surgery department of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) tested positive for Covid 19. He was treating patients who returned from Nanded. He had been in quarantine for past few days. The doctor was experiencing a sore throat. Now, he has been shifted to the isolation ward.The district authorities heaved a sigh of relief before Sunday as 161 patients were discharged. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 305 with six active cases.Meanwhile, a Pathankot resident, who had tested positive for Covid, died at Government Medical College on Monday. The victim was a 35-year-old auto driver from Pathankot. He was referred to Amritsar a few days ago as he was critical.One tests +ve in Tarn TaranA person tested positive for coronavirus in Tarn Taran on Monday. The patient had returned from Dubai on May 13 and was in the quarantine centre in Khadoor Sahib. The patient was among 18 other persons who had returned from Dubai.The samples of these all 18 persons, including three children and women, were sent to Government Medical College, Amritsar, for testing. The reports of 17 persons came as negative.The 60-year-old patient has been shifted from the quarantine centre to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital for treatment.Dr. Inder Mohan Gupta, Senior Medical Officer, Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran, said a team of doctors had been closely monitoring the patient.17 persons sent home from quarantine centreTarn Taran: A total of 17 persons, who were kept at the quarantine centre at Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here, were sent back to their homes on Monday, after they tested negative for Covid-19.Total 18 persons had returned from Dubai on May 13 and were kept here by the administration. A person who tested positive was admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital. SDM Khadoor Sahib Rajesh Sharma presented health certificates to them at the time of departure. The Kar Sewa sect under the supervision of Baba Sewa Singh looked after them. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/junior-resident-doc-of-gmch-tests-ve-6-active-cases-in-dist-now-86809
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Man attacked with weapons||Youth commits suicide, 1 bookedAmritsar: A youth committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan here on Sunday. As per family members, he had a monetary dispute with a person. Honey, brother of the deceased identified as Mani, stated to the police on Sunday that Mani ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan. He said initially, they were shocked and did not know why he took the extreme step. He said as they checked the mobile phone gallery and saw a video in which his brother said he gave money to Harjinder Singh, who works with him in a saloon. However, he was not returning the same even after repeated requests. He said his brother got perturbed over this and committed suicide. The police have booked Harjinder under Section 306 of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-attacked-with-weapons-86811
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Dr Anupma Gupta: An epitome of strength and courage||Dr Anupma Gupta, who lost her legs in a vehicle pile-up, near Bandala village, on the Amritsar-Bathinda highway last year, is the perfect example of bravery and strength.Five months after this tragic accident, Dr Anupma, head of the anatomy department at Dashmesh Institute of Dental Sciences and Research in Faridkot, has convinced herself to accept the reality and move on in the life. And now to contribute her bit in fight against the Covid-19, she has started taking online classes so that students do not suffer due to the lockdown.“While sitting on my wheelchair, I could do it. This is the only way I could justify my duty. I teach my students on Zoom app. It gives me energy to move on and be strong. When I will be self-sufficient, I would rejoin my duty”, she said.With her strong will power, she is trying to live a normal life. She has resumed her studies and working hard to complete her PhD in dermatoglyphics. Besides, she is also trying her hand in painting these days.“I am all prepared to undergo the prosthesis process. But due to the lockdown, my visit to New Delhi for the rehabilitation training process has been delayed. It is a mandatory two-monthcourse that I will have to attend. I am in touch with the service providers from Germany and the US from whom the prosthetic implant would be imported and assembled here”, she said.Around 7.30 am on December 10, Dr Anupma, head of the anatomy department at Dashmesh Dental College, Faridkot, and her colleague were on their way to the college when she spotted ahead-on crash of vehicles. Putting her social responsibility as a doctor above all, she immediately asked her colleague to stop the car and rushed to rescue the injured persons. As she was trying to open a mangled door of one of the cars involved in the pile-up, a bus coming from the rear hit her, leaving her unconscious. She lost her legs in the mishap.Dr Anupma said her husband Dr Raman Gupta, daughter Dr Arushi and son Raghav, also a medical student, were her pillars of strength. “That fateful day brought a total change in my life, yet I believe that the Almighty had pre-planned it to put me in another frame to experience a different life. Whatever has to happen, happens. There is no point wailing and going in depression. I have not given up because I believe that every problem has a solution and you just need to have the valour and willpower to accept the situation ”, she says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-anupma-gupta-an-epitome-of-strength-and-courage-86813
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Amid Covid battle, this MC worker is on job to keep dengue away||As the entire machinery battles the Covid-19 pandemic, the health wing of the Municipal Corporation has activated its machinery to prevent the city residents from other vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya.Deepak Kumar, an MC worker, said when most people were indoors, they were on their job to prevent the residents from these diseases by carrying out fogging exercise on a regular basis.He said apart from spraying sodium hypochlorite solution in residential and other vulnerable areas, they were urging residents to take precautions as the dengue season was knocking on doors. They had been urging them to clean up water tanks, dry up waterlogged corners and sanitise houses on a regular basis to keep both unwanted guests... corona and dengue— away.“Earlier, the MC used to conduct the fogging exercise during July after the monsoon. But due to the Covid-19 threat, the officials decided to initiate fogging earlier. Now we have four scooter-equipped machines and conducting regular fogging in the walled city areas and slums”, said Deepak Kumar.Apart from fogging, Deepak has also been disinfecting the localities as per demand. “I start my job early in the morning and return home around 7 pm. I spend 12 hours in the field. During the lockdown, the MC provided us gloves, masks and sanitisers. Residents also recognise our work and honour us in several ways,” said Deepak.He said the MC also had four jeep-equipped fogging machines for the outer city areas, while scooters were more effective in narrow streets. “We work as per the roster prepared by senior officials. Sometime we do get some special assignments of disinfecting residential apartments in the containment areas. The MC provides all safety equipment. Despite some risks, I am doing my job with the utmost responsibility.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-covid-battle-this-mc-worker-is-on-job-to-keep-dengue-away-86816
19-05-2020||Kamna Raj Aggarwalla||‘Need to become e-savvy to overcome Covid-19 crisis’||How have the operations at GDPA Fasteners been hit due to the lockdown? What are plans for going forward?It is a sad situation. With almost 100 per cent export business to the European market, we are barely functional. We are working with just 10 per cent of our capacity with whatever raw material and few labourers we had. We really do not know how and when things will finally settle.How the manufacturing sector will come out of the crisis?We really cannot foresee anything at the moment. Every day is a new day and I just want to feel optimistic, but there has been no support from any side. There is no policy as such for MSMEs. We do not have any cluster for members to support each other.How would you start your industry in the absence of labourers?Almost all our trained labourers have left. They wanted 100 per cent commitment to stay here which we could not give at that moment. We were not sure if we could continue to run the business with the same capacity any time soon. They were getting free train tickets so they chose to leave for their home.What has been the response of your vendors during the period of crisis?For our kind of industry, there are only a handful of vendors. They are the ones who make small screws or ceramic matrix composites. Our vendors are based in Ludhiana and we have been chasing them like anything. But, they too are expressing their helplessness.What lessons have you learnt from the current crisis?We initially thought that it would be just like a 15-day holiday. This unique situation has given lessons that there is a need to be e-savvy and integrate MSMEs so that everyone stands united.Do you see the current scenario as a challenge or an opportunity?The situation is clearly challenging as we really do not know how to re-establish our businesses with no support at all. I cannot call it an opportunity in any case. For me, rising above my competitor in a situation like this is not an opportunity. I believe the opportunity should be the same for everyone and there should be enough of business for all players in the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-to-become-e-savvy-to-overcome-covid-19-crisis-86820
19-05-2020||---||Rising domestic violence cases discussed at school webinar||Amritsar, May 18A webinar to discuss rising incidents of domestic violence and cyber crimes amid the Covid-induced lockdown was organised by Mount Litera Zee School.Panelists included Gurpreet Deo, ADGP (Community and Policing); Inderbir Singh, AIG (Cybercrime and Modernisation); Jayant Mishra, legal expert; and Sumer Bahadur Singh, a former principal of Lawrence School, Sanawar. Around 500 students, along with parents, attended the webinar. Disha, a handbook on safety of women by Gurpreet Deo, was released.AIG Inderbir said: “What gets posted online cannot be deleted. Hence, one should avoid sharing personal details unless one has enough cyber security in place.” He apprised the audience of the need for cyber security and various related laws through a presentation.Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera Zee School, said the webinar was held to discuss solutions to incidents of domestic violence, child sex abuse and cybercrimes, which have increased during the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-domestic-violence-cases-discussed-at-school-webinar-86823
19-05-2020||---||Despite ban, farmers resort to burning of crop residue||Amritsar, May 18Despite a ban on burning of crop residue in fields, farmers continue to flout the restrictions.A visit to rural areas revealed that apart from crop residue in wheat fields, stray fires also burnt green belts alongside roads. The burning of crop residue in fields, which was being done during late evening hours to evade detection so far in this season, was seen openly in the day on Sunday.After harvesting wheat crop and making hay for animals from the residue, farmers are now getting ready to prepare the fields for paddy transplantation. As the government has advanced paddy transplantation date by 10 days to June 10 this season, the farmers are left with only 20 days.While the government has been working to check the practice for years, a farmer said, “Crop residue floats to the surface after puddling and it will now allow paddy saplings to grow. Further as it would float on the surface and with change in the wind direction, it will move on the water surface and can destroy saplings by uprooting them.”Chief Agricultural Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said, “Our teams are already keeping a watch and those who have resorted to burning will face action. It is in the interest of farmers as setting crop residue on fire affects soil health and nutrients.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-ban-farmers-resort-to-burning-of-crop-residue-86826
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Bus service for migrants begins, 96 leave on Day 1||A bus service to drive migrant labourers back to their native places started on Monday. On the first day, 96 migrants from the city and Tarn Taran left for Aligarh, Mathura and Saharanpur on three buses from the local bus stand.The bus service has been started by the state government for those migrants who could not avail the train service and the tickets are to be booked online.Labourers from MP protestEarlier in the day, a group of migrant labourers hailing from Madhya Pradesh held a protest at the railway station over not sending them back home. “Many of us have been waiting to get back home but the authorities have not made arrangements. Labourers from UP and Bihar are being sent back while have been waiting for our turn,” said Lilly, one of the labourers.Neelam, another migrant, whose husband worked as construction worker, complained that they had registered online for both train and bus service, but haven’t yet got a ride. “Most of us are illiterate and do not know how to book ticket online. Those who managed to book tickets have not got any response from the authorities. We don’t know how and when we will reach our homes. We left our kids behind to come here to work six months ago and now we are stuck here,” she said. About 200 to 300 migrants from Madhya Pradesh are stranded here, she said.Ram Lallan from Madhya Pradesh said he had got himself registered online but no train has been assigned till date to take them home. “If we do not get any assistance from the government, we will walk to our village, along with our kids,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bus-service-for-migrants-begins-96-leave-on-day-1-86829
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Indian students seek exemption from travel ban by Australian govt||The Indian Australian Business Alliance (IABA) has appealed the Indian External Affairs Ministry and Australian High Commission to take up the matter of Indian students studying in Australian universities but stuck here running out of visas to seek exemption from Australia’s travel ban.No specific timelineThe Australian government on Friday had announced that it would consider allowing international students back into the country as early as July, but stopped short of providing a specific timeline.Students who have been stuck in India for the past two months due to the Covid-19 travel restrictions, say July may be too far.Rajinder Singh Marwaha, president of the Indian Australian Business Alliance (IABA), assured that he would raise the issue with Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of Civil Aviation, to help the students from India to get back to Australia and continue their studies. He said both governments must work in tandem to ensure the early return of these students.The Australian government on Friday had announced that it would consider allowing international students back into the country as early as July, but stopped short of providing a specific timeline, leaving thousands in limbo.Students who have been stuck in India for the past two months due to the Covid-19 travel restrictions, said July may be too far. Marwaha said nearly 17 per cent of Australia’s seven lakh students are stranded in India.Seeking support from the Australian educational institutes, Marwaha stated that universities must step-up efforts for overseas students who pay significantly more than the domestic students for the same degrees.“Universities need to intervene to facilitate the return so we can go back and resume our degrees for which we have paid so much more than domestic students,” he says.“The fact that the Australian government has simply said it would consider and is hesitating from declaring the specifications of when they will lift the travel ban is only making the situation worse for international students stuck here ,” observes Marwaha.Harpragaas Singh, who is stuck here and studies at Australian National University, was visiting his parents after two years and his return ticket was booked on April 15. However, his flight was cancelled after the introduction of lockdown.He suggested that the return process can be well managed by enforcing strict quarantine provisions and adding Covid-19 test to the existing medical examination criteria mandatory for student visa applicants.As per norms, he said, students and work permit holders were often required to undertake a medical test before being granted a visa. This medical test can include a Covid test, cost of which can be borne by the students, he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/indian-students-seek-exemption-from-travel-ban-by-australian-govt-86830
19-05-2020||---||Couple assaulted, robbed of  Rs 10K||Amritsar, May 18A couple was assaulted and robbed by three unknown persons in Padri village on Friday late evening. The accused took away Rs 10,000 and earrings of his wife in the incident. A complaint was lodged with the police on Sunday.Nishan Singh, a resident of Kiralgarh village falling under the Lopoke police station here, stated to the police that on Friday evening, he along with his wife Rekha was travelling on bike when three unidentified persons stopped them near Padri village. One of the accused took out the keys of the bike while second person snatched Rs 10,000 from his pocket. The third accused pulled the earrings of his wife and took away his bike.He said he tried to identify the persons but failed following which a complaint was lodged with the police. The police have registered a case under Section 379-B and 34 of the IPC against unknown persons.Meanwhile, in another incident unknown persons barged into a house and injured a family besides robbing valuables in Baba Bakala area on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Harjinder Singh, owner of the house, said the unknown persons barged into the house in the intervening night of April 16-17 and thrashed the family. They later took away Rs 40,000 and earrings of his wife.The Beas police have registered a case under Sections 458, 148 and 149 of the IPC in this connection while further investigations are underway to identify the looters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-assaulted-robbed-of-rs-10k-86831
19-05-2020||Amritsar||Promotion of e-pharmacies on Aarogya Setu criticised||Punjab Chemist Association affiliated to the All-India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD) has strongly opposed the advertisement of e-pharmaceutical firms on Aarogya Setu mobile app being promoted by the government.It pleaded that a website www.aarogyasetumitr.in, linked to the official mobile application Aarogya Setu in ‘illegal, arbitrary and discriminatory’ manner, promotes and act as a marketing tool for e-pharmacies only.PCA president Surinder Duggal, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, recently said there was no mention in the website that these medicines could be procured from local chemists. Releasing the letter to the media here on Monday, he said this was misleading and gives an impression that medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 in India were available only through e-pharmacies.He alleged that several e-pharmacies were operating illegally and in violation of provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. He said a number of petitions were pending in the court against operating of these pharmacies already.He said during these testing times, chemists all over the countries ensured the delivery of medicines on the doorstep. He said there was absolutely no basis for using government-owned platform for promoting private ventures.The association urged the PM to take steps for immediately closing down the website. Aarogya Setu application uses Bluetooth and GPS for alerting users from those who encountered people who were tested positive of the deadly virus. Duggal urged Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/promotion-of-e-pharmacies-on-aarogya-setu-criticised-86832
