19-08-2020||---||Motivating cured patients to donate plasma an uphill task||Amritsar, August 18With the claims regarding the success of plasma therapy having already been made by the government, motivating cured patients to donate plasma seems an uphill task.In an appeal to patients who have recovered from Covid-19, the district administration has requested them to come forward and donate their blood plasma, so that it could be used to save the lives of critically ill positive patients.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira has appealed to cured patients to come forward and donate their plasma, as it could give a life to someone. Khaira said two employees of the DC office — Lakhbir Singh of Chabba village and Didar Singh of Dalam village — have defeated the coronavirus and donated their plasma after recovery.The authorities said plasma from a recovered patient, when transfused to an ill patient, expedites the recovery process and the lives of many critically ill patients could be saved. A plasma bank was earlier set up at Government Medical College here for storing the blood plasma donated by cured patients.As only a few persons have donated the plasma so far, the plan to use plasma therapy has failed to materialise successfully. GMC Principal Dr Rajiv Devgan said only six persons have donated their blood plasma so far.The total count of Covid-19 recoveries from the district has crossed the 2,200-mark.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motivating-cured-patients-to-donate-plasma-an-uphill-task-128210
19-08-2020||---||PSPCL cracks whip on power theft||Amritsar, August 18To curb the menace of power theft, the PSPCL teams conducted raids on early Tuesday morning.The teams from Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran circles participated in these joint raids as per the directions of the PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad.PSPCL director (distribution) DPS Grewal said 48 teams were pressed into service. “Our teams checked 3,010 connections, of which 200 were found to be stealing power. A fine of Rs66 lakh was imposed on defaulters, who were engaged in this illicit act.He said 14 electricity meters appeared to be suspicious and were packed on the spot for further investigation in the ME Lab to detect any kind of tampering.Grewal has appealed to all its consumers of the state to help the PSPCL in controlling the menace of theft of electricity by providing information on WhatsApp no 96461-75770. “The PSPCL assures its consumers that their identity will not be disclosed,” he said.Meanwhile, Grewal also met industrialist from Amritsar and Sri Goindwal Sahib as well as the representatives of hotel associations. Chief Engineer, Border Zone, Pardeep Saini, was also present.He heard their grievances and assured them that their problems would be resolved at the earliest. Also, a WhatsApp group of industrialists and the officers of the PSPCL was created for better coordination. Kamal Dalmia, president, Focal Point Industrial Association; Surinder Singh, president of Amritsar Hotel Association, and the representatives of Goindwal Industrialists’ Association were present in the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pspcl-cracks-whip-on-power-theft-128211
19-08-2020||---||Mother of sexual harassment victim alleges police inaction||Amritsar, August 18Accusing the local police of inaction in her minor daughter’s sexual harassment case, a woman on Tuesday urged the DGP to provide them justice by arresting the accused, a live-in partner of the victim’s mother.She said though she had lodged a complaint with the Kot Mit Singh police in this connection, no action had been taken till now. The incident occurred in March and the complaint was lodged with the police same day.Giving details, the victim’s mother said she divorced her first husband who used to take drugs. She said she had a daughter from the first marriage. She said after divorce she started living with her parents.She said in 2018 she came in contact with another person, a resident of Uttam Nagar area on Tarn Taran Road. She alleged the accused started living with her as a live-in partner. She said in March this year, she had gone for a morning walk. When she returned, her sister-in-law informed that the accused was sexually harassing her 13-year-old daughter.She said when she asked the victim, she narrated the entire incident, adding that earlier too he used to harass her. She said perturbed over this, she lodged a complaint with the Kot Mit Singh police in this connection. She said the accused allegedly used his influence and no police action was taken against him.Advocate Naresh Kumar said now complaints had been forwarded to the DGP and senior police officials, including Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill, for further necessary action. He said in case the police failed to take any action within the next 15 days, they would move court for justice and bring the accused to the book. He said the police should have registered an FIR after receiving the complaint.The Police Commissioner said he was not aware of the incident. Appropriate action would be taken against the accused, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mother-of-sexual-harassment-victim-alleges-police-inaction-128212
19-08-2020||Manmeet Gill---||MC fails, mosquitoes get  best out of sabzi mandi||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 18 A prime chunk of land outside the Hall Gate from where the old sabzi mandi used to run has turned into a dump yard. Wholesale vegetable and fruit shops from the market were shifted to the New Vegetable Market at Vallah on the outskirts of the city in 2004. At present, only a few fruit and seed shops are operating from the Old Sabzi Mandi. With land lying unused, commercial establishments dispose of their waste at this particular site. During monsoon, the entire area turns into a pond and becomes a breeding ground for mosquitoes. Shopkeepers in the area said reptiles and stray animals can be found in vacant plots. A fruit seller said foul smell emanates from stagnant rainwater and waste in the area.  The old sabzi mandi was denotified by the government in 1995 and after shifting it in 2004, the Municipal Corporation had taken possession of the land in 2005. Residents and traders had hoped that the land would be put to better use, but quite the opposite happened. “Earlier, the traders used to get the area cleaned once in a while, but now the authorities hardly bother. It has become a safe haven for anti-social elements,” said Kultar Singh, a resident.  Another resident, Harnam Singh, said: “There is parking problem inside the Hall Bazaar. A parking lot should be developed on the said land for the general public.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-fails-mosquitoes-get-best-out-of-sabzi-mandi-128213
19-08-2020||---||NDU non-teaching staff burn CM’s effigy, demand wage hike||Amritsar, August 18The 15-day pen-down strike called by the GNDU Non-Teaching Employees Union on Tuesday took an agitated turn when the protestors burnt an effigy of the Chief Minister in front of the varsity’s administrative block. The non-teaching employees have been observing a strike since August 5 against the state government’s backtracking on election promises.“The employees have been on pen-down strike since August 5 for two hours everyday. The government had promised to consider our demand to reconsider wages and also provide us benefits under government welfare schemes. But despite our consistent call for consideration, we have been neglected and ignored. Our demands stand where they were since 2017 and the government is making excuses by saying that lack of funds is keeping them from implementing wage rise when lack of intent is the real reason,” said Hardeep Singh Nagra, president, GNDU Non-Teaching Employees Union.The non-teaching employees unions across the state are staging protests against the government to raise their demands. Meanwhile, the employees have been wearing black bands and suspending all administrative activities for two hours everyday from 9 am to 11 am as a mark of protest.In a decision before the Covid-19 pandemic struck, the state government had issued directions to Panjab University, Chandigarh, Punjabi University, Patiala, and GNDU, Amritsar, to stop the irregular secretariat allowance to the staff or face cuts in grants. The protesting members alleged that the government’s decision was an attempt to put financial burden on the already deprived non-teaching staff. The GNDU non-teaching staff had long been raising demands of revising pay scales as per the Seventh Pay Commission, releasing a minimum percentage of the DA amount the state exchequer owes them for the past three years and take back the decision on irregular secretariat pay allowance, which as per the state, is only given to clerical staff of Punjab Secretariat.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ndu-non-teaching-staff-burn-cms-effigy-demand-wage-hike-128214
19-08-2020||---||Amritsar’s female dholi drums up support for students, her art||Amritsar, August 18As all cultural and performing art activities came to a standstill due the pandemic, Baljeet Kaur, a folk artiste and the woman popular as the only female dholi of the region, had another task cut out for her. As a music teacher and mentor to an all-girls folk troupe, Baljeet has been supporting her students, who mostly come from needy families, with all her might.As the lockdown badly hit the livelihoods of performing artistes, especially in the traditional and folk genre, Baljeet’s professional schedule was also affected. “I am working as a music teacher at Sri Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary School, Sultanwind. But since the schools are closed, we are not able to teach or take online classes of students as not many of them have access to the Internet or are interested. So my primary source of income has been affected. Despite that, I have been helping my students by reaching out to them as I know most of them come from families with a limited income,” she says.The suspension of cultural activities and music festivals due to the pandemic has also cut off the financial support for her and her students. “Usually, the prize money earned from our music competitions and earnings from our live performances used to get us through comfortably money wise. But even that income has stopped. So we all are passing through difficult times,” says Baljeet. She specialises in playing traditional folk instruments like tumbi, dholi, saaz and algoze. She teaches girls from needy families to play these instruments free of cost and also takes them to perform at social as well as cultural events. “It was a mission that I started to create awareness regarding traditional Punjabi folk music instruments. We used to get a lot of recognition and work at private ceremonies. Earning from one particular performance of an hour would get my students anything between Rs 1,500 and 2,000. It was sufficient for them to support their families. Everyone is surviving on their savings until now but I do not think it would last long, maybe one or two months more. After that, it will be a matter of survival as we need to earn a living,” she stresses.Meanwhile, she is conducting online classes for interested audience once in a while to carry on with her art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-female-dholi-drums-up-support-for-students-her-art-128216
19-08-2020|| ||Woman climbs water tank over property dispute||Amritsar, August 18 High drama was witnessed after a woman climbed up an overhead water tank near the Government Railway Police station here on Tuesday. The police and district administration had a tough time in convincing the woman, identified as Geeta Rani, a resident of Bhorsi Rajputa village here, to come down.She was upset over a property dispute in her paternal home at Kolkata in West Bangal. She threatened to jump from the water tank and commit suicide if justice was not provided to her. People immediately sounded an alert and informed the police. The Civil Lines police immediately reached the spot and tried to convince her to come down. When the woman refused and did not come down, fire brigade teams besides ambulance were summoned at the spot in case of any emergency situation. Her daughter Paramjit Kaur and relatives also reached the spot. They also tried to convince her to come down. Shiv Darshan Singh, SHO, Civil Lines police station, said that Geeta was married at Bhorsi Rajputa village here around 25 years ago. Her son was in Mauritius. She told the police that she had a land dispute with her relatives who were not giving her share in the property. The officials assured her of all possible help in the case. After an hour and a half, the administration managed to bring her down and she was immediately rushed to the Civil Hospital for medical examination.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-climbs-water-tank-over-property-dispute-128218
19-08-2020||  ||GNDH staffer booked for sexual harassment||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, August 18   A Group D employee of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) has been booked for misbehaving and making advances towards a woman who had gone to the hospital for treatment of her husband.   The accused has been identified as Tilak Raj.   The victim said her husband’s feet had got infected and a doctor at the Government Hospital, Mukerian, referred him to the GNDH.  She said she along with her husband went to the hospital and got the OPD slip on July 28, but the staff was not present. On July 29, the duo again went to the hospital where the accused met them.  She said the accused told them that he knew many doctors in the hospital. The victim said the accused pretend to take her to a woman doctor at Bebe Nanki ward of the hospital and made unwelcome advances. She alleged that she raised an alarm and the accused fled from the spot.  A case has been registered under Section 354-A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndh-staffer-booked-for-sexual-harassment-128223
19-08-2020||---||Sikh activists seek FIR against Cong leader Karamjit Gill over raising Tytler’s hoardings||Amritsar, August 18Tension prevailed on the Majitha road here on Tuesday when activists of various Sikh organisations gathered at the spot where hoardings greeting tainted Congress leader Jagdish Tytler on his birthday were put up by Congress leader Karamjit Singh Gill. The Sikh activists held peaceful protest outside the Sadar police station and demanded registration of FIR against Karamjit Gill.Gill had allegedly challenged on social media that the hoardings were removed in his absence and asked the organisation to reach the spot on Tuesday.Accepting the challenge, Sikh activists reached the spot on the Majitha road and started raising slogans. Heavy police force also reached the spot and tried to pacify the agitators. The Sikh activists waited for Gill till 2 pm, but he did not turn up following which they moved to the Sadar police station and demanded registration of FIR against Gill for putting up hoardings and thereby hurting sentiments of the Sikh community.Paramjit Singh Akali, a Sikh activist, said that the man who had put up the hoardings had challenged on social media and asked to reach at the spot. He said activists of various Sikh organisations had gathered the point. He said they would not allow the hoardings of alleged accused of anti-Sikh riots in 1984.Parveen Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station, said that preventive action under Sections 107 and 151 of the CrPC was initiated against Karamjit Gill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-activists-seek-fir-against-cong-leader-karamjit-gill-over-raising-tytlers-hoardings-128224
19-08-2020||The district administration has announced a holiday in the district on the Parkash Purb of Guru Granth Sahib here on Wednesday. The DC said people should remain indoors while celebrating the occasion. TNS||Amritsar Administration announces Holiday today||IMA distributes 300 masksTarn Taran: The local unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday distributed 300 masks to people in a function organised under the presidentship of Dr Haripal Kaur Dhaliwal, district president of the IMA. Dr Karanjit Singh, former director health services, Punjab, Dr Dinesh Gupta and Dr Surinder Singh Kainth addressed people on the occasion. The speakers advised people to follow social distancing norms and wear face masks as Covis-19 vaccine was in clinical trial stage. OCStudents get SmartphonesTarn Taran: Ten more Class XII students of Tarn Taran district were given smart phones at a function organised at the local Government Senior Secondary Smart School under ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ here on Tuesday. There were five students of the host school, while five others were of local Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School. The function was presided over by Sandeep Agnihotri, son of local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri. Total 6,417 students of the district will be given smart phones under the scheme. As many as 15 students were give the phones by Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on August 12. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-administration-announces-holiday-today-128225
19-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Financial woes: Pandemic derails lives of porters, loaders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 18Porters at the Amritsar railway station and loaders at Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport are facing numerous challenges to earn their livelihood in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.Around 80 regular porters have started working as labourers at construction sites while some have begun selling vegetables to make their both ends meet.Porters said they have a “pucca” number issued by the Indian Railways and they pay annual coolie fee. They said the railways did not considered them a part of their family during difficult times.Aggrieved porters had written to the Prime Minister, Railway Minister, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Railway Board and officials at Ferozepur Division, but to no avail.Kashmiri Lal, chief, All India Lal Vardi Coolie Union (Ferozpur Division) said, “We are an integral part of the Indian Railways, but the government forgot us. We have written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to issue aid to coolies on the pattern of the Uttar Pradesh Government. Collies and their families are suffering. They are doing minimal jobs to earn livelihood.”Ranjit, a porter at Amritsar railway station, said, “We are permanent workers of the railways. We work without salary. Passengers pay us for carrying their luggage. During normal days, I used to earn Rs 400 per day. Due to the pandemic, we had no work for two months.”At present, six trains are being run on this route by the Indian Railways, but most of the passengers are migrants or army personnel. They don’t hire porters or use the lifts.“Last month, we held a meeting and decided to reduce number of porters and started working on rotation. Now, only 10 porters visit the station as there is hardly any work,” said Ranjit.Porters alleged that nobody from the administration, MLAs and MP came forward to help them during the lockdown. “Only TTE in-charge Shami and the Indian Railways official, Pardeep Kumar, provided ration to us,” said a porter.Similarly, loaders and trolley men at Sri Guru Ramdas Jee International Airport are facing hardships as ground handling companies are not paying them after the Central Government imposed the lockdown.There are more than 500 loaders and trolley men at the airport. As soon the airport authorities suspended domestic and international flights in March, the companies asked the loaders to stay at home.Satnam Singh, a loader, said, “The ground handling firm stopped payments in March. We have not been paid from the last five months. When special flights resumed, a few loaders were called. We have no idea when we will be asked to rejoin.” The loaders said an NGO “Sarbat Da Bhala” had distributed them ration and nobody else assisted them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/financial-woes-pandemic-derails-lives-of-porters-loaders-128227
19-08-2020||---||Two succumb to virus, 47 fresh cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, August 18With two more patients losing their lives to the Covid-19 disease on Tuesday, the toll has reached 115 in the district. The health authorities also reported 47 new positive cases taking the total to 2,900 cases in the district.The deceased have been identified as 73-year-old Arjinder Singh, a resident of Kot Baba Deep Singh and 60-year-old Neelam, a resident of Gokul Vihar on Batala Road. Of the new cases, 24 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 23 are contacts of positive patients.As far as the ILI cases are concerned, Dashmesh Avenue and Shastri Nagar reported two cases each while Kabir Nagar, Sant Avenue, Rose Avenue, Imperial City (Loharka Road), Tungbala, Kanwar Avenue, Chowk Baba Sahib, Basant Avenue, Ajnala, Fairland Colony, Vallah, Kamalpura village (Ajnala), Naag Kalan village, Pawan Nagar, Varindavan Garden, Green Field (Majitha Road), Gandhi Nagar (Batala Road), Rajesh Nagar and Putlighar reported one case each.Of the contact cases, Gujjarpura (Gilwali Gate) reported three cases; Mustafabad, Tagore Avenue, Hargobind Avenue, Railway Police Force, Shareefpura two cases each; and Mohan Nagar (Sultanwind Road), Green Avenue, Dashmesh Avenue, Bhagtanwala, Kathunangal village, Lahori Gate, Friends Colony, Ajnala, Green Field (Majitha Road), Sant Nagar (Verka), Majitha Road police station and Traffic Police reported one each case. At present, the number of active cases stands at 511. Moreover, the district has witnessed a total of 2,274 recoveries so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-succumb-to-virus-47-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-district-128228
19-08-2020||THIS Covid warrior believes in self-confidence and choosing a right diet to recover from the Covid-19 disease. Jatin Sharma||‘Self-confidence, right diet helped in defeating virus’||Two days later, his medical report came out positive. First, he managed to beat the fever in two to three days.Second, he consumed only a good and relevant diet and avoided taking cold food and drinks. He increased liquid content in his diet like coconut water, juices, kahda (concoction), lukewarm water, and consumed eggs daily. He specifically inhaled steam three to four times a day.Since his parents passed away long ago, he has been living with his elder brother in Mohni park locality. “My neighbours did not change in their behaviour towards me and treated me normally. One of my neighbours also tested positive and he has now recovered from the disease.” If a person is mentally strong then it is like an ordinary fever. — As told to Neeraj Bagga||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/self-confidence-right-diet-helped-in-defeating-virus-128230
19-08-2020||---||Patient’s suicide: AAP seeks judicial probe||Amritsar, August 18A delegation of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), including former president, Majha zone, Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal; Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjer; Ashok Talwar; Manish Aggarwal and Jasbir Singh Sur Singh, met Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) Himanshu Aggarwal and handed over a memorandum to him demanding judicial probe into the tragic incident of a corona patient’s suicide, who was admitted to the Government Medical College. The delegation expressed their concern over the lack of proper facilities such as hygienic bathrooms, drinking water, food, medicines at the government quarantine centres, due to which patients feel harassed and insecure. The AAP leaders said the recent unfortunate incident was a result of dismal facilities and the tall claims of the state government have been exposed. They asked if the government had made enough arrangements to treat corona patients at government hospitals, then why were ministers, bureaucrats and other VIPs being admitted to private hospitals. Terming it as a biased approach, the delegation demanded that all VVIPs, who are testing Covid positive, should be admitted to government health facilities on a par with common public. They said the government should not mislead people by making hollow claims. Rather, it should concentrate on combating the deadly virus by providing adequate facilities in government hospitals, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patients-suicide-aap-seeks-judicial-probe-128231
19-08-2020||Amritsar||Online classes begin at Amritsar's Khalsa College for new session||In view of the lockdown due to the ongoing Covid-19 spread, the online classes for the session 2020-21 have begun at the Khalsa College. Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College, said on the directions of the management, the distinctive rise of e-learning has begun in college where the staff would be shifted most of the academic activities online.He said in the first go, the online classes for third semester of graduate and post graduate courses has started, using the Google G Suite online platform for the session. The rest of the classes will start within a span of a few days,” he said, while inaugurating the first online class in Computer Science Department of the college today.Khalsa College will be conducting all the classes for its graduate and undergraduate courses in this session. Dr Singh said the need to come together and explore every avenue to keep children learning and help them during this difficult time is more than ever. He said the daily time table for online classes has been planned so that students can properly attend online classes. “Through this system, teachers and students can interact with each other and teachers can keep a track of the students’ progress,” he said.Prof Harbhajan Singh, Head, Computer Science Department emphasised that G Suite platform was simple and secured. “The bandwidth of college internet leased line has been increased so that the faculty does not face any problem in internet connectivity. We have also devised a system of digital attendance and review for staff and faculty.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-classes-begin-at-amritsars-khalsa-college-for-new-session-128232
19-08-2020||---||All set for Parkash Utsav of Guru Granth Sahib||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-set-for-parkash-utsav-of-guru-granth-sahib-128043
