19-12-2020||Amritsar||Martyrdom day of Guru Tegh Bahadur observed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrdom-day-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-observed-186518
19-12-2020||Virtual meetings have become the order of the day in these days of the pandemic. If MP Sunny Deol is inaugurating projects virtually sitting in New Delhi||Virtual meetings order of the day amid pandemic||There are only frenemies In politicsIn politics nothing is permanent. Not even relationships. Sri Hargobindpur MLA Balwinder Singh Laddi learnt this adage the hard way. He was once a dyed-in-the-wool loyalist of the Bajwa brothers—MP Partap Singh Bajwa and Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa. Everybody knows how the siblings secured him the Congress ticket in the 2012 and 2017 Assembly elections. The equation carried an aura of permanency attached to it. However, he has now fallen apart from the Bajwas. The trigger is said to be a land deal which later turned sour. The politically astute Cabinet Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, considered to be one of the most powerful of Congress politicians in this district, barring of course his Cabinet colleague and Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, saw an opportunity in this break-up. Opportunity knocks only once and the sagacious Tripat heard the knock loud and clear. He managed to convince Laddi to jump onto his bandwagon. The MLA can now be seen at each and every function in this district where the minister is the chief guest. In this way, the Tripat has killed two birds with one stone. On the one hand he has managed to pull the rug from under the feet of the Bajwas—his long time political adversaries— while on the other hand he has strengthened his own bastion, so to speak. The man, for sure, knows how and when to balance or imbalance a political equation. “One of the reasons people hate politics is that truth is rarely a politician’s objective. Election and power are,” said a wag. Was that barb aimed at Tripat or was it meant for Laddi? Considering that both stand to benefit from each other’s company in the 2022 Assembly polls, the barb is perhaps aimed at both. On the other hand Fateh Bajwa remains unfazed. He calls Laddi’s departure from his camp “good riddance.” His advice to his former protégé, “Do not be mad because I do not care anymore. Be mad because I once did and you were too blind to see it.”Wearing a mask works like a medicineMask is your only vaccine till a real one hits the stands. Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq’s emphasis on this phrase was too sharp to be missed while delivering some dos and don’ts to residents on his Facebook page on the topic of ‘winters and Covid.’ He told his audience that elaborate plans have already been chalked out to distribute the vaccine in the first phase to 12,000 health workers. Addressing residents he said, “It is heartening to note that the positivity rate in Gurdaspur, pegged at 0.5 per cent, is the lowest among all districts of Punjab. Having said that, please do not let your guard down. Right now we are doing 2,000 tests every day. This figure will be increased to 4,000 next week. Infections caused by many respiratory viruses, including Coronavirus, swell in winter and drop in summer. Evidence also suggests that a small seasonal effect will probably contribute to bigger outbreaks in winter on the basis of what is known about how the virus spreads and how people behave in the winters. People will be interacting more often indoors in places with poor ventilation. This will obviously increase the risk of transmission,” he averred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virtual-meetings-order-of-the-day-amid-pandemic-186519
19-12-2020||After overcoming Covid-19||‘Zinc intake played key role in my recovery’||He says consuming poultry products regularly kept him healthy. He stresses that this habit came handy in combating the virus. “Government is giving a kit to each positive patient which carries zinc tablets. Zinc is easily available in eggs. It's being a complete diet is a universal fact.”Aged 60, he has been taking precaution for immunity build-up by consuming Chyavanprash, Vitamin C and E tablets."Persistent fever propelled me to undergo the test at Government dispensary in Ranjit Avenue, which confirmed my positive status.”A day before being confirmed for Covid, he also felt the symptoms of throat infection. So, he started taking steam twice a day and drinking lukewarm water. He daily consumed paracetamol and erythromycin.While suffering from Covid, his prime concern was the safety of his family members, especially his 89-year-old mother Davinder Kaur Bedi. He had to take several precautions to ensure the safety of his family members. Firstly, he isolated himself in a room and ensured that there was no contact with others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/zinc-intake-played-key-role-in-my-recovery-186520
19-12-2020||---||Smartphones distributed to 7,600 Class XII students||Amritsar, December 18As part of the second phase of ‘Smart Connect’ scheme to distribute smartphones to students in government schools, a total of 7,600 students from 43 different schools in the district were given smartphones on Friday.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh launched the smartphone distribution ceremony through virtual participation as Om Parkash Soni, Medical Education and Research Minister, presided over the district level function organised at Government Senior Secondary School Nawan Kot. Soni said the state was committed to provide quality education to the students studying in government schools through latest technology and now that the schools were closed due to the pandemic, smartphones will help the students in their online studies. He said under the first phase 50,000 smartphones were provided and in the second phase 80,000 more students of Class XII would be benefitted.He said 419 schools of the district had been turned into smart schools, with focus on building technological infrastructure. “The number of students in government schools has increased by 13 per cent which shows that the state government schools have kept pace with the times. The pre-primary classes that began three years ago have over three lakh students today,” he said.Divya, a Class XII student of Government Senior Secondary School, Mall Road, while receiving the smartphone, said that she had to face a lot of difficulties to study online as her family had only one android phone. “With my own phone, I can now easily access classes without missing out on any subject. It will be great help since exams are near,” she said.2,980 given in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: At the district level function, Cabinet Minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on Friday distributed smartphones to 2,980 Class XII students of 33 government schools under the second phase of Punjab Smart Connect scheme. The event was organised at the District Administrative Complex here.A total number of 6,621 students were to be given smart phones under the scheme. Earlier, 1,799 student of the district were benefitted with smartphones in the first phase. The minister informed on the occasion that the state government had distributed 50,000 smartphones in the state while 80,000 more students were to be given phones shortly. He added that 877 students had been given tablets to boost e-learning in government schools. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and SSP Dhruman H Nimbale were among others present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smartphones-distributed-to-7-600-class-xii-students-186510
19-12-2020||Amritsar||‘Water pollution in state is worrisome’||ECO Club of DAV College organised an online lecture on the prevailing water crisis in Punjab with eminent eco-activist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, who is a Padma Shree awardee, as the guest speaker. More than 100 participants attended the lecture. Seechewal, talked about heavy metal concentration in water bodies of Punjab.  “It is as simple as it gets. Water is the basic need of human beings, without water neither human life is possible nor we can carry out any work. The proportion in which water pollution is increasing in Punjab, if this increase continues at this speed, then the day is not too far when the next world war will be fought for water,” he said. He stressed on techniques like water harvesting and water management. Prof Nihita Sharma, convener Eco Club, DAV College, too emphasised on different methods used for water conservation.  In another eco-awareness event, 40 real estate experts held a seminar on corrosion impact in city, owing to high-level of air pollution. The panel included senior SGPC and government officials, who spoke about the impact of air pollution on heritage buildings. The seminar was organised by International Zinc Association (IZA). While highlighting the concerns over corrosion and its impact on infrastructure and public safety, the experts stressed upon the need for a thorough corrosion protection mechanism that will not only ensure infrastructure longevity but also minimise economic and environmental damages.  Rahul Sharma, director (India) - IZA said that Amritsar is an important religious tourism destination and the headquarter of religious bodies like SGPC and Shri Radha Swami Satsang Beas, who are building infrastructure not only in Punjab but across India for the devotees and followers .  “It is prudent for them to build a long-lasting sustainable infrastructure for the followers which should be maintenance-free for centuries,” he asserted.  “Moreover Amritsar witnesses extreme weather conditions, which results in corrosion of steel products. Being a holy town and a place where millions of tourists visit the holy Golden Temple. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/water-pollution-in-state-is-worrisome-186511
19-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Pensioners protest against farm laws, burn PM’s effigy||Members of the local district unit of the Pensioners and Senior Citizen Welfare Association, Punjab in solidarity with the agitating farmers expressed their resentment here on Friday against the Union Government for not redressing the agitating farmers’ issues.  The protesters burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raised slogans. The members of the association prayed for the good health and long life of the farmers and other sections participating in the agitation. Gurdev Singh Sandhu, chairman and other office-bearers of the organisation while addressing on the occasion condemned the Union Government for not taking the farmers’ agitation seriously who have been passing their nights in cold weather. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pensioners-protest-against-farm-laws-burn-pms-effigy-186512
19-12-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Search operations intensified at villages near international border||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, December 18 Back to back seizures of PVC pipes inserted in the barbed fence and killing of two Pakistani smugglers at Rajatal border village at Indo-Pak border have prompted the Border Security Force(BSF) and Punjab Police to intensify search operations at villages located near the international border.  The Punjab Police have been carrying out search operations in the border belt following regular movements of drones from Pakistani side near the Indo-Pak border. The BSF jawans deputed at the international border reported sounds for drones during midnights when the visibility becomes negligible because of dense fog in the winters. According to BSF officials, winters witness a surge in the smuggling bid though the jawans remain alert and have foiled several smuggling bids.  A huge quantity of drugs was apparently sneaked into Indian territory at Rajatal and Daoke border villages on Sunday where the 71 battalion of BSF seized two PVC pipes inserted in the electrified bared fence.  Following the complaints by the BSF, the Punjab Police registered two separate FIRs under Sections 3, 34 and 20 of the Indian Passport Act and Section 14 of the Foreign Act against unknown intruders in this connection.  An official of the Amritsar rural police said that search operations had been intensified in the border villages. “Search operations were carried out in Rajatal, Daoke and other nearby border villages and it would continue in the near future also,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/search-operations-intensified-at-villages-near-international-border-186513
19-12-2020||Amritsar||Smart City to host Fit India cyclothon||Amritsar Smart City is going to organise the ‘Fit India cyclothon’ under the ‘Fit India’ campaign launched by the Union Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs on Sunday.  In this different bicycle groups of the city like Amritsar Bi-Cycle Group, City on Paddles besides cycling enthusiasts will participate. The cyclothon will start at 7 am on Sunday at Ranjit Avenue B-block market. Komal Mittal, Municipal Corporation Commissioner and CEO of Smart City, will flag off the cyclists. The route of this 16 km-long cyclothon begins from Ranjit Avenue B-block to Trillium Mall, from there via Circular Road to SSSS Chowk, to Batala Road via Celebration Mall, Verka Chowk and then all the way back via Batala Road. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-city-to-host-fit-india-cyclothon-186514
19-12-2020||---||Action sought against MC sanitary inspector||Amritsar, December 18After a video of a sanitary inspector went viral in which he was demanding a bribe from a sanitation worker, the Municipal Corporation Commissioner has written to the Director, Local Bodies Department, to take departmental action against him.Avtar Singh, a sanitary inspector of the MC, had visited the house of Yashpal, a safai karamchari, a few days ago. The inspector allegedly demanded Rs 18,000 from the family members of Yashpal. He told them that this amount would be distributed among other persons also. The whole incident was recorded in a video which went viral.Dr Ajay Kawar, Health Officer, said, “The issue came to my notice and I have reported to senior officials.” On the report of Dr Ajay Kawar, MC Commissioner Komal Mittal has written to the Director, Local Bodies Department to take appropriate action.According to information, Yashpal was bed-ridden for the last few weeks due to some health issue.Earlier, another sanitary inspector was caught by the Vigilance Bureau while accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from a sanitary inspector in lieu of his transfer.The Safai Karamacharis’ Union condemned the practice of taking bribe in the MC. Sanjay Khosla, a member of the union, said sanitary officers were extorting money from poor sanitation workers, which was inhuman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/action-sought-against-mc-sanitary-inspector-186515
19-12-2020||---||Office-bearers of GNDU officers’ assn elected||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/office-bearers-of-gndu-officers-assn-elected-186516
19-12-2020|| ---||Drug peddler arrested with 2 weapons, cash||Amritsar, December 18  The Majitha police have arrested an alleged drug peddler and confiscated two weapons and Rs 2.74 lakh from his possession. He was identified as Jobanpreet Singh, a resident of Mardi Kalan village, falling under Majitha police station here. According to the police, his accomplice Simarjit Singh Monty of Talwandi Ghuman village falling under Kathunangal police station managed to slip away from the spot and raids were on to arrest him.  Jobanpreet, who has around two cases of the NDPS Act against him, was produced in the court and brought on two-day police remand for further interrogation, said Desa Masih, investigating officer in the case. A case under NDPS and arms act has been registered against them.  He told that yesterday the police got a tip off that the accused were involved in drug peddling and selling illegal weapons. He said following this, a car was stopped at a checkpoint near Mardi Kalan village. While Simranjit fled away, the police caught Jobanpreet from the spot.  During search, the police recovered Rs 2.74 lakh cash, a .32 bore revolver with 8 live bullets, a country made .315 pistol with two cartridges from his possession. Preliminary probe revealed that the duo used to procure illegal weapons from Delhi. Further investigations were on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-arrested-with-2-weapons-cash-186503
19-12-2020||Amritsar||GNDU reduces hostel fee by 35%||GNDU has decided to reduce the hostel fee by 35 per cent for the session 2020-21. VC prof Jaspal Sandhu informed about the decision while presiding over the syndicate meeting held at GNDU on Friday. He said this facility has been given to students keeping in view the hardships being faced by them in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and it’s a one-time measure.He said the syndicate has also decided to reduce one-time life membership fee for alumni of the university to 50 per cent for Indian members ie Rs5,000 and for abroad members ie $200.The syndicate also decided to hand over a bus to SCIROX, Science Club of the University for the exhibition purpose. The club will organise exhibitions in various schools/colleges in the city’s districts.Other approvals included a logo competition for the incubation centre and to establish a gallery by the name of novelist Nanak Singh on the third floor of Bhai Gurdas library has been given in the meeting. As many as nine PhD degrees were approved in this meeting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-reduces-hostel-fee-by-35-186504
19-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Police seize 970-gm heroin near BSF post||A case under Sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-seize-970-gm-heroin-near-bsf-post-186505
19-12-2020||Amritsar||2 die, 37 test positive in Amritsar||The district health authorities reported two deaths due to Covid-19 and 37 new positive cases on Friday.It took the total death toll to 535. The deceased were identified as Balbir Kaur, 60, of Malikpur village and Rajpal Singh, 55, of Sultanwind village. The 37 new positive cases included 23 suffering from Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and 14 contacts of positive patients. Thus, the Covid-19 count increased to 14,144 in the district.Meanwhile, with recovery of 42 patients, the recovery count reached 12,898. At present, the district has 711 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-die-37-test-positive-in-amritsar-186506
19-12-2020||---||Tourist buses come under police scanner||Amritsar, December 18Passenger video coach buses have come under the scanner after the Amritsar rural police confiscated a huge quantity of intoxicants from three persons here three days ago.As many as 3.46 lakh sedative pills were recovered from their possession. The seizure was made following investigation in the earlier seizures of intoxicants made by the rural police in the past couple of months.The police had arrested Navjot Singh, alias Nav, Surinder Singh, alias Sonu, both residents of Amritsar, and Dilpreet Singh of Gurdaspur during the seizure.Investigation carried out by the police revealed that they had transported the huge consignment in a passenger video coach bus bearing registration AR-06-A-5247. The bus along with two cars was confiscated by the police.Gaurav Toora, SP (Investigation), revealed that the police were checking the compartments of the sleeper bus to know how they managed to slip in such a huge quantity of intoxicants.Police officials said the tourist buses could carry only personal luggage in the undercarriage but not cargo. The incident has brought to light that these tourist buses have been flouting the norms due to the lack of proper checking causing a loss of revenue to the state exchequer.“We will take the matter at appropriate levels so that the illegal transport of goods could be checked,” Toora said.Many tourist and luxury buses with a huge undercarriage space run from outside the Amritsar railway station for Delhi and Jammu and Kashmir daily. However, no authority spared a thought to keep an eye on them as a number of them were allegedly involved in illegal transportation of goods. The seizure was made following investigation into earlier three seizures made last month.On November 9, the police had arrested Avtar Singh of Pakharpura village and confiscated 10,200 intoxicant tablets from his possession. His interrogation led to the arrest of Gursahib Singh of Sahnewali village and Sanjeev Kumar, alias Raja, while the police seized 11,400 intoxicants and 957 tablets from their possession, respectively.According to the police, the accused used to supply drugs to different parts of the holy city, especially in rural belt. They smuggled intoxicants through different routes and modes. More arrests are likely to be made during the further course of investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourist-buses-come-under-police-scanner-186507
19-12-2020||---||Air India reschedules Amritsar-Nanded flight||Amritsar, December 18Air India has rescheduled Amritsar-Nanded-Amritsar flight from today onwards. The flight will now take off from Amritsar airport at 8.10 am on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. The same flight would again take passengers from Nanded at 11.45 am and reach Amritsar at 2.20 pm.Earlier, Air India had resumed direct air links between Amritsar and Nanded on November 10, the flights were functional on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The plane used to reach Amritsar from Mumbai and would leave for Nanded at 11.30 am.Now it will reach Amritsar from Delhi at 7.10 am and fly to Nanded on 8.10 am. On its return from Nanded to Amritsar, the plane used to fly to Mumbai but now it will leave for Delhi at 3.20 pm. This would facilitate Delhi passengers to reach Nanded via Amritsar.The Air India flight from Mumbai to Amritsar will now reach the airport at 10.35 am on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and leave for Mumbai at 11.35 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/air-india-reschedules-amritsar-nanded-flight-186508
19-12-2020||---||Agri laws: Farmers to continue opposing Centre’s proposal||Amritsar, December 18Farmers continued to hold protests at different places. They have blocked the railway line at Jandiala railway station and are also protesting outside the residence of Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik.The train connectivity continued to remain in a limbo, forcing people to commute by road as preference of choice. The railway continue to keep some trains cancelled, short originated many and commute four passenger trains and some goods trains from diverted routes.The 02904 Amritsar- Mumbai Central express, 02903 Mumbai Central- Amritsar express, the 04649 / 73 Jaynagar – Amritsar express and 04650 /74 Amritsar- Jaynagar express were diverted to run via Amritsar- Tarn Taran- Beas.Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) Punjab President Satnam Singh Pannu, state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher informed about the joint discussion which had taken place between the KMSC and BKU (Ugrahan) at Delhi’s Singhu-Kundli border.They stated that opposition from corporate houses and boycott of their goods would be intensified. They said with the Essential Commodities Act 2020, the capitalists will have the right to arbitrarily stockpile agricultural commodities.Pensioners hold agitation in cityAmritsar: While supporting farmers’ agitation, the Punjab Pensioners Front on Friday held an agitation outside the DC’s office here. They condemned the Punjab Government's indifferent attitude towards their demands. The front sought immediate release of DA instalments, besides clearing of medical bills in a time bound manner. They said that the pensioners should also be covered under government's health insurance scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-laws-farmers-to-continue-opposing-centres-proposal-186509
