20-05-2020||THE Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown were surprising for us like others and there was no preparation to deal with the situation. The curfew imposed by the government to prevent the spread of virus threw life out of gear.||‘An opportunity to learn new things’||My family members and I sat together and we decided to start charity from home. My mother and I withdrew Rs10 lakh from our bank accounts and gave to the Red Cross. It was the need of the hour, as PM’s Relief Fund was for the country, CM’s Fund for the state, but there was no specific fund for the city.Others, including MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, contributed to the Red Cross fund and the administration used it judiciously to buy sanitisers, masks and food packets.Later, we started a community kitchen, which fed 70,000 persons daily. All 16 councillors in my constituency and more than 800 volunteers provided cooked food to the needy daily. Our workers and friends contributed from their pockets.Meanwhile, the government issued ration kits and we distributed it by rising above party lines. After two Covid-19 positive deaths in the area, the government declared some localities as containment zones. With the help of Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu and the DC, we conducted screening in the area. Fortunately, no further infection was found.Overall, it was a tough time, but an opportunity to learn several new things. Everyone did self-realisation during this phase. People started thinking about sanitation and environmental issues. People are returning to traditional home-made food, which strengthens immunity. We must follow health authorities’ guidelines.(As told to Charanjit s Teja)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-opportunity-to-learn-new-things-87330
20-05-2020||Tarn Taran||Woman molested, one booked||Civic body seals illegal buildingAmritsar: Taking advantage of the Municipal Corporation officials busy with coronavirus-related activities, some miscreants encroached upon the land of the Local Bodies at Godam Mohalla in Katra Sher Singh here. During his visit in the area, the Estate Officer observed the illegal construction and called the staff and got the unauthorised building sealed immediately. “I have asked the person, who claimed to be owner of the property to show the documents of ownership. The land belongs to residential quarter of the MC. The person encroached upon the open yard illegally. The report has been sent to the higher officials,” said Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-molested-one-booked-87334
20-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||‘Covid may change way education is imparted’||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 19For weeks, Principal Archana Bahl tried to comprehend why her life had gone into a tailspin. She finally concluded that unintended and unforeseen side-effects of modern life have backfired on modernity itself. Before she inadvertently got locked down within the four walls of her house, Bahl used to remain busy with her duties as a Principal of Gurdaspur Public School.The paradox could not have been too glaring to be missed. These days she does not go to school, stays at home, refrains from doing household chores, but nevertheless remains busier than ever. She does not even get to know when her bustling day slips into the stillness of the night.Archana opines the virus has given birth to too many ‘experts’ who hold an opinion on everything related to it. In jest, she recounts Gibson’s eponymous law which states that “for every PhD there is an equal and opposite PhD.”She believes that the time has come for humanity to quickly rediscover its existential fragility within the complicated global system.“Modern society has become a risky one in the sense that it is increasingly occupied with debating, preventing and managing risks that it itself has produced. How and why the virus made its way from the natural habitats, including rain forests, should be understood at length by scientists and accordingly reforms made.But these very reforms should be put into operation only after the reasoning behind the existing state of affairs is understood,” she maintains. It is not only online classes, a concept she says was bound to kick in corona or no corona, that keeps her busy, but her duties with the Inner Wheel Club too take up a lot of time.“A coin always has two sides. Such teaching methods have advantages and disadvantages. Online learning has been shown to increase retention of information, and take less time, meaning the changes coronavirus have caused might be here to stay. However, some of my colleagues believe that the unplanned and rapid move to online learning – with no training, insufficient bandwidth, and little preparation – will result in a poor user experience. Others say that a new hybrid model of education will emerge having significant benefits. As for me, technology-driven education has come to stay,” she says.As she is winding up, a TV channel screams that Oxford University has come close to developing a vaccine. “Vaccines are not money spinners. They are given a few times in one’s life so they are never blockbusters. But this one is surely going to be different. The entire human race is waiting to embrace it.”"A coin always has two sides. Such teaching methods have advantages and disadvantages. Online learning has been shown to increase retention of information, and take less time, meaning the changes coronavirus have caused may be here to stay. However, some of my colleagues believe that the unplanned and rapid move to online learning – with no training, insufficient bandwidth, and little preparation – will result in a poor user experience. Others say that a new hybrid model of education will emerge having significant benefits. As for me, technology-driven education has come to stay." Archana Bahl, Principal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-may-change-way-education-is-imparted-87335
20-05-2020||GS Paul||This doctor offered emergency services to poor amid pandemic||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 19At a time when most of the private hospitals were shy of opening services amid the Covid-19 threat, Dr Raman Gupta, MS, FCCS, a general surgeon, offered all emergency services at his Gupta Hospital in Chabbal, Tarn Taran, during the lockdown period.Dr Gupta is the only specialist, who has been serving in this border belt for the past 18 years. He has been rendering free OPD services in his hospital. “How could I afford to shut down operation in this hour of crisis for my patients, who mostly hail from the border belt? I could well image the inconvenience they faced in emergency amid movement restrictions. So, it was my moral duty to open all types of emergency services. I also performed unavoidable surgeries during the lockdown,” he said.Associated with several NGOs, Dr Gupta’s benevolent and philanthropic nature and attitude have always helped the needy in whatever way possible. He is a former president of Rotary Club, Amritsar (West). But, he is an active member of the club. He is also the district president (medical wing) of the International Human Rights Organisation and life member of Indian Medical Association.Dr Gupta said he never charged any admission and consultation fee. “The OPD is totally free and no consultation fee is charged from any patient in my hospital. Actually, most of the patients I cater to belonged to the border belt, which is already reeling under an economic crisis. The patient is administered medicine in the hospital itself at nominal charges. There is only exception if I do not have a particular medicine, which the patient will have to purchase it from outside,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-doctor-offered-emergency-services-to-poor-amid-pandemic-87336
20-05-2020||Rajan Bedi||‘Govt should defer dues of bizmen’s power bills, taxes’||Has the lockdown impacted your warehousing business?Warehousing is a priority sector so there was no prohibition on its functioning. Wheat and approximately 15,000 tonnes of rice were delivered from the warehouse in Kapurthala to various states during the lockdown period. You can well imagine that Punjab fed entire the country by supplying rice and wheat.What are your future plans?We will start constructing a new warehouse with capacity of 20,000 metric tonnes at Kartarpur from Wednesday. We expect to open another hotel in Amritsar after the revival of the economy.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Apart from salaries, we have been providing round-the-clock food and logistic facilities to 60 staff members at the hotel. Around 1,000 people, including labourers, masons, drivers and technical staff, are directly or indirectly involved in the warehousing sector and all of them were paid in time. They finished construction of warehouse with a capacity of 50,000-metric tonne for the FCI at Khasa. Around 12 lakh wheat bags are being stored in the warehouse.What is the share of online trading in your profession?There is no scope of online trading in the warehouse sector except for exchange of communication.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?This is something which could derail the entire spectrum of business and normal life. We had to close our hotel and meet all expenses when the income had vanished.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is an opportunity for the medical sector and fast-moving consumer goods. However, for other sectors, it remains a challenge. We have to put in all our energy and resources to get momentum. Now, we will have to start from zero and shore up resources to re-infuse capital in the chain supply of business.What are your expectations from the government?The government should defer the dues of electricity bills and all kinds of taxes. Even after opening the economy, it will take eight to 10 months for industries and businesses to achieve the previous level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-should-defer-dues-of-bizmens-power-bills-taxes-87337
20-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||2 fresh cases, Amritsar tally climbs to 307||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 19With two more new Covid-19 positive cases reported on Tuesday, the total count in the district has reached 307. The health authorities have stated that two local residents have tested positive in Banga subdivision of Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar district. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said at present, the district had eight active cases.The district had on Monday reported a junior resident (JR) doctor-cum-postgraduate student at Government Medical College as a positive case. The JR had been reportedly working in the isolation ward, where coronavirus positive cases were kept, at GMC. After the development, a blame game has started at the institute with the college principal writing a letter to the head of the Department of Medicine, who is also in-charge of the Covid care centre.Principal’s letter courts controversyIn the letter, the principal stated that many doctors and other staff members were not wearing PPE kits during duties in the isolation wards and the employees who did not follow safety norms would not be entitled to compensation under accidental Loss of life on account of Covid-19-related duty scheme.In the letter, the principal stated that many doctors and other staff members were not wearing PPE kits during duties in the isolation wards. The letter reads, “….it is also brought to your notice that earlier resident doctors, staff nurses and other workers were demanding PPE kits even for working in general emergency (ward) despite the fact that guidelines did not recommend PPE kits for them …”The letter further stated that the employees who did not follow safety norms would not be entitled to compensation under accidental Loss of life on account of Covid-19-related duty scheme.Employees at the college stated that such wording of the letter was only to shift blame to others and create unrest among the employees. Earlier too, the Department of Medical Education and Research had created a storm at the institute after issuing show-cause notices to four employee leaders for issuing statements to mediapersons. The show-cause notices were issued after the letter of the principal.Meanwhile, the coordination committee of paramedical employees’ unions stated that the principal’s letter was demoralising and it should be withdrawn.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-fresh-cases-amritsar-tally-climbs-to-307-87319
20-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Precautions in place, bus service for Jalandhar to resume today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 19Good news for those wanting to travel to Jalandhar, as the Punjab Roadways buses will start plying from Amritsar to Jalandhar with 50 per cent occupancy from Wednesday till further orders of the government.Officials of the Punjab Roadways claimed they have made all arrangements to resume the service. Station Superintendent, Punjab Roadways, Harbrinder Singh Gill, said: “Only 26 passengers will be allowed in non-AC 52-seater bus. The passengers have to book their seat at the bus stand and no one will be allowed to board from any stoppage.”The Roadways officials claimed that the government may resume the service to Pathankot soon. “We will resume the Amritsar-Jalandhar route tomorrow. Similarly, the buses will be available from Jalandhar to Ludhiana. There is no direct connectivity to any other city yet,” Gill said.The officers said buses and passengers would be sanitised and the health wing team would conduct screening of passengers. The buses would not stop at any stoppage in between to board or drop passengers.Traders and government employees, especially police personnel, would get relief with the resumption of the bus service.Harvinder Singh, a government employee, who attends office in Jalandhar said; “It was quite tough to travel to Jalandhar in the past few days. I had to arrange for an accommodation near my office in Jalandhar.”“A large number of traders, who visit Jalandhar and Ludhiana for business, were facing tough days. Generally, they travel in trains, but in the absence of rail service, the bus service will help them to resume their business,” said Sumit Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/precautions-in-place-bus-service-for-jalandhar-to-resume-today-87320
20-05-2020||---||Use direct seeding in sandy, low nutrient soils, paddy farmers told||Amritsar, May 19With June 1 being the date for commencement of direct seeding of rice and June 10 for commencement of transplantation of saplings, the Agriculture Department has advised farmers to use direct seeding method in sandy and low nutrient content soils.The department has also asked farmers to avoid direct seeding in fields with the problem of excess germination of weeds.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said: “Though direct seeding and mechanised transplanting are the need of the hour due to labour shortage and even government is encouraging farmers for the same, it is advised that those who have no experience of the two methods should not bring more than 25 per cent of their total landholding under these techniques.” “Farmers, who have earlier experienced successful use of these techniques, can bring more area under such techniques,” said Dr Bal.Agriculture engineer Ranbir Singh Randhawa said: “Farmers can use direct seeding of rice (DSR) machines with spray attachment or without it, but they have to ensure that weedicides that check germination of weeds are sprayed within 24 hours of direct seeding of rice.”He said those farmers who do not have these machines can also use zero till drill and happy seeder machines used for wheat sowing by making minor adjustments.He said farmers can contact the engineering wing of the Agriculture Department to know about the details of adjustments, which need to be made to make these machines conducive for direct seeding of rice.For preparing mat-type nursery for mechanised transplanting, farmers would need 10 to 12 kg seed per acre of paddy, said Randhawa, adding that nursery should be grown on a fully levelled land surface. He said nursery grown with proper method was available for transplanting within 25 to 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/use-direct-seeding-in-sandy-low-nutrient-soils-paddy-farmers-told-87321
20-05-2020||
||SC should take cognisance of hardships of migrants: AAP||Amritsar, May 19 AAP’s legal cell incharge Parminder Singh Sethi has requested the Supreme Court (SC) to take cognisance of the hardships being faced by migrant workers while going to their native places on foot amid the lockdown. He said the SC should issue instructions to the governments concerned. Sethi said migrant workers in lakhs were going back to their native places as they had lost their livelihood. He added that it is disheartening that instead of helping these workers, state governments are not allowing them to cross borders.    Sethi said that state governments and the Centre should provide free transportation and meals to the workers and their families. “Hundreds have died in accidents as they were crushed under the wheels of vehicles. Many have due to hunger and others have gone missing, but the government would never make these figures public,” he said, adding that the apex court must help these migrant workers by issuing instructions to the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sc-should-take-cognisance-of-hardships-of-migrants-aap-87322
20-05-2020||---||Rural police crack a whip on liquor smugglers||Amritsar, May 19Following the directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to crack a whip on liquor smuggling, bootlegging and illegal distillation of liquor, the rural police have launched a campaign against bootleggers.The orders were issued to check revenue loss to the already cash-strapped Punjab Government by such activity. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic that forced the Punjab Government to impose curfew restrictions bringing all economic activities to a standstill, causing huge revenue losses in the past nearly two months. The CM also ordered immediate action against those policemen who failed to check the illegal activity in their areas.2-kg opium seizedThe CIA staff seized 2 kg of opium and Rs 25,000 from two persons, identified as Rajwinder Singh of Katra and Karam Singh and Kanwalpreet Singh of Yamunanagar (Haryana). They were travelling on a scooter without (registration number), which was also seized by the police. Further interrogation was under way to detect the upward and backward links.On Monday, during raids at different villages in the rural belt, the police confiscated 1,890 kg of lahan (hooch), 20 ltrs of illicit liquor and 149 bottles. Besides, the police also found two illegal distillery units in Adliwal and Nangal villages falling under the Rajasansi and Ajnala police stations here. Around 18 alleged bootleggers, including four women, fled the spot when police teams raided different places. Six persons were arrested.The Bhindi Saida police team was attacked when it raided the residence of a notorious bootlegger, Onkar Singh. His wife and daughter-in-law, Jeeto and Pammi, respectively, allegedly threw bricks and stones at the police party and fled the spot along with Onkar Singh. The police recovered 360 kg of lahan from the spot. The accused fell a drum of lahan while escaping.SI Jasbir Singh said the accused attacked the raiding police party and tore their uniforms. The police have booked them for interrupting a government servant from discharging his duties, under the Excise Act and destroying the evidence.The police have started a campaign against liquor smugglers who were involved in smuggling liquor from other states and selling in the local market.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill held a meeting with officials asking them to take strict action against the persons involved in the sale of illicit liquor. He asked them to prepare a list of repeated offenders and keep an eye on such persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-police-crack-a-whip-on-liquor-smugglers-87323
20-05-2020||Our Correspondent
||12 arrested with illicit liquor, lahan in Tarn Taran villages||Tarn Taran, May 19 On the third day of the drive against sale of illicit liquor, the district police registered 32 cases and recovered a huge quantity of illicit liquor, lahan and English wine here on Monday. The police on Tuesday said a total of 222 ltrs of illicit liquor, 1,476 ltrs lahan , two working stills and 84 bottles of English wine were recovered in the crackdown. The police said the accused included two women Sawinder Kaur of Vein Poin and Kanta of Shakri village from whom nine bottles each (total 18 ltrs) of illicit liquor were recovered. The Sarhali police seized 180 ltrs of lahan from Shakri near the village pond while 16 ltrs of illicit liquor was seized from Kulwant Singh of Naushehra Pannuan village. Around 84 ltrs of English wine was recovered by the police from Vijay Kumar and Simarjit Singh Sanni of the local town, which was stored at the local Sakhija Palace on the Sarhali road here. The Khalra police recovered two working stills from the residences of Baj Singh and Rajbir Singh of Marimegha village with 500 ltrs of lahan and 22 ltrs of Illicit liquor from their houses. The police said 12 accused were arrested and 20 others were at large. Ten of the 12 arrested accused were released on bail by the police. The district police have registered more than 100 cases in the last three days in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-arrested-with-illicit-liquor-lahan-in-tarn-taran-villages-87324
20-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||‘Inferior crates being supplied to godowns’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 19An inspector in the Department of Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs has raised an alarm over substandard crates being supplied to godowns. Crates are used to store wheat in government-run storages.In a communiqué, a copy of which is with The Tribune, which Inspector Vinod Khosla dispatched to the Chief Secretary of Punjab Government, Chief Secretary of the Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Director of Vigilance Bureau and DGP Punjab, he flagged the scandal.Khosla, in his complaint, said substandard crates were supplied to godowns of PUNGRAIN situated in this district in connivance with the officials of the department. He said rates were charged of good quality crates, but inferior ones were supplied actually. Thus, it caused financial losses to the government.He said 15,000 crates were supplied in this border district, while the proposal was to procure 1 lakh crates for godowns of the entire state.He elaborated that as per the directions to maintain quality, a crate should weigh at least 40 kg. However, he observed, low weighing crates were supplied, which amounts to cheating with the department and said the firm concerned should be black-listed. He sought immediate evaluation of the material in the godowns and relevant action against the firm to prevent further losses to the government.The Allegation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inferior-crates-being-supplied-to-godowns-87325
20-05-2020||Amritsar||Out on parole, man ends life; three booked||A man committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in Drumma Wala Bazaar here on Monday. A family dispute is stated to be the reason behind the incident. The victim has been identified as Harjinder Singh, alias Toni (35). According to the police, a suicide note was found from the spot and therefore, the police booked his wife, along with others, for abetting suicide. Harjinder was recently released on parole from jail due to the Covid-19 threat, said the police. Jorawar Singh, father of the victim, told the police that Harjinder was his younger son who was married to Roshni around six years ago. He said for the past three days, he had a dispute with her. He said on Monday, Kulwinder Singh, a neighbor, called him to inform that Harjinder had committed suicide. He said he, along with his wife, reached the spot and found him hanging from a ceiling fan. A suicide note was also recovered from the spot in which he held his wife and others responsible for his taking the extreme step. IOSub-Inspector Gurdeep Singh said on the basis of the suicide note and the statement of Jorawar, a case was registered against Roshni Verma, her friend Sonia and a relative of Roshni.  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/out-on-parole-man-ends-life-three-booked-87326
20-05-2020||Amritsar||Schools gear up for conduct of CBSE Classes X, XII exams||The CBSE on Monday announced the date-sheet for pending Classes X and XII board exams, which were postponed due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. The exams are scheduled to be held between July 1 and 15. While the CBSE had directed that the students will bring their own hand sanitisers and wear masks to the examination centres, the schools in the city are preparing for conducting exams keeping in mind the social distancing norm. “We will plan per room sitting arrangements and other aspects in the run-up to the given dates by the CBSE. The exams are eventually going to be conducted in a post-Covid 19 scenario. So, we have already stocked thermal guns and other safety equipment required for sanitisation and are keeping a check on the students’ health before they sit for exams,” shared Neera Sharma, principal, DAV Public School. The school is one of the centres to conduct the exams. She said limited staff would be put on examination duty. The guidelines already state that only 12 students per room must be allowed and the schools that will be listed as centres must carry out sanitisation twice a day. Manjot Dhillon, director, Mount Litera Zee School, said conducting the exams would not be a challenge for most schools as only one or two papers were left to be held. “The matter of fact is that most of the papers were already held before the lockdown was announced and students who had taken options subjects were left. So, the sitting arrangements for the students will be such that social distancing can be maintained.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-gear-up-for-conduct-of-cbse-classes-x-xii-exams-87327
20-05-2020||Amritsar||Sportspersons raring to be back in form||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sportspersons-raring-to-be-back-in-form-87328
20-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga
||Public sector firms accused of resorting to profiteering||Tribune News Service Amritsar, May 19 The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) has accused state-run public sector companies such as petroleum, insurance and banks of resorting to profiteering in the current severe economic time triggered by the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of Covid-19. PPBM president Piara Lal Seth said oil companies were consistently denying benefits gained by falling crude prices, adding that they instead were increasing excise taxes to book more profit. Insurance companies were increasing the cost of insurance policies and those who have been paying premium for the past many years were compelled to shell out more in these tiring times.  “Despite repo rate being brought down to 4.4 per cent, the government and private banks were taking loan instalments at previously applicable high rate of interest,” said Samir Jain, PPBM, general secretary.  “Middle income groups were acute sufferers of the lockdown. Even then, banks were ready to accept instalments with interest for the period during the lockdown,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/public-sector-firms-accused-of-resorting-to-profiteering-87329
20-05-2020||Amritsar||Confusion stays over timings of opening of shops||Confusion prevails among shopkeepers over opening of their shops. However, policemen made announcements in the walled city asking them to open their shops as per their turns. The police said legal action would be taken against the shopkeepers who would open their shops without their turns. After a meeting with traders’ unions, the administration allowed the wholesale markets to open from 6 am to 10 am and retail shops from 10.30 am to 7pm.As per the system, the shops on either side of wide roads will be opened on alternate days while the establishments in the narrow walled city have been categorised in three zones. The shops will be allowed to open as per the days allotted to them. By this way, these shops will be opened on two days of a week. However, saloons, gyms, shopping malls, spa and beauty parlours would remain closed till further orders. Shopkeepers said there was still confusion over opening of shops. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/confusion-stays-over-timings-of-opening-of-shops-87331
20-05-2020||---||Armed men loot Rs10 lakh from bank||Amritsar, May 19In a broad daylight robbery, three armed men looted Rs10.92 lakh from an IndusInd Bank branch at Sohian Kalan village here on Tuesday.The miscreants held two staff members, who were present in the bank, hostage and decamped with the amount.After getting information, the police immediately reached the spot and started investigation into the incident.Branch manager Karan Sharma said around 1.30 pm when he, along with Lovepreet Singh, was working in the bank, the armed men entered the bank and pointed pistols at them. He said after tying their legs and hands with a rope to chairs, the robbers looted Rs10.92 lakh from the cash counter and fled away in a car.The branch managed said the miscreants stuffed handkerchiefs in their mouths so that they could not shout. He added that one of their accomplices was standing outside the bank at the time of the incident.According to information, they put the shutter of the bank half down while fleeing.The bank manager added that two other employees had gone to the field for opening new accounts. He told the police that employees of the nearby liquor vend came inside the bank after the incident.Kapil Sharma, SHO, Majitha police station, said a case had been registered while the further investigation was on. He added that there was neither any security guard nor CCTV camera installed on the bank premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/armed-men-loot-rs10-lakh-from-bank-87332
