20-06-2020||Amritsar||Code violation: Bihar policemen camp in city to meet Navjot Singh Sidhu; Congress leader remains elusive||Two Bihar policemen have been unsuccessfully trying to meet former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh to deliver a notice regarding to an election code violation.Sub-inspectors Javed Ahmad and Janardan have been camped in Amritsar for two days, spending many hours outside his residence in an attempt to meet the Congress leader. The policemen require his signature on the delivery, but so far their attempts have been unsuccessful.The policemen don’t know how long they’re going to have to be in the city.“It depends on senior officials,” they said.The case pertains to Sidhu’s controversial remarks made last year, when he was campaigning for Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in Bihar’s Katihar district for the 2019 general election.  Sidhu has been accused of making a provocative speech during the campaign. The Election Commission of India had imposed a 72-hour ban on him. He also faces criminal charges for the speech under the Representation of the People Act and the India Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/code-violation-bihar-policemen-camp-in-city-to-meet-navjot-singh-sidhu-congress-leader-remains-elusive-101906
20-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||107-year-old among four succumb to Covid in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19With four more deaths, including a 107-year-old man, due to Covid-19, the total count of casualties increased to 30 here on Friday. Besides, the district reported 42 fresh cases.The deceased have been identified as 68-year-old Kamal Kishore of Katra Khazana area, 107-year-old Sawarn Singh, a resident of a locality near the Golden Temple, 53-year-old Sharanjit Kaur of Uttam Nagar on the Sultanwind road and 64-year-old Pappu, a resident of Suraj Wali Gali.Of the 42 positive cases, 27 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 15 are contacts of positive patients.One ILI case each was reported from the Ram Teerth road, Kot Khalsa, Guru Amardas Avenue, Naraingarh, Maha Singh gate, Ramdas, Wadala Khurd, HDFC (Rayya), Ajnala, Katra Ahluwalia, Hindustan Basti, New Dashmesh Nagar, Gate Khazana, Golden Temple, Lahori Gate, Gate Hakeema, Kot Harnam Singh, Gali Hatimtai, Gali Malika, Dayanand Nagar, Ram Bagh police station, Meat Wali Gali, Shingar Avenue, Sandhu Colony, Uttam Nagar and Hari Singh Nagar. Two ILI cases each were reported at Katra Dullo and Namak Mandi.Of the 15 cases with contact history, five cases were reported from Dayanand Nagar, three from Namak Mandi and two each from Katra Khajana, Gol Bagh and Rayya. The total count of Covid-19 cases has climbed to 733 so far. Besides, the district recorded an increase in recovery cases to 487.5 found +ve in Tarn TaranFive more Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the district today while one was discharged after his report came as negative.Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar said of 364 samples received, five reports came as positive. The patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/107-year-old-among-four-succumb-to-covid-in-amritsar-101775
20-06-2020||---||4 mobiles seized from jail||Amritsar, June 19There is no let-up in seizures of mobile phones and other prohibited material from inside the high security Amritsar Central Jail complex. The jail authorities have confiscated four mobile phones besides 25 cigarettes from the high security jail premises here on Thursday. In all, 140 cell phones were seized this year from the jail complex.As per latest details, during surprise checking, the jail authorities recovered three mobile phones which were abandoned while a cell phone was recovered from a jail inmate, identified as Shamsher Singh, alias Shera, of Bhaini Rajputa village. Two of these mobile phones were smart phones with internet facility. Similarly, another jail inmate, identified as Bharat, was found possessing 25 cigarettes.Investigations carried out in the previous mobile seizures revealed that mobiles are sold in the jail premises at a price. A smart phone is sold anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000. While, the inmates tried to sneak in mobile by hiding in their private parts, the black sheep take from Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 for slipping in the same, sources in the jail told.During this year, the jail authorities nabbed two jail warders, Gurcharan Singh and Harpreet Singh, under similar offence. The jail authorities have written for their dismissal from the department.Sources added that when the situation is tight, the prices of mobile could go up to Rs 40,000. Similar is the case with cigarettes and bidis they are sold at Rs 300 per piece.Security and intelligence agencies had expressed concern as it was dangerous for the national security too. The central jail also houses foreign nationals, including Pakistan and Bangladesh. Many notorious smugglers were also found to be using mobiles to run their network. During investigation of narco-terror module using drone for smuggling drugs earlier this year, the Amritsar rural police had nabbed two jail inmates who were operating through mobile.Arshdeep Singh, Jail Superintendent, said stringent measures were taken against the black sheep nabbed red handed and steps were being taken to stop sneaking cell phones into the jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-mobiles-seized-from-jail-101784
20-06-2020||---||After distancing norms violation, DC says submit memo via e-mail||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19Furious over the repeated instances of violation of social distancing norm, the Deputy Commissioner of Amritsar, Shivdular Singh Dhillon, has ordered that the memorandum or any sort of demand letter that was supposed to be forwarded to the government or to any department would be accepted through online mode only.In the backdrop, the DC faced tough time to deal with the SAD-BJP leaders’ delegation, who unmindful of observing the social distancing, turned up in the office of the DC to submit a memorandum against the state government. The DC refused to entertain them at first instance but after his repeated insistence, the leaders dispersed and the DC had to come out of his office to accept the memorandum.The DC told that all leaders or unions have been directed to avoid physical march towards the office in the midst of Covid threat and send their submission to dc.asr@punjab.gov.in which would be promptly followed.“The Covid-19 spread has to be curbed only if we observe the safety guidelines sincerely. Coming in numbers and without mask or maintaining physical distancing would defeat the ‘mission fateh’ aim on which the government has been spending crores to spread awareness. Any kind of carelessness in following the guidelines would cost us dearly. That’s why, I have directed to accept the demand notes or memorandum only through online”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-distancing-norms-violation-dc-says-submit-memo-via-e-mail-101785
20-06-2020||---||CII bats for multi-pronged strategy to revive economy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19To bring the economy back on track, there is a need for a multi-pronged strategy in diverse areas with an active participation of all stakeholders, including the industry.These views were expressed during a conference on “2020-21 —- Building India for a new world focused on lives, livelihood, growth...”.Nikhil Sawhney, Chairman, CII Northern Region, said one of the important dimensions of rebuilding India would be to protect jobs and livelihoods. This would have to be complimented by a policy action in the rural economy, which was the largest employer.He said for the first time, the country was witnessing a reverse migration, therefore there was a scope for creating more geographically distributed models of development and an opportunity for redefining investment priorities.Investment in rural health and infrastructure along with strengthening rural digital programmes and platform could pave the way for a robust rural ecosystem. Industries along with state governments could be encouraged to set up facilities in rural areas, which in turn, would generate jobs and strengthen the rural sector’s share in the GDP.He said boosting the government’s spending for a sustained economic recovery was crucial at this hour. The balance between fiscal spending and financial stability would have to be ensured.He said the prolonged lockdown had dealt a huge blow to the growth. Covid-19 had changed the status quo of the world and they needed to focus their energy to manage growth, lives and livelihoods while considering the challenges associated with life after Covid.“The industry will have to work with its vendors, especially with MSMEs, to ensure that progress is across the value chain. Hence, the industry has a major role to play along with the government in bringing inclusive and sustainable growth back,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cii-bats-for-multi-pronged-strategy-to-revive-economy-101786
20-06-2020||---||Rural pharmacists hold protest over regular jobs||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19Pharmacists working in rural areas under the Panchayat Department staged a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office expressing their resentment over not getting regular jobs here on Friday.Members of the Rural Health Pharmacy Officers’ Association said the rural pharmacists had been working for the past 14 years on Rs 10,000 per month. Since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, rural pharmacists had been assigned duties at the Integrated Check Post (ICP), Attari, Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport, the Golden Temple, the Durgiana temple and with rapid response teams.Gurdeep Singh, rural pharmacy officer and the district president of the association, said the rural pharmacists had been working as frontline warriors amid Covid-19 threat. “As the government has failed to give us regular jobs, we have decided to return to dispensaries in rural areas and boycott all Covid-related duties assigned to us. The dharna will be held statewide and would shift to Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s residence if our demands were not met.”Randeep Kumar, a rural pharmacist, said the protest was staged against the government. “We were appointed by Capt Amarinder-led Congress government in 2006 on nominal salaries. The SAD-BJP government too did not regularise our services in their tenure. We hoped that the present Congress government would listen to our grievances but in vain. MP Gurjeet Aujla too gave false assurances,” he said.Sukhinder Kaur, another aggrieved pharmacist, said they had been put on Covid-related emergency services for the past three months whereas the mainstream doctors had been staying in comfort zones. “We were being exploited economically. We have been coming from far-off places for a meagre salary of Rs 10,000 per month,” she said.Tarn Taran: Pharmacists working in rural civil dispensaries under zila parishad on Friday held a protest and demanded regularisation of their services. The protesters under the banner of Rural Pharmacy Officer’Association burnt an effigy of the state government for its failure to fulfill promises made with them many times to regularise their services. Varinderpal Bhatia, district chairman, Harinder Singh Dhunda, district president of the organisation, said the protesters had been serving in rural civil dispensaries of the district for the last more than 15 years on a meagre salary of Rs 10,000. The leaders said they had been working in Covid wards and the government was not ready to redress their other genuine demands like providing them PPE kits, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-hold-protest-over-regular-jobs-101787
20-06-2020||---||Online ‘baithaks’ gain momentum||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19The creative art fraternity responded to the Covid-19 lockdown by shifting to the digital media. Now that Unlock 1.0 has begun, the digital discourse continues effortlessly and with more active and expanded audience as livestreaming and video sessions become the norm.Amid all that’s happening online, artists from the city, too, have tapped into the audience that was missing from the culturescape in the ordinary set up of things.Recently, Majha House launched its ‘Sanjha Punjab’ initiative, an online series of ‘baithaks’, sessions and conversations about the shared history and heritage of Punjab on both sides of the border.The sessions focus on inviting authors, poets, singers, historians and the common people, who share knowledge about the two Punjabs and its contemporary relevance. The recent edition of the series had Dr Sumail Singh Sidhu, scholar and activist, Supnandan, a PCS officer and a singer from India, and singer Faraz Nayyar and Shabana Abbas from Pakistan talked about Waris Shah and his works while presenting brief performances.The session was presented by Arvinder Chamak, an artist from Amritsar, who said such sessions were enriching as they helped them know about their intangible heritage. Chamak also recently moderated a session of Akhar, an interactive dialogue on Punjabi writing and poetry that featured Amritsar-based noted Punjabi writer Artinder Sandhu.Sandhu is a well-known and respected name in the realms of Punjabi language not only in India, but abroad as well, has 14 books of poetry, stories and prose to her credit and is also an executive member of the Sahitya Academy of Punjab Arts.Talking about feminist poetry in her session, Sandhu said, “I was very young, perhaps eight, when I started writing poems. In those days, we used to write patriotic poetry, but slowly I started venturing into different themes. But my poetry took feminist turn when a young girl approached me asking how many thousands of evil deeds does one have to do in order to be born as a woman. I was shocked by this girl’s question and could not begin to imagine the situation in her home, the verbal and physical abuse she must have been witness to. Having brought up by liberal parents, I could not understand the shame and pain of being a woman,” she said.She said people must understand that feminist poetry was not only for women, but was also directed at their male counterparts so that they could also understand what it meant to be a woman. “A woman’s journey is from one home to another and then another. It isn’t easy,” she said.Another engaging conversation that Majha House’s digital platform was with entrepreneur Ashvinder Kundan Singh, who has developed an application sikhiwiki.org that lets you understand the true meaning of Mool Mantra and how to incorporate the tenets into daily lives. “It is the largest online repository of Sikhi information,” said Ashvinder as he talked about his journey as a second generation Sikh in Canada.Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, said, “We would like to focus our sessions on Punjab that exists away from us. With Sanjha Punjab, we brought East and West Punjab together across the borders; with Ashvinder’s session, we are trying to get engaged with the Punjabi diaspora thriving across the globe.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-baithaks-gain-momentum-101788
20-06-2020||Amritsar||IMA threatens to keep clinics, hospitals shut on June 23||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday announced to keep hospitals and clinics shut on June 23 if the government did not withdraw its ordinance on the Clinical Establishments Act (CEA).Amrita Rana, Secretary, IMA (Amritsar chapter), alleged that the joint committee was still discussing the draft when the government passed the ordinance.The IMA , Amritsar chapter, had earlier submitted a memorandum to the local MP, MLAs and senior administrative officials. The representative body of doctors said it would not bring any substantial improvement in healthcare services and rather make the treatment costlier.The doctors’ body said any inconvenience caused to the patients due to the shutdown would be attributed to the government. It has also demanded that the installation of STP/ETP by hospitals be waived till March 2021. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-threatens-to-keep-clinics-hospitals-shut-on-june-23-101789
20-06-2020||KAMAL Kishore Aggarwal||‘Interest waiver for MSME sector  must stay until Covid goes away’||It could be considered a challenge to continue the production even though it means losses for sake of uninterrupted supply for the service of the nation without increasing the rates. We have paid the full salary even on the limited production. There is already a scarcity of migrant labourers. — KK Aggarwal, director of nipun machine toolsHow has the lockdown impacted your business?It has dealt a massive blow to business activities in general and the manufacturing sector in particular which nobody would have ever thought. A mismatch has set in the entire business that the raw material is being sold by big concerns strictly on cash and finished products are sold on credit due to a sluggish demand. So, units are being run only on 25 per cent of the total capacity.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?Considering the current circumstances, we cannot dare think of expansion since the existing production is not saleable at present.Have you released salaries of your workers?We paid the full salary even on the limited production. There is already a scarcity of migrant labourers.What is the share of online trading in your profession?Our online share is zero per cent. Since the vocation does not fall under the daily need products, direct dealing with customers is missing. Dealers and wholesalers buy the products.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?One should be ready to face any challenge. Drastic steps are required to be taken for the benefit of people. We should adopt the new normal rules like compulsory wearing of masks and social distancing.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It could be considered a challenge to continue the production even though it means losses for sake of uninterrupted supply for the service of the nation without increasing the rates.What are your expectations from the government?The government should waive interest until the Covid-19 epidemic is over and ensure the supply of the raw material like steel and electricity at one-rate policy equivalent to international rates in the entire country. Encourage the units to enable them to supply the goods at reduced rates of finished goods which will resist the imports in order to implicate “Make in India”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/interest-waiver-for-msme-sector-must-stay-until-covid-goes-away-101790
20-06-2020||---||Postpone exams of exit classes, demand GND varsity students||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19Joining the student unions in voicing concern over health and safety as Covid-19 cases rise in Amritsar, the NSUI Punjab president, Akshay Sharma, submitted a memorandum to VC Jaspal Singh Sandhu to postpone exams of the exit classes scheduled to be held from July 1 by the university. Submitting the memorandum to the VC on Friday, Sharma said with coronavirus cases spiralling nationally with neighbouring Delhi and Haryana recording a surge, the authorities need to be extra vigilant before deciding to assemble students physically for exams.“The authorities should consider promoting students of all graduation courses in universities and colleges with special one-time exception of credit relaxation for final year students, in the wake of uncertainty prevailing over students’ future due to pandemic situation. The promotion to next level and score could be based on the work already done in the ongoing semester or the average scores of their preceding performance to facilitate final year students so they graduate on time,” Akshay added.Meanwhile, students organisation has also urged the VC to postpone the examinations as there is a rapid spike in cases in city. “Several nursing students sitting for exams in Jallandhar college had to face many difficulties. Also, any slightest mistake in preventive measures will put the health of students at risk. Moreover, the final year batch comes under the minor system. They have already given a 20 marks minor exam and have also submitted assignments for this semester. It is requested that the same should be considered for the purpose of evaluation for this semester, and with this the authority may conduct their short online exam,” said Shubhkaramdeep Singh of SFS.The students urged that these challenging times and the fear of stepping out to take exams has already started taking a toll on their mental health. They demanded that just like the Odisha government has ordered cancellation of all pending final semester and final year exams of UG and PG courses, the same should be adopted in Punjab. The VC assured them of his full cooperation from his side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/postpone-exams-of-exit-classes-demand-gnd-varsity-students-101791
20-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Biz down by 50%, ‘Blues Bakers’ hopeful of revival in sales soon||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19Though his business is down by more than 50 per cent, the owner of a noted bakery shop, near the Government Medical College, is hopeful of revival in its sales.The Covid-19 pandemic has hit the eatery giants in the holy city very hard. The city of Golden Temple is known for its delicacies. It is said if half of its population was preparing these delicacies, half of it was consuming it. Many eatery shops have been running from one generation to another and are famous among tourists. ‘Blues Bakers’ is one of the prominent bakers in Amritsar. They opened up their shop after over two- months of lockdown.“These were really hard times for the trading community but it is also a part and parcel of the business,” points out Sandeep Bedi, owner of the Blue Bakers.We opened up following the curfew after taking all the precautionary measures. As dining is not allowed at the moment, only a few customers have been visiting us. For now, only those who have full faith in us are coming to the shop. The purchasing power of people has also fallen. They have cut short their expenses. “At present, we have nearly 50 per cent of customers as compared to what used to be on normal days,” Bedi said.We have established a sanitisation chamber outside our shop and customers have to pass through the chamber before entering the shop. “Perhaps ours is the only bakery shop which has got such as chamber installed,” Bedi said, while adding that hand sanitisers were also kept for sanitisation. For maintaining social distance, we have allowed a maximum of two customers at a booth. We have also barricaded the area inside the shop while entire shop is sanitised on a regular basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/biz-down-by-50-blues-bakers-hopeful-of-revival-in-sales-soon-101792
20-06-2020||---||Two years on, senior citizen struggles for his pending gratuity||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, June 19Gurbhej Singh, a former Sarpanch of Palasaur village, in a letter written to Capt Amarinder Singh, has appealed to locate the missing amount of more than Rs 3 lakh sanctioned to a retired employee of the state government.Gurbhej Singh said here today that Sawinder Singh, a resident of the village had retired from the Drainage Department on January 31 and the department had released him an amount of Rs 7,11,860 as his gratuity on March 7, 2018. He said only Rs 4.11 lakh has been deposited in his bank account at a local SBI Sarhali road when the remaining more than Rs 3 lakh still lies untraced as yet. Gurbhej Singh said he, along with Sawinder Singh, had been moving from pillar to post to locate the missing amount from the bank branch and the District Treasury Office, but no official was ready to reveal anything to them.Gurbhej Singh, in a letter written to the Chief Minister, appealed to instruct the district authorities to help the senior citizen who was not in a position to visit offices every day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-years-on-senior-citizen-struggles-for-his-pending-gratuity-101793
20-06-2020||Amritsar||GNDU organises ‘best out of waste’ contest||Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) on Friday organised an online competition titled ‘best out of waste’ in a bid to spread awareness regarding protection of environment.Tejpal Kaur, programme assistant and coordinator of the event, said that we all have a role to play in preventing biodiversity loss and preserving nature for our coming generations. “If we want to change the course of destruction, we must first learn about what we can do. Nature can meet our demands but not greed. Therefore, there is a dire need to reduce, recycle and reuse. With this aim in mind the competition was organised.”Students of various departments including Dress Designing; Cutting and Tailoring, Cosmetology, Computer Applications, Fashion Designing and Web Designing participated in the contest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-organises-best-out-of-waste-contest-101794
20-06-2020||---||Speedy construction of community hall sought||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 19Residents of the New Amritsar locality on Thursday submitted a memorandum to Chairman, Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), Dinesh Bassi, in support of their demands.They sought the speedy construction of a community hall in block B and the shifting of a polling booth at Amritsar Public School to New Amritsar.Their other demands included the setting up of a police post at the appropriate place, a bus stand outside the main gate of New Amritsar and a powergrid in the area.The residents demanded that sanitisation and fogging must be done on a regular basis in view of the monsoon season ahead.Apart from this, the construction of a gurdwara and a temple in New Amritsar should be not carried out without the consentof all groups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/speedy-construction-of-community-hall-sought-101795
20-06-2020||---||Online classes a burden for parents||Amritsar, June 19With most private schools sending online and offline study material and assignments, the parents of wards studying in primary and pre-primary classes are feeling stressed and overburdened.Harjot Kaur, an Assistant Professor with Sri Guru Ram Das College of Nursing, said, “It has become a challenging task for me to help my child complete assignments, perform activities listed by teachers and then make videos and send back to them.”She had just got her four-year-old daughter Harnaaz enrolled in Nursery in a private school here when the lockdown was announced in March. Harjot, a single parent, said she delivered online lectures to her students in the morning while in the evening she helped her daughter complete her lessons. “Now the school has planned online assessment exams for the children and it is stressing me out,” said Harjot.Harjot said the parents seemed to be competing with each other in posting activity videos and homework sheets in the online groups formed by teachers. A teacher herself, she feels that the parents cannot don the hat of a teacher entirely. “Some do not have time, others do not have required skills and some do not know how to start. As parents, everyone teaches or tries to teach new things and life lessons to children. But formal school and college education is different and the present situation has hampered it,” she said.In a suggestion to parents, Harjot said, “Apart from helping children do school assignments, the parents should also teach children what they know best. Be it painting, dancing, a sport or even cooking. It is more important to spend time with the child as they are not able to go outside for playing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-classes-a-burden-for-parents-101796
20-06-2020||Amritsar||Virtual conference on astrophysics||The Science Club (SciRox) of Guru Nanak Dev University organised its first virtual conference on “Astrophysics and cosmology (AstroRetreat’20)”. It was co-organised by Stellar Universe, a student club of Delhi University. It provided an opportunity to students and young physicists to understand the challenging problems of the astrophysics and cosmology.A total of 13 oral audio-visual presentations and 26 posters at the undergraduate and PhD level were presented during the conference. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virtual-conference-on-astrophysics-101797
20-06-2020||---||Covid19: Two more deaths in Amritsar||Chandigarh, June 19The state today recorded the highest single-day death toll of nine. The number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases too was high at 217.Amritsar and Jalandhar recorded two deaths each, while one death each was reported from Moga, Barnala, Sangrur, Patiala and Tarn Taran. With 217 cases, the tally rose to 3,832 (1,104 are active cases).A media bulletin said Amritsar had 733 confirmed cases and 30 deaths. Jalandhar, with 79 new cases, now has the same number of positive cases as Ludhiana – 489. The number of Covid-19 deaths in Jalandhar are 14 and those in Ludhiana are 13.The health authorities in Amritsar claimed four deaths, including one of a 107-year-old due to Covid-19, besides 42 fresh cases. The deceased have been identified as Kamal Kishore (68) of Katra Khazana area, Sawarn Singh (107), a resident of a locality near Golden Temple, Sharanjit Kaur (53) of Uttam Nagar on the Sultanwind road and Pappu (64), a resident of Suraj Wali Gali. Of the 42 positive cases, 27 had influenza-like illness and 15 were contacts of positive patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid19-two-more-deaths-in-amritsar-101585
20-06-2020||Amritsar||Bihar cops in Amritsar to serve notice on Navjot Singh Sidhu||The Bihar Police today reached the residence of Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu to serve a notice on him in connection with a case registered a year ago.It is learnt that the Bihar Police wanted to meet Sidhu in a case involving violation of election code of conduct during the 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign in favour of Congress candidate Tariq Anwar in Katihar district. Sidhu had allegedly made a provocative appeal to the Muslim community on April 16, 2019. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bihar-cops-in-amritsar-to-serve-notice-on-navjot-singh-sidhu-101586
