20-09-2020|| 
||Gangster Jujhar’s aide Sahil held with pistol||Amritsar, September 19  The city police have arrested Sahil Singh, an accomplice of gangster Jujhar Singh, who is currently lodged in Hoshiarpur jail.  A resident of Gujjarpura area, Sahil was arrested in connection with murderous attack on Amrik Singh, alias Bitta, of New Amritsar area on August 8. Bitta was shot at by two unidentified persons. He sustained bullet injury on his leg. According to information, Bitta used to live on rent and was in home quarantine with his family. He had a dispute with the owners of his house.  Sukhwinder Randhawa, in charge CIA staff, said Jujhar had given Rs1 lakh to Sahil Singh for carrying out the attack on Bitta. Sahil was accompanied by Sunny of Salem Tabri area in Ludhiana. He is yet to be arrested. The police have recovered one pistol, a scooter and two mobile phones from him.  Investigations revealed that they had procured the firearm from Uttar Pradesh for Rs60,000. He said Sahil was the right hand of Jujhar and used to attack people on his direction. Besides Sunny, one more person was involved in the attack and he would be identified after his (Sunny’s) arrest. Randhawa said Jujhar used to contact Sahil through WhatsApp call from jail for carrying out his nefarious activities. He said the accused also used to indulge in drug peddling. He said Jujhar would be brought on production warrant for further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-jujhars-aide-sahil-held-with-pistol-143921
20-09-2020||
||Five mobile phones seized in jail in 2 days||Amritsar, September 19  Officials of the Amritsar Central Jail seized five mobile phones in the past two days, including the one from alleged Khalistan Zindabad Force (KZF) operative, identified as Romandeep Singh, alias Roman. He is a resident of Jhabal area in Tarn Taran. Romandeep was nabbed by the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) in October in connection with seizure and destroying of drones and delivery of a consignment of weapons smuggled from Pakistan. He had allegedly accompanied the prime accused who destroyed the evidence by throwing the burnt remnants of drones into the canal. A fresh case of violating prison norms was slapped against him. Similarly, two mobiles were seized from Princepal Singh, alias Prince of Gumtala and Gurjant Singh of Chabba village.  Ajmer Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-mobile-phones-seized-in-jail-in-2-days-143922
20-09-2020||
||Woman assaulted by estranged husband||Amritsar, September 19  A woman, identified as Sukhraj Kaur, was assaulted by her estranged husband at Akalgarh Dhapian village falling under the Jandiala police station here on Friday. The victim was seriously injured. She was under treatment at Guru Ram Dass Hospital at Vallah here.  Gagandeep Kaur, a relative of the victim who was accompanying her at the time of the incident, also sustained minor injuries in the attack. The police had booked the accused, identified as Avtar Singh, on the charge of attempt to murder. Besides, Avtar’s mother Swarn Kaur and two unknown persons were also booked for the assault. No arrest has been made till now. According to Gagandeep Kaur, she, along with Sukhraj Kaur, had gone to meet Akwinder Kaur of Akalgarh Dhapian village who had arranged the marriage of Sukhraj and Avtar Singh around 15 years ago. She said Avtar solemnised a second marriage following which Sukhraj Kaur filed a case in the court. She said at around 6.30 pm on Friday, she, along with Sukhraj, was leaving the house of Akwinder when the accused reached there and started thrashing the victim. The accused were armed with traditional weapons and left her seriously injured. She said the accused was upset after Sukhraj had filed a court case against Avtar Singh and therefore they attacked her. Meva Singh, investigating officer, said the raids were on to nab the suspects while further investigation was underway. A case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC was registered against Avtar, Swarn Kaur and two unknown persons in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-assaulted-by-estranged-husband-143923
20-09-2020||Neha Walia
||Helping a needy at a time is this fashion designer’s motto||Tribune News Service Amritsar, September 19 Throughout the pandemic, most of the relief efforts were focused on helping marginalised sections of society with food and essential supplies. While collective community efforts were celebrated, there were few individual efforts that stood out and among those is Rakhi Vermani Sehgal.  A fashion designer, who was running her own label studio RVS in the city, Rakhi streamlines a group of young volunteers at Voice of Amritsar (VOA), a non-profit organisation, to carry out not only relief operations throughout the lockdown, but also help individuals who struggled to restart their lives post-lockdown. “I joined VOA four years ago while working for community reach initiatives every now and then. But during the pandemic, when there was a desperate need to reach out to needy and marginalised sections with food and supplies, I was pushed to the forefront of relief efforts. We formed VOA youth wing and have since been working to provide help, including ration, PPE kits to health workers, safety equipment to the MC and Punjab Police. The fact that post-lockdown, the need to reach out to people in need at the individual level has increased has been motivating us to go a step ahead and help them get back to re-building,” she says. Of course, as a fashion entrepreneur, her own label took a hit as the economy was hit. “I was a bit disappointed as something that I had built over the years, I was forced to see it shut down,” she shares. But she shifted her focus towards helping others. Like supporting the education of a few needy students, I arranged a wheelchair for an advocate with disability so that he did not face accessibility issues at work.  “We also supported the education of his kid as he could not work throughout the lockdown. Our team helped people who were rendered homeless or were living in tattered shelters by constructing concrete and durable houses to live better. One was done at Kot Khalsa and the other on the Batala road,” she informed. Rakhi says helping individuals who are finding it hard to somehow cope with the pandemic-induced crisis has become important. “There are so many individuals who were affected economically by the pandemic. It is impossible to reach out to them all, but if we help one at a time, maybe things would not look impossible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helping-a-needy-at-a-time-is-this-fashion-designers-motto-143924
20-09-2020||Amritsar||CKD official loses fight against Covid||Surinder Singh Rumaliyanwale, secretary of CKD executive committee and member of Khalsa College Governing Council, died of Covid-related complications. His cremation was held here on Saturday and attended by several members of the CKD Dharam Parchar Committee, CKD executive committee and the KCGC.Aged 66, Rumaliyanwale had been undergoing treatment for the past one month after testing positive for Covid. He is survived by wife Jagtar Kaur, son Samijit Singh and daughter Anjupreet Kaur. Nirmal Singh, president, CKD, said his death has come as a big loss to the entire CKD family. “He had been associated with Chief Khalsa Diwan for the past 10 years and was a spiritual and a compassionate human being. He will be remembered for numerous good deeds he performed and his absence will be felt deeply,” said Nirmal Singh.The CKD will organise online prayers for the deceased at Gurdwara Sri Kalgiyar Sahib on September 22 from 12.30 pm to 1.30 pm. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-official-loses-fight-against-covid-143925
20-09-2020||---||Virus spread accelerates, 4K cases, 135 deaths in 19 days||Amritsar, September 19The district health authorities reported 11 deaths from Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the toll to 300. With 224 new cases, the case count reached 8,041. With 152 getting discharge from various hospitals on Saturday, the number of recoveries has reached 5,930.The continuous rise in cases indicates community spread of Covid, as since the outbreak of the disease, the highest number of cases (3,999) and deaths (135) has been reported in the ongoing month.Those who succumbed to the virus on Saturday included Vasudev Paul (44) of Sandhu Colony, Anil Kapoor (61) of the Meharpura locality in the Nawankot area, Manjit Kaur (60) of Bhalla Colony, Harjinder Singh (45) of the Jawahar Nagar area on Mehta Road, Seema Bhalla (63) of Golabar Gali, Surinder Kumar (59) of Gali Sodian Wali, Rooplal Mehra (71) of Gali No. 4 in the Bhagtanwala area, Narayan Dev (75) of Katra Bhagian and Sewa Singh Sandhu (76). All deceased had comorbidities.Besides, two unknown persons, aged between 50 years and 60 years, tested positive posthumously. Of the 224 fresh positive cases reported on Friday, 130 were persons suffering from influenza-like illness (ILI) and 94 were contacts of Covid cases.Dr Madan Mohan, Nodal Officer for Covid, said there were 1,811 active cases in the district. He called upon people to follow the Covid-19 norms to achieve the objective of bringing down the graph of active cases. He cautioned that delay in getting tests done despite showing symptoms of the disease would prove to be a fatal mistake.He said the government would keep the identity of patients secret and allow them to isolate themselves in their home.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-spread-accelerates-4k-cases-135-deaths-in-19-days-143926
20-09-2020||Amritsar||Singer Jugraj Sandhu pays obeisance at Golden Temple||Punjabi singer Jugraj Sandhu was in city to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple as his new song “Gaut” was released recently. The young singer, who shot to fame with his debut song “Mere Wala Sardar” that received 398mn views online, will be seen alongside actor-model Neha Malik in the new song. Jugraj said he spent the lockdown preparing for the launch of his song. “The entire period has been difficult for everyone, especially artistes, as the creative content production came to a halt. I was waiting for the lockdown restrictions to be lifted so that my new project can release for audience.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/singer-jugraj-sandhu-pays-obeisance-at-golden-temple-143927
20-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal
||Internal bickering comes to the fore in state Cong||Tribune News Service Batala, September 19 While the entire country is busy battling Covid-19 outbreak, two senior Congress leaders are using the pandemic to settle scores with each other. Former Congress MLA from Batala, Ashwani Sekhri, produced photos of Cabinet Minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa in which the latter can be seen blatantly violating social distancing guidelines. Sekhri forwarded the photos to whoever matters in Punjab politics, including Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He alleged that Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Rachpal Singh was not registering a case under Sections 188 of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act 2005 as he was an “appointee of the minister”. The SSP rubbished the allegations and added that “he will verify the facts and act accordingly”. “Officials are maintaining double standards. Last week, the FIRs were filed against several shopkeepers who protested outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The administration is suffering from selective amnesia. When a normal resident breaks rules, officials cry foul, but when a minister commits an infringement, they brush it under the carpet,” he said. Bajwa, who is a sitting MLA from Fatehgarh Churian, is eyeing the Batala segment, a development which has irked Sekhri.“Sekhri is guarding the Batala seat like Roman emperors.  Does he have a patent on it? I visited Chakkri Bazaar area on Friday where my supporters surrounded me. I instantly asked them to follow social distancing norms,” said Bajwa. Sekhri said, “Everybody knows Nero was fiddling when Rome was burning. Likewise, Bajwa is meddling in the affairs of Batala whereas Fatehgarh Churian is being politically consolidated by Akalis. His is a classic case of sailing in two boats.” On this, Bajwa said, “I cannot answer all the insinuations fired at me by Tom, Dick and Harry.” “Civic body polls are around the corner. Both want their loyalists to get maximum tickets. It is high time that politicians stop bickering. Instead they should focus on battling Covid-19 outbreak,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/internal-bickering-comes-to-the-fore-in-state-cong-143928
20-09-2020||             
||Students apprised of ways to build effective resume for interview||Amritsar, September 19 The importance of building effective resume and preparedness for interview which is often underestimated by job seekers, said Naavniit Miterr, chairman, Amritsar Zonal Council. Miterr, who moderated the session “Students on College to Corporate: Turning Obstacles into Stepping Stones”, highlighted the importance of composing the resume. This is the major reason of candidates facing rejections. Dr Sneha Sharma, Career Coach and Faculty in Gian Jyoti College for Management and Technology, Mohali, was one of the distinguished speakers at the session. While disseminating her experience, she diligently touched all segments involved in building effective resume and mastering interview skills for getting the dream job. She also emphasised on considering passion, mission and money as the three parameters for choosing the right job. Gunbir Singh, founder chairman, CII, Amritsar Zonal Council, in his address exhorted students  not to be filibuster which often intrigues the interviewers. He advised the students to remain humble, respectful and attentive during the interview. Kanav Aggarwal, former chairman, CII, Amritsar Zonal Council, in his address spoke about the importance of being truthful, honest and aligned with the resume. He further added that job seekers usually come up with ornate resumes contrary to their actual skills which cast adverse impact on the mind of interviewers, hence rejection. Rajiv Sajdeh, vice-chairman, CII, Amritsar Zonal Council, in his closing remarks pointed out the importance of working at the field level during internships in order to understand and learn working in various domains. He stated that students should focus on the importance of choosing the right company than being lured by attractive salary packages. The session was attended by students in a large number from various academic institutions across Amritsar and Mohali. Dr Jugraj Singh Randhawa, Placement Head from Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology, Amritsar, Dr Sidharata Seth, coordinator, Golden Jubilee Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation, GNDU, and Avneet Singh, Zonal Head, CII, Amritsar were also present during the session.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-apprised-of-ways-to-build-effective-resume-for-interview-143929
20-09-2020||
||Three nabbed with 180 boxes of liquor, pistol||Amritsar, September 19  The Amritsar rural police on Friay arrested three persons for allegedly smuggling English wine from Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and recovered around 180 boxes of liquor, a pistol and two mobile phones from their possession here. Those arrested were identified as Ram Chander, alias Gagan of Harike (now residing in Chheharta area in Amritsar), Gaurav Dhawan of Ferozepur city and vehicle driver Surjit Singh of Ferozepur. In a statement issued here on Saturday, the police said they got a tip-off that the accused were involved in the smuggling of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) from Himachal Pradesh and Haryana to different parts of the city. He said as per information, the accused were coming from the Bandala bypass road to village Bishambarpura, so a naka was laid near the village. The vehicle (PB-06-AK-0593) was intercepted and 152 boxes of Goldy Whisky, 28 GR8 Times whisky, a .32 bore pistol with seven live cartridges and two mobiles were seized from their possession. Probe revealed that the accused procured the liquor from Kulwinder Singh of Kaithal in Haryana. The police said the police were trying to locate his godowns. The police were trying to find out forward links of the three accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-nabbed-with-180-boxes-of-liquor-pistol-143930
20-09-2020||---||Ex-sepoy still active in reuniting families separated during Partition||Amritsar, September 19After taking part in the 1965 and 1971 wars against Pakistan as a sepoy in the Indian Army, Harbhajan Singh Brar realised that he was fighting against his own people. “I had no enmity with them. Deep down in my heart, I was emotionally attached to them,” says Brar, who left the Army in 1972. He then embarked upon a mission to reunite friends and families across the border.The peace activist, who has arranged meetings of hundreds of Punjabis who got separated during the Partition of Punjab, is still active in ensuring permanent peace on the Indo-Pak border.Since 2004, he has arranged 650 visas for people of the two Punjabs. A majority of those he helped were at the end of their lives and had always cherished a dream to visit the land they had to leave in 1947.He recently organised condolence meetings in memory of 10 lakh Punjabis killed during the Partition in 1947. On August 15 this year, peace activists across the state associated with Brar’s Sai Mian Mir Foundation remembered millions of Punjabis who paid a heavy price for the Independence.Brar’s family had migrated from Chak 7 village in Khanewal tehsil of Multan district during the Partition. “I could not sever ties with the land of my ancestors. The land of Guru Nanak and Baba Farid can’t be hated for political reasons”, said Brar.How the idea took shapeWhen he first time visited Lahore with a “jatha” of Sikh devotees in 2006, the idea of reuniting lost people took shape. “During the tour, we visited the tomb of Hazrat Sai Mian Mir. I met with Mian Mohammad Aakram Betu, a retired judge. We discussed the composite culture and religion of both Punjabs. Thousands of persons died with the unfulfilled desire to see again their villages in India and Pakistan. So we decided to arrange visits of such people,” Brar reminiscences.And thus started the journey of Sai Mian Mir Foundation, the organisation Brar formed to arranges visits for “jathas” to Pakistan. “The governments are heartless as they don’t want people meet each other. The unwanted checks of security agencies of both nations and formalities for processing of visa applications discourage us. At the age of 75, I am still active in peace initiatives,” he says.Brar penned three books about his journey and experiences. His first book, ‘Sanjan Aar-Paar Dian’ was published in 2011 and is also available in Sahmukhi. He wrote tales of those people who were separated in 1947 and met after decades. His two other books, ‘Sai Mian Mir Ate Sikh Guru’ (2017) and ‘Sanjan da Wagda Darya’ (2018), express the ties between Muslims, Sikhs and Hindus.Brar and his foundation used to serve the patients from Pakistan, who travels to Delhi for treatment. Apart from this several Pakistani Singers including Reshama and Naseebo Lal enjoyed hospitality of Brar at his residence near Khalsa College.“Once, sitting in the backyard of my house with Naseebo Lal, I asked her what it felt to be sitting here. In reply, she said it was like sitting at her father’s house. It was a proud moment for me,” shared Brar.He gave the credit of initiatives to his wife Sukhjeet Kaur Brar, saying, “No one can march on the path of activism without the wife’s support.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-sepoy-still-active-in-reuniting-families-separated-during-partition-143932
20-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Man loses bike to 3 armed robbers||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-loses-bike-to-3-armed-robbers-143934
20-09-2020||Ajay Joshi||Para players’ endless wait for state cash rewards||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 19The state government’s silence over releasing cash awards is irking national and international para players, who haven’t received their prize money for the past several years.Gurudeep Singh (35), a para powerlifter, who started playing the sport in 2006, has around 11 medals (four gold, five silver and two bronze) that he clinched in various national para power-lifting championships held between 2006 and 2019.However, not even once was he paid any cash award from the state government.A resident of Nawanshahr, Gurdeep said: “We feel demotivated when our government remains mute in disbursing cash awards. Unlike Punjab, medal winners in other states are conferred with cash rewards in lakhs, which eventually encourage them to improve their game in future championships. Whereas here, we are just given false promises and every year after submitting our documents for the award, we are only given assurances that never see the light of the day. Apart from motivation, cash rewards help us supplement our diet and training expenses, which nowadays is very tough to manage. The game has become costly and we need money to fulfil our daily needs.”Similarly Manpreet Kaur (32), a para player from Phagwara, who even holds world ranking, hasn’t been given the cash awards for the past five years. She has five gold and two silver medals in her kitty that she bagged from national and international games, including Asian games. “As a powerlifter, we need a certain kind of diet and supplements for maintaining our physical strength. But, we don’t have enough money to afford good quality diet and protein. Luckily, we have supportive coaches who take care of our needs. But for how long will we be able to depend on them? It’s high time that the government released funds,” said Manpreet. The only thing that affects her is the negligent behaviour of the state government towards players. Despite creating a milestone, not only is she jobless, but has also not received the award amount of the national and international matches she won.Owing to the absence of cash awards, many para players who had dreamt of securing a job for themselves after winning national and international medals have reportedly left practising their games only. Gurdeep, who is dependent on his father for all his needs who works as a daily wage labourer, said: “My father took a loan and borrowed money to support my dreams and now, I have nothing to pay him back. Most of our seniors have left the game including Manjit Singh, a talented and award winning player. Now, I’m also thinking of joining them and have planned to open a mobile repair shop to afford two-square meals,” Gurdeep said.Likewise, Sonia (44), another national-level para player, says promoting talent at the national level was the key to success at the international level and cash rewards only make performance better. “However, we haven’t been paid even a single penny by the state government.EntitlementPlayerspeak"We feel discouraged when government remains mute in disbursing cash awards. Unlike Punjab, medal winners in other states are given cash rewards in lakhs, which eventually encourage them to improve their game. Whereas here, we are just given false promises and every year despite submitting our documents for the award, we are only given assurances that never see the light of day. " — Gurdeep Singh, a para powerlifter"As a powerlifter, we need a certain kind of diet and supplements for maintaining our physical strength. But, we don't have enough money to afford good quality diet and protein. Luckily, we have supportive coaches who take care of our needs. But how long will we be able to depend on them? It's high time the government released funds." —Manpreet Kaur, an international para player||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/para-players-endless-wait-for-state-cash-rewards-143935
20-09-2020||Amritsar||Missing ‘saroop’  stir enters Day 6||The protest by various Sikh organisations, including Satkar Committee, seeking criminal proceedings against SGPC officials, who were involved in the misappropriation of 328 “saroops” of Guru Granth Sahib, entered the sixth day today.Balbir Singh, head of Satkar Committee, expressing displeasure over the punishment pronounced by Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh yesterday, said it was only religious punishment that was “too little, too late”. The protesters got a shot in the arm today when members of the Democratic Akali Dal joined the stir. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroop-stir-enters-day-6-143691
