20-11-2020||Amritsar||25-year-old woman gangraped by six men in Amritsar, two arrested||A 25-year-old woman, who had come here from Fazilka earlier this week, was allegedly gangraped by six men, police said on Friday.Two men have been arrested for the sexual assault that took place on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday, a police official said.The survivor said in her complaint that she had arrived alone from Fazilka on Tuesday and paid obeisance at a gurdwara here.A stranger, who came into contact with her and won her trust, took her to a house in an isolated area where five more men reached and raped her through the night, the official said.   In the morning, they took her to the outskirts of the city and fled.She approached the police on Wednesday evening with her complaint.A case has been registered against six men, including the main accused identified as Yugraj Singh. While two of the accused have been arrested, the other four would be nabbed soon, police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-year-old-woman-gangraped-by-six-men-in-amritsar-two-arrested-173226
20-11-2020||GS Paul||Akal Takht raises questions over transportation of ‘saroop’ by father-son duo||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20A day after the father-son duo was held at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport for carrying Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in a suitcase, the Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh directed Baba Kulwant Singh of Gurdwara Nanaksar Samadh Bhai, Moga, to clarify his stance over the issue.Meanwhile, the police have procured a two-day remand of Jawala Singh and his son Jasveer Singh, who had disclosed the name of Baba Kulwant Singh during the preliminary investigation.Rajinder Singh, SHO, Airport Police Station, said Baba Kulwant Singh had also been included as an accused in the FIR. The trio have been booked under sections 295-A, 120-B and 34 of the IPC, he said.Also read: 2 held for carrying ‘saroop’ in suitcase at Amritsar airportOn the other hand, in a communication sent to Baba Kulwant Singh, the Jathedar has asked him to reveal the source through which he had procured the saroop and the motive behind it.Jaspal Singh, PA to Jathedar, said Kulwant Singh was given five days to furnish his reply to the Akal Takht Secretariat.Jwala Singh and his son Jasvir Singh were taken into custody for violating the ‘Sikh Rayat Maryada’. The two were to take a flight to New Delhi and from there to Pune when they were held at the airport here.The father-son disclosed the saroop was to be delivered to one Gurbaksh Singh, who is a sewadar at Gurdwara Nanaksar in Pune.It was learnt that they didn’t possess any authorisation letter to carry the ‘saroop’, and defying ‘maryada’ they had kept the ‘saroop’ in a suitcase.Before they could board the flight, an auto-rickshaw driver raised suspicion and informed the police. The SGPC team too reached the airport and took the ‘saroop’ in their possession which was then placed at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in Amritsar.Protocol for transportation of ‘saroop’The ‘saroop’ cannot be transported in a suitcase, closet or cupboard.Within India, SGPC reserves all rights to transport the ‘saroops’ in a special bus with ‘maryada’.Whilst the saroop is on the move, five Singhs (a minimum of three) are mandatory to accompany the ‘saroop’ all the  time.If travelling by domestic flight, the attendant must possess an authorisation letter from the SGPC which ensures that ‘maryada’ was being followed, like for long distance travel an extra seat has to be reserved alongside the attendant.The ‘saroop’ must be covered, and placed on a cushion or cloth draping on the seat when travelling.For a shorter distance by a private vehicle, the saroop has to be carried on the head or in the lap.For overseas journey, Akal Takht had in 2014 directed that the ‘saroops’ could be transported by air only through chartered flights while observing ‘maryada’.The directions were issued following a row over disrespect to the ‘saroop’ while being dispatched in containers through sea route to gurdwaras in the US, the UK and Europe as there was no printing facility there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-raises-questions-over-transportation-of-saroop-by-father-son-duo-173224
20-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||22 yrs on, residents wait for a metalled road||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 19The approach road to Malawali village on the Airport road has not been metalled for over past two decades, resulting in trouble for residents. The area, which now falls under ward number 5 of the Municipal Corporation, was inducted in the city in 1998.Residents had been demanding a functional road for the past many years, and used every tactic, including shaming political leaders on the social media. Last year, they had pooled money to lay the premix after which the local administration had put on a thin coal tar layer on a limited portion of the road.Residents stated that though they lived in the city, facilities are even poorer than rural areas. “We are dependent on the Municipal Corporation for funds. Last time, the road was paved when the village had a panchayat. Sanctioning of disproportionate development works should stop,” said Kuljeet Singh Malawali, an advocate from the village. He added that in 1998, the road was paved by the Punjab Mandi Board.Residents complained that though a portion of the road was paved with coal tar last year, it has caved in due to shoddy and poor quality of work. They complained that a ride to the village is a nightmare. The village is among the 27 villages which are a part of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation.Another resident Karanjot Singh said, each time during elections, the issue of road rears its head. “Promises are made but after winning elections, no leader bothers to fulfill the demand,” he said, adding that the village under the MC should be developed at par with the city areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-yrs-on-residents-wait-for-a-metalled-road-173015
20-11-2020||---||Road rage? NRI ‘shot at’ by ASI, family cries foul||Amritsar, November 19An NRI was allegedly shot at by an ASI while rushing to admit his wife to a hospital leaving him seriously injured. Kapilmeet Singh was taken to a hospital with wounds on his face. Nevertheless, the police officials said the ASI had opened fired in self-defence after some people in an SUV tried to stop and rob him. They said further investigations were underway to ascertain the facts.The incident occurred on Wednesday evening near Dadduana village falling under Jandiala Guru police station with the rural police. The ASI was identified as Tarsem Singh, in-charge of Nawapind police chowki.The family members of the victim stated that Kapilmeet was taking his wife to the hospital, who had fallen ill. Sarabjit Singh, his brother, said Dubai-based NRI had come home to celebrate Diwali. He was to return after two months. “They were returning home for some money in order to admit her (to hospital). On the way, they tried to overtake a Swift car. However, the occupants did not give them the passage,” he told. The ASI was driving that car.He further said that when they objected to it, the ASI shot at their vehicle and the bullet hit Kapilmeet on his forehead leaving him injured and the cop fled the spot. Kapilmeet was immediately taken to Sri Guru Ramdas Hospital at Vallah, where he is under treatment.Harchand Singh, SHO Jandiala Guru police station, said a case was registered on the complaint of ASI against an unknown SUV vehicle, who he alleged, attempted to rob him. Also, a case of robbery and murder bid was registered against unknown persons as further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-rage-nri-shot-at-by-asi-family-cries-foul-173016
20-11-2020||
||2 booked for murder bid over old enmity||Amritsar, November 19  Harpreet Singh of border town Attari was injured after two persons of his town shot at him over an old enmity here on Wednesday. He sustained bullet injuries on his legs and admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital for treatment.  Though the police have registered a case of murder bid against the duo identified as Bachitar Singh and Sunny.  The victim stated to the police that on Wednesday he had gone to the main bazaar of the town for some work where he met with his friend Pritpal Singh. He said he was chatting with him when the accused came on bike and shot at him while shouting not to leave him alive. He said that a bullet hit his thigh. He said he ran towards his house in order to save himself. He said the duo fired another shot which hit his ankle. He said he entered his house and bolted the doors.  Harpreet said the accused came outside his house and used abusive language against him. He said the accused also fired several shots in the air thereby creating a panic in the area. He said when the people started gathering the accused fled away with their weapons.  Charanjit Singh, investigating officer, said that a case under Sections 307, 336 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. He said Bachitar and Sunny were both lodged in jails in a murder case. They had come out on bail around a month ago. After Wednesday’s incident, the accused and their family members were at large after locking their houses. He said raids were on to arrest them.  The accused had murdered a man around four years ago over presidentship of their community. The complainant had helped with victim’s family at that time. They kept a grudge against Harpreet Singh and therefore attempted to kill him after coming out on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-for-murder-bid-over-old-enmity-173017
20-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||You are more than welcome!||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar November 19With relaxations in the lockdown and weather taking a turn, the hotels and restaurants are trying to woo customers, who so far had been afraid of dining out, due to the virus-triggered fears.Given the losses incurred all along, this had been coming for a long time now. What are the safety measures is the talk of the town, and they are doing everything possible to gain the trust of their customers and make them feel safe. In such an effort, the Hyatt Regency has set up an outer deck to give residents an experience of dining in open as the customers are wary of entering enclosed spaces.Akshina, the manager, said, “We are sanitising the dining area daily to ensure that the visitors are safe.” Apart from monitoring the health of their cooks and waiters on a daily basis, the staff here has also made the open decor area cosier and welcoming by setting up bonfires to keep the diners comfortable. “We can assure that our facility is the safest as we do not leave any stone unturned when it comes to the safety of our customers,” she asserted.Sukhwinder Singh, manager of Blue Ice restaurant, said, “The customers these days are very particular about safety. So, we have to take extra measures to ensure the premises are completely sanitised and safe for the guests.” He added that health of the workers is of prime concern as they do not want them to come off as a threat to others.The air of wariness still hangs about the residents but with each passing day it is gradually disappearing. While they prefer homemade food mostly, the urge to nosh outside and have family fun is taking over the fear of Covid. “As the caseload has seen a decline, the residents are slowly stepping out of their homes. The businesses have already suffered a lot, hopefully, the situation does not worsens in coming weeks,” said Anil Sharma, another hotelier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/you-are-more-than-welcome-173018
20-11-2020||
||Big pvt players exploiting farmers, consumers: Sidhu||Amritsar, November 19 Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday paid a surprise visit to the Vallah Sabzi Mandi to meet arhtiyas and vegetable sellers to enquire about the rate farmers were getting for their produce and analysed its market cost.  The arhtiyas apprised the lawmaker that if the bilateral trade on the Silk Route between India-Pakistan-Afghanistan and Central Asia gets revived, the prices of vegetables would tend to be more affordable and trade would prosper.  A kg of tomato is procured from the Punjab farmers for Rs 3-5 in May by the major private players only to preserve them in cold storages. Later, it would be offered during the off season at Rs 25-30 per kg in wholesale which is further offered to the consumer for nothing less than Rs 50-60 per kg. Likewise, the potato cost too escalated from Rs 400-500 per sack to Rs 1500-1700 per sack when it reaches the market.  Sidhu emphasised that his purpose was to analyse how big private players exploit the farmers and the consumers, especially those belonging to below poverty line. He said that pulses which were Rs 55-60 per kg six months back, has touched Rs 85 a kg in October and now cross Rs 125 per kg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/big-pvt-players-exploiting-farmers-consumers-sidhu-173019
20-11-2020||---||Two deaths, 66 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, November 19With two deaths reported due to Covid on Thursday, the toll in the district has reached 477.The deceased have been identified as Baldevraj, a 70-year-old resident of Nehru Colony and Ashok Kumar, a 61-year-old from Ram Nagar colony.The district health authorities have also reported 66 new cases with which the total count in the district has increased to 12,508. The new cases include 44 influenza-like illness cases and 22 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, 11,525 patients have recovered from the infection. The district at present has a total of 506 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-deaths-66-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-173022
20-11-2020||---||DC tells MC officials to keep roads leading to Golden Temple clean||Amritsar, November 19In the absence of mechanical sweeping, Heritage Street and other roads around the Golden Temple leading to the holy shrine remains dirty. The MC had ended the services of a private firm hired for managing cleanliness. Municipal Health Officer (MHO) Dr Ajay Kanwar said they have two machines for cleanliness and two more truck-mounted machines would be added to deal with the issue soon.On Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira visited the area and instructed MC officials to maintain the surroundings of the Golden Temple and all roads leading to the shrine, including the Heritage Street. Khaira himself inspected the condition of the car parking, bathrooms, roads and streets, which are encroached upon by shopkeepers. He directed all departments to make comprehensive improvements. “This is my first visit to check sanitation and arrangements, but now, I will visit the site after every two months to get a glimpse of the surroundings,” he said.The DC said: “Darbar Sahib is not only our biggest pilgrimage, but also the main destination for the promotion of religious tourism in the city. Due to the pilgrims visiting the Golden Temple, the tourism industry here is flourishing. So, it is our duty to take care of its surroundings.” Khaira also appealed to the shopkeepers on the way to Darbar Sahib to keep their goods confined to their shop only and not occupy roads by spreading out their items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-tells-mc-officials-to-keep-roads-leading-to-golden-temple-clean-173024
20-11-2020||Tribune correspondent Deepkamal Kaur and lensman Sarabjit Singh take you to a glorious establishment that has been laying the foundation for entry into the armed forces and preparing students for a life dedicated to the welfare and protection of the nation||Of grandeur & Deep emotional connect||HoUSED in a palatial building of the erstwhile Maharaja of Kapurthala, Sainik School, Kapurthala, was inaugurated on July 8, 1961, by the then Defence Minister VK Krishna Menon with the objective of preparing boys academically, physically and mentally to join the NDA.Named Jagatjit Palace, the structure was built in 1908 on the pattern of Versailles built by Louis XIV of France.Already housing 630 students from Punjab, Bihar, Ladakh and other states, the school is spread on a sprawling campus of nearly 200 acres. It is a fully residential school for boys providing public school education. It offers an array of opportunities to channel the energies of cadets for constructive purposes. A wide spectrum of extra-curricular activities ensures their multitudinous personality development.Alumni who made their markThe school has been rendering yeoman service to the nation for over four decades by imparting balanced and quality education to cadets hailing from all strata of society. It has produced over 700 officers for the Indian armed forces through National Defence Academy. A sizeable number of its alumni has made their mark in other respectable professions too! It is the only school among the 20 Sainik Schools that holds the record of holding the Defence Minister’s trophy continuously for seven years.Principal Col Prashant Saxena said: “The National Testing Agency will hold All-India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISSEE)-2021 on January 10. The process of filling admission forms, which is currently on, will end on December 3. In Punjab, the exam will be conducted in Kapurthala, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Faridkot.”The Subhash House hostel building would be converted into girls’ hostel. The hostel building would be revamped by raising a boundary wall and some renovation work would be done through the PWD.INNER BEAUTYDifferent sculptures at Behja Garden add to the splendour of the Jagatjit PalaceAir Marshal Anil Chopra, an alumnus||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-grandeur-deep-emotional-connect-173025
20-11-2020||Tarn Taran||One arrested with stolen bike||swindlers’ gang busted, 3 heldTarn Taran: A team of Patti CIA staff led by Sub-Inspector Sukhraj Singh, in-charge of the staff, arrested three members of a swindlers gang allegedly involved in exploiting innocent people to double their money in a short period. One of the gang members was a woman. They were produced in a court on Thursday, which sent them to two-day police remand. Police officer Sukhraj Singh said the gang members had been identified as Sukhwinder Kaur of Khawaspur, Harwinder Singh of Mathrewal and Rajbir Singh of Dinewal. The police seized Rs 1.45 lakh banned currency, besides a swift car with fake registration number from them. Sukhraj said the gang had been involved in luring people to double their money in a short period. The accused have been booked under Sections 420 and 473 of the IPC. OCWebinar on legal awareness heldAmritsar: A legal awareness webinar was organised by ‘Buniyad’, an NGO, working for legal awareness under the guidance of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) here. Over 40 volunteers from Buniyad took part in the camp, according to a press note issued by Surinder Mohan of the NGO here on Wednesday. Sumit Makkar, Civil Judge (Senior Division)-cum-member secretary, DLSA, briefed the participants about the need of legal awareness and the availability of legal advice and legal aid from the DLSA. He further informed about the necessity of resolution of disputes and suit matter through mediation and conciliation cells of the DLSA. The participants also stressed on organising more such programmes. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-with-stolen-bike-173027
20-11-2020||Amritsar||2 held for carrying ‘saroop’ in suitcase at Amritsar airport||The Amritsar police nabbed a father-son duo carrying a Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroop’ in a suitcase at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport today.Jwala Singh and his son Jasvir Singh were taken into custody for violating the Sikh ‘Rehat Maryada’. They were said to be associated with the Gurdwara Nanaksar Samadh Bhai sect. Both were to board a SpiceJet flight heading to New Delhi from where they were to take another flight for Pune. The police booked the duo under Section 295 of the IPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-carrying-saroop-in-suitcase-at-amritsar-airport-172894
20-11-2020||Amritsar||Civil surgeon gets notice for photo op in operating theatre||A publicity stunt by the Health Department highlighting a civil surgeon’s commitment to clinical duties has landed him in soup as the Punjab State Commission for Women has served a notice on him and four others for allegedly “violating a woman’s privacy”.The department had on November 17 circulated a press note with pictures and a video highlighting how Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh had performed four C-sections in a day. Dr Singh had been performing surgeries at the Civil Hospital ever since his posting here.It’s a common practice for civil surgeons not to perform clinical duties citing preoccupancy with administrative works. However, a video of him standing in the operating theatre with a woman patient on the table was circulated in the media, prompting the women commission to take suo motu cognisance.Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati said the way the video was released was wrong. The woman patient’s privacy should have been protected. She said officials should have taken permission from the patient and her family, adding no complaint from the kin had been received so far.A department employee present at the time of the shooting of the video said a verbal consent was taken from the patient’s father-in-law. Dr Navdeep Singh could not be contacted for a comment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civil-surgeon-gets-notice-for-photo-op-in-operating-theatre-172895
