20-12-2020||Tarn Taran||5 arrested with opium, smack||Winter material sent for farmersTarn Taran: The Kar Sewa sect, Sarhali Sahib, on Saturday sent trucks loaded with winter material to Delhi to protect the protesting farmers from the shivering cold. Baba Sukha Subgh, head, and Baba Hakam Singh of the sect, said the material included beddings, 25 tents, 300 blankets, etc. The sect had also sent a group of its followers for the service of the agitating protesters. Earlier, the sect dispatched trucks loaded with ration for langar for the farmers. The sect performs the ardas daily for the success of the farmers’ agitation. OCMedical team leaves for DelhiAmritsar: All-India Pingalwara Charitable Society founded by Bhagat Puran Singh sent a medical team under the patronage of Dr Inderjit Kaur, director, Pingalwara, to set up a medical camp at Singhu and Tikri border on Saturday. The team comprises one doctor, two staff nurses and other para-medical staff. They will set up medical camp along with sufficient medicines and other emergency surgical instruments. They also carried along with them 1,000 warm socks and 2.5 quintal pinnies for distribution among the protesting farmers of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and other states. Dr Inderjit Kaur said the medical team and supplies were an immediate need at the site of protests and Pingalwara would be doing its bit to help the cause. The medical camp would serve as an immediate and first response to any medical emergency on the spot. TNSNew editor of medical journalAmritsar: Dr NS Neki, professor medicine, Government Medical College, has been appointed Editor-in-Chief of medical journal “Medico Research Chronicles” for a period of two years in view of his contribution in medical sciences. I have been authorised to select members of editorial board, Dr Neki claimed. He has around 500 publications and research articles in national and international medical journals to his credit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-arrested-with-opium-smack-186670
20-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||MC general house meet likely by Dec-end||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19After 10 months, the Municipal Corporation of Amritsar will conduct a general house meet in the last week of December. The Agenda Branch had written to all the wings of the MC to submit proposals on December 11. The last date for submission of proposals was December 18.According to information, the Agenda Branch received 36 proposals till Friday. Most of the proposals were from civil, operation and maintenance (O&M) and health wing.The MC had conducted General House meeting in February. After the Covid-19 outbreak, no meeting was conducted.Leader of Opposition Sandhya Sikka criticised Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu for not calling the General House meeting. She alleged misappropriations of funds and proposals being approved by the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC).The Local Government Department approved Rs 366 crore Budget (financial year 2020-21) for the MC in mid-November without the nod of the General House.According to sources, the General House meet would be a stormy affair this time. The MC had approved projects worth crores through F&CC in the last six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-general-house-meet-likely-by-dec-end-186671
20-12-2020||Amritsar||Students, NGOs protest||Now students and NGOs have come forward in support of protesting farmers to impress upon the Narendra Modi government to repeal the three agriculture laws. Students on Saturday gathered outside DAV Public School in support of farmers and raised slogans against the Union Government. They marched to the Company Bagh to mobilise support. Manbir Sandhu, a student, said since farmers were expressing resentment against the laws so they took it as their moral duty to gather in support of them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-ngos-protest-186672
20-12-2020||Amritsar||CBI probe sought into ECHS scam||A social activist, MK Sharma, has demanded a CBI inquiry into the ECHS scam reasoning that even after two and a half months of registration of an FIR in this regard, the police have failed to investigate the matter.  In a press conference here on Saturday, Sharma said that the FIR in this case was registered on October 2. “With only 10 days left in the 90 day challan period, the accused would be benefitted from the police laxity as failure to produce the challan in court would help them get bail,” he said.  Sharma alleged that a private hospital on Fatehgarh Churrian road was also found running without doctors and qualified staff and had treated numerous patients under the ECHS scheme, also needs to be brought under the ambit of the investigation.  Showing the documents procured from the Health Department, Sharma alleged a team of doctors had inspected the hospital and found it running without doctors. The hospital had been providing treatment to beneficiaries of the ECHS scheme even though it did not have qualified doctors. It smells of a big scam which needs to be exposed. He said the hospital was given on lease to non-qualified persons by registered owners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cbi-probe-sought-into-echs-scam-186673
20-12-2020||---||2 Covid deaths, 40 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, December 19The Health Department reported two more casualties due to the Covid-19 contagion, taking the death toll to 537 in the district on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Poonam Aggarwal, a 48-year-old woman from the Lohgarh chowk and Sunita Aggarwal, a 53-year-old woman from Vijay Nagar.Besides, the district reported 40 new positive cases, pushing the total count to 14,184. The new cases include 28 persons showing symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 12 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 54 patients, the total recovery count has increased to 12,952. At present, the district has a total of 695 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-covid-deaths-40-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-186674
20-12-2020||---||Cigarettes sneaked into Central Jail through kite||Amritsar, December 19Unidentified persons have used a novel method to sneak prohibited material inside the high-security Amritsar Central Jail with the help of a kite for the second time in the last one month. This time jail authorities confiscated five packets of cigarettes and one packet of tobacco that was fixed with the kite with some adhesive tape on Thursday.A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police station in this regard following which an FIR was registered against unknown persons.Ajmer Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said on Thursday a home guard jawan deputed at tower number 10 informed the jail control room that a kite had fallen near a quarter number 10. During the checking, the kite was found to be taped with a packet containing cigarettes and tobacco.Earlier, a similar attempt was made on November 21. Jail staff had confiscated around 20 cigarettes and a headphone fixed with the kite with the help of an adhesive tape. The police had registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against unknown persons at that time.The jail authorities have already been struggling to curb the rising incidents of sneaking of prohibited materials, including mobile phones, in the high-security jail complex. They have initiated many steps like deploying a company of paramilitary forces to nail the perpetrators. It is located in a densely populated area which is the main reason behind seizures of mobiles from inmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cigarettes-sneaked-into-central-jail-through-kite-186675
20-12-2020||---||Soni inaugurates dev works in  Ward No. 57, Gurbaksh Nagar||Amritsar, December 19Minister for Medical Education and Research Om Parkash Soni inaugurated development works in Ward No. 57 and Gurbaksh Nagar here on Saturday. The government will spend Rs 44 crore on recarpeting of streets with concrete interlocking pavements. Speaking on the occasion, OP Soni said that all the promises made to the locals would be fulfilled. “This was a low-lying area and we have leveled it. The work of installing potable water pipes has been completed recently. The parks in the area have also been renovated and all other development works are being done on priority basis,” he said.Soni instructed officers to complete the work on time. Vikas Soni, councilor; Sarabjit Latti, councillor; Paramjit Chopra, Chetan Sahedev, Dr Kamal Virdi, Ravi Kant, Gurnam Singh, Jinu Arora, Rampal, Sankar Arora and locals were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soni-inaugurates-dev-works-in-ward-no-57-gurbaksh-nagar-186677
20-12-2020||Amritsar||Devotees line up for Shaheedi Gurpurb||Many city-based institutes observed the martyrdom of the ninth Sikh Guru. Situated in a narrow winding lane, close to the Golden Temple, Guru Ke Mahal Gurdwara is situated at Chowk Passiyan, a locality which is considered among the earliest localities established after Sikh Master Guru Ramdas founded the city.Devotees made a beeline to pay obeisance at the historic gurdwara since dawn. They also paid tributes at Harmandar Sahib and took holy dip in its Amrit Sarovar.In a separate event, the martyrdom day of the ninth Sikh Guru was virtually observed by the students of Shri Ram Ashram Public School with religious fervour. Students explained the Guru’s life and how he laid down his life to protect Hindu religion, human values, ideals and principles. It is believed that Guru Ramdas and his family used to reside at Gurdwara Guru Ke Mahal. Guru Arjan Dev and Guru Hargobind got married here. Guru Tegh Bahadur and Baba Atal Rai were born here. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/devotees-line-up-for-shaheedi-gurpurb-186682
20-12-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Carjacking suspect’s encounter: Eyebrows raised at police theory||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, December 19 Even as a magisterial probe was underway into the encounter in which a Hoshiapur resident identified as Inderjit Singh, a carjacking suspect, was shot dead by local police near Jandiala Guru toll plaza here on December 8, fingers are being raised over the police theory over the situation that led to firing resulting in the killing of the victim.  According to the Amritsar police, Inderjit had snatched an SUV from a doctor in Ambala on the same day. The CIA staff of city police was holding a naka at Jandiala Guru toll plaza following snatching of another car from a DSP rank officer in the Putlighar area here when they received the information from Ambala police that a person had snatched an SUV from there and was coming to Amritsar via Ludhiana and Jalandhar.  The local police had claimed that the suspect was signalled to stop, but he hit barricades and tried to run over the police party at the checkpoint installed near the toll plaza that fell under the jurisdiction of Amritsar rural police. Therefore, they opened fire in self-defence that led to his death.  Nevertheless, the FIR registered with the Ambala police had raised several questions. According to complainant in the case, the vehicle was snatched from there at around 4.45 pm while the police received the information at 8 pm.  Interestingly, in the FIR registered with the Jandiala police the time of occurrence of the encounter was 6.30 pm which implies that Inderjit reached Amritsar from Ambala in less than two hours.  “This is practically impossible. Further, there was not any bullet entry point in the SUV,” said Sarabjit Singh, principal investigator, Punjab Human Rights Organisations (PHRO), an NGO, while adding that they had carried investigations in the case and a report would be put forth before appropriate authorities for further necessary action against the cops. We have the statements of several eyewitnesses in the incident also, he added.  There are glaring gaps in the FIR and the action taken by the CIA staff of city police, who had shot him dead. In the FIR they claimed that before admission to hospital he had told his name as Inderjit Singh of Hoshiarpur. However, he was admitted as an ‘unknown’ person in Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. Further, if he was critically injured, he should be admitted in the nearby hospital rather than taking to GNDH which was far from the spot.  Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vikas Hira said that he could not comment on the probe being carried out in the case. He said the family members would record their statements next week after bhog ceremony of the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-suspects-encounter-eyebrows-raised-at-police-theory-186683
20-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Let the past remain in the past||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 19The teenage years are supposed to be a memory full of kick and enjoyment. But Dr Rajesh Sharma’s recollection is a forlorn tale washed in black.He was 16 when he lost his sight, a result of a bomb blast in Partap bazaar area in 1992. His father, Vinod Sharma, owned a big cloth business in the market. He was in the wrong place at the wrong time. “I was there on July 6, 1992 when the blast occurred. I had received serious burns apart from loss of eyesight,” he recalls, adding, he remained hospitalised for one and a half months due to his critical condition. It was after two years of the mishap that he was able to resume his studies.When I resumed the studies, I shifted from Commerce to Arts. I also started studying music. But there was no college which offered music as a regular course for boys. ‘Earlier, no other schools allowed admission to a blind student except Prem Aashram School, Beri Gate,” he says.Now, after nearly three decades he has managed to turn his world all around. He is at present a professor in the Department of Music at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU). Having written two books on music, he has also contributed six cassettes, including five of Gurbani as a music director and composer. Talking to The Tribune, he said, “I have a problem with the word disable. Everyone has abilities and so one could be differently-abled but not disabled.”At first, it was as if he was thrown in a dark place, a dome of death. “My parents did everything over the next two years and took me to hospitals in Bombay and other places,” he shares. His mother, Urmil Sharma, would read his course books aloud so that he could listen. “She always said that when I would go out I would be competing with persons who have two eyes, so you should work more.”Working at GNDU since 2001, Dr Rajesh has taught 46 MPhil students and four PhD students. Additionally, five more PhD students are working under his guidance. He has over 30 research papers published in journals of national and international repute. Dr Rajesh has also done experimental works on impact of music on blood pressure, insomnia and human behaviour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/let-the-past-remain-in-the-past-186686
