21-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Books are best companions of this Punjabi author these days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 20Punjabi author and social activist Swaran Kaur Bal of Butala village has been utilising her free time effectively during the lockdown. A retired government schoolteacher, who still heads the Majha Punjabi Saath, an NGO that works to promote Punjabi culture, folk singing and language through various events, she has been using the lockdown period to write and read her books.“The nature may be wanted the world to take a break since it was in a hurry. In the same pace, many of us got lost. Ironically, we also forgot the nature, because of which we survive,” she said.“The current times have made me write about those old simple days when despite no comforts or luxuries, the life was much better and easier. I often feel people these days have become so busy that they have forgotten to live life, which is why a majority of the people are always stay in stress and even depression,” she said. "Why not wake up now to leave many wrong paths, which have been chosen by us? Let's not forget that human life is very simple, but some have made it complex," she added. Writing on such topics has become a priority for her and she mainly chooses early mornings or evenings to scribble them down.Besides writing, she has pulled out all the books —new and old ones — from her cupboards. “I had collected many books through many literary events I attended, but never got a chance to read of all them. Now, the very same books have become my favourite companions, especially in the afternoons. I have been enjoying thefeedback sessions too directly to their authors over phone. I must say all these conversations remain so rich,” she underlined.The author said, “Let’s not consider ourselves as caged because of the lockdown. We should rather value its every day to enrich our mind and promise ourselves to bounce back with better versions of ourselves.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/books-are-best-companions-of-this-punjabi-author-these-days-74060
21-04-2020||Our Correspondent||15-member anti-corona commando team formed||Tarn Taran, April 20The district police have formed a 15-member anti-corona commando team (ACCT) to tackle the Covid-19 positive patients in case of emergency. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the selected commando team members were less than 35 years of age and well built. He said the commandos were trained at Commando Training Centre, Bahadurgarh. They were provided with safety equipment to protect themselves. “They would abide by the protocol to tackle the Covid-19 positive patients at the treatment spot,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-member-anti-corona-commando-team-formed-74053
21-04-2020||---||2 hurt in firing over pigeons||Amritsar, April 20 Two persons, including a woman, were injured in a firing incident at Rapur Khurd village in Ajnala following a dispute over pigeons here on Sunday evening. The police have booked around 18 persons on charges of murder bid and under the Arms Act in this connection. The injured were rushed to hospital for treatment.Those who have been booked are Gurbir Singh and Rajbir Singh, both residents of Rapur village, Maan Singh of Bakha Tara Singh Village, Vikram Singh of Panj Garaian Nizzara, Jagbir Singh, besides around 13 other unknown persons.The complainant, Mukhtar Masih, told the police that his brother, Bikkar Masih, reared many pigeons. On Saturday, a pigeon came out of his nest and flew away. He later caught it. He said in the evening the accused, led by Rajbir Singh, barged into his house and created a ruckus. Gurbir Singh shouted to teach us a lesson for stealing their pigeon. Mukhtar Masih said before they could understand anything, Gurbir fired two gunshots in the air. Following this, children and women ran away and went to the neighbouring house and the accused put all the pigeons in a bag. Meanwhile, Maan Singh also took out a firearm and shot at his brother Kaka Masih who sustained a bullet injury beneath his ribs. He fell down while the accused fired two shots at him which missed him.In the incident, a woman, identified as Sawinder Kaur of the same village, also sustained a bullet injury. She was coming out of her house when she was hit by a bullet. He said the accused later fled the spot. Both the injured were rushed to hospital.Satish Kumar, SHO, Ajnala police station, said a case under Sections 307, 336, 450, 380, 188, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-hurt-in-firing-over-pigeons-74047
21-04-2020||---||Rain pain: Negligible wheat arrival in city grain markets||Amritsar, April 20Even as the procurement of wheat produce by government agencies had started on April 15, wheat has arrived in a negligible quantity in some grain markets of the district so far. The reason is that the crop has not yet fully ripened and intermittent rain, which will increase the moisture content in grain, has further delayed the harvesting.Agriculture experts say that if the weather remains clear with enough sunlight during the day, the harvesting may begin in the next four-five days. Of the 56 permanent grain markets and nine temporary procurement centres, wheat has arrived only at the three grain markets of Jandiala Guru, Tangra and Rayya. The officials stated that the arrival of wheat produce at these markets too was very poor.Meanwhile, officials of the district mandi have made the required arrangements at all the procurement centres. A visit to the district’s biggest grain market (Bhagtanwala Dana Mandi) revealed that washbasins with taps operated by foot had been installed at different points to help farmers and workers sanitise their hands.The idea behind the foot-operated taps is to decrease contact points which are usually touched by a large number of people and could transmit the virus. District Mandi Officer Jaswinder Singh said, “We have demarcated the mandi yard in different parts to ensure social distancing. We are also going to ensure that no unnecessary movement is allowed inside the markets.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-pain-negligible-wheat-arrival-in-city-grain-markets-74046
21-04-2020||---||6 mobile phones seized from jail||Amritsar, April 20The Amritsar Central Jail authorities seized six unclaimed mobile phones from the jail complex during routine checking here on Sunday.  Ajmer Singh, assistant superintendent, central jail, said during checking of barrack No.  1, the jail staff confiscated three unclaimed mobile phones from the backside of the barrack. Similarly, the team seized three mobile phones from the bathroom of room number 6 of barrack No. 1. The jail authorities submitted a complaint to Islamabad police which registered two  cases under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against unknown jail inmates in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-mobile-phones-seized-from-jail-74045
21-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||This cop goes beyond call of duty||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 20When the curfew was imposed, two minor girls, Gurleen Kaur and Harleen Kaur, who had come to visit their grandparents at Walipur village in Tarn Taran got stranded. Their grandparents also could not go to drop them to their home at Muchhal village due to restrictions. For nearly a month, they remained without their parents.The girls then decided to call Jatinder Singh, a head constable and village police officer of their village, who helped them reunite with their parents. Since the lockdown, Jatinder Singh has dedicated his life to the welfare of the needy. He said, “The way the girls requested me, I could not stop myself from helping them. I hired a private vehicle and reunited them with their parents. It was an emotional as well as satisfying moment for me,” he said.In another incident, Jatinder found an elderly man living alone in his house for the past two years. Even villagers did not know about his being alive. He went to his house and found him in a pitiable condition. He gave him a bath and arranged clean clothes for him, besides providing eatables and other necessary items.From his home to Muchhal village, where he is appointed as a village police officer, and then to Chatiwind police station, his place of duty, he travels around 110 km on his bike daily. He starts his day early in the morning and first visits Muchhal village and go house to house to know the problems of residents. The village has nearly 600 families. “I remain in touch with them through the social media,” he said.“I have opened a office in Muchhal and stored ration for about 50 families there. After looking into the needs of the poor and downtrodden, I distribute the same to them,” he said. So far, he has distributed ration to around 250 poor families.Narrating another incident, he said he once received a call from a family of Bania village, 2 km from Muchhal village. A man told him that they were stuck at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital as he had spent all their money on the treatment of his wife, who had to undergo abortion due to medical complications. They did not have money for hiring an ambulance. Jatinder hired a car and helped them return home.VPOs are working as real frontline warriors. The project was started to connect the masses with the police around a month before the total clampdown in view of Covid outbreak.SSP, Amritsar Rural, Vikram Jeet Duggal also recognised his services and appreciated his work during this critical time. He said VPOs like Jatinder were making the Punjab Police proud.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-cop-goes-beyond-call-of-duty-74044
21-04-2020||
||9 govt employees test -ve||Amritsar, April 20 The Pakistan media had reported that two women among the 41 Pakistan nationals sent home by India tested positive for Covid-19. But the test reports of nine government employees, including doctors, pharmacists, immigration officials and BSF jawans who were quarantined after facilitating Pakistani nationals’ repatriation from International Check Post, Attari, four days ago, have come out to be negative.  With the Pakistan media reporting two women as positive Covid-19 cases, panic had gripped the employees, who had handled the entire process. The rural medical officers and pharmacy officers had even boycotted work after the news, stating that they should be provided PPE kits and other safety equipment, as they were continuously helping in the repatriation processes of nationals of different countries at the airport and ICP Attari.  As a large number of journalists from various media houses had interviewed the Pakistani nationals before they crossed the border, the health officials had also prepared a list of at least 11 mediapersons. The department has also asked the mediapersons in the list and other journalists, too, to get the test conducted.  The health officials said quarantine notices have been put up outside the residences of all persons and standard operating procedure was being followed. “All quarantined persons have been asked to stay home as a precaution and their health is being monitored,” an official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-govt-employees-test-ve-74043
21-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill
||Amritsar's first patient wins battle against Covid, discharged||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 20 A 67-year-old Covid-19 positive patient from the city was discharged from Government Medical College (GMC) after complete recovery here on Monday. Balbir Singh, a resident of Krishna Nagar in the Amarkot area, was admitted to the hospital on April 1. GMC has cured two Covid-19 patients earlier too, both of whom were from Hoshiarpur district. Balbir Singh is the first local patient who has managed to survive the deadly disease. The hospital had earlier reported deaths of two positive cases from the district. The patient was the secondary contact of former Hazoori Ragi and Padma Shri recipient Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who also died of Covid-19. Balbir Singh’s wife too had later tested positive for the disease and is still undergoing treatment. After Balbir’s confirmation as a Covid-19 positive case, the administration had screened the entire population of the Amarkot area, but had not found any case. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said Balbir Singh’s two consecutive tests had come out negative and was declared fit for discharge by the doctors. The hospital authorities bid farewell to Balbir Singh with a box of sanitisers and flowers. Speaking on the occasion, Balbir Singh said he was happy with the treatment facilities available at the hospital. Appreciating the food provided to him and the hospital staff’s behaviour, he said everyone was courteous and sympathetic. In a word of caution for the general public, he advised taking precautions and reporting to the health authorities even if one witnesses minor symptoms of the disease. He said he had visited GMC for his treatment on his own as he was unwell and people too should not run away from the medical facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-first-patient-wins-battle-against-covid-discharged-74042
21-04-2020|| 
||‘Check sale of bricks’||Amritsar, April 20 Members of the Amritsar Brick Kiln Owners’ Association have sought a ban on sale of bricks in Amritsar district by brick kiln owners from other districts. On Monday, a truck overloaded with bricks coming from another district was confiscated. Harinder Pal Singh, District Excise and Taxation Commissioner (DETC), said he received a complaint that a truck with Rajasthan registration number unloading bricks at Daburji on the GT road. He said the bricks were prepared at a kiln in Fazilka, which falls under the Ferozepur division.  The DETC said the receipt mentioned 10,000 bricks for Rs 44,000 and had been forwarded to the DETC, Ferozepur division, for verification. He said the receipt did not mention applicable rate of GST.  Members of the association claimed that the arrival of a truck with non-essential item showed violation of curfew orders imposed in the wake of the coronavirus threat. They claimed that the receipt mentioned only 10,000 bricks, however, there were over 20,000 bricks in the truck.  On April 13, a delegation of the association led by its president Mukesh Nanda had submitted a memorandum to the office of Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon drawing his attention to the violation of curfew orders.   The association in its memorandum had stated that some persons in connivance with local traders  operating vehicles on the pretext of supplying essential commodities here during the last couple of days. Under the garb of essential commodities they were supplying items like bricks from Ferozepur, Moga, Faridkot and Jalalabad via Tarn Taran. Thus, they were violating curfew restrictions and revenue loss to the government.   The association claimed that trucks were noticed unloading material such as bricks on April 9 and 10 on the Majitha Road, besides different parts of the city. These trucks pose threat of transmitting virus from other districts.  Association president Mukesh Nanda said there were plenty of brick kilns in the district and they should only be allowed to sale bricks when the lockdown norms were relaxed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/check-sale-of-bricks-74041
21-04-2020||
||Edu Dept ropes in writers, artistes for summer activities||Amritsar, April 20  To encourage more summer activities through the online platform among government school students, the district Education Department has been roping in several writers and artistes as mentors. Education Secretary (schools) Krishan Kumar conducted an online meeting on April 19 with artistes and writers from Amritsar and Taran Tarn to chalk out a learning programme in this regard. Giving details, Rekha Mahajan, Deputy DEO, Amritsar, said at the meeting, prominent writers and scholars, including Sukhdev Singh Sekhon and Harmesh Kaur, shared their views on combining academic learning and folk music and literature for students.   “Important subjects such as significance of mother tongue, educative taape and boliyan (folk couplets), short stories and several other literary activities can be utilised for learning in this time. Our aim is to make students learn as much as they can during this lockdown period so that this time doesn’t go waste. So, we have been working on several innovative learning programmes,” said Rekha Mahajan. The district Education Department has also been exploring the possibility of telecast of academic programmes based on NCERT syllabus through Doordarshan. City-based educator Kulwant Singh Ankhi has written to the authorities concerned in this regard.   “Our request has received a positive response from the authorities. DD Jalandhar officials have said that they are exploring all possibilities of televised classrooms for primary, elementary and middle school students,” said Ankhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/edu-dept-ropes-in-writers-artistes-for-summer-activities-74040
21-04-2020||Amritsar||Congress MLA threatens protest over Covid centre at Patti jail||The state government’s move to transform the sub-jail, Patti, into a quarantine centre for inmates who are suspected to have been infected by Covid-19 has triggered panic among medical officials and locals.The sub-jail in Patti falls under Tarn Taran district, a “green zone” area.Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill has launched a crusade against its own government and has declared to stage a ‘dharna’ in front of the jail on Tuesday, demanding roll back of the decision.It is learnt that around 65 inmates from Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur and Amritsar jails have already been lodged in the sub-jail, Patti, without carrying out Covid test on them. Therefore, there’s no certainty of how many among them are ‘carriers’, ‘positive’ or ‘negative’.Health officials said only one medical officer of the Civil Hospital had been given an additional charge of visiting the sub-jail, Patti.“We are bound to lodge the inmates. Since we don’t have equipment, testing facilities and allied staff, we only examine their body temperature. Also, if any one Covid-19 positive inmate comes in, then he will pose a risk to all others. We are helpless,” they said.Gill said he had expressed his displeasure against the decision to the minister concerned and officials, but in vain. He said he was determined to stage a ‘dharna’ in front of the sub-jail Patti on Tuesday at 11 am. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/congress-mla-threatens-protest-over-covid-centre-at-patti-jail-73911
21-04-2020||Amritsar||After facing criticism, Navjot Sidhu sports face mask||Unlike his previous outings during the Covid lockdown, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu came out with his entourage to distribute relief material sporting a mask here on Monday.He was in the news for not adhering to the state government’s directions of wearing a mask in public in view of the Covid-19 threat.Sidhu was seen interacting with doctors, health workers and residents of his constituency without wearing a mask. Even his security guards and supporters were not wearing masks or gloves.In this context, a Chandigarh-based lawyer had lodged a complaint with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and threatened to file a petition in the HC if no action was taken against Sidhu within two to three days.Sources say the CM had forwarded the complaint to Deputy Commissioner Shiv Dular Singh Dhillon. He, however, denied any such development. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-facing-criticism-navjot-sidhu-sports-face-mask-73897
