21-07-2020||Amritsar||Portrait of semi-naked women removed from Jallianwala Bagh gallery||Following criticism, the portrait of two semi-naked women, striking poses identical to those in Ajanta and Ellora caves, placed on one of the walls of the under-renovation gallery of Jallianwala Bagh, has been removed.Apart from this being against the spirit of the site, another blunder made was that the objectionable picture was placed adjacent to the portraits of Guru Nanak and Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Former MP Tarlochan Singh, who is one of the members of PM-led Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, said: "Before opening the monument for the public, I propose that all the members and other stakeholders should make a prior visit to the site to make sure that nothing objectionable should be there which does not commensurate with the spirit of the place”, he said.The under-renovation site has been closed for the public since February 15.Claiming to maintain its 'historic composition', the work is being executed under the supervision of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).The Centre has allocated Rs 20 crore for the first phase of the project aimed to be completed by July 31. The Bagh is expected to be opened by August 15.Tarksheel Society head Sumit Singh said that though the portrait was removed, this lapse demanded stern action against those responsible for it.On Monday, the International Sarv Kamboj Samaj had shot off separate complaints to the Akal Takht and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is the chairman of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust.Shinder Pal Singh alias Bobby Kamboj, president of Kamboj Samaj said that it was a matter of national shame to install such obnoxious portraits.An official confirmed that the portrait has been removed following objections from several quarters.Following this, the SDM Amritsar-1 Vikas Hira had paid a visit to the site on Monday evening. Though he avoided talking about the controversial portraits, he assured the issue would be resolved after the intervention of higher authorities.In a hard-hitting statement issued here, National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Punjab, Akshay Sharma demanded a thorough probe to ascertain how and who approved the obnoxious images to be put up at Jallianwala Bagh.“Don't you know the historical significance of this monument and its role in Indian freedom history? This clearly shows the attitude and respect the BJP, that commands the Jallianwala Bagh Trust, has for our martyrs. The BJP has always used sacrifices of our martyrs for advancing their political agenda”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/portrait-of-semi-naked-women-removed-from-jallianwala-bagh-gallery-115891
21-07-2020||---||62-yr-old loses Covid battle in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 20With 28 more persons in the district testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the total count of positive cases reached 1,300. The district also reported the death of a 62-year-old patient admitted at Sri Guru Ram Das Hospital. The deceased, identified as Balbir Singh of Sultanwind village, was also a known case of hypertension. The toll due to Covid reached 64 on Monday.Of the new cases reported by the Health Department, 19 are persons with influenza like illness (ILI) while nine are contacts of Covid patients. One ILI case each has been reported from Dhianpur (Baba Bakala), Dolonangal village, Chabba village, Raipur (Ajnala), Jafarkot (Ajnala), Fatahpur, Radha Soami Road (backside Gandhi Ground), Gopal Nagar, New Kot Atma Ram, Maha Singh Gate, Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Division B police station area, Chackbala Jagdev Khurd, Fatehgarh Churian Road, Krishna Nagar and ITC Company on Jail Road and two patients were reported from Loon Mandi.Three contacts of Covid patients from Sahibjada Fateh Singh Colony, three from Bhawani Nagar (Majitha Road), and one each from Green Avenue, Krishna Nagar and Green Field (Majitha Road) also tested positive.Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh said of the new cases, 20 patients are from the city and the rest are from the rural areas. He said a total of 38,766 persons have been tested in the district so far.The Civil Surgeon said there were 244 active patients in the district who were undergoing treatment at various hospitals. He said 16 patients at different hospitals were on oxygen support and 17 were on ventilator support. He said a total of 964 patients were tested in the past 24 hours, adding that efforts were being made to increase testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/62-yr-old-loses-covid-battle-in-amritsar-115624
21-07-2020||---||Bottled Gangajal at post offices a big hit among Amritsar residents||Amritsar, July 20 As Gangajal began to be delivered by the India Post through its e-portal and in its office, its demand witnessed a huge surge. The maximum demand of the sacred water is among devotees and kanwariyas, who otherwise used to undertake an ardous road journey to Gangotri during the monsoon.  The service, which began in 2016 by the Modi Government, is now coming in handy for the devotees, who cannot perform pilgrimage to Badrinath or Kedarnath and Haridwar due to travel restrictions. The devotees used to travel to Gangotri during the month of sawan, considered to be pious and offer Gangajal to the Lord Shiva.  “The post office gets packaged Gangajal direct from Gangotri and we have seen a surge in demand, especially post lockdown. Our maximum sale used to be during Diwali. We had sold 28 bottles before the March lockdown this year, but post lockdown, we have sold more than 56 bottles of packaged Gangajal and more people have expressed their demand for the bottles,” said Hari Mohan, Senior Superintendent, Post office, Amritsar.  He said earlier, the packaged Gangajal used to come from Rishikesh, but now, with an increase in its demand, it is being supplied from Gangotri. It is filled in bottles of 250ml quantity with an option of two and four bottle-sets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bottled-gangajal-at-post-offices-a-big-hit-among-amritsar-residents-115625
21-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Traffic lights in Amritsar defunct, but who cares?||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 20The callous attitude of the authorities continues to put the lives of commuters at risk with traffic lights remaining defunct since the imposition of curfew and lockdown restrictions in Punjab in view of the Covid pandemic.While the Municipal Corporation authorities have washed their hands off this responsibility claiming that a majority of traffic signals come under the purview of the Public Works Department (PWD), and the Amritsar Improvement Trust, but they, too, have turned a blind eye to the problem.Amritsar’s Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu pointed out that the MC had written to the PWD and Improvement Trust authorities many times asking them to handover the charge to the MC. “We are even ready to maintain it, but are still awaiting their response,” he said.Gurmeet Singh, an RTI activist, said: “In the absence of traffic lights and traffic cops from roads, traffic is allowed from all sides causing chaos on intersections. The cops who are deputed on roads for Covid-19 duties are more focused on challaning commuters for not wearing masks. That is important, too, but who will streamline traffic?”Ironically, the Police Department has also failed to get the problem rectified by pursuing officials of these departments.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Traffic, Parminder Singh Bhandal, said: “Though the department has written to the MC authorities regarding this, the situation remains the same. I have now deputed inspector-rank officers in separate zones to contact authorities concerned and get the problem rectified and make traffic lights operational.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traffic-lights-in-amritsar-defunct-but-who-cares-115626
21-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Weapon seized from man held in robbery case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 20The caseGurpreet Singh, Gopi, along with Jaskaran Singh of Fatahpur village, was nabbed by the rural police in a robbery case.During interrogation, Gopi told the police that he had rented a room at Pandori Waraich village. The police, on search of the house, recovered a country-made weapon and 200 cartridges. The source of the weapon was being ascertained, said the SSP.The interrogation of a Bagriya village Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi, who was arrested in a case of robbery has led to the seizure of an illegal weapon and 20 unused bullets from his rented accommodation at Pandori Waraich village.Gopi, along with Jaskaran Singh of Fatahpur village, was nabbed by the rural police in the robbery case. The duo had snatched an I20 car from a trader, Ajay Kapoor, from the Bal Kalan area on July 9.Ajay Kapoor, a resident of the Mall road area, runs a factory at Bal Kalan village. On the day of the incident, he had parked his car outside the factory and had gone inside, leaving the gates open, when three armed persons, with faces covered, entered the factory at 8.30pm and snatched the car keys, Rs3,500 and a mobile phone at gunpoint.Amritsar Rural SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said during the interrogation of Gopi and Jaskaran who were on a police remand, the suspects gave the names of their accomplices Mam, Suchchu, Vickey and Sandeep. Gopi told the police that he had rented a room at Pandori Waraich village. The police, on search of the house, recovered a country-made weapon and 200 cartridges. The source of the weapon was being ascertained.The SSP said with their arrest, the police had also solved another case in which the suspects barged into a house at Bal Kalan village and opened fire. They ransacked the house and set household goods on fire. According to the complainant in the case, Gopi had been making obscene gestures in front of a woman, whose husband objected to his acts.The SSP said raids were on to nab the accomplices of the suspects arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weapon-seized-from-man-held-in-robbery-case-115627
21-07-2020||---||Online literary events to keep kids engaged||Amritsar, July 20Initiating a series of interactive and engaging alternate learning activities for kids, the Book Fairy movement, in collaboration with Majha House, has been hosting online workshops of story-telling and literary discussions. The initiative called the Book Room, hosts weekly book reading and story-telling sessions curated by Nazi Puri, official Book Fairy from the city.“In the absence of school and other platforms such as libraries, the kids don’t have to miss out on literary activities. That’s the idea behind the online workshops. We are hosting story telling sessions and activities or kids of various age groups, starting from five years to young adults,” said Nazi.Other collaborators for online sessions include Red Panda publications, which hosts literary discussions and book readings by celebrated authors. These sessions have been curated by Nazi, along with Gayatri Gill, an author and producer. It recently hosted the launch of book, ‘Suni Goes to Space’ by Arthy Muthana and Mamta Nainy, based on Indian American astronaut Sunita Williams. The authors engaged 30 children with the reading activity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-literary-events-to-keep-kids-engaged-115628
21-07-2020||Our Correspondent||2 Mehandipur villagers booked on rape charge||Tarn Taran, July 20Two residents of the border area of Mehandipur village have been booked under Section 376-D, 506 of the IPC and SC /ST Act-1989 for raping a girl belonging to the Dalit community. The police said the accused had been identified as Harbhal Singh and his friend Jaskaran Singh of the same village.The incident took place on July 18. The girl alleged that the suspect Harbhal Singh called her on mobile at night and took her to the residence of another suspect Jaskaran Singh Harbhal Singh and raped her. She alleged that the accused threatened not to disclose it to anyone. The statement of the victim was recorded by ASI Balwinder Kaur. The victim was medically examined after which rape was confirmed.Minor girl abductedA 13-year-old girl was kidnapped by her uncle from Asal Uttar village. Accused Gurbhej Singh of Asal Uttar has been booked under Section 363, 366-A of the IPC by Valtoha police. The incident occurred on July 15 while the case had been registered on July 19 Sunday. Mother of the victim, a resident of Ludhiana, said she had come to see her parents a few days back, along with her three daughters and the victim was the eldest of her daughters. She said on the night of July 15, her brother Gurbhej Singh kidnapped her daughter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-mehandipur-villagers-booked-on-rape-charge-115629
21-07-2020||---||Ayushmann Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana: Farmers told to apply by July 24||Amritsar, July 20Scheme BenefitsThe scheme will ensure cashless medical treatment benefit of upto Rs5 lakh for 1,396 different ailments. The covered ailments include heart surgeries, cancer treatment, joint replacement procedures and the treatment in accidental casesThe district administration has appealed to the farmers to submit applications till July 24 in order to be able to derive benefit under the ‘Ayushmann Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana’ for the year 2020-21. Each beneficiary family under the scheme would get a cashless treatment upto Rs 5 lakh.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said all farmers who had received the J-Form and those who have the ‘Sugarcane Weight Slips’, were eligible for the benefit under the scheme. He added that eligible farmers needed to submit their applications along with the required documents with their respective Market Committees or with their respective commission agents (Arhtiya) by July 24.He also added that the premium of the insurance of the farmers would be paid by the Punjab Mandi Board and the farming community would not have to pay any fee. Dhillon said the scheme would ensure cashless medical treatment benefit of upto Rs 5 lakh for 1,396 different ailments. The covered ailments include heart surgeries, cancer treatment, joint replacement procedures and the treatment in accidental cases.The DC said the farmers desirous of availing of the benefits in accordance with the scheme could get the self-declaration form from the concerned Market Committee office or the firm of the commission agent (Arhtiya) or can also be downloaded from the website www.mandiboard .nic.in. After receiving the applications from the farmers, the uploading would be done on the portal specially created for the purpose after which the eligible farmers would be issued the ‘Sehat Bima Cards’.Under this cashless scheme, all such ailments would be covered for treatment which requires hospitalisation for a period of more than 24 hours or are listed under the daycare treatment scheme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ayushmann-bharat-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-farmers-told-to-apply-by-july-24-115630
21-07-2020||---||Outraging woman’s modesty: Woman SAD leader refutes allegations||Amritsar, July 20Two days after a woman accused a SAD leader Rajwinder Kaur for allegedly blackmailing her with a ‘vulgar’ video, Kaur refuted the charges against her and said it was the victim who was blackmailing her to secure higher posts in the party.She said the ‘so called’ victim had a drug case registered against her. Rajwinder said all the allegations levelled by her were baseless and she urged the police authorities to hold an impartial probe into this.The police have booked Rajwinder and her husband Rajinder Singh Bath of Sandhu Colony for outraging the victim’s modesty. A case under Section 354-A, 120-B, 109, 114, 506 of the IPC has been registered against them. Rajwinder is former local president of women (Istri) wing of SAD.The case was registered following a probe conducted by ACP (west) Dev Dutt Sharma and after taking legal opinion from district attorney.In her complaint to the police, the victim alleged that she was a worker of the party. She was called by the accused where they offered her some drinks laced with intoxicants. Later, she allegedly made ‘vulgar’ video of her and started blackmailing her.Jaspal Singh, investigating officer said the accused could not arrested as she had gone into hiding. He said both the victim and the accused had approached higher police authorities for holding a probe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/outraging-womans-modesty-woman-sad-leader-refutes-allegations-115631
21-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Food delivery boys in Amritsar protest over non-payment of dues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 20An online food delivery company has drastically reduced the payouts of delivery boys forcing them to hold a protest.They claimed that they had tirelessly worked during the Covid-19 induced curfew and even later, but even then, their wages were slashed without any reason.Nirmal Singh, a delivery boy, said they were getting good number of orders for the past two weeks, which meant that the earning of the company did not come down. Neither did it slash its rate as the company was continuously getting Rs30 to Rs75 per delivery charge from customers and 20 per cent charge from restaurants.He said their income was reduced from Rs500 to Rs200 per day even after a gruelling 14-hour shift.This income, gets down to zero when charges are compiled on petrol, service and wear and tear charges of motor bikes, he averred.Raman Sharma, another delivery boy, said: “Our wages have been reduced forcing us to hold a protest publically. Earlier, we used to get Rs25 per order, which included Rs20 for pick and drop and Rs5 depending upon the rating given by customers, besides Rs8 per km for travelling beyond 5 km.Now, Rs20 of pick and drop and Rsfive of rating have been dropped. They are only paid Rs4 per km now.Jaswinder Singh said they had worked during the lockdown period delivering essential items on the doorsteps of people. The district administration had also intervened to utilise their services in delivering ration to the families who could not come out due to Covid-19 restrictions. Now, they were being victimised by squeezing their wages.An executive of Swiggy, said he was not authorised to speak to the media, adding that the delivery boys were citing wrong figures of wages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/food-delivery-boys-in-amritsar-protest-over-non-payment-of-dues-115632
21-07-2020||---||Release salary of safai sevaks: Majithia to Amritsar MC||Amritsar, July 20Former minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia today asked the Municipal Committee to release salaries of protesting ‘safai karamcharis’ immediately, saying the local residents were also suffering due to mismanagement of municipal affairs.In a statement here, Majithia said it was shocking that safai karamcharis had not been paid salaries for the last couple of months by the Municipal Committee despite the fact that they were spending maximum hours at work during pandemic.“These are the same employees who were honoured by ministers in videos as 'frontline workers' but are now being discriminated against.” He demanded an inquiry to verify why salaries of Class IV employees had been withheld even though they were frontline workers.He said any delay in lifting of garbage could lead to a spread of diseases in the town for which the Municipal Committee and its officials would be directly responsible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/release-salary-of-safai-sevaks-majithia-to-amritsar-mc-115633
21-07-2020||Amritsar||900 take part in online quiz||Thieves steal Rs2K from ATMTarn Taran: Thieves broke open an ATM installed at the Shahbazpur village branch of Punjab and Sind Bank on Sunday night and stole five cash boxes containing Rs2,000. Sadar police station SHO Baljit Kaur said a case has been registered under Sections 457 and 380 of the IPC. Akhlesh Bhardwaj, branch manager, in his statement to the police, said he was informed of the incident in the morning by Balwinder Singh, a bank guard. Bhardwaj said the shutter of the ATM room was also broken by the thieves. OCMan loses Rs2.3l in online fraudAmritsar: A local resident has lost Rs2.3 lakh in an online fraud. The police have registered an FIR against unidentified persons and forwarded the probe to the cyber crime wing. Complainant Dinesh Kumar has alleged that the suspects conducted online transactions worth Rs2.33 lakh from his bank and Paytm account. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/900-take-part-in-online-quiz-115637
21-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Gujarati Basti turns into a garbage dump as Amritsar MC looks the other way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 20Residents of Gujarati Basti area are peeved over the apathetic attitude of the municipal corporation towards their area. For the past few years, they have been living in unhygienic conditions as the area has turned into a garbage dump.The area falls in Ward No. 50 and is represented by Cabinet minister Om Parkash Soni who represents the Amritsar Central Constituency here. People say that repeated requests to the civic authorities and their political representatives have proved futile. The area is located along the road leading from the old vegetable market on the backside of Chitra talkies to Ram Bagh Chowk.“As rain lashed the holy city in the morning, rainwater was accumulated on the street. The garbage mixed with rainwater turns into slush making it difficult for people move on roads,” said Raju, a resident of locality. Shopkeepers of the old vegetable market also dump their waste in the area. The foul smell emanating from the dump has become a nuisance for residents.The municipal corporation should ensure that garbage is lifted from the area on a daily basis. However, MC employees never do this and turn a blind eye towards the plight of the residents. They come to lift garbage once in three months, he points out. A shopkeeper preferring not to be named said, “During the rains, it becomes difficult for us to sit in the shop due to a foul smell and mosquitoes. The dump is posing serious health hazards to thousands of residents in the locality.“At a time when the country is fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and cases are on the rise in the holy city, the district administration and the civic authorities have failed to show seriousness towards to the health of people,” said another resident Sunny.The garbage collection system is very efficient in the holy city and if there is any such problem in the area, I will look into this. I assure the residents that their problems would be solved, said Mayor Karamjit Rintu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gujarati-basti-turns-into-a-garbage-dump-as-amritsar-mc-looks-the-other-way-115638
21-07-2020||---||CCTV row: Amritsar MC officials, safai sevaks at loggerheads||Amritsar, July 20The officials of the operation and maintenance (O&M) cell of the Municipal Corporation and the Union of Safai Sevaks are at loggerheads over the issue of installing CCTV cameras at the MC’s auto workshop and petrol pump.The officials of O&M said MC Commissioner had asked them to get CCTV cameras installed at the said pump, so that misuse of diesel could be checked. An official said: “A team of officials led by XEN Vijay Kumar visited the pump on Saturday and found a safai sevak-cum-driver taking away oil in a plastic can. When he was asked to explain why he was taking the diesel in a can and had not brought the tractor along, he could not give any satisfactory reply.”The officials later said the safai sevak, identified as Sandeep Kumar, was in an inebriated condition and misbehaved with the XEN and even threatened him. The officials including Junior Engineers, SDOs and others submitted a memorandum with the MC Commissioner on Monday and demanded that an FIR be registered against Sandeep Kumar. The officials have given an ultimatum of 72 hours, after which they threatened to go on strike.Meanwhile, the Municipal Youth Employees’ Foundation at the auto workshop have also threatened to go on strike after 72 hours demanding action against the XEN alleging that he used casteist remarks against the employees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cctv-row-amritsar-mc-officials-safai-sevaks-at-loggerheads-115639
21-07-2020||Neha Saini||Public libraries come back to life, set up e-portals, observe book quarantine||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 20If before the Covid pandemic, the purpose of public libraries was to bring in more people, now it is about limiting the footfall. The public libraries in city have reopened with a new set of safety measures in place. Though it doesn’t house many public libraries, but the state does have a number of loyal readers. Now, after the lockdown, the studies are forced to limit the walk-in of bookworms, while adopting digital media to increase their access.With mandatory precautions like sanitisation and masks in place, the libraries are also observing book quarantine and using maximum digital space for reaching out to the fellow readers and are expanding open educational resources. The Bhai Gurdas Library inside GNDU campus has reopened but limited its footfall to only staff, faculty and research scholars. The library, that has over five lakh books and rare literature to get your hands onto, has set up thermal temperature scanners at the very entrance and use of only disposables allowed inside the premises. The pantry is shut, not providing any beverage facility so as to avoid minimum contact infection risk. With a staff of 12-14 people, the five-storeyed study is maintaining distancing norms strictly. The library is also not imposing any late fee for students due to the special circumstances amid these trying times.The Moti Lal Nehru Library, the oldest and largest public library in the city, is also being sanitised frequently and has allowed staff to work in shifts. Still closed for its members, the library that is housed in the heritage Town Hall building, is mostly sharing reading material with the readers through social media platforms created by some volunteer members of the library.The district library at the Rani Ka Bagh is no different. It has cut down on its footfall, only allowing visitors in during specific hours. It is also using its social media and digital platform to provide maximum services and educational programmes run under its aegis.Speaking outThe library is not yet open to all readers and so a few lifetime members are helping set up a proper channel for post-Covid system of operations like safety measures in place for it to function. — Dr Atula Bhaskar, lifetime member of Moti Lal Nehru LibraryDue to Covid scenario, we cannot let the children or readers miss out on reading or exposure through alternate learning methods through books. Virtual book clubs should be encouraged. — Nazi Puri, curator of small private library in cityWe are using thermal scanners for every visitor and staff. We have our own binding unit inside the premises and so we do not send books outside the library for repair, which allows us to keep them sanitised. — Prof Amit Kauts, incharge, Bhai Gurdas library, GNDUDuring these Covid times, we are carrying out sanitisation and observing book quarantine for about 48 hours, keeping the books in drawers and not allowing readers to touch them until sanitised. — Prabhjot Sandhu, district librarian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/public-libraries-come-back-to-life-set-up-e-portals-observe-book-quarantine-115640
21-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Sons allege father alive, handed over woman’s body||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 20Two brothers today moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court alleging that the body handed over to them after their father’s purported Covid death was actually that of a woman and he was still alive and undergoing treatment at an Amritsar hospital.Taking cognisance of the matter, Justice Vivek Puri asked the state counsel to verify the facts before filing a detailed response in the matter. Justice Puri also put the state and other respondents on notice before fixing July 22 as the next date of hearing.The matter was brought to the court’s notice after a petition was filed by Gurcharanjit Singh and another petitioner. Among other things, it was contended by the petitioners that their father, Pritam Singh, tested Covid-positive on July 1. He was admitted to Rayat Bahra University (an isolation centre) at Hoshiarpur the next day. But he was shifted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar, on July 5. The Bench was also told that one of the brothers was also admitted to the same ward.“On July 18, a message was received that the petitioners’ father has breathed his last at 11 pm on July 17. The petitioners received the mortal remains, reported to be that of their father, at Mukerian, which was transported in an ambulance. However, the mortal remains were found to be that of a woman,” it was added.The petitioners further contended that the woman’s body was shifted to a mortuary at Mukerian. They were hopeful that their father was still alive and admitted as a Covid patient at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Amritsar. Referring to the standard operating procedure, their counsel added the patient’s face was, in any case, required to be shown to the relatives before cremation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sons-allege-father-alive-handed-over-womans-body-115737
