21-08-2020||Amritsar||Swachh Survekshan 2020: Amritsar placed at 39th spot||The city was placed at the 39th spot in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, a survey conducted by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). In the category of cities having more than 10 lakh population, there were only two from the state among 47 cities across the country. Amritsar bagged the 39th rank, while Ludhiana bagged the 34th rank. The city secured 2,459 marks out of 6,000.Ranked 184th last yearThis time, the pattern of ranking has been changed and several new components to observe cleanliness were added in the survey.Last year, the city was ranked 184th, while in 2018, it was placed at the 208th spotIn 2017, the city got 258th rank among 434 participating cities of the countryIt has been learnt that the city ranking has suffered due to the non-availability of solid waste management infrastructureThe Swachh ranking showcased the real picture of the city. Of 47 cities having more than 10 lakh population, Amritsar is the 9th dirtiest city in the country and tops in the state.This time, the pattern of ranking has been changed and several new components to observe cleanliness were added in the survey. Last year, the city was ranked 184th, while in 2018, it was placed at the 208th spot. In 2017, the city got 258th rank among 434 participating cities of the country. It has been learnt that the city ranking has suffered due to the non-availability of solid waste management infrastructure.Dubious distinctionAlso named the 9th dirtiest city in the country and tops in stateKomal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation said: “We were lacking on two major components of solid waste management. The solid waste management company was not conducting bio remediation and processing of garbage and source segregation was not adopted. The services being provided by the MC and public feedback scored well.”The city has scored satisfactorily in other components of the survey, such as direct observation by Central teams, citizen feedback, service-level progress and open defecation free (ODF) certification. In the ODF component, the city suffered due to the non-availability of community and public toilets.The MC has changed the solid waste management company and was now hopeful that the bio-remediation, processing and segregation of garbage would be started.“We will focus on the processing of waste, grievance redressal mechanism, community and public toilets and other such components, where we are lacking. We will definitely improve the ranking of city by next year,” the Commissioner said. The officials claimed that regular strikes of sanitation workers in the past one year also affected the city’s ranking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/swachh-survekshan-2020-amritsar-placed-at-39th-spot-129229
21-08-2020||Amritsar||No respite: Virus claims 3 more lives, toll 118 in Amritsar||The district reported three more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease on Thursday. With these deaths, the toll has risen to 118 in the district. Besides, the district health authorities reported 71 new positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,046 in the district.The deceased have been identified as Balwinder Kaur, a 55-year-old resident of Bhorshi Brahma village in Baba Bakala area; Balwinder Kaur, a 60-year-old resident of Guru Arjan Dev Nagar; and Vilas Malhotra, a 43-year-old resident of Majitha Road.At the same time, the district health authorities have reported the recovery of 62 patients after which the total count of recoveries has increased to 2,433.Of the new cases, 28 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 43 are contacts of positive patients. Of the ILI cases, two cases each were reported from Race Course Road and Dasaunda Singh Road while one case each was reported from Fatehgarh Sukarchuk village, New Pawan Nagar, Ratan Singh Chowk, Haveli Dhana Singh (Bazar Lachhi), Anand Avenue, Daud village, New Mehar Colony, Milap Avenue (Chehharta), Guru Nanak Nagar, Ranjitpura, Mall Road, Sultanwind village, Bhilowal village (Baba Bakala), New Naraingarh, RB Estate, Gaddar Zada village, Dharampura Colony, Sohian Kalan village, Roari village, Awan village, Makkowal village, Rangla Nangal village, Buttar Sivian village, Bhoma village and Hall Gate.Of the contacts cases, four cases each were reported from Military Hospital, three from Ranjit Avenue, two cases each from Gokul Vihar, Model Town, Sehaj Enclave, Lawrence Road, Medical Enclave, Pink Avenue, Killa Bhanggian, Gurbax Nagar and Baba Deep Singh Nagar, and one each from Verka, SGRD Hospital, Vallah, New Amritsar, Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, Guru Har Rai Avenue, Tungbala, Officer Colony (Taylor Road), Jawahar Nagar, Ram Nagar (Islamabad), Preet Avenue, Shastri Nagar (Majitha Road) and Shareefpura. At present, the district has 492 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-respite-virus-claims-3-more-lives-toll-118-in-amritsar-129230
21-08-2020||Amritsar||Administration divides Amritsar into 20 zones to combat virus||The district administration has divided the entire city into 20 sectors for tackling the pandemic in a better manner. The area under the jurisdiction of 20 police stations will be deemed as a separate sector in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira appointed senior administrative officials as Covid “Monitors” for each sector. The Covid Monitors along with cops from the respective police station will ensure sampling, testing, contact tracing, home quarantine and adoption of protocols in areas declared containment zones and micro- containment zones.The Deputy Commissioner said the Covid Monitors will also oversee and ensure that all essential services are made available to residents of their sector.Meanwhile, Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal said mental health plays an important role in the recovery of a patient and for this purpose, the administration has assigned duties to keep a check on mental health of Covid patients.“I have seen many patients whose condition was very worrying, but they defeated Covid-19 with strong determination,” he said adding that three counsellors have been assigned the duty to work closely with positive patients. He said these professional counsellors would stay in touch with positive patients on the phone and strengthen them mentally.Aggarwal, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19, said, “We have set a target to test 2,000 persons daily. Three mobile vans visit affected areas to collect samples. Capacity of Covid ward at the Government Medical College will soon be increased to 500 beds from the existing 300 beds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-divides-amritsar-into-20-zones-to-combat-virus-129232
21-08-2020||---||No one can deprive Punjab of its waters: Dal Khalsa||Amritsar, August 20“The Sutlej Yamuna Link (SYL) canal was planned against the universally accepted riparian principles, with an eye on the scarce water resources of Punjab,” said Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwal Pal Singh. Singh said Punjab had a right on the waters of the Sutlej, Ravi and Beas and no legislation or court could deprive the state of its legitimate right.Disagreeing with the Punjab CM on the need for a fresh time-bound assessment of water availability, he said, “Instead of adopting delaying tactics, Capt Amarinder Singh should handle the issue on the basis of riparian principles,” he said.However, he endorsed CM’s assessment that the SYL issue had the potential to trigger the revival of armed rebellion in the state. “Separatists have laid down their lives and suffered imprisonment for years while defending the waters. We won’t let their sacrifices go in vain,” he said. Dal Khalsa blamed the executive and the judiciary for muddling the Punjab river waters issue and vowed to “not allow the construction of SYL at any cost”.He said the people of Punjab, especially those from the agriculture community, were worried that despite the tall claims of politicians of all shades, more than 50 per cent of Punjab’s water flew to other non-riparian states.Suggesting the measures to address the water problem, he said the case should be handed over to World Bank, Clause 5 of Punjab’s Termination of Agreement’s Act 2004 be abrogated and royalty should be demanded from non-riparian states, especially Rajasthan and Delhi, for using state’s water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-one-can-deprive-punjab-of-its-waters-dal-khalsa-129234
21-08-2020||Amritsar||Will hold statewide protests if SYL project executed: Brahmpura||Criticising the Central Government over division of state’s river waters, SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said Punjab had always been a victim of discrimination.Targeting Indira Gandhi, Morarji Desai and Narendra Modi, he said the issue of SYL canal would never have become this serious, had a fair decision been taken during the partition of Punjab. “The state has no spare water to share with its neighbours but the Union Government is hell bent on dividing the waters,” said Brahmapura.He said the canal would not be allowed to be built at any cost as Punjab’s waters have touched the ‘danger mark’. “We will stage statewide protests if the SYL project is executed. It was unfortunate for Punjab that Indira Gandhi laid the foundation stone of the SYL canal at Kapuri village near Patiala in 1980. We urge the Centre to distribute river waters on the basis of riparian principles,” he said.Former MLA Ravinder Singh Brahmpura said Punjab did not have a single drop of excess water to share. If the SYL canal was commissioned, it would lead to disturbance in state for which the Union Government would be responsible, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-hold-statewide-protests-if-syl-project-executed-brahmpura-129235
21-08-2020||Amritsar||Minor’s harassment: Police register FIR, no rape charge||Though the city police have registered a case in connection with the sexual harassment of a minor girl allegedly by a man living in a live-in relationship with her mother, family members of the victim, expressed dissatisfaction with the police response, alleging that sections related to rape had not been added in the FIR. The incident occurred in March this year and an FIR was registered on Wednesday.The suspect has been identified as Harmeet Singh Chawla, a resident of Uttam Nagar on Tarn Taran Road, and has been booked under Sections 354 and 354-A of the IPC and Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The mother of the victim has shot a letter to the DGP and Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, alleging that even after the receipt of a complaint, the police did not register an FIR for over four months.She said as her husband was hooked to drugs, she got divorced and started living with her parents. She had a daughter from the marriage.In 2018, she came in contact with Chawla and began a live-in relationship. She said in March this year, she had gone for a morning walk and after return, her sister-in-law told the suspect had sexually harassed her 13-year-old daughter. She said her daughter told her that Chawla had sexually harassed her earlier, too. The mother lodged a complaint with the Kot Mit Singh police in this connection.Advocate Naresh Kumar who took up the issue said the police had failed to add sections of rape to the case, “even as the law clearly defines it”. He alleged that the gross negligence on the part of the police, first in lodging an FIR and then omitting rape sections, would only benefit the suspect.The police authorities said after registration of an FIR, investigation has been forwarded to the women cell. “The matter is being probed,” a police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minors-harassment-police-register-fir-no-rape-charge-129236
21-08-2020||Amritsar||Nurse’s death: Kin ask cops to add murder charge||Family members of Jyoti Masih (21), who worked as a nurse at a private hospital, and died under mysterious circumstances two days ago, demanding registration of a murder case against the accused. They alleged that the police had registered a case against four persons for causing death by negligence act. They said there were injury marks on her neck and feet, which clearly indicated that Jyoti was murdered.Danial B Das, director, Social Economic Development Programme, (Diocese of Amritsar Church of North India), said if cops fail to add murder charge in the FIR, they would be forced to launch an agitation.Venus Masih, elder sister of the victim, said the police have failed to investigate the role of her paying guest.The victim used to work at the hospital near Majitha Road bypass. It was alleged that she had committed suicide by injecting some poisonous substance.Following the statement of the victim’s family, the police had booked four persons, including Gurpreet Singh, Sanjay Sharma manager of the hospital, his wife Kirti Sharma, Munish Kumar, all employees of the hospital.William, father of the victim, said Jyoti was working in the hospital for the last two years. She used to live as paying guest at a hostel in Greenfield area on Majitha Road. The victim was having sharp injuries on her feet and an empty injection near her body. It appeared that she was injected poison, which led to her death, he alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nurses-death-kin-ask-cops-to-add-murder-charge-129238
21-08-2020||Our Correspondent||AAP, SSP at loggerheads||Tarn Taran, August 20Leaders of the local unit of the AAP on Thursday sparred with the SSP, Dhruman H Nimbale, when he refused to come out of his office to receive a memorandum.AAP workers, led by Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh, were staging a dharna outside the SSP office over alleged inaction by the police in illicit liquor case. They wanted to submit a memorandum to the SSP in this connection. However, SSP Nimbale told them that a five-member delegation could come to his office to submit the memorandum, the proposal that the leaders declined.The protesters said they would continue protest until their demand was accepted. They would start an indefinite protest on Friday, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-ssp-at-loggerheads-129240
21-08-2020||Amritsar||Man held with 265-gm heroin||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-with-265-gm-heroin-129241
21-08-2020||Stuck at home? Are you desperately wanting to go out to explore the city||Punjab’s war heroes beckon you, come explore, virtually…||Gallery 1: OrientationThe first gallery in an introduction to the great civilisation of Punjab and its brave warriors. It details about the battle of Alexander and Porus, which was fought in 326 BC between Jhelum and Chenab rivers of Punjab. It also includes a brief introduction of the Sikh Gurus along with their life and principles. A 12-minute movie on the introduction of Punjab and the Sikhs is also showcased.Gallery 2: Rise of Sikh EmpireIt highlights the role of Guru Hargobind Sahib, the sixth Sikh guru, and his contribution to the “martialisation” of the Sikhs. All four battles have been showcased along with the concepts of Akal Takht, Miri Piri. The life and battles of Guru Gobind Singh and his four sons have also been displayed. Mai Bhago, the warrior women who fought the battle of Muktsar, has also been shown prominently. The graphic presentations beautifully reveal the emergence of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, the history of Sikh misls and their rule.Gallery 3: The Sikh Empire and Anglo-Sikh WarsThe gallery showcases the rise of the Sikh empire under Maharaja Ranjit Singh and his achievements, his major battles along with the Ropar Pact, journey of Kohinoor and Anglo-Sikh wars.Gallery 4: World War-I and World War-IIThe gallery is still under-construction, which would display the contribution of Punjabis in World War I and II.Gallery 5: Battle of J&K in 1947-48It depicts the bravery of Indian soldiers during the Indo-Pakistan War of 1947-1948, known as the first Kashmir War. It shows the contribution of soldiers, who were responsible for protecting Srinagar.Gallery 6: Indo-China War (1962) & Indo-Pak War (1965)It showcases the Indo-China war in Ladakh region and North East, in which Subedar Joginder Singh posthumously received India’s highest military gallantry award — the Param Vir Chakra. While in the 1965 war, the role of Abdul Hamid in Khemkaran Sector has been given a peculiar display. The Indian Army destroyed 91 tanks of Pakistan. At the gallery, fiber glass tanks have been made to give it a real war effect. A statue of then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri has also been installed.Gallery 7: 1971-Indo-Pak War & Liberation of BangladeshThis gallery depicts the bravery of Army men at Longewala border. A statue of Kuldeep Singh Chandpuri has also been installed. A fiber model also exists, in which jawans are seen celebrating the victory by dancing on tanks.Gallery 8: Kargil War (1999)Last but not the least, a recently constructed gallery shows the glimpses of the Kargil War. Modern techniques have been used to showcase the actions of wars on Tiger Hill.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabs-war-heroes-beckon-you-come-explore-virtually%E2%80%A6-129247
