21-06-2020||---||1 death, 21 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 20The district reported one more death of a Covid-19 patient on Saturday. On the other hand, 21 new cases, including three policemen, were reported in the district. The deceased has been identified as Satpal of Gali Jallanwali in Katra Dulo area here.With this, the total count of deaths due to the disease has increased to 31. Meanwhile, the district has reported a total of 754 positive cases so far. Officials of the Health Department stated that Satpal was admitted to Government Medical College on June 8. The officials said the victim had an acute respiratory infection, besides diabetes and hypertension.Of the new patients, 13 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases while eight are contacts of positive cases. Two ILI cases have been reported from Pandoori Mehma village while E-block (Ranjit avenue), medical enclave, Terrah Kalan, Ram Tirath road, Sarai Sant Ram, Loha Mandi, Krishna Nagar, Guru Nanak nagar (Verka) have reported one case each. A police official deputed at Mohkampura police station, a policeman with police control room and another deputed at the Police Lines also tested positive.Besides, five contacts of a positive case from Medical Enclave and one each from Sarai Sant Ram, Krishna Nagar and Guru Nanak Nagar (Verka) also tested positive. While the district has registered 499 recoveries so far, 222 active cases are admitted in hospitals, stated health officials.2 fresh cases in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: Two fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday. Both patients had been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital.Dr Inder Mohan Gupta said one patient was from Narli village while the second was from Bhikhiwind. Both patients are above 40 years of age. The parents of the Bhikhiwind patient, also Covid-19 patients, were admitted to the Civil Hospital three days ago. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-death-21-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-102006
21-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar Civil Hospital staff protest sacking of lab technicians||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 20Employees of Jallianwala Bagh Martyr’s Memorial Civil Hospital here initiated protest against a letter of the Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health and Family Welfare, ordering dismissal of 22 lab technicians at Jallianwala Bagh Martyr’s Memorial Hospital. The employees boycotted services at the hospital and threatened that the protest would be continued till the order was revoked.The 200-bed Civil Hospital has five sanctioned posts of lab technicians but at present 27 persons are posted here. The letter of ACS reads, “I have requested many times to rationalise and send back the surplus lab technicians at their respective place of positing but it seems that due to their influence, they still continue to work at district hospital Amritsar.” While ordering the dismissal, the letter further reads, “Since all these lab technicians are very influential, no fair inquiry can be held against them.”Rakesh Sharma, chairman, Employees Welfare Association Civil Hospital, said, “For a 200-bed district hospital, the five sanctioned posts of lab technicians are not enough. We have time and again requested authorities to review the work overload and increase the sanctioned posts.” Sharma said with five lab technicians the work at the hospital would collapse.I have talked to employees to call off the protest in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. I have received a memorandum from the employees which will be forwarded to the state authorities. —Jugal Kishore, Civil Surgeon“The 24X7 hospital has a blood bank, emergency, dialysis unit and huge work load of child deliveries. Can it be run with just five lab technicians? The higher-ups must assess the ground reality before issuing such orders,” said Rakesh.The Punjab State Pharmacists Association and the Health Department Ministerial Staff Association have also criticised the move of dismissal of employees. Jagdish Thakur, general secretary, said, “The higher-ups are not aware of the ground condition. We support the protesting employees and their cause.”Civil Surgeon Jugal Kishore said he had talked to the employees to call off the protest in view of the pandemic. He said he had received a memorandum from the employees which he would forward to the state authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civil-hospital-staff-protest-sacking-of-lab-technicians-102007
21-06-2020||Phagwara||IMA flays Clinical Establishment Act||Urging the Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to withdraw the imposition of the Punjab Clinical Establishment Act, former IMA Punjab president SSP Sooch on Tuesday threatened that if their demands were not met then around 10,000 doctors, belonging to the IMA, would quarantine themselves on June 23.He said the next course of action would be decided at a state-level meeting on June 28. In the first phase, all IMA members met and submitted memorandums to the MLAs, MPs, and ministers concerned, including their opposition candidates on Sunday.Dr Sooch said interaction with the media would be held on Thursday at all respective branches of the IMA to apprise the media of the Clinical Establishment Act.According to Dr Sooch, the declaration of the Act was notified through an ordinance even before the proposed draft was discussed at the joint committee constituted by the Health Minister. He said the IMA had failed to understand why the Principal Secretary (Health) was in a hurry for the ordinance at the time when the prevention of the Covid-19 and its treatment should be the prime priority. – OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-flays-clinical-establishment-act-102008
21-06-2020||---||Government to fix Covid treatment charges at Amritsar private hospitals, says minister Soni||Amritsar, June 20Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni on Saturday said the government had decided to fix the rates of coronavirus treatment in private hospitals for the convenience of patients.After a meeting with senior officials including Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Commissioner of Police Sukhchain Singh Gill, Commissioner Municipal Corporation Komal Mittal and others, the minister said the state government hospitals had all the medicines, facilities and staff for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, but even then if one wants to seek treatment in a private hospital, it is required the charges are reasonable.Soni said the state had three Covid-19 testing centres at three medical colleges with a capacity to test 3,000 samples per day per centre. The state government to set up four new laboratories with each having a capacity to run 1,000 tests daily in the next 15 days, he said.He said state-of-the-art machines were available in the government hospitals and all the medicines and food were being provided free of cost to the patients.Talking about the increase in cases, especially in Amritsar, the minister said the cases increased partly due to an increase in testing and lockdown relaxations.Mission Fateh: Police teams visit door-to-doorContributing towards Mission Fateh launched by the state government to involve each person in the fight against coronavirus by spreading awareness, teams of the local police on Saturday visited door-to-door, distributed pamphlets and urged people to maintain social distance, wear face masks and proper hand sanitisation.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill launching the campaign on Saturday distributed badges to officials, jawans and volunteers in this regard. Speaking on the occasion, he said if we have to fight Covid-19 pandemic and come over this unprecedented health crisis, we have to take help of each and every resident and ensure implementation of government guidelines.The cops and volunteers associated with the Punjab Police took a pledge to ensure implementation of government guidelines over wearing masks, hand washing and social distancing.Jagmohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, asked the officials and volunteers to download COVA mobile app and join Mission Fateh in order to become ‘Mission warriors’.Following this, police teams of 22 police stations visited door-to door and stopped the people at nakas and urged them to join their hands in the fight against pandemic. They distributed posters, pamphlets and appealed the people for downloading COVA app.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-to-fix-covid-treatment-charges-at-amritsar-private-hospitals-says-minister-soni-102009
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||GADVASU Vice-Chancellor visits Krishi Vigyan Kendra centre in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 20Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University’s Vice-Chancellor (GADVASU) Dr Inderjeet Singh on Saturday visited Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Booh (Harike), to take stock of the construction work. He was accompanied by Dr Harish Kumar Verma, director, extension education of the university and Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal, Additional Deputy Commissioner (General), Tarn Taran.Dr Balwinder Kumar, deputy director, spoke on the activities carried out by KVK through an exhibition of products such as mineral mixture, uromin lick and bypass fat. The vermicompost produced at KVK, honey, different varieties of onion, literature related to livestock and agriculture published by GADVASU and KVK were also exhibited. The Vice-Chancellor also interacted with farmers and discussed about the problems they were facing. He also inaugurated the pig-cum-fish farming unit at Chapri Sahib village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gadvasu-vice-chancellor-visits-krishi-vigyan-kendra-centre-in-tarn-taran-102010
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Man killed over property dispute||Tarn Taran, June 20A dispute over family property claimed the life of a man at Rudiwala village, 40 km from here, on Saturday. The Chohla Sahib police have registered a case.Goindwal Sahib DSP Kanwalpreet Singh said the victim had been identified as Major Singh (55) who had a dispute over the family property with his younger brother Tarsem Singh. The DSP said the victim had gone to the fields in the afternoon when Tarsem Singh and five other members of his family attacked him with wooden sticks and other weapons like baseball bats.The accused hit him on the head, leaving him seriously injured. He was brought to the nearby Community Health Centre, Sarhali, where the doctors declared him brought dead. The DSP said besides Tarsem Singh, his wife Simarjit Kaur, son Sukhjinder Singh, daughter’s son Sukhdev Singh and two others had been booked by the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-killed-over-property-dispute-102011
21-06-2020||---||Pooja Bedi conducts ‘Happy Souls’ webinar||Amritsar, June 20Actor and life coach Pooja Bedi on Saturday held the third session of her webinar series titled ‘Happy Souls’. Bedi, who has been conducting wellness workshops for a few years now, focused primarily on teaching the science of manifestation as she interacted with the members of FICCI FLO Amritsar Chapter on stress management.During the session, the members practiced manifestation based on the law of attraction. She explained that we specifically attract that energy that we send out stronger. “We all need to focus on our dreams and not the fears, whatever will be sent out is what will be attracted.” she said. She also addressed mental wellness, keeping the current overwhelming situation in mind.Dressed in yellow for the specific purpose, the women learned tapping techniques to reduce the stress and the 20 habits to happiness which play a key role to find the spirit of humankind. “The science of manifestation helps you achieve your goals effectively; whether it is money, happiness, health, fame or even mending broken relationships,” said Bedi.Meeta Mehra , Chairperson FLO Amritsar, said that the motto of this workshop was to understand ourselves better. “Our hidden powers and strength of subconscious mind, the process of being happy and letting negative things go and then manifest for better things,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pooja-bedi-conducts-happy-souls-webinar-102012
21-06-2020||---||Arrested gangsters sent to police custody||Amritsar, June 20A day after the arrest of the notorious criminals associated with gangsters Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Lawrence Bishnoi here on Friday, several names surfaced during their interrogation.Nitin Nahar, a resident of Indra Colony on Jhabal Road here, and Bikramjit Singh who provided him a safe hideout were nabbed by the Amritsar rural police in association with organised crime control unit (OCCU) on Friday.Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, Amritsar rural police, said they were produced in court and brought on two-day police remand here on Saturday.During preliminary interrogation, several names cropped up and police teams have been formed to conduct raids and nab the suspects.“At least six teams were constituted to conduct raids at suspected hideouts of the suspects. We are hoping to lay hands on some infamous gangsters in the raids,” he said.Nitin Nahar was involved in the firing outside the Chandigarh residence of liquor baron Arvind Singla on May 31. Investigation revealed that Nitin was a close associate of Bobby Malhotra and Jaggu Bhagwanpuria who were lodged in different jails. It was Bobby Malhotra who had ordered Nahar to open fire while the Lawrence Bishnoi gang had provided the vehicle.Bishnoi’s car picked him from Ludhiana and dropped him outside Chandigarh from where another person after shooting dropped him at Kharar from where another person dropped him at a safe hideout here.The police had confiscated a .32 bore pistol with 40 live bullets, a .315 pistol with 10 live rounds from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrested-gangsters-sent-to-police-custody-102013
21-06-2020||---||Government efforts in fighting Covid hailed||Gurdaspur, June 20Raman Bahl, Chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB), on Wednesday hailed the state government’s model to combat the Covid-19 pandemic.“The model has earned accolades from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and health experts across the country,” said Bahl, while addressing the media here on Wednesday. He said Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was personally monitoring the situation on a daily basis.“The PM was so impressed with the state’s micro-containment and house-to-house surveillance policies that he has urged other states to implement the same. Health experts have also praised the CM for his foresightedness. In early April, when the CM had said that Covid-19 could go on till September, he was flayed by many,” he said.Bahl said he was in touch with epidemiologists and health experts, who were of the view that current testing rate was way above the national average.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-efforts-in-fighting-covid-hailed-102014
21-06-2020||Our Correspondent||700 attend webinar on biodiversity||Amritsar, June 20Guru Nanak Dev University, in collaboration with Spinco Biotech Ltd, on Wednesday organised an international webinar on biodiversity and human health.Prof Saroj Arora commenced the proceedings and the theme was focused on biodiversity, ecosystem and the role play in regard to the lives of infinite species that dwell on the earth.The webinar, which included 700 participants, witnessed various takes of scholars on the topic from around the world. Dr Rajendra Mehta and Dr Rahul Manan, both based in the USA, were among the first ones to offer their take. Dr Rajendra Mehta, Professor (Emeritus), Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago, deliberated on discovery of cancer preventive and therapeutic hits in which he discussed the role of natural products to cure the dreadful disease. While Dr Rahul Manan from Michigan Centre for Translational Pathology, Michigan, spoke on the Michigan Legacy Tissue Programme (MLTP) and novel biomarker discovery in kidney cancer.Throughout the session, the scholars were unanimous in their opinion that health was the most important factor and the only key indicator of sustainable development. Also, they took into consideration the importance of integration of ayurveda with the modern medical system.Dr Ismat Dhala-Nathani, University of Bristol, Toronto, shed light on the psychoneuroimmunology immunity. She said natural medicines played an essential role in integration of various organs, senses and body systems.Meanwhile, Prof Dr GG Gangadharan, Director, Ramaiah Indic Specialty Ayurveda Restoration Hospital, Bengaluru and Dr Arun Chandan, Regional Director, Research Institute in Indian Systems of Medicine (RIISM), discussed the role of ayurveda and medicinal plants in maintaining good health.Dr Ajit Datar, Advisor, Shimadzu analytical Pvt Ltd, Thane, Maharashtra, expounded on the applications of analytical techniques in identifying phytochemicals from medicinal plants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/700-attend-webinar-on-biodiversity-102015
21-06-2020||---||NGO donates 5,000 ration kits to Durgiana Temple||Amritsar, June 20Voice of Amritsar (VOA), a local NGO, yesterday gave dry ration to the Durgiana temple committee for further supplying meal to Covid-19 patients at Government Medical College here.The ration included wheat flour, rice and pulses. Dr Rakesh Sharma, founder of the NGO, along with Seenu Arora, president, said that the committee was regularly serving lunch and dinner to the patients.The non-government organisation has been at the forefront since the outbreak of the deadly virus and providing medical equipment to hospitals and helping the poor with free ration.Seenu added the organisation had provided 5,000 ration kits to the needy in the last over two months.Ramesh Chandra Sharma, chairman, Durgiana Committee, thanked the NGO and said the organisation was taking commendable steps during these hard times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-donates-5-000-ration-kits-to-durgiana-temple-102016
21-06-2020||---||This young chef is building own food brand||Amritsar, June 20While students across the country are stressing about ‘Plan B’ after the global pandemic played a spoilsport, some of them have already worked out their alternatives.Chef Karanveer Singh (21), who was earlier aspiring to work in the hotel industry after his graduation, is now working to set up his own home catering business. Hailing from a family of home chefs, Karanveer is pursuing BSc in hospitality and hotel management from New Delhi. He had finished his internship with ITC, Maurya, when the pandemic struck.I do not think that I have been pushed towards something too early as having my own food catering brand is my ultimate goal. So, the lockdown has given me an opportunity. —Karanveer Singh, Chef“I was hoping to finish my graduation this year and begin working with one of the prestigious hotel chains as an intern. I want to make a career in culinary arts, but this pandemic has been brutal to the hospitality and tourism industry. I feel that it is really going to be a challenge for many to survive in the field,” says Karanveer, who had won a gold at the International Hospitality Expo last year.With his final year examinations stalled and stagnant job possibility, Karanveer spent his lockdown working on his own niche home catering business with his father Arundeeep Singh, who is also a chef.“I do not think that I have been pushed towards something too early as having my own food catering brand is my ultimate goal. So, the lockdown has given me an opportunity to start early, though I was looking to gain some industry experience working in professional kitchens,” he says.An optimist, Karanveer has been taking food orders for house parties and niche gatherings now. “I will now focus all my energy into building my brand here and learn by first-hand experience. In my line of work, practical experience matters the most,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-young-chef-is-building-own-food-brand-102017
21-06-2020||---||Sessions on solar eclipse via apps held||Amritsar, June 20Ahead of the solar eclipse, the Village Science Club, Government Middle School, Bhoewali, has utilised the occasion to popularise science in general and astronomy in particular among people.The solar eclipse will begin at 10.20 am and will continue till 1.41 pm in the city, approximately for three hours and 22 minutes.Pankaj Sharma of the club on Saturday said following the Covid-related protocols, resource material available on astronomy and eclipse was made available to the club members through social media. Also, four sessions were conducted through various interactive apps to make people aware of the event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sessions-on-solar-eclipse-via-apps-held-102018
21-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Man booked for culpable homicide||Granthi booked for raping womanTarn Taran: The police have booked a granthi of gurdwara Baba Jeewan Singh Gohalwar on the charge of raping a woman in the gurdwara complex. The incident took place a week ago, while the case was registered on Friday. The police said granthi Sukhdev Singh Sukha had been booked under Section 295 of the IPC on the complaint of Baljit Kaur, sarpanch of the village. The sarpanch said the suspect forcibly took the woman in a room of the gurdwara and raped her. The police are conducting raids to nab the suspect. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-culpable-homicide-102019
21-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Rising cases should not hit business policies of govt’||AS some of the lockdown restrictions are still in force, Gurbax S Juneja, owner of Kartar Bath Fittings Pvt Ltd, says he is facing a number of problems related to their business. In an interview with Deepkamal Kaur, Gurbax, manufacturer of sanitary fittings, valves and faucets, says that bringing normalcy in lives even at a time when the numbers are soaring is the only solution ahead. Excerpts:The government needs to boost confidence in people. When most cases are asymptomatic, there should be no reason to feel scared and getting everything stopped or bringing under any restriction. The crisis in business will go only when people will get emboldened. The rise in number of cases should not in any way affect business policies of the government. —Gurbax S Juneja, owner of Kartar Bath Fittings Pvt LtdHow has the business been doing?We have almost come to half of where we left before the lockdown. For more than 45 days, our factory on the Kapurthala road was completely shut. When we re-started, we began to increase our production and send out our material and now we have reached to 50 per cent of our previous capacity.What items are you manufacturing?Basically, we make valves for firefighting equipment and water works. About 10 per cent of our business is related to sanitary parts and bathroom fittings. Now a private limited company, my brother started the business in 1972 with an annual turnover of just Rs 32,000. We started with normal taps used on water tanks.Who are your customers and dealers?For fire equipments and water works, most of our clients are government departments like municipal corporations, sewage boards, malls and big builders. Every sanitary ware shops and every household carrying out construction or renovation on a house is our customer. But we are selling all our items through our chain of distributors and dealers all across the country.Are you facing trouble in getting raw material?No. Our local dealers are getting all the raw material from markets in Ahmedabad and Jharkhand. Since the truck transport started soon after a brief lockdown period, there has been no issue on this front.What is the status of your labour?Nearly 50-60 per cent of our labour did not go back. About 2-4 per cent of the labourers who had left for their home towns have returned. Now, many of them have said that they are on way back and want to join at the earliest.How do you see the ongoing crisis panning out especially when the number of cases is on the rise?The government needs to boost confidence in people. When most cases are asymptomatic, there should be no reason to feel scared and getting everything stopped or bringing under any restriction. The crisis in business will go only when people will get emboldened. The rise in number of cases should not in any way affect business policies of the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rising-cases-should-not-hit-business-policies-of-govt-102020
21-06-2020||---||Eye surgeon starts online consultations||Amritsar, June 20While students across the country are stressing about 'Plan B' after the global pandemic played a spoilsport, some of them have already worked out their alternatives.Chef Karanveer Singh (21), who was earlier aspiring to work in the hotel industry after his graduation, is now working to set up his own home catering business. Hailing from a family of home chefs, Karanveer is pursuing BSc in hospitality and hotel management from New Delhi. He had finished his internship with ITC, Maurya, when the pandemic stuck.It is impossible to keep working with all gadgets such as gloves, mask, face screens and PPE kits all time. I have skipped evening OPDs. Patients are given appointments during morning hours. —JS Gumbar, Eye Specialist“I was hoping to finish my graduation this year and begin working with one of the prestigious hotel chains as an intern. I want to make a career in culinary arts, but this pandemic has been brutal to the hospitality and tourism industry. I feel that it is really going to be a challenge for many to survive in the field,” says Karanveer, who had won a gold at the International Hospitality Expo last year.With his final year examinations stalled and stagnant job possibility, Karanveer spent his lockdown working on his own niche home catering business with his father Arundeeep Singh, who is also a chef.“I do not think that I have been pushed towards something too early as having my own food catering brand is my ultimate goal. So, the lockdown has given me an opportunity to start early, though I was looking to gain some industry experience working in professional kitchens,” he says.An optimist, Karanveer has been taking food orders for house parties and niche gatherings now. “I will now focus all my energy into building my brand here and learn by first-hand experience. In my line of work, practical experience matters the most,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eye-surgeon-starts-online-consultations-102021
21-06-2020||Amritsar||10-day police remand for 2 of terror module||Two alleged Khalistani operatives, who were arrested on Friday, were produced before a local court today. They were sent to 10-day police remand. The accused were identified as Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh.The police had claimed that the duo was preparing to carry out a series of terror attacks and targeted killings at the behest of their Pakistan-based handlers. Probe revealed that Gurmeet came in contact with his handlers through social media. He even visited Pakistan with a religious jatha in 2017.The police were trying to identify those who had dumped weapons in fields near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on the GT Road. As the duo was trying to retrieve the weapons, some persons informed the police. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-day-police-remand-for-2-of-terror-module-101924
