21-10-2020||Manmeet Gill||Relief as elective surgeries resume at govt hospitals||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20With government orders allowing elective surgeries at government hospitals, patients, especially those who need to undergo operations, have heaved a sigh of relief. Even the number of daily OPD patients at government hospitals has increased recently.The state government had suspended elective surgeries in government hospitals in August to reduce the chances of people getting infected during hospital visits and to reduce burden on the medical staff who were already handling lots of Covid-19 patients. With the medical fraternity already divided over the issue of suspending elective surgeries with many among them arguing that elective surgeries are not non-essential services and delaying these for long can lead to the worsening of the condition of patients.A senior faculty member at Government Medical College said, “In elective surgeries unlike emergency services, the patient normally does have an option to choose the day of his or her admission. But it does not mean that an elective surgery could be put off for long.” Those who were most affected by the suspended elective surgeries were the ones with dental issues as hospitals were only catering to critical patents.Owing to the suspension of these services at government hospitals, patients, especially those who could not afford costly treatment at private clinics, had no option but to visit these clinics.Sawinder Singh, a patient, who had to get his gall bladder removed, said, “Despite many other problems at government hospitals, poor patients have no other place to go to for medical treatment.”Dr Charanjit Singh, SMO, Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, said, “We admitted 33 patients in the indoor department today. The number of patients seeking treatment is increasing daily.”At present, the number of OPD patients is around 750 daily. Around 1,100 OPD patients used to visit the hospital daily before the outbreak of Covid-19. “As we have started conducting surgeries, the number of daily OPD patients would increase,” said Dr Singh.Surgeries were suspended in AugustThe state government had suspended elective surgeries in government hospitals in August to reduce the chances of people getting infected during hospital visits and to reduce burden on the medical staff who were already handling lots of Covid-19 patients. Those who were most affected by the suspended elective surgeries were the ones with dental issues as hospitals were only catering to critical patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relief-as-elective-surgeries-resume-at-govt-hospitals-158837
21-10-2020||
||Chheharta school students undergo Covid test||Amritsar, October 20 Students of Government Senior Secondary School, Chheharta, were on Tuesday taken to the local health centre for the Covid test. The instructions in this regard were given by Principal Manmeet Kaur.  The children are being tested only after the parental consent.  According to the SOPs issued by the state government, the Covid test is mandatory for teaching and non-teaching staff, but no such guidelines have been issued for students. “We are taking all safety measures to keep our students safe. We have urged a health team of the local health centre to send a mobile testing van to the school to conduct tests safely,” said Manmeet Kaur.  The District Education Officer (Secondary), Satinder Bir Singh, said the move was only suggestive and not mandatory. “If the children agree along with the parental consent to get the Covid test done then it’s good. But we will not impose anything on them as there is a chance that in larger context, parents may not agree to send their kids to the school,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chheharta-school-students-undergo-covid-test-158838
21-10-2020||---||Makana’s LoveGuru to brush off pandemic blues||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20Anton Chekhov’s humourous yet dramatic story The Seduction was about a man, who claims to have mastered the art of seducing women and whose chief preoccupation is finding the next object of his desire. Adapting this play for city audience, director Gurinder Makana is teaming up with a bunch of city theatre artistes to produce an hour-long play LoveGuru.The play will be staged at the art gallery and will be the first cultural event after the lockdown. The Indian Academy of Fine Arts is collaborating to produce the play.Choosing the funny story by Chekhov, Makana is attempting to brush off the lockdown and pandemic blues through laughter therapy. The hour-long play will be staged in the first week of November. Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA, and one of the actors in the play, says, “It is an absolute adaptation to be staged for the purpose of bringing the audience back to the cultural landscape. The play is funny, dramatic and will be an entertainer. So, we hope that it becomes a stress-buster for the audience.”LoveGuru will be a bilingual production. “It is a story of a man’s attempts to prove that women can be seduced by following some rules. He claims to be a master of seduction but the interesting part of the play is how this man himself becomes a prey,” elaborates Chamak.Chamak says there is still uncertainty regarding the number of people allowed in closed-space events. “We have asked the DC to give us a clear idea about the number of people allowed in cultural events in closed spaces. We are rehearsing by following all safety measures. We have got Covid-19 tests done.We do not want to take any risks,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/makanas-loveguru-to-brush-off-pandemic-blues-158839
21-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga 
||AIR’s New Delhi office to resume Urdu service from Gharinda village||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, October 20 All India Radio’s (AIR) New Delhi office will resume 8-hour Urdu service from its tower at Amritsar’s border village Gharinda to tap audience from adjoining Pakistan’s Lahore district after getting enough workforce post lockdown. The service had got disrupted due to Covid-19 and its restrictions in New Delhi.  AIR’s FM Amritsar 103.6 service used to be broadcast from FM tower at Gharinda village, close to the India Pakistan border at Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post. However people were  dismayed with government for snapping 12-hour long Urdu service. Amlam Mazumdar, Director External Services of AIR, New Delhi office, said content generation became onerous task during and after the Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown.  Unable to manage the programme with the skeletal staff, so the service was temporarily discontinued from the Amritsar station. Harjap Singh Aujla, a veteran Engineer, said: “The Urdu service of the All India Radio, which took birth after the 1965 Indo-Pak War, has been gaining popularity since its inception more than five decades ago. It started on shortwave 25 and 31 metre bands and then spread its wings on medium-wave too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/airs-new-delhi-office-to-resume-urdu-service-from-gharinda-village-158840
21-10-2020||---||‘Crop diversification need of hour’||Amritsar, October 20Crop diversification is need of the hour was stressed in a virtual conference held on “Ushering Green Revolution 2.0 in Punjab” with focus on diversification, value addition and wastage reduction held here on Monday night.Addressing the conference organised by the CII, Rajat Agarwal, Chief Executive Officer, Punjab Bureau of Investment Promotion and Commissioner Excise and Taxation, lauded the state farmers for their diversification efforts, even amid the Covid pandemic.The state government’s concerted push to use the direct seeding of rice technology is expected to save both ground water and power consumption, along with the natural resources of Punjab. Intensifying its endeavour towards crop diversification for promotion of horticulture, fruit estates are being established in the state. The Centre of Excellence for Vegetables at Kartarpur has been established in association with Israel to make Punjabi farmers aware of the latest technological and scientific advancements in cultivation of vegetables.Punjab is looking towards solarisation of tube wells, organic farming and increase in agri exports. Dedicated research centres have been established at PAU, Ludhiana.Speaking on the ecosystem for food management and wastage reduction to boost farm income in Punjab, Manjit Singh Brar, Managing Director, Punjab Agro Industries Corporation Limited, said marketing was the real solution for food management, whereas storage is just a temporary solution. Farmers connect with consumers is the need of the hour.Rajnikant Rai, chief executive, agri business divsion, ITC Limited, said, “Delhi NCR region alone is using 15 per cent of India’s vegetable and fruit consumption. ITC is the producer of high-quality potato seed in Punjab. It is targeting to diversify and cater other crops as well.Anand Vijay Jha, chief public policy officer, Walmart India, said the company adopted an integrated approach by its Indian indigenous firms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crop-diversification-need-of-hour-158841
21-10-2020|| 
||NRI, family booked for seeking dowry||Amritsar, October 20 The Beas police have booked an Australia-based NRI and his father a retired inspector, among five persons on charge of dowry.  Those booked were identified as NRI Nirankar Singh, his father Avtar Singh and mother Bachitar Kaur, all residents of Gokul Avenue here and two others. No arrest has been made till now.  The complainant, Sarabjit Kaur, a resident of Rayya, said that her daughter Rajpreet Kaur was married to Nirankar Singh in December 2018. She said that they came in contact with the accused through a matrimonial site. She alleged that even though the accused was in relationship with some other woman, he got married with her daughter who had gone to Australia on a study visa.   She said that on their demand, they solemnised the marriage here and in Australia also. She alleged after the marriage, the accused started harassing her for a luxury car and later threw her out of the house.   The police have registered a case under Sections 498-A and 406 of the IPC against them and further investigation is under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nri-family-booked-for-seeking-dowry-158842
21-10-2020||---||Amritsar gears up to have more green area||Amritsar, October 20The Municipal Corporation will develop urban micro forest at the Chali khu area by planting of 1 lakh trees in the 10-acre of the vacant land near Joda Fatak.Mayor Karamjit Singh began plantation with the help of environment activists Sukh Amrit Singh and volunteers. The city Mayor claimed that the work had been undertaken under the ‘Green Lungs Project’ with the objective of providing ‘less carbon and more oxygen.’Mayor Karamjit Singh said one lakh trees will be planted at the Chali Khoo area to keep the city green and this would not only provide clean air to the people of the city but also change the face of the area.He said global warming was depleting the environment and air quality. “We should take care of our environment to prevent diseases. The plantation of trees will help to improve the air quality in urban areas. The efforts being made by the local NGOs and environmentalists are playing a vital role in bringing greenery back in the city. The Municipal Corporation was also extending complete support in carrying out these endeavors. Every resident must plant a tree to keep the city clean and green.”The city Mayor stated that some institutions of the city plant trees and shrubs but do not take care much about their upkeep. He said the MC would assure the survival of trees planted at Chali Khu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-gears-up-to-have-more-green-area-158843
21-10-2020||Amritsar||Farmers welcome Punjab assembly’s counter laws||With the state assembly unanimously passing three laws to counter the controversial farm Acts introduced by the Union Government, the farmer bodies are considering it as an achievement of the ongoing protest.While hailing the move, the farmer organisations seem to lift ‘rail roko’ in view of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s appeal in this regard.Though a decision in this regard is expected to be taken at a meeting of the farmer organisations on Wednesday, the farmer leaders confided that the course of the protest could be changed with a special focus on boycott and gherao of BJP leaders with a view to pressurising them.With the protest at the Buttari railway station entering the 20th day on Tuesday, the leaders said the farmers’ movement was an achievement with the state assembly unanimously standing in support of the farming community.“Even if there are some political compulsions or calculations, it is no mean achievement that an elected assembly has endorsed the demands and apprehensions of peasants,” said a farmer leader. Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “Apart from the harmful effects on farming, the laws were a direct attack on the federal structure of the country.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-welcome-punjab-assemblys-counter-laws-158844
21-10-2020|| 
||SAD (Taksali) core panel to  meet on October 22||Amritsar, October 20 The SAD (Taksali) has scheduled its core committee meeting on October 22 at the party headquarters in Amritsar.  The head of the party, Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, said the meeting would focus on religious, political, social and farmers’ issues of Punjab.  “For the past few days, the country’s breadwinners have been suffering mentally and physically with the introduction of new ‘Draconian laws’.  The party had already expressed its support against the anti-farm laws”, he said. Expressing happiness over the move of the Central Government which is likely to hold elections for the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), he said, “We will support the like-minded parties to root out Badals from the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) affairs.  During the meeting, we will also discuss special strategies to be adopted to strengthen the party base so that Punjab residents can get a third option as they are fed up with the tried and tested traditional parties serving them all these years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-taksali-core-panel-to-meet-on-october-22-158845
21-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Fatehgarh Churian road widening hangs fire||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20Last year the state government, during the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev ji, had announced plans to widen the Fatehgarh Churian road -- one of the prominent stretches leading to Dera Baba Nanak town, adjoining the international border between India and Pakistan. A thumping amount of Rs88 crore was to be spent for the works.Situated close to Amritsar, Fatehgarh Churian falls in Gurdaspur district and the 24-km stretch is links both. Exactly after four months, on August 15, after unfurling the national flag at the Guru Nanak Dev stadium, Punjab Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had announced that the main road from Amritsar to Dera Baba Nanak connecting Kartarpur Corridor would be widened by 33 ft. He had also said the work would start the same day. As per it, initially the road up to Fatehgarh Churian was to be widened following which the project would cover Dera Baba Nanak. However, the digging of trenches began; and that is where the task ended as well.The Public Works Department (PWD) only dug trenches up to a few kilometers. The officials claimed that they had been forced to halt the work due to the discommoding weather conditions. Now, a year has passed and the project is still awaiting resumption. But Sukhjinder claimed that funds had been released and the government will complete the entire project within two years. Meanwhile, commuters criticised the government for the furrows as it had led to many accidents.Inderjit Singh, Executive Engineer, PWD, said, “We have dug trenches but weather was not favorable for the work. We were stopped due to rainy season. Now, we will restore the work within two or three days and complete it in within record time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fatehgarh-churian-road-widening-hangs-fire-158847
21-10-2020||Amritsar||GNDU declares results||Winners of online events honouredAmritsar: The Punjab Police on Tuesday awarded the winners of various competitions organised by the Police Department in past one week to mark the Police Martyrs’ Day falling on October 21. Tanvi Agarwal of DAV Public School got the first prize in poster making competition while Palak Joshi of DAV International School and Naseem Khan of Hindu Sabha School got second and third prize respectively. Kashishdeep Kaur of Guru Harkrishan Senior Secondary Public School and Hridyajit Singh of Holy Heart Presidency School got first and second prize in essay writing competition respectively. Jasmeen Kaur of DDI School and Rajleen Kaur of Ryan International School were declared joint third and Harsifat Kaur got a consolation prize. In declamation contest, Aparjit Singh of Holy Heart Presidency School got first position. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-declares-results-158849
21-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||He gave up his 40-yr-old profession to serve humanity in hour of crisis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20Covid-19 pandemic has forced people to face myriad difficulties. The hardships faced by people during lockdown moved a senior citizen Rajinder Singh Sangha (62) to such an extent that he abandoned his four-decade old tailoring profession to serve the society.So, he vowed to donate his body to the Government Medical College to carry out their medical education for the service of society after his demise."Doctors had contributed a lot for the humanity during this hour of crisis. So I decided to be oof some help to them. Since medicos, paramedics and the other staff engaged in hospitals had performed tremendously during the lockdown, it propelled him to contribute in a meaningful way to the society in general and medical professionals in particular. Eventually, he decided to donate his body after his demise.His better half Gunita Kaur endorsed his decision to donate the body. A teacher by profession, she has been supporting him through thick and thin.A Gid fearing man, Rajinder was one of the founding members of the Sukhmani Sahib Sewa Society in 1967. The society has 250 branches across the country and overseas. Its members conduct free-of-cost recitation of Sukhmani Sahib at the houses of devouts and in return do not take partake any other eatable except ‘karah’ Parsad.He has been associated with the Sewak Jatha Ishnan Amritvela for the past 22 years. Volunteers of the Sewak Jatha have been carrying out cleaning of the Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh for the past nearly five decades.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-gave-up-his-40-yr-old-profession-to-serve-humanity-in-hour-of-crisis-158852
21-10-2020|| ||Three Jammu residents robbed by 12 persons||Amritsar, October 20 Around 12 persons kidnapped three Jammu residents and thrashed them before robbing their vehicle which carried two cows procured from Dabwali. The incident occurred near Gopalpura village falling under Kathunangal police station, last midnight. Gulzar Ahmad, victim stated to police that he, along with Balwant Singh of Saini Colony and Balak Singh of RS Pura in Jammu, were returning after procuring two cows from Dabwali cattle market. He said when they reached near Gopalpura village at around 2 am, a car without number intercepted their Mohinder Bolero Camper (JK-02-CB-2486). He said another car stopped right behind their vehicle.He also said before they could understand, around 12 persons armed with sticks and baseballs, came out of the two vehicles and started thrashing them. He said they bundled them in their car and pushed them out of it after a distance. They also snatched Rs 56,000 cash, two mobiles and took away their vehicle with cows. The police have registered a case under Sections 395 (robbery), 365 (kidnapping), 341 (illegal detention), 323 of the IPC against unknown persons while further investigations were underway, said the police authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-jammu-residents-robbed-by-12-persons-158853
21-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||With fortune cut to pieces, barber shops adopt fresh working ways||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 20After the post-lockdown period, things are gradually limping back to normalcy. While people are still struggling to make up their losses and exploring new avenues, the barber shops located in the streets are trying to maintain as much hygiene as they can in order to ensure that their customers don’t feel scared while visiting them.They are one of the worst sufferers of the Covid lockdown and are still finding it real hard to get their pieces together as people remain hesitant about entering barber shops of the city.However, in order win back the faith of their customers, the barbers were taking up all necessary precautions so that they do not become breeders of the deadly virus. Many have come up with different ideas and have chalked up plans accordingly.“We are giving appointments to the customers so that they could come and have a haircut at the given slot of their time. This helps in reducing the rush in the shop and maintaining necessary physical distance,” said Rocky, who runs a shop named Future Cut in Inderpuri area in Islamabad here.Usually, he would have around 10 or more customers at a given time before the pandemic hit. “Now, we allow only two or three persons at a time. And if anybody wants to wait, they would have to wait only outside the shop,” he added.It is also mandatory to wear the mask before stepping in. “I urge my customers to cover mouth and nose with masks before entering the shop. Though, several times customers did not realise the gravity of situation, but I insisted not for safety of theirs but also of others,” he pointed out. He also sanitises tools after every use.With each passing day people have become aware of the risks involved in ignoring the government guidelines, therefore, adapting to the new situations arising out of unprecedented health crisis is something which cannot be overlooked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-fortune-cut-to-pieces-barber-shops-adopt-fresh-working-ways-158854
21-10-2020||---||Woman SI dismissed over couple’s suicide||Amritsar, October 20On the orders of the Punjab Government, the Amritsar rural police dismissed from service Sub-Inspector Sandeep Kaur, the prime suspect in the double suicide case, here today. She was posted at the Mehta police station before she went into hiding after the suicides.Vikramjit Singh, a jeweller and resident of Navapind village, had committed suicide in a hotel room on October 10. In his suicide note, and video and audio messages, he had accused the SI and her accomplices of harassment and blackmail. He alleged they had extorted around Rs 18 lakh from him. A day later, his wife Sukhbir Kaur ended her life at her residence in Navapind village.Former Congress leader Mandeep Singh Manna along with Tanpreet Kaur, daughter of the deceased couple, on Tuesday met Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill and demanded immediate arrest of Sandeep Kaur, who has been on the run since October 11Two cases of abetment to suicide were filed against the SI and her unidentified accomplices in this regard.SSP (Amritsar rural) Dhruv Dahiya, in an order today, pointed out that as the departmental probe would take time, it would not be in public interest for the SI to continue in service. The crime allegedly perpetrated by her pointed towards criminal mindset and her ability to harm the inquiry officer, he said. She has been dismissed from service with effect from October 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-si-dismissed-over-couples-suicide-158671
21-10-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: Offence criminal, not religious: Members||Amritsar, October 20Expressing dissatisfaction with the SGPC’s ‘inaction’ against its officials and staff members allegedly involved in the misappropriation of 328 ‘saroops’, five senior SGPC members, including SAD (Democratic) leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan and Bibi Kiranjot Kaur, today urged Akal Takht’s officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to refrain from entertaining SGPC’s proposal of deciding punishment for the culprits.In the backdrop, the SGPC, through its Dharam Parchar Committee, had re-approached the Akal Takht on October 14, requesting it to pronounce ‘exemplary punishment’.Sekhwan argued that since the misappropriation of ‘saroops’ also involved embezzlement of money in the form of ‘bheta’ incurred by issuing the ‘saroops’ unauthorisedly, criminal proceedings should be initiated, not religious punishment.“Embezzlement of money cannot be termed as a religious matter. It is a criminal offence. We have submitted a joint application to the Akal Takht to keep aside the SGPC’s proposal. It was the liability of the SGPC to register a police complaint in the case of disappearance of ‘saroops’,” he said. The SGPC executive, in its meeting on August 27, had favoured initiating criminal action but withdrew the proposal on September 5 with an excuse that no external authority could be allowed to interfere in SGPC’s religious affairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-offence-criminal-not-religious-members-158677
