21-12-2020||Dharamsala (HP)||Amritsar–Dharamsala flights to start soon: BJP MP Kishan Kapoor||The Dharamsala Airport Authority is planning to run more flights to the tourist city, including new ones from Amritsar, BJP MP Kishan Kapoor said on Monday.The new service has been planned to facilitate tourists from Amritsar, Kapoor told reporters after chairing the meeting of the Airport Advisory Committee here.The Dharamsala airport, officially known as Gaggal Airport, is located in Gaggal, 12 km from Dharamsala.Kapoor, who represents Kangra constituency in the Lok Sabha, said special care will also be taken for cleanliness in the airport and guidelines have been given to take appropriate steps for waste management. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar%E2%80%93dharamsala-flights-to-start-soon-bjp-mp-kishan-kapoor-187563
21-12-2020||---||Tributes paid to deceased farmers||Amritsar, December 20Residents of many villages in the district organised a paath (recitation) of the Sukhmani Sahib to pay tributes to those farmers who died during the farmers’ stir in Delhi here on Sunday. They also held discussion on how to help the farmers in Delhi.A resident of Sukharchak village along the border said gatherings were attended by a large number of people who could not go to Delhi due to different reasons. “Even if someone has not been able to go to Delhi, he is contributing in one way or other,” he said.In city too, Democratic and Progressive organisations under the banner of United Kisan Morcha organised “Shradhanjali Samaroh” at the Bhandari bridge to pay tributes to farmers who sacrificed their lives during the protest.Rattan Singh Randhawa, a farmer leader, said, “Farmers of Punjab, Haryana, UP and other states have been protesting since these three draconian farm laws were passed in an authoritarian way, disrespecting the sentiments and protests of the farmers.”He said around 39 persons had died during the protest so far, but the Central Government was still indifferent towards the concerns of the farming community. “The Modi-led BJP government is hell bent on destroying the very backbone of this nation to benefit corporate houses,” said Baba Arjan Singh, another farmer leader.Other speakers strongly condemned the apathetic attitude of the Central Government to the demands of the struggling farmers. They also gave a call to the conscientious citizens of the country to join hands to defeat the communal and fascist forces in the country which were bent on destroying the social fabric of society.Baba Ram Singh, others remembered in Tarn TaranCongregations were organised to pay tributes to Baba Ram Singh and other farmers who sacrificed their lives while participating in the Delhi morcha against the farm laws here on Sunday.Residents of the town and representatives of different organisations of shopkeepers and commercial establishments gathered under the leadership of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab. While paying tributes to the departed souls, leaders of the organisations announced to take part in the agitation in Delhi.Dhanna Singh Lalughuman, Sawinder Singh Arora and Ashwami Kumar Kukku, state leader of the Shiv Sena, condemned the Union Government for its careless attitude towards the farmers, who were forced to live in the open in cold weather conditions.Workers of the CPI and residents of Chabal town said the autocratic Union Government must be defeated by the peaceful agitation. CPI state leader Prithipal Singh Marimegha and other leaders also addressed on the occasion. Workers of the All India Kisan Sabha organised a gathering in Chohla Sahib, Sarhali, Harike and other villages and remembered the sacrifices of the deceased farmers for the common cause.Workers of the CPM and its allied mass organisations held a congregation at Gohalwar village and called the general masses to stay united against the pro-corporate sector policies of the Modi government. Members of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha in association with residents of Pandori Gola, Bath, Pakhoke, Bagrian,Tur, Dhotian and other villages organised “Shri Sukhmani Sahib Path” to pay tributes to the departed souls. The “ardas” was also performed for the success of the farmers’ agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-deceased-farmers-187372
21-12-2020||Neha Saini||Protest poetry becomes symbol of resistance||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Protest poetry has been making headlines as farmers continue their peaceful struggle against the Centre for introducing new farm laws.The creative side of the community has become a strong voice of resistance through poetry. Dr Sarabjot Singh Behal, a city-based poet, has penned down a series of poetry inspired by the farmers’ stir.Using Punjabi folk poems to raise contemporary issues, Behal’s poetry is relatable while it reflects poet’s anguish on watching a farmer struggle with such determination. His poems titled “Jugni” and “Mirza”, among others, have been released on digital portals by his students. Behal said the farmers’ agitation has become an opportunity to reinvent protest poetry.“We had a tradition of protest poetry. Baba Nanak wrote ‘Babur Bani’, which had hymns related to Babur’s invasion. We had Baba Farid, Kabir and Baba Bulleh Shah, who reflected upon the struggles. Dulla Bhatti, another popular folk rendition is also a form of protest poetry against Akbar’s regime. I have penned down my version of ‘Sundar Mundariye’ in the present context.” He said, “The kind of literary work inspired by these protests is being done by young as well as senior artists. Protest poetry will definitely be documented in chapters of history.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protest-poetry-becomes-symbol-of-resistance-187373
21-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Drone module: Police teams to inquire about firm’s credentials||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Amritsar rural police teams have been camping in Delhi and looking into the antecedents of the firm from where the drone module suspects have procured heavy duty unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) for smuggling activities.During preliminary probe, the police have found that Lakhbir Singh and his accomplice Gurpinder Singh had gone to Delhi and procured the heavy duty quadcopter from TRD enterprises located in the Janakpuri area. They had also purchased mini receiver and camera support along with skydroid and a transmitter from there.The police sources told that they were looking into the credentials of the firm whether it has the license and other mandatory permissions for selling drones. The sources also claimed that two of officials have been detained for investigations. However, no official has confirmed the same.The government of India has listed guidelines which are mandatory to comply and without it a firm cannot manufacture and sell drones. However, according to police easy availability of UAV on online and even offline has been a challenge for the security and intelligence agencies. The police officials said that only a handful of firms comply with the norms established by the government at the Centre.On December 15, with the arrest of Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh, the Punjab Police claimed to have busted a module using drones for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons through an international network, include Pakistan-based smugglers with links to Khalistani operatives.They have contacts with four smugglers— Simranjit Singh, Surjit Masih, Harjit Singh and Sarabjit Singh, alias Saba— who were brought on production warrant for further interrogation. Gurpinder, who had accompanied Lakhbir Singh to Delhi for purchasing drone, was yet to the arrested.Abhimanyu Rana, Assistant Superintendent of Police, Majitha, said the police were scrutinising the credentials of the firm at present. He denied of any arrest of the firm official. He said the investigations were under progress and nothing can be shared at the moment as it could hamper the probe.The caseOn December 15, with the arrest of Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh, the Punjab Police claimed to have busted a module using drones for cross-border smuggling of narcotics and weapons through an international network, which included Pakistan-based smugglers with links to Khalistani operatives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-module-police-teams-to-inquire-about-firms-credentials-187375
21-12-2020||---||Murder case solved, 1 arrested||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20The city police have cracked the murder of Jatinder Kumar, a resident of the Ram Tirath Road area, who was found dead in fields in the Verka area on November 27. He was shot dead by unidentified persons.Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (investigations), said that the police had arrested Palwinder Singh of Ludhar village falling under the Majitha police station. However, his accomplice Pawan Kumar, alias Labha, of Nag Khurd village was still absconding. He said robbery was the motive behind the killing of Jatinder Kumar. The police have recovered the deceased’s scooter from his possession.Bhullar said that the duo had a criminal case of murder bid registered with the rural police against them. He said that Pawan Kumar had shot Jatinder dead during scuffle while looting. He said that Pawan was yet to be arrested. As per the investigations he had a .315 bore country-made pistol which was used in the crime.Jatinder, a divorcee, was missing since November 26. He took dinner at his sister Nisha’s home in Jhujhar Avenue locality and left for his house. After some time Nisha called him to know whether he reached home. He told her that he had reached home. However, he did not go home.50-year-old man shot dead in PattiTarn Taran: Two armed persons shot dead a motorcyclist on the Lauhuka-Naushehra Pannuan link road here on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Tarlok Singh (50) of Jandoke Sarhali village. He was going to Naushehra Pannuan village for some domestic work on his motorcycle when two motorcycle-borne armed persons appeared on the spot and opened fire on him. He died before the police reached the spot. The Sarhali police were informed of the incident but they denied to act saying that the area did not fall under their jurisdiction. Later the Patti police were called but Tarlok Singh had died by the time the police reached the spot. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/murder-case-solved-1-arrested-187376
21-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Panels to recover pension from  fake beneficiaries||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20The district administration has constituted sub-divisional-level committees for the recovery of funds from fake beneficiaries of the old-age pension scheme. The Social Security Department has recovered Rs2.60 lakh till date and is making efforts to speed up the recovery process.There are a total of 7,853 fake beneficiaries detected by the department , who were illegally drawing benefits worth Rs19.96 crore in the district during the SAD-BJP regime in the state.The department had initiated an inquiry into the alleged scam in 2017 after the formation of the Congress government. According to information, the government had deducted a total of 70,000 fake beneficiaries, who got benefits of Rs162 crore.The district administration had sent notices to all fake beneficiaries to submit their proofs to justify their benefits. They have to provide their age proof, source of income and revenue record for ownership of property.DC Gurpreet Singh Khaira constituted sub-divisional-level committees recently. SDM, Tehsildar, BDOs and medical officers, who would be members of the committees, would make efforts for a speedy recovery of the amount.Around 25 persons have deposited Rs2.60 lakh during the last two months. Similarly, 25 persons have submitted their documents and reclaimed the eligibility.Asish Inder Singh, District Social Security Officer, said, “We have served notices to all enlisted persons to respond within 15 days. We have put two conditions before them. They can deposit the disbursed amount or prove their eligibility for the scheme by submitting documents.”The officials found that around 600 beneficiaries had reportedly passed away in the district. The department would scrutinise the documents received from the beneficiaries and take action accordingly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/panels-to-recover-pension-from-fake-beneficiaries-187377
21-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||He wants to propagate children’s literature in Punjabi to inculcate reading habit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20From running a publishing house to becoming an icon in Punjabi literature for kids, Kulbir Singh Suri has now dedicated his entire time to create and propagate children’s literature to inculcate a reading habit among them.Suri, a recipient of Bal Sahitya Akademi award and Shiromani Bal Sahit writer award from the Punjab Government, is the youngest son of iconic Punjabi novelist Nanak Singh, famously known as Nanak Singh Navalkar. Even after completing his doctorate in Punjabi language, he chose to run a publishing house at a time when getting professorship was not tough.Running a publishing house is not an easy task. We have seen various ups and downs during this journey. But now, call it age factor, I have dedicated my time to create more and more literature for children. The journey to become a children's writer started in 1990, when I once wanted to read children literature in Punjabi. To my disappointment, there was not much in our mother tongue and even today, there are only a handful of writers involved in writing for children. —Kulbir Singh Suri, AuthorHe used to run Nanak Singh Pustakmala publishing house. “Running a publishing house is not an easy task. We have seen various ups and downs during this journey. But now, call it age factor, I have dedicated my time to creating more and more literature for children,” he said.The journey to become a children’s writer started in 1990, when he once wanted to read children literature in Punjabi. “To my disappointment, there was not much in our mother tongue and even today, there are only a handful of writers involved in writing for children,” Suri pointed out.While visiting foreign countries, he observed that parents keep pictorial books in the bedroom of young children. This helped in inculcating a reading habit among children. “But unfortunately, we don’t have such literature here in our mother tongue though earlier, grandparents used to tell stories to their children,” he said.Another major reason behind turning to writing for children was dearth of novels in children literature. He said the present generation was unaware of several terms and names of trees used in villages.Suri has around 39 books — stories and novel — to his credit. He got the Shiromani Bal Sahit writer award for children literature for his first novel ‘Dudh Diya Dharan’ in 2014.At present, he is busy finishing his upcoming novel ‘Naankeyan Da Pind’, which is scheduled for publication in January. The lockdown has given us a lot of time to work on the novel, he said, expressing dismay over the diminishing readership of Punjabi literature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-wants-to-propagate-childrens-literature-in-punjabi-to-inculcate-reading-habit-187382
21-12-2020||OPEN HOUSE||Centre should relent to put an end to farmers’ misery||Trust deficit has to be resolvedIt is the trust deficit that led to a deadlock in talks between the government and the unions representing various farm bodies over the newly enacted farm laws. Since the Covid threat is still looming large, farmers gathering are potential hotspots and may lead to people getting infected with deadly virus in surrounding areas. Both the government and the farm unions must end the standoff in view of the danger by the pandemic. Farmers' agitation is affecting every body. The government must create an atmosphere of trust to resolve the issue at the earliest.Anil VinayakPM needs to act more sensitivelyThe agriculturists are out on roads protesting against the farm laws for our sake. They were compelled to stay put at highways as government was adamant upon not resolving the issue. There is no pint for a head of a nation to pass such judgments which are strongly criticised by the kingdom. The government cannot trouble the protesters by erecting barriers and showering water cannons on them. The government has no regard even for the safety of farmers even during the pandemic.Khushpreet Kaur BrarNegotiation needed to break the deadlockFarmers have been protesting for the past 2-3 months. The government has responded to the situation in a positive way. The situation must come to a negotiation as soon as possible as the public is suffering the most. Half of the population of the country is supporting farmers in one way or the other. No one wants to sit in bone-chilling cold. The government has been tackling the situation the wrong way.IzleenStop drifting towards autocratic form of govtThe Centre should end the crisis as soon as possible as it is causing inconvenience for many people other than farmers such as tourists and commuters. Bill Gates has predicted that the coming six months might be very fatal due to Covid-19. So, the farmers must be sensitised about it and requested to follow the Covid-19 guidelines. The Centre should listen to farmers because if the people for whom the laws are made are not satisfied with them, the imposition of such laws falsifies the image of the government as being an autocratic on.JATINDERPAL SINGHGovt indifferent to protesters' demandsThe farm laws were hurried through when Covid was at its peak. The laws took away the hearths, honour and dignity of farmers. Since then, the farmers have been waging a peaceful war against these laws, and spending painful days and nights at the roads, railway lines and in front of the houses of bigwigs of the regime. Earlier, the country had seen the unprecedented exodus from the big cities, when the poor migratory labour in lakhs, unable to survive in the lockdown, had left for their homes on bicycles, which were thousands of miles away from their workplaces. Many losing their lives on the way, but the regime remained indifferent to their travails and miseries. Indifferent regimes are more dangerous than the worst vagaries of the nature. Farmers have been undergoing unbearable miseries for more than three months, losing more than 20 precious lives. So, many people have lost their lives by the Covid, in transit, during migration, and in the farmers agitation, and still the regime appears to be untouched by the cries of farmers.Hardish SandhuNo one sought farmers' opinionIt is the duty of the Centre to resolve agricultural crisis immediately. New laws are made for farmers. If the same farmers are not happy, then the very laws lose their essence. Even the government should make a law with consultation with farmers and seek their opinion. Otherwise, it will be dangerous for everybody because in these Covid times, thousands of farmers are roaming outside and many can get infected. So, the government should resolve the problem as soon as possible.Rohit Kumar SehdevPay heed to what farmers wantCommuters have been facing hardships due to road blockades and the gatherings might lead to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Apart from that, the Congress, SAD and the AAP have instigated the farmers by spreading rumours to garner political mileage. In such a situation, when Covid and farmers protest are running parallel, one needs to act sensibly. The PM should personally intervene to resolve the situation. It would be apt if the government reconsiders the laws in question by calling a session of the Parliament to tide over the problem. Being obdurate is not going to help in such a situation.SAAHIL HANSgovt’s carelessness causing damageThe Centre seems to be in no mood to resolve the issues of farmers. Right from the beginning, the Centre adopted a hostile attitude towards the farmers. Ordinances are issued under severe emergency when the Parliament is not in session. What was the urgency to issue farm ordinance in the month of June this year when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak in the country? The government rushed through the three farm laws in a great hurry without any discussions and debates in both Houses of Parliament. No Parliament committee was formed to discuss the said bill neither objections and suggestions were called from the public which is mandatory under the rules for such important laws. The Centre extended no sympathetic ear to the farmers' agitation in Punjab for quite long now. Ultimately, when government called farmer's representatives for discussions in Delhi, Union Agriculture Minister remained absent from the meeting. All the above said blunders on part of the Central government led to the present deadlock. No doubt danger of spreading of Covid is looming large due to assembly of thousands of people at the outskirts of Delhi but government is responsible for it.Harsh N JoharDilly-dallying won't fetch anythingThe government must talk to farmers to expedite the matter engage them meaningfully and listen to what they say considerately in order to resolve the agricultural crisis as the Covid clouds are hovering over the country menacingly. Farmers are up against the Centre which did not take the annadatas into confidence before passing the contentious farm laws in a hush-hush manner. The farmers feed us cheaply and plentifully . They ought to be listened and treated with respect. Their agitation is getting overwhelming support from all sections of society. The prolonged agitation does not augur well for the country. The Centre must remove the lacunae in the Acts which go against the interests of the farmers. The meetings between the two have proved out to be abortive so far. The government must end the impasse immediately and redress their genuine grievances. But rather than resolving the agri crisis in an amicable way the Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and his ilk are branding the farmers as ' separatists' , 'Khalistanis', ‘tukde- tukde' gang. They are trumpeting that the farmers' agitation is being sponsored by Pakistan and China. It does not behove the ministers to spread canards. The BJP IT Cell and the so-called WhatsApp university are churning out blatant lies to misinform the masses. This must be stopped if the the conducive atmosphere is not to be vitiated .If the farmers , who are the chief stakeholders, don't want the reform laws , who for is the government wanting to retain them? The Centre cannot brush off the farmers’ protests as a mere stage managed demonstration. It will be in our interest if the government reconsiders the controversial laws by conveying a Parliament session in order to resolve the agri crisis at the earliest possible. Being arrogant and adamant is not going to help tide over the predicament. The Centre must revoke the three laws and enact a new one guaranteeing MSP for all major farm produce. The government’s appeal to the farmers to end their protests sounds hollow as farmers can not return to their villages empty handed. A large majority of farming community, farm labour, tenant farmers and women farmers have been tied to the stake. Dilly- dallying won't fetch anything tangible. The government intends to create division and dissension among the farmers.Tarsem S BumrahQUESTIONAccidents due to stray cattle are quite common these days as visibility reduces due to fog in the winter season. What measures should be taken to minimise fatal accidents?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 24).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-should-relent-to-put-an-end-to-farmers-misery-187399
21-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||MC fails to construct cow shelters||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Though, the biting cold and foggy weather has been causing discomfort to stray cattle and has been proving fatal for the commuters, the Municipal Corporation doesn’t have the required infrastructure to provide shelter to the stray cows. Despite tall claims, Municipal Corporation (MC) has failed to construct a gaushala till date.Cows can be been seen roaming on roads. Due to low visibility, the stray cattle often lead to the road accidents.While more than 3,000 head of stray cows have been roaming in and around the city, the MC has only one cattle pond with a capacity of 25 head of cattle. The cattle pond staff claimed that they keep 35 and sometimes 40 head of cows in a congested shed.Last year, the general house of the MC had passed a resolution to construct a cow shelter with a capacity of 500 heads of cows at Chheharta.The MC had started constructing cow shelter at Chheharta but it is still incomplete. Apart from this, a gaushala is proposed at Fatahpur village. The district administration had also announced to construct a gaushala but it seems to be a distant dream as no development has been reported after acquiring the land.Dr Ajay Kuwar, Muncipal Health officer, stated that the cattle shelter with a capacity of 500 head of cows would be functional at Chheharta area soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-fails-to-construct-cow-shelters-187400
21-12-2020||Amritsar||Health Dept to collect Covid samples at nakas||The Health Department has decided to set up special checking points in the city to collect samples of people for Covid-19 testing. Officials of the department on Saturday stated that special nakas would be set up with the help of the police where those who would not wear masks would be issued challans and their samples taken for testing.Civil Surgeon Rabinder Singh Sethi said, “We would be using three mobile testing vans which would be placed in different areas.” He said the idea was to increase the Covid testing as the second wave of infections was being feared. People should abide by the guidelines, including wearing masks, while moving out of their homes.The department collected samples of around 200 commuters in the Ram Bagh area. Dr Sethi said people should not delay testing in case they experienced any symptoms associated with the disease as the delay would result in spreading the infection in their families and social circles. — TNSIMA award for Civil Surgeon SethiThe Indian Medical Association has honoured Civil Surgeon Rabinder Singh Sethi with the IMA National Presidents' Award for Covid care and control during a virtual function held on Friday. He had been working as the president of the IMA, Amritsar. It had helped the administration and public by providing them with PPE kits, masks and other items. It also worked to create a better coordination between government and private hospitals to ensure the availability of private hospital's infrastructure for patients' care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-dept-to-collect-covid-samples-at-nakas-187401
21-12-2020||GS Paul||CKD management assures Akal Takht of cooperation||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 20Amid the controversy over the ‘non-baptised’ members included in the century-old Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), its management has assured the scrutinising panel constituted by the Akal Takht of cooperation.Earlier, the management had shown constraints to submit the credentials of its members to the Akal Takht.Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh confirmed that the CKD president Nirmal Singh had paid a visit and agreed to cooperate the panel that was constituted to probe the authenticity of CKD members.The panel members included SGPC member Kiranjot Kaur, former additional secretary of SGPC Balwinder Singh Jaurasingha, Amarjit Singh of GNDU and Manjit Kaur, principal of Sikh Missionary College, as its coordinator. They had asked the CKD to submit the details of the members and requisite documentation for perusal by December 16.In reply, the CKD management wrote a letter addressed to Manjit Kaur showing its inability to submit the details as the record was to be submitted for another court case on identical issue and it refrained from submitting the record elsewhere.Now, the CKD president assured to cooperate the panel. Balwinder Singh Jaursingha said that the CKD had been asked to submit the documentation. “It is to see whether the CKD management cooperates or not? Likewise, we will submit the report to the Akal Takht”, he said.As per the CKD constitution, a ‘patit’ or ‘non-amritdhari’, the aspirant who does not partake Amrit as per Sikh tenets, could not become its member.After receiving complaints about defying this clause, Giani Harpreet Singh had put a blanket ban on induction of the fresh members and summoned the CKD management along with the record pertaining to the members of the CKD. However, even after lapse of several months, the CKD management failed to abide by it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-management-assures-akal-takht-of-cooperation-187402
21-12-2020||Amritsar||Braving cold, cyclists take part in Fit India Cyclothon||Fit India Cyclothon was organised by Amritsar Smart City here on this morning. More than 70 people from different cycling groups of the city, including Amritsar Bi-Cycle Group, City on Paddles, Amritsar Runners and Bindas Amritsar Cycle Group, and individual cyclists took part in the cycle race.The cyclothon was flagged off by MC Commissioner and Smart City CEO Komal Mittal at the Ranjit Avenue B-Block market at 7.30 am. Starting from Ranjit Avenue, the cyclists covered 16-km-long route passing through Trilium Mall to Circular Road, SSSS Chowk to Batala Road via Celebration Mall and then took a U-turn from Verka Chowk and back to Batala Road then Mall Road via Court Road and B-block market.On the occasion, Komal Mittal said owing to the pandemic awareness about health had increased significantly among people. A healthy society could create a developed nation. Keeping this in mind, the campaign had been started by the Union Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs.She said to promote cycling in the city, a 2.6-km-long cycle track was being built at Ranjit Avenue under the Smart City Mission. Apart from this, a 7.6-km-long cycle track was being built on the Outer Circular Road being developed as a smart road outside the walled city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/braving-cold-cyclists-take-part-in-fit-india-cyclothon-187403
21-12-2020||Amritsar||Police paste reflective stickers on vehicles||As the dense fog engulfed the region, the Punjab police have embarked upon a drive to paste reflective stickers on the rear side of the vehicles.While city roads remained unfriendly for the commuters in absence of proper signage and markings, the police officials claimed that absence of reflectors from the rear side of the vehicle had compounded the problem.Today, as many as 350 reflective stickers were pasted on the vehicles at the Putlighar Chowk area here. Sapinder Kaur, a traffic official, said the drive would be continued in other parts of the city also. They asked the commuters to drive slowly during fog when the visibility stretches to just a few meters especially during morning time. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-paste-reflective-stickers-on-vehicles-187404
21-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Mamta Niketan School students shine in contest||Six students of local Mamta Niketan School outshined in the Brics Maths online competition organised by the CBSE. The students secured 100 per cent marks in the competition. The outperformers are Manavmeet Singh, Rajanmeet Kaur, Kolampreet Kaur, Arashdeep Kaur, Manmeet Kaur and Harmandeep Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mamta-niketan-school-students-shine-in-contest-187405
21-12-2020||Amritsar||HIV awareness van flagged off||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hiv-awareness-van-flagged-off-187406
