21-11-2020||Not many remember the innumerable projects brought to the area by four-time former MP and film icon Vinod Khanna. However||This is how Vinod Khanna jumped into politics!||NHAI ignores death traps on National highway- 54The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) dispatched a three-member high level team to 'study' the two 'black spots' on NH-54 leading from Pathankot to Amritsar via Batala. The point at which the highway branches off from the main road to Batala has seen as many as 22 deaths in the last two years. The other 'black spot' is 5 km away at a point from where commuters travelling from Batala to Amritsar can take the highway. This spot has witnessed 20 accidental deaths in the last two years. 42 deaths in 24 months on a 5-km stretch of road definitely cries for some explanation by the NHAI officials. These figures are official in nature and have been provided by SP (Headquarters) Gurpreet Singh. The NHAI team was led by Project Director Sunil Yadav and met a delegation of residents at the site where ways and means to stop the loss of lives and limbs were discussed. This meeting has been the talking point among Batalvis. However, what is neither being discussed nor highlighted is the fact how in the first place the NHAI passed the designs of these two points. Residents say a probe should be initiated. However, NHAI is very conveniently turning down demands of a probe. Obviously, the axe may well fall on some of their own officials. Reason enough why nobody in the NHAI wants to dig deep into how and why these two ‘death spots’ came into existence in the first place.The son rises againPrayer meetings are held regularly near the Kartarpur Corridor’s Integrated Check Post (ICP). Bikram Majithia, a few months ago, had held one such meeting where he urged the Union Government to reopen the road which had been lying closed following Covid-19. He had claimed that all major religious places in the world had reopened once the virus scare had subsided. Now, many know that from June, 2000 till June, 2018, veteran SAD leader former Nakodar MLA Kuldeep Singh Wadala used to hold a prayer meeting every month at the very place where the ICP has now been established. His appeals to the almighty paid off when five months after his death, the Union Government decided to construct the passage leading to the Kartarpur shrine in Pakistan from Dera Baba Nanak. Now, his son, Gurpartap Singh Wadala, incumbent SAD legislator of Nakodar, has made plans to organise meetings at the ICP beginning from December. He says his endeavour will continue till the Modi government reopens the passage. The erudite Gurpartap quipped, “To be a Sikh and not to pray is akin to be alive without breathing. My father prayed for 18 long years. Now, I will pray till the government accedes to our requests. Ask and it will be given to you. Search, and you will find. Knock, and the door will be opened to you,” As they say, like father, like son. (Contributed by Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-is-how-vinod-khanna-jumped-into-politics-173566
21-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Vehicle lifters’ gang busted||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-173549
21-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Dowry harassment complaint filed||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dowry-harassment-complaint-filed-173548
21-11-2020||---||One injured in clash, 15 booked||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, November 20One persons was injured on Thursday in a clash that broke out between two groups of Doburji and Behla villages. The city police have booked 15 persons of both groups. ASI Gajjan Singh said, Rajdeep Singh Raja of Doburji was injured in the firing.He was admitted to the local Civil Hospital. The IO said members of one group opened fire at the rival group members with fire arms. A case has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-injured-in-clash-15-booked-173547
21-11-2020||Amritsar||Demonstrating farmers hold discussion||On the 58th day of the kisan demonstration against farm laws, a discussion was conducted by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee at Pandori Ran Singh village today. Senior journalist Hameer Singh, Dr Payre Lal Garg and advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu attended the discussion and addressed the farmers. The speakers criticised the government’s attitude towards farmers and the state.Sarwan Singh Pandher, General Secretary, Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee, said the Modi Government was eager to operate the passenger trains but we would not allow it till the government resumes the goods train.Satnam Singh Pannu, state president of the Kisan Sangarsh Committee, stated that PM Modi was behaving like a dictator by not allowing farmers to demonstrate in Delhi. “We are making preparations to gherao Delhi. Mass meetings with farmers are being conducted in villages to motivate them to go Delhi on November 26.” The farmer leaders were called by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to discuss the issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/demonstrating-farmers-hold-discussion-173545
21-11-2020|| Amritsar||IRIA seeks amendment to government order||The state branch of the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA) has urged the state government to amend the orders of capping CT scan charges at Rs2,000 for Covid patients. A delegation of the association led by Dr Ramesh Chander, president, and Dr Mukesh Gupta, general secretary, met Dr KK Talwar, Adviser Health, Punjab Government, at Jalandhar. They pointed out that members of the IRIA Punjab have committed to help the government fight against Covid-19 pandemic. The government has capped the cost of CT scan at Rs 2,000 for Covid suspects.The members are with the government and will conduct chest CT scan of the patients who are under treatment. Office-bearers of association stated that for general patient these orders should not be applicable. “It is not viable to conduct CT scan at Rs2,000 for the general patients. The government should amend the orders and relaxation should be only for the Covid patients,” said Dr Ramesh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iria-seeks-amendment-to-government-order-173544
21-11-2020||---||Pensioners to protest outside DC office on December 18||Amritsar, November 20The Punjab Pensioners’ Front held a meeting at the judicial complex here and decided to launch an agitation on Friday at the DC office on December 18 in support of their demands.Convened by Baldev Singh Haer, the pensioners demanded that the pay commission report be implemented at the earliest, DA instalments be released, cashless medical treatment be raised up to Rs5 lakh, PSPCL retired employees should get 200 units free and pending LTC be released.“Due to the apathy of the authorities, the pensioners are facing difficulties in getting their work done at the treasury and other administrative offices. We demand that pensioners be given a priority in dealing with cases. A lot of pension and revised pension related cases have been gathering dust in offices,” said Baldev Singh.Others present included Inder Singh Mann, Amarjit Singh Sarkaria, Darshan Singh Gill, Amarjit Singh Bhola, Lakhwinder Singh Gill, Principal Sarbjot Singh Gill and Kulwant Singh Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pensioners-to-protest-outside-dc-office-on-december-18-173543
21-11-2020||---||Expert lays emphasis on saving heritage of Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20Marking the World heritage Week, the Ministry of Culture, GOI, has initiated a week-long series of seminars and lectures on the theme of ‘Shared Cultures, Shared Heritage and Shared Responsibility’.Collaborating with heritage conservation experts and organisations, the programme aims to focus on saving the heritage – tangible and intangible — through maximum cooperation with civil and government stakeholders.Part of the series of lectures, city-based conservation expert Prof Balwinder Singh, a former head of department of Guru Ramdas School of Architecture, highlighted the importance of balancing conservation and development. “One has to ensure that conservation and development are in harmony with each other else our tangible heritage would lose its originality. Amritsar has been undergoing several phases of heritage conservation, yet there are so many structures and intangible aspects of heritage that have not been explored. Celebration of the World Heritage Week is just another reminder for the generation to save it,” he said.Singh, who has been critical of the conservation projects being carried out without acknowledging the original structural aspects of several key heritage buildings in city, said Punjab has really never got serious about its conservation. “I was once called to visit the Patti Fort, a historical Mughal fort built in 1755AD. It’s a wonderful and magnificent structure but botched up attempts to conserve and restore it have messed with its original character. Techniques like repointing in conservation must be done right with accuracy,” he added.The professor has previously laid stress on reinforcing the conservation areas and Listed Buildings Act, Punjab, to protect historic cities in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expert-lays-emphasis-on-saving-heritage-of-punjab-173540
21-11-2020||---||Amritsar MC modifies garbage collection vehicles for waste segregation||Amritsar November 20The health wing of the Municipal Corporation has been taking several steps to ensure segregation of garbage at door-to-door level and on dumpsites. The door-to-door garbage collection vehicles were also modified and different compartments for dry and wet garbage.Last month, Councillor Sandhya Sikka, leader of opposition, had criticised the MC’s segregation drive of segregation of garbage as collection vehicles were not equipped to keep the dry and wet garbage separate.Dr Ajay Kawar, Municipal Health Officer (MHO) said, “We have divided the garbage collection vehicles. We have also asked the residents to segregate garbage waste at house-hold level only. We have distributed bins to keep the garbage separate. The garbage from the kitchen should be kept separate.”The health officials also warned the residents that if they would not segregate the garbage, the MC will impose the penalty.“We will impose a penalty for not keeping separate bins for dry and wet garbage. The residents have been asked to make required arrangements within one week. Our sanitary inspectors will keep a check in the localities and impose a penalty on the violators,” the MHO said.The officials stated that the MC had been making all these efforts to improve the ranking of the city in nationwide Cleanliness Survey 2021. This year, the city ranked the 9th dirtiest in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-modifies-garbage-collection-vehicles-for-waste-segregation-173538
21-11-2020||---||Youth attempts suicide in Beas police custody||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20A youth, arrested by the Beas police for allegedly possessing country-made weapon, attempted suicide by slitting his throat here on Thursday evening.Nishan Singh of Idgah was arrested on November 14 from near Sathiala village. According to the police, he tried to slit his throat with a piece of broken window glass inside the Beas police station. He was rushed to hospital where he is receiving treatment.The police have registered a case of attempting suicide (309 IPC) against him.ASI Charan Singh stated he was brought on police remand for further investigation in the case. He said the police had recovered a country-made .315 bore pistol from his possession and was travelling on a goods carrier having no number plate. When signalled to stop, he tried to flee. However, he was arrested by the police team at the checkpoint near Sathiala village bus stop. Along with the weapon, the police also confiscated two live bullets from him. A case under sections of the Arms Act was registered against him.He also told the court had granted a three-day police remand for interrogation. During investigation, the officials recovered a revolver from his accomplice Harchand Singh of Kahlon village, while the police extended his (Nishan’s) remand by two days. Harchand got bail after three days. “Nishan is still in custody and out of danger after initial treatment,” the ASI revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-attempts-suicide-in-beas-police-custody-173536
21-11-2020||---||A spate of speed bumps here is the root cause of jams||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20It is bizarre, unwanted and thoughtless. Stretching less than a kilometre, the road adjoining Khalsa College for Women leading from Nikka Singh Colony to the Cantonment has 15 speed breakers – a rather high number for such a small road. And several constructed without permit.Since it is the busiest short routes taken by commuters from GT Road, according to shopkeepers of the area, these were constructed by the people having their residences on the stretch to discourage commuters taking the inner road. It connects several residential colonies and has turned into a commercial hub abundant with clothes and apparel showrooms. “With more shops coming up, the road became busier as there are two colleges nearby and many students come here for shopping. Being a narrow way, the traffic congestion is common problem as it is also a short route for people going towards cantonment from GT road. The speed breakers further slow down the traffic and cause problem,” said Sunny Singh, a shop owner here.A heavily used course that connects main GT road with the Ramtirath road and cantonment area is marred with these ill-planned and illegal road bumps that often result in bottlenecks. While the commuters are frowning, residents complain that the irresponsible parking on the road and heavy traffic makes it dangerous for their kids “The road has several blind intersections and any vehicle coming from the internal residential area towards the road is unaware of the speed of traffic coming from the other side,” said Joginder Singh, a resident of the area. His counterparts had got the speed bumps made due to the fact that it would reduce traffic on the road. But it has only resulted in more jams.While the Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has repeatedly said that the entire relaying and repairs of several main roads in city is being carried out, mending of internal road repair is on cards as well. Will the issue of removing the illegal speed bumps will be included? It is yet to be seen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-spate-of-speed-bumps-here-is-the-root-cause-of-jams-173535
21-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Now, Vigilance to probe coop society fraud case||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20The Punjab Government has finally handed over investigation in the multi-crore cooperative bank fraud to the Vigilance Bureau.The VB has now asked the Amritsar rural police to hand over the case file to it for further probe. SSP, Vigilance, Parampal Singh confirmed the development.Earlier, Cooperation and Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had ordered a Vigilance probe into the alleged scam. The VB had received orders for conducting only an ‘inquiry’ implying that it would not have the authority to search, arrest or prepare the final report (in the scam) and it would allow them to only ascertain the facts given in the FIR.The case was handed over to officials of the Vigilance Bureau as the rural police officials sat on the probe and did not make any much progress. Since the registration of an FIR in February this year, the police arrested only two accused while no other suspect was nominated in the case. It was alleged that the rural police were acting under pressure as the accused were considered close to prominent political leaders in the region.In February, the police had registered an FIR under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC into the Rs 3 crore fraud in Tarsikka branch of the bank. In the case, four persons, including branch manager Rakesh Kumar and cashier Ram Kishore, were arrested. Two of their accomplices, Sukhdev Singh of Sarai village and Sukhbir Singh of Bhatti village (both secretaries of the cooperative societies), were booked. The police filed a challan in the local court on May 16. The investigations found that the senior manager, the district manager, bank officials, deputy registrars, assistant registrars, inspectors of cooperative societies and officials of the Audit Department colluded and misappropriated funds running into crores of rupees.The investigation was extended to other branches of cooperative bank, unearthing a major scam. It was found that the fraud was committed at five branches — Tarsikka, Saidoke Lehal, Bhattike, Chogwan Sadhpur and Kohala — falling under the jurisdiction of the Tarsikka branch of the bank. “We have got orders for holding investigation into the alleged bungling of government funds and asked the Amritsar rural police for handing over the case file so that the probe could be started,” said the SSP (Vigilance).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-vigilance-to-probe-coop-society-fraud-case-173533
21-11-2020||Neha Saini||As dining out becomes a passé, home bakers take the cake||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20Work from home has acquired a new meaning for city-based home chefs and bakers. With the pandemic hitting the lifestyle in Amritsar, foodies are now preferring to dine in rather than dine out, choosing home chefs and bakers to cater to their taste.Mushrooming restaurants and pop-up cafes in the city have become a thing of past, thanks to Covid-19. As many eateries decided not to reopen for business, home bakers and chefs saw it as an opportunity to be a part of the changed market dynamics.“If the raw material supply was 5 per cent to home bakers before the lockdown, it has now risen to 40 per cent, post lockdown. The number of people enrolling to learn culinary skills has increased manifold. This is a result of lockdown-induced lifestyle change,” said Arundeep Singh, culinary expert and food coach. “Anyone with a flair for culinary skills can easily earn up to Rs 50,000 to 1 lakh in the festive season alone,” he said.From dining out to dining in, home bakers are being preferred for convenience, health safety and customisation. “Provision of delivery is the most important aspect these days as people are avoiding to go out. People trust home bakers and chefs for food hygiene and quality and freshness of the products. Also, while operating from home, you don’t have to look after the overhead expenses, or staff management and pre-order bookings make things a bit organised,’ shared Priya Seth, a home baker and owner of The Cakery.While the lockdown made survival a challenge for many young and upcoming food entrepreneurs, many have now taken the home-route. Masterchef fame Drishti Nanda, whose restaurant had to shut shop due post lockdown, is now continuing with her home –cooked food business. She has also shifted her culinary education academy to her home. “Running a restaurant requires a lot of logistics that were simply not possible to sustain post lockdown. Home baking or food business cuts down costs of investing in staff, running a big kitchen and lot of other overheads. Also, post pandemic, people are preferring house parties and ordering in food from local home based chefs. This creates a sustainable market for many while keeping their pockets full,” Drishti said.Combining her passion for cooking and knack for seeing a business opportunity in the time of crisis, 21-year-old Jasmine Kaur turned a food entrepreneur with her own baking business. She deals in baking customised desserts, which are vegan, gluten-free and sugar-free.“The culinary habits of people have completely changed after the Covid-19 pandemic. People now want healthy food prepared in hygienic conditions. Ever since I started home baking, I get five to six orders every day and sometimes the number goes up to 15 orders in a day,” she said. Planning to expand her skill set by learning French baking from overseas culinary institute, Jasmine wants to open a French food café.While it creates a steady business opportunity, the new trend also brings out the talent in many. Priyanka Goyal had been the star chef among her family and friends before the lockdown gave her a chance to shine as a pro. “I began making salt and sweet delicacies such as kachories, dry fruit laddoos and other niche items and delivering them on a pre-order basis. Gradually, my orders started increasing and during Diwali, I distributed 250-300 boxes of savories alone. I never launched myself as a chef, but now, I have been able to build my own small food business,’ she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-dining-out-becomes-a-pass%C3%A9-home-bakers-take-the-cake-173532
21-11-2020||THE moment I came to know that I was infected with the Covid-19 disease on October 20 I was stunned as just a day before||‘No need to panic’||I was very cautious and followed all precautions to keep the virus at bay. When I got to know that our Bishop had got a positive test report I was the first person to get myself tested for the virus. As soon as I was informed of the positive report at midnight next day, I immediately informed all members of the family of the development and went into home quarantine. The Tarn Taran Health Department authorities too were informed. I could not sleep all night after being informed that I had contracted the virus. My mind was filled with negative thoughts.Right from the next morning, I remained in the room as I did not want to go up to my family members. There were all necessary arrangements in the room where I stayed but there was no TV or any other source of amusement.Being a follower of Jesus Christ, after taking a bath I prayed and found my mindset changed. Officials of the Health Department were apprised of the development and they provided me with a kit and asked me to follow certain precautions.From the very first day, I started taking steam inhalation twice a day as it helps in clearing nasal blocks and chest congestion. Besides, I also started gargling with salt water.I had just started managing to get rid of negative thoughts just then I lost my sense of taste and smell. Besides, I, too, experienced loss of appetite. Meanwhile, the wife of our Bishop and someother members of the church, too, contracted the contagion. The Bishop couple was admitted to CMC in Ludhiana.It was my good luck that during the whole period I had no fever, cough or any other symptoms which boosted my morale.Very soon I started receiving a number of calls from the Bishop and other friends and their family members. Sometimes I spent six hours a day attending calls. We should always remain very cautious and take precautions for our own and others' safety. But in case one gets infected with the virus, there is no need to panic. What is more important is that one must not hide this fact which can put the lives of others in danger. We must disclose it so that others can be safe. As soon as one gets to know that he has contracted the virus, he must contact the Health Department so that he can get proper advice and treatment to control the disease in the initial stages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-need-to-panic-173530
21-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Safety protocols go for a toss in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 20Even though the administration has geared up to tackle the threat of a second wave of the Covid-19 contagion by updating its medical infrastructure, residents are giving a damn about the safety protocols.69 new cases reportedThe district on Friday reported 69 new cases of Covid-19 pushing the total to 12,577. On the other hand, 21 more patients recovered from the disease taking the count of cured patients to 11,546. At present, there are 554 active cases. As no death was reported today, the death toll stood at 477.A large number of residents can be seen roaming without masks and violating other protocols like maintaining physical or social distance. People have no fear of the law and are not following the guidelines issued by the Central and state governments.There is a spurt in Covid-19 cases in several parts of the country which prompted the government to urge the people not to throw the government instructions to the wind. The Haryana Government has ordered the shutting down of private schools till November end while emergency steps are being taken in Delhi and Ahmedabad for tackling the situation emerged due to the rising Covid-19 cases again. The Delhi Government has even announced to hike the fine for violating the instructions to stop the spread of the deadly virus.Dr Rakesh Sharma, a local resident, said people should follow the guidelines religiously to fight the virus otherwise the Punjab Government would be forced to take stern action against the violators and offenders like the Delhi government did.The district administration, led by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, recently held a meeting with local health authorities and private hospital managements. He asked the private hospital managements to share information regarding Covid-19 patients and arrangements in their hospitals with the local authorities.He also directed the health authorities to review the arrangements made during the peak period of the virus like control room, Covid centres, ambulances and ICUs. They were also asked to take necessary steps to remove any shortcomings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/safety-protocols-go-for-a-toss-in-amritsar-173527
