22-08-2020||Amritsar||No more readers in libraries, publishers explore digital platforms to reach out||As we emerge from the lockdown, the economic hiatus due to the pandemic has begun to show its results. The printing and publication industry had to go into a forced shut down as the Covid-19 pandemic had people shunning from buying hard copies of newspapers, books, magazines and journals. All over the world, the industry is now reinventing itself through digital media, embracing the new normal. But while big publication houses managed to stay afloat, regional and smaller publications felt the punch in their belly.Four prominent Punjabi publications, among the few surviving in the state at present, are published from the city, apart from several regional literary newsletters and journals. The task of publishing, postal delivery and managing the resources for continuation of the editions has become a challenge that most publishing houses, especially smaller ones, are finding hard to cope with. Despite service disruptions throughout the lockdown and rising cost of publication, a few have chosen to continue to publish relevant content.“The pandemic has delayed quarterly publication of magazines that primarily focus on literary content. Many publications have struggled with managing resources, keeping their printing press working as staff shortage and the cost of keeping afloat are quite high. Despite the odds, readership might have fallen, but it has not been lost completely,” said Charanjit Sohal, a writer and editor-publisher of Wagah, a magazine.The 150- page magazine was launched in 2015 and counted some of the most celebrated names from Punjabi literature as contributors. The magazine was not able to publish its March-April edition due to the lockdown. “The cost of labour, typesetting, composing and printing is already high. The cost of postal distribution charges is an added financial burden on the publisher, who is already facing loss of revenue due to a lack of advertisers and subscriptions,” says Sohal.While most magazines being published from the city have resorted to postal deliveries rather than bookstall sales, receiving content from writers and contributors, too, have become difficult. “Most of the content from overseas contributors is received through PDF files but our local contributors, including readers, were hard to access as many were not digitally educated. Also, publishing during the lockdown was not difficult, but distribution and the task of reaching out to readers definitely were,” said Dr Vikram, a member of the editorial committee for Akhar magazine.Ekam, another Punjabi quarterly, published from the city, by writer Artinder Sandhu, too, suffered readership loss during the pandemic. “Since, most of our readers are not digitally inclined, public libraries and literary societies offered a bridge between readers and magazines. Because to the pandemic, public libraries remained shut and no events were organised, which resulted in loss of printed copies. Earlier, I used to send at least 15-20 hard copies of Ekam to each public library and other volunteer platforms associated with us. But this time, I could send only five,” said Sandhu. But despite the odds, Sandhu managed to publish a joint edition in the month of July. “Our March edition got delayed, so we published an elaborate joint edition for the first half of 2020.”One of the positive outcomes of the pandemic has been that literary magazines have now moved to the digital space. Wagah launched its official website that has all its previous editions and will regularly update the website with relevant content.During the pandemic, we used to publish over 1,000 copies of our magazine. We have cut down the number by 200-300. This is a direct impact of the readers’ shift towards digital content. I feel that having e-copies of magazines or any printed publication is now a necessity to ease the financial burden and embrace the new normal. — Charanjit Sohal, editor-publisher, WagahReadership subscriptions have definitely been affected as most people refrained from buying copies or even could not access the books via libraries as they were closed during the lockdown. Also, to sustain printing, we have to arrange logistics such as postal delivery and courier and reduce the copies being printed to adjust ourselves to the new normal. — Artinder Sandhu, writer-editor, Ekam magazineThe pandemic has made publishers explore digital platforms for the marketing of their literary content. We have to adapt to the new technology to revive the publishing industry and lost readership. The National Digital Library of India has opened its portal for accessing their content to bridge the gap that has widened due to the pandemic. — Prabhjot Sandhu, district librarianThe entire working structure of the publishing industry has been hit hard. The sudden lockdown stalled new editions of books that remained stuck in godowns for months, without any means of delivery. With bookshops and post offices shut, number of orders received had declined, as a result of which printing was stopped.  — Preeti Gill, literary agent||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-more-readers-in-libraries-publishers-explore-digital-platforms-to-reach-out-129648
22-08-2020||Amritsar||No end to Covid woes as three more die, 69 new cases in Amritsar||The district reported three more deaths due to the Covid-19 disease on Friday. With these deaths, the toll has risen to 121. Besides, the health authorities reported 69 new positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,115 in the district and as many as 2,477 patients had recovered so far.Cases rising in rural areas: AdmnThe deceased has been identified as Kuldeep Singh, 30, who lived near Bhabha High School, 88ft Road, near Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. He was suffering from a chronic liver disease and hypertension. The second victim, Vishwa Mitter, 67, a resident of Gali No.8 in Jandiala Guru. He was suffering from hypertension and asthma. The third victim has been identified as Manjit Kaur, 58, who was suffering from diabetes and asthma.Of the new cases, 30 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 39 are contacts of positive patients. As far as the ILI cases are concerned, one case each was reported from Lahori Gate, Model Town, Ramanand Bagh, Budha Theh village in Majitha, Sultanwind Gate, Bahadur Nagar Lawrence Road, Kanwar Avenue, Nawan Tanel, Gopal Nagar, Ranjit Avenue, Dashmesh Nagar, Krishna Square, Ganda Singh colony, Mucchal village, Sandhu Avenue, Guru Ramdass Chowk, Boriawala Bazar, Chatiwind canal, Bhullar Avenue, Gumtala, Tungpai, Housing Board Colony, Shahid Udham Singh Nagar, Hotel Taj Royal, Jagdambey colony and two cases were reported from Ajnala.Of the contacts cases, 10 contacts were reported from Prem Nagar locality on the Majitha road, five contacts from Anand Avenue and three contacts from corporate hospital. Two cases each were reported from Diamond Avenue, Military Hospital, Green Avenue, Shimla Market, Vijay Nagar and Gokul Vihar.One case each was reported from Kali Mata Mandir, GMC, Verka, Talwandi Bharat, Race Course Road, Azad Nagar on the Sultanwind road and Medical Enclave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-end-to-covid-woes-as-three-more-die-69-new-cases-in-amritsar-129650
22-08-2020||---||Police launch search operation to nab peddlers, bootleggers||Amritsar, August 21After drone surveillance, the Amritsar rural police have now started cordon and search operation in order to nail bootleggers and drug peddlers. During past two days, the police have seized three stills manufacturing illicit liquor.It has also confiscated 1,150 litre of illicit liquor and 1,400 kg of lahan during the operation which was conducted in Beas, Tarsikka, Lopoke, Kamboh, Rajasansi, Chatiwind and Ajnala areasThe operation was launched following the hooch tragedy that claimed over 110 lives in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Batala area. Tarn Taran witnessed death of two more persons in recently which raised fingers over the ‘drive’ against illicit liquor trade.The police said the operation would continue to stem the illicit liquor trade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-launch-search-operation-to-nab-peddlers-bootleggers-129652
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Take action in two months, submit report, court to cops||Eight months after a youth was allegedly beaten to death by bouncers in a restaurant on the New Year eve, the family members of the deceased, Harjit Singh, who was a resident of Guru Ram Dass Nagar on the Sultanwind road, on Friday said that the police had failed to arrest the suspects so far.Eight-month-old murder caseThe family had approached the Punjab and Haryana High Court with the grievance which directed the local police authorities to take necessary action, including the arrest of the suspects, within two months and submit a report to it, claimed Makhan Singh, father of the victim, during a press conference here.Harjit Singh was allegedly beaten up by two bouncers of a restaurant in the Ranjit Avenue area on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1. He succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital here later. The police had booked two bouncers — Daya Singh, alias Preet, and Happy — on the charge of a murder bid. Later, the police also nominated restaurant owners Amar and Robby while the FIR was amended by adding to it a murder charge.Harjit, along with his friends Navdeep and Karan, had gone to celebrate the New Year. When they reached the restaurant, they ordered dinner. However, the restaurant people told that they were shutting down for the day and there was no food.Makhan Singh said the bouncers of the restaurant started thrashing them. While Navdeep and Karan managed to run away, they caught hold of Harjit and beat him up brutally with a baseball bat leaving him seriously injured. He sustained critical internal injuries. He was thrown out of the restaurant. When he did not return, his family members repeatedly called on his mobile but got no response. A passerby picked up the phone at around 5 am and informed that Harjit was lying unconscious outside on a chilly night. They immediately rushed him to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, he said.He said the accused approached local courts for anticipatory bails which were rejected by it. However, the accused were never arrested by the police. He had met the Police Commissioner and submitted the high court orders and sought immediate arrest of the restaurant owners and other accused in the case.Robin Hans, SHO, Ranjit Avenue police station, said while a bouncer, Happy, was arrested another bouncer Daya Singh had been absconding since the incident. He added that the two owners of the restaurants, however, got an enquiry marked into the case. The probe was now being conducted by ADCP Sandeep Malik into the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/take-action-in-two-months-submit-report-court-to-cops-129654
22-08-2020||THE 34-year-old National Education Policy underwent a reform this year when the Union Cabinet approved reforms which are expected to usher in a new era in Indian higher education. While many educationists across the country have hailed the reforms unanimously||‘NEP 2020 will make higher education more relevant, focused’||How do you deconstruct the proposed reforms in the National Education Policy 2020 for institutions of higher education?The one big point that National Education Policy 2020 aspires towards is to move towards a holistic education and not just textbook learning. Under the new draft, the complexity and challenges of the Indian higher education system, including IITs, have been identified with honesty and clarity. It envisages an approach to bring about the extraordinary potential of human development and a comprehensive shift in the use of demographic dividend, which is available in abundance in a country like India. That fact that it aims to build a knowledge-based future education system is a proof of the change we hope to achieve.What aspects of the new draft do you think will boost student-centric reforms?This policy has strongly advocated multi-discipline learning – a distinctly attractive and flexible proposition, allowing learners to experiment with different options. Multiple-entry and exit system for under graduate courses is a good step for students, who cannot continue their study due to various reasons. It will reduce the drop-out rate in colleges. The National Testing Agency (NTA) will operate as a leading, specialist, autonomous testing organisation to conduct entrance examinations for higher educational institutions. It is expected to be a tool to ease the burden of students, universities and colleges and the entire education system.How has the NEP-2020 balanced the technological shift in the education sector?The creation of Academic Bank of Credit under Higher Education Institutions (HEI) and giving the students a choice between research and teaching as per their strength. It also seeks to promote research at higher levels of education by establishing the National Research Foundation to address the skill gap between institutional learning and practical learning. The policy has focused on industry-based skills empowerment. It proposes a new National Educational Technology Forum and new age technologies such as online learning platforms, AI-driven customized learning solutions, video-based learning, peer-to-peer learning and more. Such system of higher educational re already present on US and other countries.How would the NEP 2020 change the functioning of HEIs?The Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) will be set up as a single overarching umbrella body for entire higher education, excluding medical and legal education. The old autonomous bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE), and the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) will be replaced with new distinct and independent bodies those will be assimilated into HECI. The colleges too will be either merged with universities or made autonomous. The entire higher education ecosystem and, in particular, government agencies and regulatory bodies need to build a culture of trust, respect and collegiums among government agencies, regulatory bodies and higher education institutions. Currently, this is a major challenge and is adversely affecting all our efforts for an integrated development and a strong higher education system for the country. If implemented strongly, the NEP reforms will empower higher education institutions to make decisions with responsibility and vested autonomy with accountability so that they can contribute more effectively in the implementation of NEP 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nep-2020-will-make-higher-education-more-relevant-focused-129656
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Time to tap potential of rural tourism: Experts||With tourism sector taking a hit in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Tourism Department and the district administration should chalk out strategies to promote authentic Punjabi rural tourism, said experts.Tourist sites, including Golden Temple, Jallianwala Bagh, Durgiana Temple, Gobindgarh Fort, Sadda Pind and War Museum are situated within the city. These sites offer not more than two-night stay to tourists. As a result, youth from rural areas in the district had not been able to get any benefit. Though an attempt was made by introducing an amphibious bus in Hari Ke Pattan wetland, it too failed to attract tourist.Started during the fag end of the SAD-BJP tenure by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, the project was labeled unremunerative by the Congress government.Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a freelance travel writer, said, “As I hail from rural Punjab, it allowed me to understand its real charm and beauty. I have always felt that little has been done to promote ‘rural tourism’, which can offer far richer experiences to tourists.”Considering the stunning countryside, known for its natural beauty –sightseeing tours can be commenced, which would be an introduction to exhibition of nature, he said.“Then there are several villages, which boast of rich history, memorials and monuments. Efforts must be made to promote them. Take Bhakna for instance, village from where freedom fighter Sohan Singh Bhakna –founder of Ghadar Party or the age-old Sarai Amant Khan, which thankfully is well preserved with its Mughal architecture. It was once a popular stop for rest as it was on a main road to Lahore.”In addition, certain houses can also be chosen, which showcase their old age charm. Let’s not forget that real culture and its vibes are in the villages. Hence, whenever tourism returns, it will be great to see rural tourism being promoted as much as possible, Sandhu said.He said scope for farm stays, cultural experience in form of folk festivals, rural sports, nature walks, food crafts and handicrafts and community development could be featured in rural tourism.APS Chatha, president, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said potential of rural tourism as main driver of economic growth and employment generation to address rural poverty and weaning away youth from drugs cannot be ruled out.Developing village-based tourism destinations would give tourists an experience of real countryside, reflecting historical and cultural ethos of Punjabi lifestyle and its traditions. It could focus on authentic cuisine, folk dances, crafts, and handicrafts.Gursharan Singh, District Tourism Officer, said, “The Tourism Department organises seminars and workshops to promote and awaken people towards rural tourism.”He said they had already launched farm tourism. Under the scheme, four farmhouses, including Chahal Tree Farm House in Jagdev Kalan village, Ranjit Villas on the Airport Road, Green Acre on the Airport Road and Farmer Villas, on the Fatehgarh Churriyan Road were listed. He said before the lockdown, tourists used to visit these farmhouses to enjoy countryside experience.As far as planning for increasing the area of farm tourism is concerned the matter pertains to the head office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/time-to-tap-potential-of-rural-tourism-experts-129657
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Doctors screen cops for liver diseases||GI Rendezvous on Friday took up the cause of screening cops with a history of diabetes, raised body mass index, viral hepatitis infection or alcohol intake. The purpose of doing so is to try and identify the population which may be at the risk of cirrhosis (chronic and irreversible liver disease), which causes life-threatening complications and also compromises the quality of life severely.Dr Gurbilas P Singh, convener of the organisation, led the screening initiative that commenced here on Friday.“World Hepatitis Day is commemorated every year on July 28 to enhance awareness of viral hepatitis that causes a range of health problems, including cirrhosis and liver cancer. Cirrhosis itself leads to life-threatening complications like blood vomiting, accumulation of fluid in tummy and coma, all responsible for reducing the lifespan of an affected individual. Diabetes mellitus and being overweight also significantly add to the risk of cirrhosis,” explained Dr Gurbilas. “WHO is calling on all countries to work together to eliminate viral hepatitis by 2030,” he added.There are five causes of viral hepatitis, namely — A, B, C, D and E. While the most common cause of cirrhosis remains alcohol, hepatitis B and C are the other common causes of cirrhosis and liver cancer and 1.3 million lives are lost due to these diseases each year. These diseases are in particular relevant to the northern states of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctors-screen-cops-for-liver-diseases-129660
22-08-2020||---||2 held for selling fake submersible pumps in Ajnala||Amritsar, August 21The rural police have nabbed two persons for allegedly counterfeiting the name and seal of submersible pumps brand and confiscated 116 pumps from their possession.They were identified as Kuldeep Singh of Ranjhe Di Haveli and Jagroop Singh of Chainpur village located on Ram Tirath Road here. A case under Section 473 of the IPC (Making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc. with an intent to commit forgery) and Sections 63 and 65 of the Copyrights Act.Pawan Kumar, field officer of Speed Search and Security Network Private Limited, Chandigarh, stated to the police that the accused were manufacturing duplicate submersible pumps of their brand. He said there were inputs that they were coming to Ajnala from Amritsar. Following a checkpoint was installed near Sai Temple in Ajnala and vehicles were checked.During this, they intercepted an Innova (PB-02-BY-3949) being driven by a man. The occupants tried to speed away from the spot when the police team signalled him to halt. However, the police team managed to stop him. They told that they had picked the submersible pumps from Priya Motors Ranjhe Di Haveli in Amritsar. When Pawan Kumar checked the same, he confirmed that the pumps were duplicate and only their seal and marks were used. The police have seized 116 pumps from the vehicle.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-selling-fake-submersible-pumps-in-ajnala-129661
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Employees stage protest over restructuring of departments||Members of the district unit of the Punjab and UT Employees and Pensioners’ Front held a protest rally at Government Medical College here on Tuesday. They also supported the strike of ministerial staff workers at various government departments.What they demanded from the governmentNarinder Singh and Tajinder Singh Dhillon, leaders of the front, also criticised the state government for reducing the number of posts in different departments on the pretext of restructuring of these departments. They criticised the state government over its announcement to pay salaries on the basis of the Central Pay Commission to employees upon recruitment instead of the Punjab Government scales.Narinder Singh said they also asked the government to revoke orders regarding withdrawal of mobile allowance, regularise services of all contractual workers, implement the old pension scheme, release DA arrears of the past five years and raise the medical allowance to Rs 2,000. Tajinder Singh Dhillon said they had also demanded that a minimum salary of Rs 18,000 be given by implementing the Wages Act and the yearly professional tax of Rs 2,400 levied on the service class be withdrawn.Powercom staff protest abolition of 40K postsTarn Taran: Employees of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (Powercom) organised rallies at various places in the district and expressed their resentment against the abolition of 40,000 vacant posts in the department.By wearing black badges and holding black flags in their hands, the protesters took out rallies in Tarn Taran, Patti, Khadoor Sahib, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Amarkot, Khalra, Harike, Sarhali and other subdivision stations of Powercom. Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind and Harjinder Kohli, state leaders of an employees’’ organisation, while addressing workers on the occasion, said the step would increase unemployment in the state.The leaders said unemployed youths would be exploited by private companies and forced to on meagre salaries. The leaders also demanded the withdrawal of the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-stage-protest-over-restructuring-of-departments-129664
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Public toilet booths lying locked in Amritsar||Public toilet booths, which were installed in the city under the Swachh Bharat Mission, are lying locked at various places.Some booths were installed at new places, while majority of them were installed at places where the old concrete washrooms existed. The residents had often complained of unclean and unhygienic washrooms earlier. However, the situation has not improved with the new installations as these remain out of bounds for the general public.Female residents say that while open urinals are available for men in markets, there are no proper washrooms for them. “Sometimes shopping takes hours and in such a scenario either you have to use restrooms of a nearby restaurant or rush home,” said a female resident.Earlier, the city was declared Open Defecation Free (ODF) and violators would be charged a fine of Rs 500, the residents complain that the local administration has failed to create basic amenities for the city residents and tourists.“As the infrastructure is inadequate, the ODF status is just a hollow claim. The municipal corporation must make arrangements for opening of all urinal booths,” said another resident Sumit Kumar.As some of the booths are lying locked and others are unusable due to unhygienic conditions, men in city can often be seen urinating alongside the walls. Many people who stay out of their homes like shopkeepers, workers, rickshaw pullers, auto-rickshaw drivers have to use the washrooms during the day. But as these are not available, they are forced to find secluded places.Residents say while a considerable amount of money is being spent for beautification of the city, a little concern should also be shown towards creating basic amenities for the general public. “The facilities for general public use as washrooms and waiting shelters are in shambles. Even there are no portable water spots in the city. One has to buy a bottle for the purpose. For a smart city, all these facilities should be the top priority,” said another resident Kewal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/public-toilet-booths-lying-locked-in-amritsar-129665
22-08-2020||Amritsar||IIM to hold webinar on life beyond Covid||As the world is grappling to come to terms with the “new normal” set by the Covid-19 pandemic, IIM Amritsar in collaboration with the Punjab Government, is going to host a webinar on the theme “Life Beyond Covid-19: Institutionalising the New Normal in Health and Well-being” on August 29.The webinar is being organized to address healthcare and mental health-related concerns of people from Punjab and the rest of India. Talking about this webinar, Prof Nagarajan Ramamoorthy, Director IIM, Amritsar, said, “We have decided to open the registration for the webinar to all. We want the people of Punjab to have access to relevant and accurate information directly from experts working on vaccine development, telemedicine and mental health issues,” the director said.The event would commence with Captain Amarinder Singh, delivering opening remarks and providing insights on the way forward for healthcare in Punjab. The event brings eminent personalities and experts from the field of medical science to share their thoughts on how we could look after our health and productivity. The panellists for the event include Dr Krishna M Ella, chairman and MD, Bharat Biotech International Limited. His company has successfully developed COVAXIN™, India’s 1st vaccine candidate for Covid-19, in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), National Institute of Virology (NIV). Other panellists include Dr Bhatti, director, CMC Ludhiana; Dr Rakesh Chaddha, professor and head, department of psychiatry, AIIMS New Delhi; Dr Santosh Chaturvedi, head, department of mental health education, NIMHANS.The registration is open for all on IIM Amritsar website. The last date for the registration is August 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-to-hold-webinar-on-life-beyond-covid-129667
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Khalsa College students shine in IKGPTU exams||Twenty-eight students from Khalsa College of Engineering and Technology (KCET) bagged merit positions in various exams conducted by IK Gujral Punjab Technical University. “Seven of our students ranked first,” informed Dr Manju Bala, Director Principal, KCET.“Those who stood first include Ritik Chouhan, Kirti Devi, Navneet Kaur, Manpreet Kaur, Mehakdeep Kaur, Sukhwinder Singh and Parminder Singh. Apart from this, two students Manpreet Singh (Computer Science and Engineering) and Kulwinder Singh (Electronics and Communication Engineering,) ranked third in the university,” said Bala.She said Jaspinder Kaur and Satish Kumar bagged 4th position while Amritpal Singh, Jaspal Singh, Simran, Monica Devi, Amritanjali, Neha, Amritpal Singh, Harpreet Kaur, Karamjit Kaur, Shivam Kumar, Simranjit Kaur, Arjun Singh Virdi, Vansh Yadav, Muskaan, Navjot Kaur and Chanchal Sharma, were in top 10.Meanwhile, seven students of Global Group of Institutes secured first rank in the IKGPTU exams. Students include Robin Dua of 3rd semester BTech(CSE),Palak Gupta of 1st semester BTech(IT), Ramanpreet Kaur of 7th semester BTech(IT), Prabhnoor Kaur and Jaspreet Kaur of 1st semester of bachelor of hotel management and catering, Zubair Ahmed Wagay of 1st semester of bachelor of medical lab sciences and Sandeep Kaur of 1st semester of master of hotel management and catering. Besides this, students of Global Group of Institutes held 74 merit positions in various disciplines. Dr Akashdeep Singh, vice chairman, Global Group of Institutes, congratulated the students, their parents and faculty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-students-shine-in-ikgptu-exams-129670
22-08-2020||Amritsar||Unauthorised printing of ‘birs’ of Guru Granth Sahib in Canada sparks row||The printing of Guru Granth Sahib ‘birs’, allegedly by Canada-based NRIs, has sparked a controversy as it has challenged the Akal Takht’s verdict.The Akal Takht had authorised the SGPC and DSGMC to have exclusive legal rights to print ‘birs’, in order to prevent “blasphemous” acts by private publishers. The SGPC has its publication wing in Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib in Amritsar while the DSGMC has set up a printing press in Gurdwara Rakabganj Sahib in Delhi.The SGPC and DSGMC are also the authorised suppliers of ‘birs’ to Sikhs outside of India, through sea or air route, under strict norms of ‘rahat maryada’.However, reports have surfaced that two NRIs have set up a printing press in British Columbia and as of today, they have supposedly printed over a dozen copies to test their venture. It was alleged that when they were questioned by the local religious organisations and devotees, they were told that it was all done after procuring permission from the SGPC.Outrightly rejecting it, SGPC’s general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said no individual or organisation or trust was given the permission to publish ‘birs’ in any part of the world. Only the ones that figured in the Akal Takht’s verdict were authorised.“There were reports that a representative of Satnam Education Trust in Canada claimed to have got written permission from the SGPC to publish ‘birs’, but it is factually incorrect. All these claims are a ‘white lie’ and they have been misguiding the devotees and defying the Akal Takht edict in this regard,” he said. Though, in 2015, a proposal was mooted by the SGPC, under the leadership of Avtar Singh Makkar, to allow printing facility at British Columbia so as to cater to the increasing demand among the Sikh diaspora, it never fructified.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unauthorised-printing-of-birs-of-guru-granth-sahib-in-canada-sparks-row-129553
