22-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab approves world bank-supported US$ 286 million canal water supply project for Amritsar, Ludhiana||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved a US$ 285.71 million project for canal-based water supply for Amritsar and Ludhiana cities under World Bank financing.The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) would finance US$ 200 million (70%) and Punjab Government US$ 85.71 million (30%), as per the proposal mooted by the Local Government department for the adoption of Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) under Punjab Municipal Services Improvement Project.A decision to this effect was taken in a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh held through video conferencing.The project would have four components including strengthening urban and water supply service management with a total cost of US$ 11.61 million, improving water supply infrastructure at US$ 240.38 million, besides Land Acquisition and Rehabilitation & Resettlement involving the cost of US$ 15.62 million, COVID-19 crisis response to the tune of US$ 10 million and project management at US$ 7.6 million, in addition to Front End Fee of US$ 0.5 million.The Punjab Government had, in June 2018, through Government of India’s Department of Economic Affairs (DEA), requested the World Bank to support Punjab for implementing 24X7 canal-based water supply projects in Amritsar and Ludhiana.With Technical Assistance (TA) from the World Bank, the pre-feasibility reports were prepared for both cities in 2015 and updated in 2019, which proposed the need to migrate from rapidly depleting and contaminated decentralized groundwater sources to a centralized treated surface water source.A spokesperson of the Chief Minister’s Office said that the RPF lays down procedures and measures to ensure adequate accountability and transparency in the process of assessing land-related impacts.A fair process will be put in place for acquiring land and for compensating those adversely impacted due to replacement cost as described in ESS5 of World Bank, to improve or at least restore their livelihoods and standards of living to pre-project levels.According to World Bank’s ESS5, involuntary resettlement instruments, i.e. the compensation, will be based on the replacement cost.For the vulnerable groups, additional support in terms of skill development and training will also be provided.The spokesperson further said that the entire engagement would be under the framework of the State Partnership between the Punjab Government and the World Bank.The project would invest in bulk water infrastructure, establish new institutional models for Water Supply & Sanitation (WSS) service delivery, and also strengthen financial sustainability and customer orientation in WSS delivery.Additionally, the project would extend flexible just-in-time resources and capacity support to the Punjab government and Municipal Councils across the state to tackle some of the critical challenges arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, especially strengthening city-level response and focusing on frontline service providers.The land requirement for construction of Water Treatment Plants (WTPs) along with treated Water Collection Tanks and Pumping Stations close to the canals in Amritsar and Ludhiana stands at 40 acres and 50 acres respectively.In Amritsar, the land has been acquired along the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) of village Vallah by the Land Acquisition Collector through a negotiated cost of Rs.36.40 crore. In Ludhiana, the land has been identified near village Rampur and the acquisition through negotiation is in progress.No additional land requirement is envisaged for transmission network as alignment is to be along roads and right of way from the WTP to Overhead Service Reservoirs (OHSRs).The OHSRs/Under Ground Service Reservoirs (UGSRs) shall be constructed in the available public land belong to Municipal Corporation and other Government agencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-approves-world-bank-supported-us-286-million-canal-water-supply-project-for-amritsar-ludhiana-116419
22-07-2020||Neha Saini||Harman tops Amritsar district with 99.5%, shares 2nd spot in Punjab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 21The PSEB Class XII results again had girls sharing the top spots with Harman Sharma emerging as the district topper by scoring 99.5 per cent marks in humanities.Harman is a student of Government Senior Secondary School, Naushera. She scored 448 marks out of 450 and shared the second spot in the state with other students.Other toppers include Vanshika Bhatia, a student of non-medical stream from DAV Senior Secondary School, Hathi Gate, who scored 98.8 per cent marks, and Ripandeep Kaur, a student of Guru Nanak Public School, Mehta, who also scored 98.8 per cent marks in medical stream.Ripandeep’s father Amrit Singh is a taxi driver and expressed happiness over his daughter’s achievement. “She has done us proud and I will support her education all throughout,” he said. Ripandeep wants to become a doctor.Vanshika’s elder brother Anmol Bhatia, who is a national-level karate player, said Vanshika’s result was a fruit of her hard work and patience.Vanshika wants to pursue a career in administrative services. Her father Manish Bhatia is a businessman, who she said was her biggest support, and her mother Rekha is a housewife. Manpreet Kaur from Khalsa College Girls Senior Secondary School (KCGSSS) scored 98.4 per cent marks in arts stream and was among the toppers in the city. Manpreet, too, wants to pursue her dream of becoming an IAS officer.Hard work pays offHarman Sharma stood out as the district topper by scoring 99.5 per cent marks in the PSEB Class-XII examinations. A hard worker, as her mother shared, Harman aspires to become an IAS or an IPS officer, but her immediate goal is to secure a seat in English Honours at GNDU. “I am overwhelmed with my result. I was not expecting such good marks. I now want to focus on my higher education,” she said.Her mother, Seema Sharma, who is a government schoolteacher, said she was proud that Harman had scored so well without any tuition or coaching. “It’s a misconception that government schools are not on a par with expensive, private schools in terms of education. I have three daughters and all of them have been educated at government schools. Harman’s success will help improve the mindset that government schools also offer best of education and have qualified teachers,” she said. Harman’s father Manmohan Sharma works as a medical representative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harman-tops-amritsar-district-with-99-5-shares-2nd-spot-in-punjab-116037
22-07-2020||---||Farmers protest outside MP’s residence||Amritsar, July 21Farmer activists, under the banner of Kisan Majdoor Sangarsh Committee, staged a protest outside the residence of Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla over the issuance of three ordinances related to agriculture last month.The government has issued three notifications; Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance.Farmer activists claimed that instead of empowering the farmers, the three ordinances would in fact result in corporatisation of agriculture and exploitation of farmers. Kisan-Majdoor Sangarsh Committee General Secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said, “Our purpose to protest outside the residence of Congress MP is to press upon him to oppose the three bills whenever it comes to voting in the Parliament after the duration of ordinance is over.”He said BJP leaders were giving statements and farmers were being misguided by the vested interests. “We want to make it clear that nobody is misguiding us. We understand these ordinances and know that these are not in the interest of farmers,” said Pandher.Another farmer leader Gurbachan Singh Chabba said, “Though the MSP for maize is around Rs 1,800 per quintal, it was sold for merely Rs 1,200 in Punjab. The government claims to provide MSP of a number of crops but in Punjab it is practically available on rice and wheat only. In many other states, MSP is given on other crops but not on wheat and rice.” He demanded that each and every farmer in every state gets the MSP for all the crops notified by the government.Meanwhile, Gurjit Singh Aujla stated that the Congress party had also opposed the three ordinances. He said farmers should protest outside the homes of SAD and BJP leaders and ask them to explain their position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-outside-mps-residence-116039
22-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Senior health official, 16 BSF jawans among 34 test positive for Covid-19 in Amirtsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 21The coronavirus continues to spread its tentacles in the district. With 34 more people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, the count of positive cases in the district increased to 1,334. The number of active cases was 260.The new patients include a senior official of the Health Department and 16 BSF jawans. Fortunately, the district reported no deaths in the past 24 hours.The Civil Surgeon, Navdeep Singh, said a total of 46 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the past 24 hours after recovery. A total of 1,010 patients have defeated the virus so far.Of the new cases, 15 are persons with influenza-like illness (ILI), one each reported from Azad Nagar (Chehharta), BSF battalion posted at Khasa, Ranjitpura (Putlighar), Tara Singh Colony, Aman Avenue, Gate Hakeema, Civil Surgeon Office, Beauty Avenue, Friend Avenue (Majitha Road), Khalsa Avenue, Green Field Avenue, Harar (Ajnala), Khiala (Ram Tirath), Shakti Nagar and Amarkot. Besides, two ILI cases have been reported from Green Avenue.The remaining 19 patients were contacts of Covid patients and 15 of them were from 88 Battalion of the BSF posted at Khasa. Two Covid contacts each from Green Avenue and Partap Nagar tested positive.Meanwhile, Amritsar-II SDM Shivraj Singh Bal began a magisterial probe into the swapping of bodies of Covid patients at Government Medical College (GMC) here. The SDM visited the mortuary at the hospital and checked the duty roster. He also met Medical Superintendent Raman Sharma. The SDM said statements of all employees on duty on the day of the incident would be recorded in the coming days.The incident came to light on July 18, after the family members of Pritam Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur who had died of Covid-19 at GMC, received the body of a city-based woman named Padma who also died of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/senior-health-official-16-bsf-jawans-among-34-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-amirtsar-116041
22-07-2020||Amritsar||Married woman ends life, husband arrested||A married woman identified as Komal (24) committed suicide after allegedly being harassed by her husband and in-laws here on Monday. The Division C police have arrested her husband Akash Arora, a resident of the Gurbaksh Nagar area.Along with him, the police have also booked his mother Jyoti Arora on the charges of abetment to suicide. She has not been arrested till now.Naresh Kumar, father of the victim, stated to the police that Komal was married to Akash in 2016 and the couple also had a boy Alivash (2). He said Akash used to beat his daughter and had also thrown her out of the house. He said he sought the intervention of panchayat members several times in order to solve their issue.He alleged that the accused had illicit relations with another woman. Therefore, he did not care about Komal. He added that Akash and his mother used to physically assault her over trivial issues. He said now the victim was living with him. He claimed that perturbed over this, his daughter committed suicide in the wee hours yesterday by hanging herself with the ceiling of her room.Gulwinder Singh, in-charge, investigating office, said a case had been registered against Akash and his mother Jyoti. He confirmed the arrest of Akash. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/married-woman-ends-life-husband-arrested-116042
22-07-2020||---||Junior assistant booked for fraud||Phagwara, July 21The Vigilance Bureau (VB) on Tuesday registered a criminal case against Sandeep Mittar, a junior assistant at the Improvement Trust office, Phagwara, for tempering with government records.Sandeep collected money on official receipts but did not deposit it with the treasury of the Improvement Trust. He also forged signatures of the Executive Officer while executing registries in the revenue office. — Diljinder Dhillon, SSP (Vigilance)SSP, Jalandhar Range (Vigilance), Diljinder Dhillon said the case had been registered at VB police station here on the basis of a complaint by Trust Chairman Sohan Lal Banga. He said Sandeep tempered with the records and receipts and committed fraud with the government, causing financial loss to the state exchequer. On investigation, it was found that Sandeep had collected money on official receipts but did not deposit it with the treasury, the SSP said. Besides, he forged signatures of the Executive Officer while executing registries in the revenue office.“So far, we have found an embezzlement of a few lakh rupees, but this could be just the tip of an iceberg. We received a complaint that two receipts worth Rs25,000 each had been issued under his signatures but the corresponding amount has not been deposited in the treasury. On checking record, we also found copies of two drafts of Rs35,000 each but neither had any receipt been issued nor had the amount been entered in the Trust’s account,” said Dhillon.The Vigilance team also found that Sandeep was also involved in making recoveries for dues from various property holders of the Trust. He had also been dealing with the collection of instalments for various commercial and residential schemes of the civic body. He had also reportedly fudged the signatures of the EO while issuing ‘intkal’ after registry of plot holders, wherein he himself stood during photography with the Sub Registrar in all cases.The SSP said records of the past three to four years when Sandeep served as junior assistant would be scanned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/junior-assistant-booked-for-fraud-116044
22-07-2020||Amritsar||Firing case: CP marks probe to ADCP Chahal||Commissioner of Police (CP) Sukhchain Singh Gill on Tuesday marked a probe into allegations of weak FIR registered against a notorious criminal and alleged delay in registering the case under influence from a local political leader.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP) Sartaj Singh Chahal would investigate the case. The probe was marked after the victims Anil Bhandari and Rajesh Kumar appeared before the CP today.Around three weeks after a firing incident on the Bhai Manjh Singh road, the police on Sunday registered a case against a notorious criminal and his associates . Nevertheless, the complainants had expressed their dissatisfaction over the FIR while alleging the Sultanwind police were working under the influence of a local MLA. According to the victims, the police registered a weak FIR against Saba, Manjot Singh, Raja, Captain, Navi, Deepu and eight other unknown persons.Bhandari alleged that the police deliberately did not include sections regarding firing with illegal weapons and criminal trespass even as they had mentioned everything in their written complaints. He said he along with his several friends, was having a party at a resort where the accused barged in, indulged in firing and injured them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-case-cp-marks-probe-to-adcp-chahal-116045
22-07-2020||Tarn Tarn||Sarpanch escapes unhurt in firing||Local DAV unit of PCCTU electedAmritsar: As per the directive of the Punjab and Chandigarh College Teachers Union (PCCTU), a local unit in DAV College was elected on Monday. Teachers from various faculties have been elected for the unit. Gurdas Singh Sekhon has been elected as the president, BB Yadav is secretary, staff council, Prof GS Sidhu is the vice-president, Munish Gupta is the unit secretary, Dr Malkiat Singh is the joint secretary and Prof Rajesh Mittu is the finance secretary. For the executive committee, Prof Vikram Sharma, Prof Ullas Chopra, Dr Vikram Chaudhary, Dr Ritu Arora and Prof Puneet Sharma have been elected. Prof Ravi Sharma and Dr Kiran Khanna have been elected as the members of the Amalgamated Fund Committee. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarpanch-escapes-unhurt-in-firing-116047
22-07-2020||Our Correspondent||With 98.6%, Veena tops Tarn Taran district||Tarn Taran, July 21Girl students in the border belt have bagged the top three positions in the district in the results of Class XII declared by the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Tuesday.Satnam Singh Bath, District Education Officer (DEO), said Veena Kaur of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Patti, topped the district with 98.6 per cent marks, followed by Simarjit Kaur of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Valtoha, with 98.44 per cent marks. Harmanpreet Kaur of Government Senior Secondary School, Kot Budha, bagged the third position with 98 per cent marks.The DEO said of 9,996 students who appeared in the exam in the district, 9,177 cleared these, giving 91.81% results.Baba Gurmukh Singh Uttam Singh Senior Secondary School, Khadoor Sahib, reported 100 per cent results, with six students of the school obtaining above 95 per cent marks and 34 students scoring above 90 per cent marks. Beerinder Singh Pannu, principal of the school, said Simranpreet Kaur obtained 97.1 per cent marks, Gurleen Kaur scored 96.4 per cent marks and Kusampreet Kaur got 96.22 per cent marks in the science stream. In the commerce stream, Jaspal Kaur obtained 96.9 per cent marks, Judgebir Singh scored 96.7 per cent marks and Gursharn Kaur got 95.1 per cent marks.Shah Harbans Singh International Public School, Rani Wallaha, also reported 100 per cent results, said Gulwinder Singh Sandhu, managing director of the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-98-6-veena-tops-tarn-taran-district-116048
22-07-2020||---||GNDU Amritsar declares results of intermediate classes||Amritsar, July 21Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has declared results of the intermediate classes of all courses having credit-based evaluation and grading system, semester system and annual system, in accordance with the instructions of the Government of Punjab. The results have been uploaded on the university website. Students can check/download their results by visiting the university website. The gazettes are also available on the university website.Prof SS Behl, Dean Academic Affairs, said after declaring the results, the university had also released the admission schedule for existing students who have been promoted to the next semesters. The admission schedule for different courses have also been sent by email to all teaching departments of the GNDU Campus, regional campuses at Jalandhar and Gurdaspur and all the colleges affiliated to the university.The university has also begun the online conduct of classes for the new semester. Four workshops were specially organised with the help of the experts to train the faculty members for taking online classes effectively for the forthcoming academic session. The infrastructure for conducting online classes has also been put in place. Online classes for the existing students have already been started with effect from July 20 in Guru Nanak Dev University campus and its regional campuses at Jalandhar and Gurdaspur in order to ensure completion of syllabus in time.The university has also offered services of Computer Engineering Department of Guru Nanak Dev University Campus, Amritsar, to provide strategic support if required by the colleges. The offline cases will commence as and when the instructions are received from Government of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-amritsar-declares-results-of-intermediate-classes-116049
22-07-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Weekend lockdown proving to be a hurdle in resumption of business’||GS BEDI, president of Amritsar Poultry Industry Association, expounds on how the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid pandemic has left the poultry industry in tatters. In an interview with Charanjit Singh Teja, he brings to light the hardships being faced by the industry as it awaits for a helping hand from the Centre. Excerpts:How deeply has the lockdown affected the poultry industry?Poultry business has been hit badly. Initially, when the curfew was announced, we were unable to visit our farms which led to major losses. A major problem of arranging feed (grains and corns) for the birds was faced and was bought at exorbitant prices. If feed was not arranged in time, a large number of birds would have perished. Nevertheless, many of our birds have died. Then, there were rumours flying about poultry birds that it spreads the virus. The poultry farming was a flourishing business before, but due to such rumors, the demand for eggs and broilers plummeted. We were producing a bird on cost of Rs 80 but sold it for Rs 10 in rural areas. A number of farm owners also sold their lands to save the business. There was a loss of about Rs 70 crore during the first week of the curfew only in Amritsar.The weekend lockdown is a major hurdle in the revival of the business as most of the people prefer to cook chicken on weekend. The business may recover but what about the losses? They aren't going to recover. GS Bedi, President of Amritsar Poultry Industry AssociationWhat is your view on resumption of business in near future?It is an unorganised business and there is no government help till the date. The hotels and restaurants are shut, big marriage functions and gatherings are not allowed, rehris and street food joints selling boiled eggs and chicken snacks are barred on Sundays - all of this has severely hit the poultry demand. The weekend curfew is a major hurdle in the revival of the business as most of the people prefer to cook chicken on weekend. The business may recover but what about the losses? They aren't going to recover.Has easing of restrictions been a boon for your business?After the unlocking of the lockdown, demand of poultry birds have started to rise and we have managed a good price. But still, it is the issue of demand and supply. We reduced the number of birds up to 70 per cent. Now, we have capacity of 10,000 birds but are keeping only 3,000 birds to get the good price.Are the employers paying salaries to their staff?There is an average of three workers in a farm having 10,000 birds. We need a person for every 3,000 birds to look after. Even amid the crisis, we paid the salaries to labour as livestock needs to be checked upon every second minute. It was the reason that most of the migrant workers in our industry stayed with us.What is the scope of online trade in the industry?There is not much scope of online trade in this line of business.How would you term the current crisis, as a challenge or an opportunity?There is a life circle of poultry birds. We deal in two segments. One is chicken and other is egg. The lockdown had disrupted the cycle. The hatcheries reduce the production of chicks. It needs 35 days for a mature chicken. It is the major challenge to revive the cycle. It could have been a bit easy if marriages and large-scale gatherings were allowed since 60 per cent of consumption is at marriage places, restaurants and hotels. The market in Jammu and Kashmir revived, hopefully the domestic market shall also revive.Have you received any help from the government?There is no help from the government. The Centre only offered loans and not packages. We need a loan without interest. A number of farmers have already taken loans from banks. Their interests should be exempted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/weekend-lockdown-proving-to-be-a-hurdle-in-resumption-of-business-116050
22-07-2020||---||Amritsar district improves on its performance record||Amritsar, July 21The district has improved on its previous year’s performance in the PSEB Class-XII examinations, the results of which were declared here on Tuesday. This year’s pass percentage was 92.22% from the district as compared to last year’s 82.66%, with an increase in number of students securing marks above 90 per cent.A total of 22,000 students sat for Class XII PSEB exams this year. The performance of girls was better than boys in the district as a majority of toppers were girls.Apart from the fact that this year’s results were assessed on a new format considering that a few exams were cancelled due to Covid-19, District Education Officer Satinder Bir Singh said ‘Mission Shat Pratishat’ launched across the state also helped in improving students’ performance.“We initiated focused and targeted education of students according to their academic potential. The entire year, teachers made efforts to enhance the academic performance of students,” he said, adding that good results this year would help change the mindset that government schools lag behind private schools.“Contrary to the popular belief, government schoolteachers are far more qualified and skilled than private schoolteachers and we also have necessary infrastructure to ensure quality education. The mindset is only due to the larger social class divide, but we hope our students, with their performance and academic success, will definitely bring in a change.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-improves-on-its-performance-record-116051
22-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||As lockdown eases, it’s survival of the fittest for auto drivers, rickshaw-pullers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 21Life for these people was already hard. The difficulty level of sustaining a livelihood further cranked up when coronavirus came in like a wreaking ball and left them on the edge. The circumstances had never been more dire. Now, as the lockdown has been eased a bit the autorickshaw drivers and rickshaw-pullers, who are among the self-employed section to have suffered dearly, are still reeling from the losses as earning has curtailed upon resumption of activities.The economic concept of demand and supply is being effectively implied leaving them gasping for customers. The educational institutions are closed, and students were the major source of their daily bread. Apart from this, buses of public transport BRTS is also being plied on roads further chipping away the customers.But a close look would reveal that at the heart of theproblem lies the changed behaviour pattern of passengers. Either they prefer their own vehicles or have cut down on unnecessary travels. So, there are limited customers out there who are free to choose the mode of transport that appeals them. And sharing an auto with others, well, would be at the bottom of their list – the fear of catching the virus is deep rooted. While, rickshaws were already phasing out even before the pandemic hit. “I never seen such a long dry season while driving autos on the city roads for the past 25 years. All educational institutes are closed and has taken away a big chunk of our passengers,” points out Avtar Singh, a 40-year-old three-wheeler driver.Moreover, the passengers consist of mainly maids working in houses, workers and others who insist on paying a fare at Rs 10 per seat, which is not viable as an auto can not allow more than three passengers to sit. Then there those paying Rs 20 per seat but are adamant to maintain complete social distance in the auto, painting a picture of division in the society.Rajbir Singh, 45, who has been pulling rickshaw for the past 20 years, says: “Since majority of migrants left for their native places their number drastically came down in pedalling rickshaws. Similarly, peers living in nearby villages of the town did not join rickshaw-pulling this time as they found ample work in fields.”Thus, it is natural to see auto drivers and rickshaw pullers swarming around any prospective customer — perhaps their bread and butter.Speaking outHigh fuel cost made the operational cost of diesel-run autos go up as they were not allowed to board more than three passengers during a ride. All passengers are not ready to pay more. Avtar SinghRestrictions changed priorities of people. They remain suspectful of people and objects in their surroundings. They argue over small things without taking care of the needs of rickshaw pullers. Rajbir SinghI daily commute in an auto from my house in the Islamabad area to my workplace in the Hall Gate area. Auto drivers are now asking for Rs30/ride as they claim that they can no longer meet expenses. Rajinder KumarI availed the rickshaw ride on this Monday and found the rikshaw-puller asking for mediocre rates. Earlier, they used to ask for Rs50 for even a small ride prompting them to haggle. Pawan Sharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-lockdown-eases-its-survival-of-the-fittest-for-auto-drivers-rickshaw-pullers-116052
22-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Dysfunctional storm water sewer system floods misery on residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 21Every time the monsoon arrives the city residents are flooded with joy. But that is limited. Because soon, almost all the storm water sewerage lines here open up the drain of misery upon people — especially when it rains cats and dogs — and reveals the ugly side of the holy city. In the low-lying areas of the old walled city, it sometimes takes a day or two before the roads are cleared of water. The system needs an immediate overhaul.Arjan Singh, a resident of Putlighar area, says, “We cannot even enjoy rain as it is constant reminder of the trouble we would be facing. If it is a downpour we are worried that the water might enter our homes and shops.”The problem of waterlogging is also witnessed in areas as Mall road, Lawrence road, GT road (near Khalsa College) and other places. Even though at the time of construction of dedicated corridor for Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS), the new storm sewerage was installed alongside its 30km route. However, the water still seeps into the BRTS corridors and the main road.In summers, as the monsoon brings a little respite from the heat, it also spills alot of trouble as people have to wade through deluged pathways. Arjan goes on: “In recent years government has claimed to have splurged on beautification projects but has failed to provide for basic needs of the city residents.”The practice of covering old nullahs in the city, which helped in clearing the localities of rainwater, by the government and illegal encroachments alongside these drains have blocked the natural flow of water. The old timers claim that the problem of waterlogging was non-existent earlier due to availability of these nullahs.Since the city has a natural decline towards the Golden Temple, the problem of waterlogging is more acute in these areas. In the last SAD-BJP government, an amount of approximately Rs 300 crore was spent for the beautification of streets under Golden Temple Heritage Street project. Though, the streets are now a delight for the eyes but wait until a downpour descends — It is no less than a nightmare afterwards.The area residents question the proper planning and decision-making of the government. They feel that the area of needs should have been addressed first and the rest could have come later. “Even due to manifold increase in population and with many hotels operating from the area, the sewerage system for waste is too small so choking of sewers is a frequent problem,” says Satwant Singh, an elderly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dysfunctional-storm-water-sewer-system-floods-misery-on-residents-116053
22-07-2020||---||Confusion reigns supreme in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur, July 21Confusion reigned supreme over the toppers in the district as the PSEB failed to release the merit list for Class XII results, which were declared on Tuesday. Students of Golden Senior Secondary School excelled in science stream.Dolly, who stood second in Punjab in the matriculation exam and who was imparted free education by the school management, secured 97.5 per cent marks. School chairman Dr Mohit Mahajan said the school would sponsor her studies in future too!“We have always supported students who are bright and come from poor families. Dolly has made us proud. She is an excellent martial arts exponent. I have told her parents that we will bear the cost of her education in future too,” said Mohit. Dolly’s classmate, Sukhman, secured 94.6 per cent marks. Others who excelled are Arvshi Mahajan (94.2), Sparsh (94), Sahil (93.3) and Shriya and Tanjot (both 92.6).In the commerce stream, Himanshu and Kirandeep topped the school. Both bagged 90.22 per cent marks. In the arts stream, Amandeep Kaur topped the school by getting 90.4 per cent marks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/confusion-reigns-supreme-in-gurdaspur-116054
22-07-2020||Chandigarh||67 BSF men in Hoshiarpur, 16 in Amritsar test positive||Hoshiarpur district today witnessed a big spike with 80 new Covid-19 cases. As many as 67 of them are personnel from the BSF Sub-Training Centre, Kharkan Camp, and the remaining 13 are from Garhshankar. These cases were not included in the state media bulletin, according to which, 381 fresh cases and two deaths were reported in the state.The total number of Covid-19 cases has reached 10,889. With two deaths in the last 24 hours, the state count of casualties has reached 263. One death each was reported from Ludhiana and Patiala.In Ludhiana, a 53-year-old woman lost her life and 63 more tested positive for Covid. Among those who tested positive in the district included two doctors. In Amritsar, 56 more tested positive for Covid-19. The new patients included a senior official of the Health Department and 16 BSF jawans of the 88 Battalion posted at Khasa. Punjab Agricultural University has been closed till July 24 after a senior assistant tested positive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/67-bsf-men-in-hoshiarpur-16-in-amritsar-test-positive-116080
