22-10-2020||GS Paul||Farmers seize paddy laden trucks from UP in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22As many as 26 trucks loaded with paddy from Uttar Pradesh were seized by the farmers sitting on protest against the farm legislations on the National Highway near Amritsar, in the past 24 hours.The paddy lot arriving “illegally” from UP’s Aligarh, Bulandshahr and Sitarganj was ordered by the rice mills of Amritsar and Tarn Taran.Rajewala sarpanch Dilbagh Singh said 20 trucks were intercepted on Wednesday and six during the wee hours of Thursday.He said the trucks caught their fancy after one of the truck drivers stopped to enquire about a mill.“We were bewildered to know that the truck was loaded with paddy from UP. They told us that thousands of paddy filled trucks from UP were heading towards Punjab. We have detained the drivers and operators and will not let them go unless police files FIR against the suppliers and the mill owners who ordered this illegal consignment,” he said.“After going through documents, we found that one of the truck operators managed to reach here without proper documentation. This proves the whole administrative and police machinery is involved in this illegal trading,” he said.Also read: MSP system under question after official-trader nexus comes to light in PunjabDilbagh Singh, who owned 10 acres of land, claimed that 1509 variety of paddy lot had been lying at his home for the want of buyers.He said that the paddy was being supplied illegally to “kill the Punjab’s mandi system” and make way for invasion of corporate houses.“In UP, the open market culture, against which we all have been protesting here, prevailed for long. Due to this, the farmers and traders look to selling their produce outside their state,” he said.Elaborating further, another agitating farmer Harjit Singh said that in UP, the paddy was available for Rs 900-1,200 per quintal, whereas in Amritsar mandi the minimum rate is between Rs 1,788-1,888 per quintal.“Going by the difference in procurement price (between Rs 500-700 per quintal), one truck load of paddy would fetch a profit of between Rs 2 lakh-Rs 2.5 lakh,” he said.Another farmer and press secretary of the Kirti Kisan Union Jaswinder Singh Chhina said that the quality of the UP produced crop was quite inferior to what was produced in Punjab.Truck driver Santosh Kumar, who hails from Aligarh, meanwhile, said that they were being harassed unnecessarily. “Neither the supplying firm in Aligarh is picking up the phone nor the receiver here. We have got stuck,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-seize-paddy-laden-trucks-from-up-in-amritsar-159536
22-10-2020||In their efforts towards saving the environment||Working for a healthy, green environment||Mahila Kisan Divas celebratedThe Krishi Vigyan Kendra at Booh village in Tarn Taran to boost the women folk in the agriculture field organised a ‘Mahila Kisan Divas‘ in Toot village under the theme “Role of women in agriculture, women empowerment, nutrition and income generation “. Dr Piverjeet Kaur Dhillon, assistant professor, in her key address stressed on the role of women in the agricultural and in allied sector. She enlightened the women regarding drudgery, reducing implement developed by various agricultural institutes in order to reduce physical as well as mental strain of farm women. She also discussed the role of food and nutrition in women’s income generation. A debate on establishment of entrepreneurship through promotion of nutritional aspect of food was conducted by Dr Bhanu Prakash. Dr Balwinder Kumar, assistant professor, said that scientists interacted with potential entrepreneurs and answered their queries regarding the setting up of a new venture and skill development in food processing and value addition for better earning and livelihood. Ranjeet Kaur from the Khalsa Self Help Group was awarded for her valuable services to the farm community during Covid-19 pandemic by distributing free face masks to the farmers.Edu Secy praises girl for English speaking skillAnmolpreet Kaur (pic), a Class XIth student of Government Senior Secondary School, Kirtowal, has developed her English speaking skill from all aspects, which is not less than the western style. She speaks English very fluently and with full confidence. She changes her physical style even to stress on a special point while speaking English. What is more important Anmolpreet had been reading in the village government school since her very primary education. Belongs to a Dalit family, her father is a building construction worker. She has learnt the art of speaking English through “English Booster Clubs” constituted in schools recently. Narinder Singh, principal of the school, said, “Anmolpreet is a very brilliant student who takes keen interest in her studies. She was given special coaching by the school English lecturer who developed her skills”. Her style of speaking English was observed by Krishan Kumar, Secretary Education, Punjab, who on his departmental Facebook page commented “Just cherish her pronunciation, speaking skill, gestures and above all the confidence level, kudos to Anmolpreet and her teachers”. The department says that her English language skills, could easily be gauged from video which is viral on the departmental site. The comments of the Secretary Education were enough for the brilliant student, said officials of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/working-for-a-healthy-green-environment-159426
22-10-2020||---||Martyrs remembered on Police Commemoration Day||Amritsar, October 21The city police and the Amritsar police (rural) paid rich tributes to the martyrs of the police and the paramilitary forces at separate programmes organised to mark Police Commemoration Day here on Wednesday.After paying tributes at Police Lines here, Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill informed that as many as 264 officers and jawans of the police and the paramilitary forces laid down their lives in the line of duty from September 1, 2019, to August 31, 2020. Assistant Commissioner of Police Riputapan Singh read all the names of martyrs.“I am feeling proud to be part of such a valiant force which fought with bravery to end militancy in Punjab. On this day, we reiterate our resolve to fulfill the unfulfilled works of our jawans,” he said.Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Joint Commissioner of Police Raj Bachan Singh Sandhu, Jagmohan Singh, Deputy Commissioner of Police, and other senior officials also paid tributes to the martyrs.Meanwhile, the Amritsar rural police, headed by Inspector General (Border Range) SPS Parmar and SSP Dhruv Dahiya, paid tributes at the police memorial at Police Line Amritsar Rural at Daburji. They observed a two-minute silence.Tarn Taran: Tributes poured in for the policemen, who laid down their lives in past fighting militancy, on the Police Commemoration Day organised here on Wednesday at the Police Lines.Jasbir Singh Dimpa, Lok Sabha member, in his address termed the days of militancy as the black days before recalling that peace and normalcy were possible with the great sacrifices of these bravehearts. He announced to release a grant of Rs5 lakh for the welfare of the policemen. He also inaugurated the ‘Central Police Canteen’ sanctioned for the policemen of the district in 2016.Hardial Singh Mann, DIG Ferozepur range, Dhruman H Nimbale, local SSP, Gurtnam Singh, SP (Headquarters), Jagjit Singh Walia were among the other who paid tributes. A total of 188 policemen from the rank of DIG to home guard and SPO’s were killed fighting against militancy. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/martyrs-remembered-on-police-commemoration-day-159425
22-10-2020||---||GNDU institutes three awards for researchers||Amritsar October 21In a time when the world is facing unparalleled uncertainty surrounding Covid, the life sciences sector is at the forefront globally in combating the spread and developing vaccines and treatments to slow the pandemic.Acknowledging the importance of research in life sciences, Guru Nanak Dev University’s Department of Botanical and Environmental Sciences has signed an MoU for three academic awards for scientists and researchers working in the fields of plant and environmental sciences that was approved earlier by Syndicate of the University.Acting as a catalyst in the integration of these awards, Prof Avinash Nagpal, a former faculty of the university with 40 years of academic experience, has pledged an endowment fund of Rs 15 lakh to the university. The interest of this amount shall be used to felicitate these awards every year.The first award is Prof IS Grover Lectureship Award, which is instituted in the name of her guide and mentor with an aim to pay tribute to all her teachers. “For this award, each year a reputed scientist shall be invited to the department, to share his/her recent scientific contributions with students and faculty. Other two awards are “Sardarni Darshan Kaur and Sardar Ram Singh Memorial Young Scientist Award in Plant Sciences” and “Sardarni Kuldip Kaur and Sardar Gurmukh Singh Memorial Young Scientist Award in Environmental Sciences”,” she said.A scorecard has been prepared to shortlist the applications and shortlisted candidates will be evaluated by external experts and best three candidates will be asked to defend their work to be judged by a committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-institutes-three-awards-for-researchers-159424
22-10-2020||---||Wages row: ETU to protest from today||Amritsar, October 21The Elementary Teachers Union (ETU) demanded revision of pay scales, warning that if their demands were not met with, they would continue holding protests across the state from October 22-31.According to a letter issued by state president of the organisation, Harjinderpal Singh Pannu, a typographical error occurred in last pay commission report submitted to the state government in 2009 that resulted in implementation of low pay scales for employees despite recommendations.The letter reads: “There was a typographical error in the scales of teachers that issued pay band of head teachers at Rs 5910-20200 +3000. It was not correct as the correct pay scale is Rs 10300-34800 + 4200. Similarly, CHT and BPEO’s grade pay is fixed at Rs 3,600 and 4,200 was not correct. The correct figure was Rs 4,600 and 5,000, respectively.”“These typographical errors were brought to the notice of the commission by the ETU at the time of implementation and the then Chief Minister had also directed the Chief Secretary to implement the amendments during a special meeting held in Gurdaspur.”Pannu said they have forwarded their request to the Finance Minister and demanded new scales, warning that if the government does not withdraw this letter immediately, the organisation will join hands with like-minded bodies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wages-row-etu-to-protest-from-today-159423
22-10-2020||---||Mayor hands over job letters to dependents of deceased staff||Amritsar, October 21On Wednesday, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with Commissioner Komal Mittal and Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi handed over appointment letters to the dependents of deceased employees of the Municipal Corporation on compassionate ground. A sub-committee comprising of councillor Pramod Babla, councillor Rajesh Madan, Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, DCFA Manu Sharma and Superintendent Rajinder Sharma had been constituted to provide jobs to the dependents of the deceased employees. Dependents of 104 deceased employees were interviewed out of which 86 cases were cleared and appointment letters were issued on Wednesday. The Mayor claimed that in the remaining cases the deficiencies were rectified and the appointment letters would be given after the approval of the sub-committee. The appointment letters were issued to 59 safai karamcharis, two servants, 16 belders, one sewerman, six workshop workers and two watchmen.Addressing on the occasion, Mayor Karamjit Singh said the Congress government had been working for employees’ welfare. “When I took over the charge of Mayor, Capt Amarinder Singh asked to always work for the betterment of the employees. We also have the responsibility of taking care of the families of the employees, who die in the line of duty. Immediately after the inception of the present MC House, a sub-committee was constituted to provide jobs to the dependents of the deceased employees and this committee had appointed 140 dependents till date”, said Karamjit Singh.Interacting with the newly appointed employees, the Mayor said that it was a great opportunity to get a government job and every employee should perform his duty with utmost sincerity and diligence. We have to increase the efficiency of the MC to better serve the city.Prominent among others who were present on the occasion included Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar, Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, councillors Pramod Babla, Rajesh Madan, Mahesh Khanna, Surinder Chaudhary, Sunil Konti, Gurpal Singh Happy, DCFA Manu Sharma, Health Officer Dr Yogesh Arora, Superintendent Rajinder Sharma, chief sanitary inspector, sanitary inspector officers of the Employees Unions and family members of the deceased employees were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-hands-over-job-letters-to-dependents-of-deceased-staff-159410
22-10-2020||---||Farmers won't stop goods trains||Amritsar, October 21Even as the rail roko agitation of farmer organisations continues, protesters have decided to allow the movement of goods trains following the Chief Minister’s appeal to give some relaxations in the protest. Farmer leaders said passenger trains would not be allowed to run. The rail roko programme would continue till November 5 and they would be meeting again on that day to chalk out the future course of action.As the agitation at the Buttari railway station entered the 21st day on Wednesday, the farmers passed a resolution demanding action against those smuggling paddy from Uttar Pardesh and other states.The protesters said traders in UP and Bihar were purchasing paddy at half of the MSP and then smuggling it into Punjab and Haryana, where the crop was again sold at the MSP.“The practice is not in the interest of farmers as during the data calculation, the paddy from UP is added to the total produce from Punjab. It gives inflated figures about per acre yield in our fields,” said farmer leaders.Meanwhile, the protest at toll plazas and petrol pumps operated by Reliance Group continues. As the toll operators have closed the fast tag intersections, long queues of vehicles can be seen on slip roads alongside the toll barriers.Though most farmer organisations have hailed the state Assembly’s move of passing three Bills to counter the farm laws enacted by the Union Government last month, some unions, especially the Kirti Kisan Union, have expressed dissatisfaction claiming that the state government’s laws are “toothless and will not benefit farmers in large”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-wont-stop-goods-trains-159416
22-10-2020||---||SGPC invites traders around Golden Temple||Amritsar, October 21In a noble gesture, the SGPC today extended an invitation to traders settled around the Golden Temple for the Parkash Purb celebrations of Guru Ram Dass, the fourth Sikh guru. To establish the base of the holy city, Guru Ram Dass had brought people from 52 trades and asked them to settle here.The SGPC has chalked out special programmes to commemorate the occasion beginning from October 31 when a nagar kirtan (religious procession) will be taken out from the Akal Takht at 12 noon.On November 1, special gurmat programmes, kirtan and raag darbar has been scheduled at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. On November 2, special ‘jalau’ (a show of splendour), showcasing precious and historic artefacts, will be displayed for sangat at Harmandar Sahib, the Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai. This will be followed by traditional fireworks.The SGPC has urged the traders to celebrate the occasion with its true spirit of ‘sifti da ghar’, maintain cleanliness around them, illuminate their surroundings and decorate their shops to mark the occasion. The shopkeepers have assured full cooperation to SGPC officials and expressed their commitment for cleanliness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-invites-traders-around-golden-temple-159419
22-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Potholed roads a bane for Transport Nagar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21Potholed roads with their margins filled with sand are a common sight as you enter Sardar Jai Inder Singh Transport Nagar, popularly known as Jahajgarh.Anantdeep Singh, a transporter, said some roads were repaired during the tenure of the then Chief Parliamentary Secretary (CPS), Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu, which were in a dilapidated state now. Major portions of the roads and parks had been encroached upon. Motorcyclists often faced the issue of breakdown of their vehicles.He said the Transporters’ Welfare Association, Amritsar, under the aegis of the All-India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), had submitted memorandums to the authorities on several occasions, but no action had been taken so far. The condition of the roads had turned from bad to worse.Even after light showers, it becomes a nightmare to enter the area and roads turn into pools. Locals said one of the internal roads led to the Ghee Mandi area and a number of motorists used the route on a daily basis. In the absence of any repair, the road had damaged further.The Transport Nagar was established in the early 1980s with the twin objectives of providing a planned transport area and to decongest the city. However, the administration has failed to shift repair workshops, goods carrier offices and booking offices of heavy vehicles to some other place.Rajesh Shoor, another transporter, said other dealers had occupied the area that was exclusively set up for transporters. There were 700 shops, vends and kiosks in the area and of these only 150 belonged to transporters.On the other hand, transport companies and workshops had come up in other parts of the city, leading to the congestion.Dinesh Bassi, chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), said some encroachments had been removed from the Jahajgarh area while the remaining would soon be removed. Two SDOs had been asked to chalk out a scheme and the Trust would invest Rs 10 crore under it for the overall development of its civic amenities, including roads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/potholed-roads-a-bane-for-transport-nagar-159406
22-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Soaring veggie prices dampen festive spirit||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 21Already battered by Covid, soaring vegetable prices have burnt holes in the pockets of common man in the undergoing festival season.The prices of potato, onions, tomatoes, peas, cauliflower, beans, bottle gourd, coriander, okra, arbi (colocasia) and bitter gourd witnessed an upward trend.With reduced income, residents are finding it difficult to manage the kitchen. A visit to the vegetable market revealed that the price of tomatoes is Rs 40 to Rs 60 per kg. Capsicum, which used to be sold at Rs 150 per kg, is now being sold at Rs 100 per kg. Similarly, gourd and bottle gourd, each are now being sold at Rs 50 per kg, which was earlier available at about Rs 30 per kg. The price of raddish has also increased from Rs 20 to 40 per kg and beans are being sold at Rs 80 per kg.The price of lady finger has increased from Rs 30 to Rs 60 per kg. Garlic is being sold at Rs 200 per kg and ginger at Rs 100 per kg. Swati Mahajan, a housewife, said high vegetable prices has already stretched the kitchen budget which was another blow to the families grappling with after effects of Covid-19 and lockdown. She added that on one hand, income had fallen down and on the other, expenses were rising.Charanjit Singh Batra, President of the Fruit and Vegetable Merchants Union, said the prices of vegetables would come down once the winter vegetables, grown in the region, would land in mandi. He added that the rate of cauliflower came down after the crop started arriving from the Dera Baba Nanak area. Earlier, it was being procured from Himachal Pradesh.He said the price of onion was in control as its harvest was arriving from Maharashtra and Afghanistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soaring-veggie-prices-dampen-festive-spirit-159407
22-10-2020||---||College teachers to undergo Covid testing, DAV takes lead||Amritsar, October 21As part of reopening and the standard operating procedures issued by the government, city colleges will also commence Covid testing drives on their campuses in the coming days.DAV College, Hathi Gate, has already got its teaching staff tested for the infection. “The reports of all staff members have been found to be negative,” said Principal Rajesh Kumar.He said they divided their staff members into two batches for a hassle-free testing. On October 15, 60 staff members were tested for Covid while the samples of 84 were taken on October 17. Other city colleges, including BBKDAV College and Khalsa College, are planning to launch similar drives in the coming days. District reports 50 fresh casesThe district on Wednesday reported 50 fresh cases of Covid and one fatality due to the infection. The deceased was a 93-year-old man from Bal Kalan village on the Majitha road. A total of 52 patients were recovered from the infection. The active case count stands at 287.Spokesperson for Khalsa College DS Rattaul said the college was partially open for teachers and students and was awaiting SOPs from Guru Nanak Dev University in this regard. “Currently, we have not made the Covid testing mandatory for our staff, but we do ask for a Covid negative certificate if any staff member joins after vacation or is newly appointed.”Earlier, when the schools were reopened for students of classes IX to XII on October 19, it was made mandatory for teachers to undergo the Covid testing. In Chheharta, students of Government Senior Secondary School were on Tuesday taken to the local health centre for the test. The instructions in this regard were given by the principal, though the children were tested only after the parental consent.“We don’t want to pass on the virus to our students. If this happens, the purpose of closing down educational institutions will be defeated,” said a teacher.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/college-teachers-to-undergo-covid-testing-dav-takes-lead-159408
22-10-2020||Our Correspondent
||3 of family killed in road accident||Tarn Taran, October 21  Three members of a family were killed in a road accident on National Highway 54, near Thathian Mahatan village, 18 km from here, in the wee hours of Wednesday.   The deceased have been identified as Narinder Singh (55), his wife Balwinder Kaur (50) and daughter Rajbir Kaur (18) of Sarhali Kalan village.  The victims (labourers) were going to a brick-kiln on their three-wheeled motorcycle.  Jagjit Singh, son of deceased Narinder Singh, said his parents and sister had left from the home around 5 am. He said his father and sister died on the spot and mother died on way to the hospital.   Jagjit said when he came back from the hospital blood stains and body parts were scattered at the accident site, which is part of a busy road. A police party reached the spot very late, he said. Despite repeated attempts, Baljit Singh Dhillon, SP (Traffic), could not be contacted as he did not respond to phone calls.   The Sarhali police have registered a case under Sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC. The bodies have been sent to the Civil Hospital for post mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-of-family-killed-in-road-accident-159409
22-10-2020||Amritsar||Death ‘natural’, no relief for siblings who lost father||The four siblings of Tarn Taran who lost their parents faced a double whammy when the state government refused them the compensation amount of Rs 5 lakh. They were declared ineligible on the basis of a police report that described their father’s death as a ‘natural incident’.Actor offers helpLearning about the development, Sonu Sood's friend Karan Gilhotra said they were ready to take care of the children, if their guardians permitted. “We have special arrangements at Matra Chaya Centre in Abohar. Their living and education expenses will be borne by us if their guardians agree,” he saidThe four — Karanbir (13), Gurpreet (11), Arshpreet (9) and Sandeep (5) — had lost their father Sukhdev Singh, a rickshaw-puller. The family claimed he died after consuming chemical-laced liquor on the intervening night of July 31 and August 1. Later, his wife Jyoti (32) died of shock.Their uncle Mewa Singh, a mechanic, said the bank accounts of children were opened as desired by the officials where the compensation was to be deposited. “Neither the compensation amount nor the pension was given to the children,” he said. SDM Rajnish Arora said, “The children were left out of the compensation as their father’s death was mentioned to be a natural one in the police report, but they will be getting the monthly pension after the formalities are completed.”SSP Dhruman Nimbale said, “The family never got the postmortem done which could have ascertained the cause of death. Our inquiry found it was a natural death.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/death-natural-no-relief-for-siblings-who-lost-father-159284
