22-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Work orders issued to six successful bidders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21Gurdev Singh’s experience of running a dhaba came in handy as his income from his business (selling ready-made clothes) dropped post lockdown recently.To supplement his income, Gurdev started a stall selling ‘chhole-bhature’ outside his family shop.Gurdev’s family used to run “Kale da dhaba’ in Putlighar area, which was closed years ago. “Things are improving gradually but not many people prefer to eat outside due to the threat of catching the disease,” he said. Gurdev is enjoying the new work, as he seems to have found cooking more rewarding than selling clothes.He adds: “Cooking is more of an art while selling clothes is a boring business. I have been experimenting with flavours these days to find out what tickles the taste buds of customers.”As most of the businesses have not recovered fully even after the relaxations in lockdown, Gurdev said he hopes the situation would become normal by the year-end. “The business has improved from what it used to be last year. If all goes well for two more months, people will be able to shun their fears,” he said.Singh said his family had closed the dhaba a few years ago due to losses. “Dhabas can be profitable near bus stands, railway stations or educational institutions. In other areas if people have to eat outside of their homes, they prefer restaurants,” he said.He said he plans to continue his ‘chhole-bhature’ stall even if his income from the readymade clothes shop improves gradually. “If the stall has come to my rescue during hard days, I know it will continue to do more good during better times. I will continue working at the stall,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-orders-issued-to-six-successful-bidders-174116
22-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||His dhaba experience came in handy to set up chhole-bhature stall||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21Gurdev Singh’s experience of running a dhaba came in handy as his income from his business (selling ready-made clothes) dropped post lockdown recently.To supplement his income, Gurdev started a stall selling ‘chhole-bhature’ outside his family shop.Gurdev’s family used to run “Kale da dhaba’ in Putlighar area, which was closed years ago. “Things are improving gradually but not many people prefer to eat outside due to the threat of catching the disease,” he said. Gurdev is enjoying the new work, as he seems to have found cooking more rewarding than selling clothes.He adds: “Cooking is more of an art while selling clothes is a boring business. I have been experimenting with flavours these days to find out what tickles the taste buds of customers.”As most of the businesses have not recovered fully even after the relaxations in lockdown, Gurdev said he hopes the situation would become normal by the year-end. “The business has improved from what it used to be last year. If all goes well for two more months, people will be able to shun their fears,” he said.Singh said his family had closed the dhaba a few years ago due to losses. “Dhabas can be profitable near bus stands, railway stations or educational institutions. In other areas if people have to eat outside of their homes, they prefer restaurants,” he said.He said he plans to continue his ‘chhole-bhature’ stall even if his income from the readymade clothes shop improves gradually. “If the stall has come to my rescue during hard days, I know it will continue to do more good during better times. I will continue working at the stall,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-dhaba-experience-came-in-handy-to-set-up-chhole-bhature-stall-174117
22-11-2020||---||This stretch is a picture of neglect||Amritsar, November 21Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) had sanctioned Rs 20 crore for re-carpeting of major roads in June this year, a few roads in the city are still facing neglect. A stretch of road from Marrian Wala Morh, Kot Khalsa, to Gurdwara Bohri Sahib, generally known as Bohri Sahib Road, is in a pathetic state.Residents of the area have been complaining about the poor condition of roads for long but to no avail. They complained that they were granted nothing concrete except fake promises.}The road got damaged a few years ago. Earlier, this stretch was riddled with large potholes. During monsoon, they used to get filled with rainwater, which used to render this road totally non-motorable. Many incidents have taken place on this stretch owing to its dilapidated state. Now, the authorities have laid stones on the road but there is no deadline for its re-carpeting.  —A Resident of Kot KhalsaDevotees visiting Gurdwara Sahib have to face a lot. Heera Singh, a resident of Kot Khalsa, said, “The road got damaged a few years ago. Earlier, there were large potholes on the road. These would get filled with rainwater, rendering it non-motorable and sometimes even leading to accidents. Now, the authorities have laid stones on the road but there is no deadline for its re-carpeting.”Harpreet Singh, another resident of area, said, “We often met the representatives of our area and officials and demanded re-carpeting of the road. They assure to re-carpet it.” Gurpreet Mintu, BJP leader and former councillors of the area, said, “Earlier, the road stretch from main chowk to Bohri Sahib had been recarpeted but it got damaged again. Now, they have announced to recarpet again but didn’t start yet.”Sukhbir Singh, Ward No. 78 councillor stated that the estimate for the maintenance of Bohri Sahib Road has been prepared. It would be recarpeted soon.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said: “We have recarpeted several roads and the remaining work would be undertaken within a few months. The government is committed for overall development of the city. No road would be ignored as there is no scarcity of funds.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-stretch-is-a-picture-of-neglect-174118
22-11-2020||---||Farmers’ protest at Butari railway station continues||Amritsar, November 21The ongoing protest by different farmers’ organisations on the issue of three farm laws, earlier passed by the Centre, entered the 52nd day at Butari railway station.The farmers stated that the shortage of urea, which is required for wheat crop should be made available at the earliest. They also stated that they had allowed entry of goods trains in the state after the appeal of the state government but Central Government had shown an indifferent attitude towards them by not sending the trains.Farmers are also sitting on protest at Gehri Mandi Railway station, at petrol pumps operated by Reliance, toll plazas and outside the residence of BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik. The farmer leaders stated that the protest against the government would continue.‘Fix shortage of urea’The farmers stated that the shortage of urea fertilizer should be fixed at the earliest. It is required for wheat crop. They stated that they had allowed entry of goods trains in the state after the appeal of the state government but Centre had shown an indifferent attitude by not sending the trains. Farmers are also sitting on protest at Gehri Mandi Railway station, at petrol pumps operated by Reliance, toll plazas and outside the residence of BJP's Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik. The farmer leaders stated that the protest against the government would continue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-at-butari-railway-station-continues-174119
22-11-2020||---||Education Dept trying to retain students of marginal families||Amritsar, November 21The District Education Department is reaching out to students from marginal families, who dropped out of studies post lockdown due to several reasons. The government schools in the district reopened on October 19 post lockdown and officials of the department and teachers are trying to retain students, especially from marginal families, to ensure right to education for every child.The maximum enrolment till August 28 in government schools of the district for senior classes from Classes VI to XII was 1,11,992 that saw a decline of 1.03 per cent after reopening. “The dropout rate has been marginal but most definitely seen as many students from lower economical background did not come back to schools. We had been expecting such a problem and so we identified the reasons behind the drop-outs. The mass exodus of migrant labour during the lockdown was a major reason of many students not coming back to schools. Also, the lockdown has affected the livelihood of many families and post Covid-19, many children from poor families are now engaged in earning or daily waging to support their families. We had discussed these factors with the Education Secretary as well and we are trying to reach out to such children to increase retention rate,” said Satinderbir Singh, DEO (Secondary).He also charted out other reasons for school drop-out in higher secondary classes as the maximum decline in student enrolment post lockdown has been seen in Classes XI and XII.“Some of the students, after completing their higher education, opt for ITI or polytechnic colleges rather than enroll for secondary classes. A section of students shift to open schools to manage work as well as studies. In case of girls, unfortunately, they are married off after completing Class X. Considering so many factors, we have to approach each with a different strategy and we have engaged teachers/headmasters to chalk out programmes to retain student strength,” said Satinderbir. He said dropout was equally reported in rural and urban areas.While the dropout rate, said the DEO, has been marginal, there has been an overall increase of almost 12 per cent in enrolment in government schools in primary as well as secondary classes post lockdown.The reason for this could be the fact that several lower middle-class and middle-class families shifted their wards from private schools to government schools due to fee-related issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/education-dept-trying-to-retain-students-of-marginal-families-174120
22-11-2020||---||Exhibition features work of 145 artists||Amritsar, November 21The annual edition of Indian Academy of Fine Arts (IAFA) state art exhibition was inaugurated today at art gallery by Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira. The seventh edition of the exhibition had got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown.Arvinder Chamak, general secretary, IAFA said the event was supposed to be held in March but since the lockdown was announced, it got deferred indefinitely.“We are glad that the event was held within this year as a number of artists participate in the exhibition editions every year. This year 147 art works from different genres, including sculpture, painting, photography, mural and digital art forms have been featured in the exhibition. This year 145 artists are participating in the exhibition, despite the logistical challenge due to the pandemic,” he said.The inaugural day also saw prizes being awarded to artists in different categories. Gurpeet Singh from Khanna was given a cash prize of Rs 21,000 for his winning entry that was drawing. Alka Chadha Harplani from Ludhiana won the award for excellence for her painting and arts student Vatsala Sharma from Jallandhar won the cash prize of Rs 11,000 in graphic art genre. Budding artist Sumit from Jalandhar won the award of excellence in amateur category for his painting.“It was a relief that the exhibition was held keeping in mind the new Covid-19 health guidelines. To have a live at exhibit after so many months of uncertainty is encouraging for young artists who found it hard to survive and sustain their art during lockdown,” said Sumit.Shivdev Singh, president, S G Thakar Singh Art Gallery, said the exhibition would be open till December 5 from 10 am to 6 pm.Artists felicitated on inaugural dayThe inaugural day saw prizes being awarded to artists in different categories. Gurpeet Singh from Khanna was given a cash prize of Rs21,000 for his winning entry. Alka Chadha Harplani, an artist from Ludhiana, won the award for excellence for her painting and arts student Vatsala Sharma from Jallandhar won the cash prize of Rs11,000 in the graphic art genre. A budding artist Sumit from Jalandhar also won the Award of Excellence in the amateur category during the annual edition of Indian Academy of Fine Arts state art exhibition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/exhibition-features-work-of-145-artists-174121
22-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||‘Rural heritage sites facing extinction’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21Though a large number of historic monuments and heritage buildings are in a pathetic state in the city, experts claim that the government should take care of heritage buildings located in rural areas.The region has several historic buildings of the Mughal, Maharaja Ranjit Singh and the British era. A few of the buildings are being restored by the Archeological Survey of India but several of them are being ignored.About 35 km from the city, the mausoleum of Amanat Khan Shirazi, official calligrapher the Taj Mahal, is located at Sarai Amamnt Khan village. Even as Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has been carrying out its renovation and conservation for decades, but still a large portion of the mausoleum was in dilapidated condition.The historical site of Pul Kanjri, 35 km from Amritsar, towards the Indo-Pak border, has found its mention in many literary accounts pertaining to the life of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The site was built by Maharaja Ranjit Singh between 1800 and 1840 as a resting abode for the king and his troops. But its history also mentions the love story between Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Mooran Sarkar, a Muslim courtesan. It is believed that Pul Kanjri, which was known as Pul Mooran before, got its popular name from her since dancers were addressed as kanjris back in the day. A number of Kos Minars constructed by Sher Sah Suri on the old Grand Trunk Road are still standing.Baradari of Karam Singh Chhina is located at Chhina Karam Singh village on Ajnala-Chogawan Road. Michael Rahul, an activist stated that nearly 250-year-old precious heritage Baradari of Bhangi Misl is on the verge of extinction. He demanded restoration of these sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-heritage-sites-facing-extinction-174122
22-11-2020||Amritsar||Two weeks on, police clueless in robbery case||Two weeks after a shawl trader was looted and his family was made hostage on November 6, the local police are still groping in the dark.ACP Dev Dutt Sharma said the police would crack the case soon. Around five armed persons robbed a trader’s family in the Guru Arjan Dev Nagar area after holding them hostage. The miscreants gained entry into the house by posing as sewer cleaners.The victim, Devinder Singh Bedi, who is a shawl trader, was at his house along with his wife, daughter-in-law and two grandchildren. The accused reportedly looted jewellery and cash worth Rs 8 lakh from the family. One of their grandchildren, Janu, was injured as he intervened when the accused tried to attack Bedi.The unique modus operandi also baffled the police officials. They closed the road for traffic from both sides by barricading it with rope. After opening manhole located outside the residence of the victim, they knocked at the door and sought a polythene bag to dump the silt removed from the manhole. When Bedi went inside, the armed accused followed him and looted the family. The accused also took away digital video recorder of CCTV cameras. This was perhaps for the first time that the robbers planned and looted a family in such manner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-weeks-on-police-clueless-in-robbery-case-174123
22-11-2020||Tarn Taran||5-yr-old hurt in firing, 1 booked||Sexual assault: Two bookedAmritsar: The Amritsar rural police booked two persons for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl in Varpal village falling under the Chatiwind police station here on Thursday. Those booked were identified as Sukhraj Singh and Ram Sarup, both residents of same village. The victim’s mother stated to the police that she had two children, including a six-year-old daughter. She said on Thursday the victim was playing outside her house. She said when she did not return for a long, she went outside and heard her cries. She said she found the two accused half-naked while the victim was also standing there with her undergarments down. On seeing her, the accused fled the spot. The police said medical examination of the victim was conducted while raids were on to nab the suspects. A case has been registered against the two. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-yr-old-hurt-in-firing-1-booked-174124
22-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Committed to theatre for decades, he’s now shifted focus to Punjabi films||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21Jagdish Sachdeva, popularly known as Jagdesh Sachdeva Natakar, requires no introduction in the field of theatre.The novel playwright and director is recognised for his plays that talks about marginalised people.Among his noted plays are Chowk Dholian, Saavi, Sugar Free, Ghugu Ghore Bande, Khusre, Akhara, Banjara, Ik Si Malika, that has also found prominent space on Doordarshan television.Many of his plays and works remained a favourite topic of research among students. A critical book on his plays was released this year. The book “Jagdish Sachdeva Da Rangmanch Sansar” was edited by Dr Naresh Kumar. Around 20 Punjabi writers have critically written about his plays in the book.After remaining committed to theatre for nearly four decades, Sachdeva is now moving his focus towards Punjabi films. He was seen in two Punjabi movies including 47 to 84 while he also completed shooting for Shahid Kapoor starrer ‘Jersy’, in which he is playing a cricket coach.During these testing times, because of unprecedented health crisis all over the world, people were forced to remain indoors and this gave ample time for theatre personalities and artistes to analyse and work on their future projects. The same holds true for him, too. Sachdeva said during lockdown, he read and worked on different scripts of plays and Punjabi movies.“I was approached by the film fraternity for writing scripts of Punjabi movies. I wrote scripts of Jattu Nikhattu, an autobiography of common man and Har Maidan Fateh,” he said. He even played a role in Jattu Nikhattu. He said Har Maidan Fateh would be going to sets soon. He is also working on the script of another Punjab movie Jugni weds Jubliee based on urban life.Sachdeva is also known as the Big Showman of Punjabi theatre and runs his theatre group Natkar Amritsar. Known for producing top high quality plays, he is also ready with play ‘Mem’ based on the life of a woman, who lost his mental balance after making huge sacrifices during the Partition of India and Pakistan. “Due to the lockdown, the staging of play was delayed,” he said.He had four books based on his four renowned plays Chowk Dholian, Saavi, Sugar Free and Ghugu Ghore Bande in his name. He said the latest play ‘Is Jagah Ik Pind Si’ is being translated in English and published by Bhartiya Sahitya Akademi. Before this, Punjabi Sahit Akademi, Delhi, had published his play Saavi in English. A Hindi film was also made on this play – “Saavi Ek Anokhi Dulhan”.At a time when people think about retirement, he is still active in theatre and now in Punjabi and Hindi movies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/committed-to-theatre-for-decades-hes-now-shifted-focus-to-punjabi-films-174025
22-11-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar district reports 21 fresh Covid cases||With the district health authorities reporting 21 new positive cases on Saturday, the total count of infections increased to 12,598. The district reported no deaths due to the disease in the last 24 hours.The new cases include 13 influenza-like illness cases and eight contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 36 patients, the total recovery count has reached 11,582. The district has a total of 539 active cases at present. It has reported a total of 477 deaths due to the disease since the beginning of the pandemic.Dist+ve count 12,598Death toll 223Active cases 539||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-21-fresh-covid-cases-174026
22-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Focus back on drug abuse among cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 21If dope test conducted by the rural police is anything to go by, rampant drug abuse in Punjab seems to have taken its toll on Punjab Police personnel as well.On Thursday, the rural police got the dope test of as many as 22 cops conducted after they were suspected of consuming drugs. Of them, 15 were confirmed to be using drugs. Though departmental action was initiated against them, they were shifted out of other police districts.SSP Dhruv Dahiya pointed out that adopting zero tolerance against drug abuse, he ordered dope test of 22 cops, who were suspected of taking drugs. The test was conducted on Thursday and the reports of 15 policemen came out positive. As they have brought a bad name to the disciplined force, departmental action was immediately initiated against them.Last year also, several policemen were found consuming drugs during the dope test. Of 23, as many as 13 cops were found positive. A policeman was also suspended after he used his wife’s urine sample for dope test.Every now and then, videos of cops consuming drugs goes viral on social media platform. An ASI Jorawar Singh posted with the Tarn Taran police was dismissed by the Punjab Government after a video of him taking drugs went viral on social media in August this year. Similarly, an ASI and a constable posted with the rural police were arrested after their video of consuming drugs went viral in 2017.Dr PD Garg, professor, psychiatry department at Government Medical College and former director of Swami Vivekananda De-Addiction Centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital pointed out that there was a need to have a survey of police personnel to know how alarming the situation is among the force.“In the absence of any survey, nobody could guess the extent of problem and you cannot take remedial measures until you know it,” he said.According to estimates, a large number of cops in the lower ranks were in the habit of consuming some or the other drugs, including opium or sedative pills, while consumption of alcohol was most rampant, said a doctor associated with the de-addiction centre at GMC, adding that the de-addiction centre does receive such patients (cops).Not the first time EXPERTSPEAKAdopting zero tolerance against drug abuse, I ordered dope test of 22 cops, who were suspected of taking drugs. The test was conducted on Thursday and the reports of 15 policemen came out positive. As they have brought a bad name to the disciplined force, departmental action was immediately initiated against them. —Dhruv Dahiya, SSPThere is a need to have a survey of police personnel to know how alarming the situation is among the force. In the absence of any survey, nobody can guess the extent of problem and you cannot take remedial measures until you know it. —Dr PD Garg, professor, psychiatry department at Government Medical College and former director of Swami Vivekananda De-Addiction Centre at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital According to estimates, a large number of cops in the lower ranks are in the habit of consuming some or the other drugs, including opium or sedative pills, while consumption of alcohol is most rampant. —A doctor associated with the de-addiction centre at GMC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/focus-back-on-drug-abuse-among-cops-174027
