22-12-2020||---||He is still hitting the right note with the masses||Deepkamal KaurAfter he addressed farmers at Singhu border recently, people of Punjab were overwhelmed by Raman Kumar’s deep, baritone voice they had perhaps been missing for nearly three years. Having their ears used to hearing news presented by him for 40 years on Doordarshan (DD), it was like recollecting old days, when DD was the only channel available, especially for the rural, farming community gathered there.Needless to say, Raman’s video went viral and got as many as 5 lakh views in a matter of few hours. After returning from the site, Raman shared: “After I delivered the speech, many farmers came to me and shared that they were really happy to see me in person and talk to them directly from their dais. Certainly, it was a completely different experience for me as well.”Raman, now 63, had his innings in the DD from April 1978 onwards. “I started my career from Amritsar. In 1981, DD Jalandhar was set up and I shifted there,” he told. Accomplishing a career spanning more than 39 years, he hung up boots in October 2017.He narrates: “It was quite a different media as compared to what we see now. Of course, we had a limited freedom to experiment with but we enjoyed a much larger audience. I can easily compare it as I am still working for two channels. One is RPD channel based in Brampton, where I discuss current affairs for two days a week. The other one is Punjab 1 TV, which operates from California, where I do a weekly round-up of news. The working with social media is entirely different. We can speak our mind, be more thoughtful in our discussions and take much liberty. But there are also issues of multiplicity of channels and a lot of unfiltered stuff that is flowing. If the reach is quick, the reactions and comments, too, are instantaneous. Thankfully, I have not faced any trolling or criticism in my entire life.”Raman adds: “When I retired, I had offers from various TV channels asking me to work for them on a regular basis. But I chose not to join any, as at the age of 60 I didn’t want to work for 30 days a month, which was their condition. I wanted a more relaxed kind of a job, wherein I could spend more time at home and with my family.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-is-still-hitting-the-right-note-with-the-masses-187905
22-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||As 2nd wave of virus looms, there is no room for slip-ups||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, DECEMBER 21Amid the risk of second wave of the worldwide contagion, the state’s government and corporate offices have buckled up and tightened the safety measures.The shops and other stores have been taking it easy ever since the opening up of restrictions, but not offices. The visitors visiting government and corporate offices are being made to abide by the norms at all costs. Manmohan Singh, a resident of Green Avenue, said almost all banks, whether public or private, have crossed each alternate chair, indicating maintenance of social distance. “These establishments have enough space, wherewithal, infrastructure and workforce to implement the virus-related norms,” he said. Sanitiser stands, which cost between Rs1200 to Rs2,000 in the market, can also be seen duly working at these places. “It is certainly a costly proposition for all shopkeepers and even reputed private establishments to install these at their doorsteps,” remarks Singh.Rachna Sharma, a housewife, said that after unlocking of the lockdown it became normal to follow the norms in the offices as an employee sitting at the entrance asks each visitor to sanitise hands, wear a mask and objects to people who sit in the ‘x-marked’ seat to ensure distancing is being aptly followed.The staff of banks, insurance offices, railway station, Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, etc is on their toes. Talking to The Tribune, airport officials stated that since it was directly involved in public dealing they cannot afford to lower their guard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-2nd-wave-of-virus-looms-there-is-no-room-for-slip-ups-187641
22-12-2020|| 
||Eight booked for murder bid||Amritsar, December 21  Opposing alleged drug peddling in the area proved costly for a family, when several miscreants equipped with sharp weapons barged into a house and injured three persons here on Sunday.  The police have arrested three persons while the remaining accused were still at large. The injured were rushed to Jallianwala Bagh Memorial Civil Hospital, where they were under treatment. A case of murder bid and criminal trespass has been registered along with other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act against the suspects.  Those arrested have been identified as Malkiat Singh, his brother Harjinder Singh, alias Kaali; their father Gurmeet Singh, all residents of Baba Deep Singh Colony in the Kapatgarh area. Among others who were booked included Sonu, Sagar, Harpreet Singh, Shallu and Iqbal Singh, all residents of Kapatgarh area.  Sukha Singh, the complainant, told the police that he came to know that Malkiat Singh and Harjinder Singh were assaulting his father Iqbal Singh near Surinder Hospital. He said he immediately rushed to the spot and separated them and took his father home.  He later alleged that when they were at home, the accused armed with weapons barged into their house and started beating his brother Kewal and his son Sajan. He said Malkiat Singh also attacked Sajan with sharp weapon with an intention to kill him. They also hit Kewal on his head with a brick. The accused also took out a pistol and fled away from the spot after threatening to kill them. Assistant Sub-Inspector Gurbaaz Singh, Investigating Officer, said a case under Sections 307, 323, 452 and 427 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. While Malkiat, Harjinder and Gurmeet were arrested, raids were on to nab the remaining culprits.  He said during preliminary probe, it was found that the accused were involved in drug peddling, which was opposed by the complainants. He said two of the victims were released from hospital and their medical examination report was still awaited. Further investigations were underway, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-booked-for-murder-bid-187642
22-12-2020||---||Carjacking at gunpoint, again||Amritsar, December 21Even though the city police were yet to arrest the person who snatched a car from a DSP-rank officer at gunpoint recently, another carjacking incident on late Sunday evening here has rocked the city.Three unidentified persons armed with firearms snatched a car of a Bathinda-based trader — Satnam Singh Walia. He, along with his general manager, had gone inside the hotel in posh Ranjit Avenue, while his driver Vikas was sitting in the car (PB-03-BB-0211) outside when the robbers snatched it.Vikas said he was working as a driver with Walia, a resident of Malvi Nagar, Bathinda, for the past two months. He said on Sunday, he was sitting in the car, while Walia, and his general manager Deepak and one Rana went inside. He said at 9: 15pm, an unidentified person with face covered asked for directions for Kachehari Chowk. He said when he opened the glass window, the accused pointed a gun at him, while two his accomplices also came. They pushed him out and fled with the car. He rushed inside and told his owner about it. A case was registered at Ranjit Avenue police chowki under Sections 379-B and 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons. The police said they were examining the ÇCTV cameras to get clues. On December 9, some unidentified persons had snatched a car from DSP Sikander Singh posted with the STF here. Though the car was recovered from Bhagtanwala area two days later, the perpetrators are still out of reach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/carjacking-at-gunpoint-again-187643
22-12-2020||---||Two succumb, 18 fresh cases reported in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 21The health authorities reported two Covid-19 related deaths in the district on Monday. As a result, the toll reached 539. The deceased have been identified as Baldev Singh, a 74-year-old from Azad Nagar (Putlighar), and Kulwinder Singh (45), from Chak Kamal Khan village.The authorities reported 18 new positive cases with which cases increased to 14,227. The new cases include 13 influenza like illness cases and five contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 57 patients, the recovery count has reached 13,060. At present, the district has a total of 628 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-succumb-18-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-187644
22-12-2020||---||Call to boycott big corporates, politicians||Amritsar, December 21Lending their support to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, prominent literary and cultural societies called for complete boycott of big corporates and social boycott of political leaders, who were issuing irresponsible statements in the media about farmers.Representatives of the Pragtisheel Lekhak Sangh, Kendriya Punjabi Lekhak Sangh and Folklore Research Academy said they would continue supporting the farmers.“We support farmer welfare and want to make people aware that these laws will eventually affect consumers as well. The support that the movement has been getting from all circles is overwhelming and as thinkers and responsible citizens, it’s our duty to speak out about the injustice to farmers,” said Ramesh Yadav, from Folklore Research Academy. He also condemned the irresponsible statements being given by political leaders over the issue.“Political names such as Anil Joshi and Tarun Chugh are terming the protesters and their supporters as urban naxals. This is highly irresponsible and unvirtuous way of treating farmers. We would call for a social boycott of anyone, who tries to undermine the worth of farmers like this,” said Yadav.The organisations, with support from several farmer groups, had organised a tribute and prayer meet for protesting farmers and those who lost their lives since the agitation started at Singhu border.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/call-to-boycott-big-corporates-politicians-187645
22-12-2020||PK Jaiswar 
||Arrested drug peddler a panchayat member?||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, December 21  If the police sources are to be believed, Jobanpreet Singh, a resident of Mardi Kalan village, who was nabbed by the rural police on December 17, is a panchayat member of the village and a worker of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). However, Amritsar rural district president of the party, Vir Singh Lopoke, had denied that he (Jobanpreet) had any links with SAD.  Jobanpreet was allegedly arrested with two weapons and Rs2.74 lakh of drug proceed. He is currently in police remand, while his accomplice Simarjit Singh, alias Monty of Talwandi Ghuman, was still at large.  “During interrogation, Jobanpreet told that it was Simarjit who would bring drug consignment which they used to supply in different parts of the border belt,” said Kapil Kaushal, SHO Majitha police station here. Though he admitted that Jobanpreet was a panchayat member, he said he was not aware of his political affiliation. He claimed the accused had confessed to be a part of a nexus involved in drug peddling across the border belt.  He also revealed that Jobanpreet had an attempted murder case registered against him in January last year, while Simarjit has a couple of NDPS cases against him. “Raids are underway to nab Simarjit who has been slipping through the net till now. More recoveries are likely to be made following his arrest,” the SHO added.  Jobanpreet would be produced in the court after expiry of his police remand on Tuesday. Both accused, along with two more, were booked under Section 307 and 34 of the IPC for allegedly firing at two youngsters, namely Sukhpreet Singh and Jagroop Singh, volunteers of an NGO headed by a Sikh youth activist Papalpreet Singh working and running awareness campaigns against rampant drug abuse in the area. The incident had occurred in January last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrested-drug-peddler-a-panchayat-member-187646
22-12-2020||Amritsar||Six booked for violating curfew||Mukesh Kumar, a cashier of a restaurant located in Ranjit Avenue, was among six persons booked by the police for violating curfew imposed by the Punjab Government in view of Covid-19 pandemic.  The incident came to light when two groups dining at a restaurant started quarrelling and cops reached the spot on late Sunday evening. Others who were booked include Gurpartap Singh; Harjot Singh, both residents of Model Town; Reebu Khuranna; Sahib Kaur of Green Avenue and Sumit Singh of New Garden Colony. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-booked-for-violating-curfew-187648
22-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill
||She makes the best out of her kitchen waste||Tribune News Service Amritsar, December 21 For the past eight years, Poonam Sharma, a 53-year-old resident of Basant Avenue, has been growing vegetables, flowers and even plants on the rooftop of her house. Her journey as a plant parent began when she started growing different varieties of money plants.  “It was a kind of hobby for me. I used to collect different varieties of money plants,” she said. Over the years, Poonam successfully tried her hand sowing other varieties of plants and expanded her garden.  “Now, we grow enough of the seasonal vegetables for our own kitchen. Sometimes, the production is surplus and we give these to friends,” she said. More importantly, Poonam uses all of the kitchen waste generated at their homes to make manure for plants.  “The safai sevaks coming to collect waste often wondered what we did with our kitchen waste as we never gave it to them. When they learnt the secret, the word spread. Recently, the Municipal Corporation officials appreciated our efforts,” she said.  Poonam, apart from using large concrete pots for growing vegetables and flowers, is also using the spare tyres as pots. “My son runs a tour and travel company. So, we have enough of worn out tyres which are then cut appropriately and used to grow plants and flowers,” she said, adding that the base of the tyre is covered with plastic sheets so that these could hold plants.  Sharma has also used waste bottles, tins and other items to grow plants. She does all of the work on her own. she said adding that her grandchildren low plucking vegetables for kitchen use.  Poonam also makes manure using a mixture of jaggery and peels of vegetables and fruits. “It is even better than chemical fertilisers and does not have any harmful effects,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-makes-the-best-out-of-her-kitchen-waste-187649
22-12-2020||
||City lad selected for PhD by US varsity||Amritsar, December 21 Living his dream of working for Google, the city lad, Archit Sharma, has been selected for a PhD programme on artificial intelligence by Stanford University, USA. Talking about his achievement, Archit said, “It is even a bigger dream which has been fulfilled with the encouragement of my parents and the grace of God.”  Born into a family of doctors, Archit had chosen a diverse path for himself and did his BTech electronics from Kanpur. “I always loved mathematics more than biology. Besides, I had seen my parents woke up at 2 am and rush for hospitals to attend emergency cases,” he quipped.  His father, Dr Rakesh Sharma, a professor of surgery at Government Medical College said, “The prevalent societal norms have led to a fixation that every child should become either a doctor or an engineer. But I would have been equally proud, if had gone for music, photography or anything else.” Dr Rakesh said that parents must recognise the one special superpower that their kids have and help him or her pursue the dream. Archit’s mother Dr Seema Sharma is a renowned gynaecologist.  Apart from being an engineer, Archit is also a guitarist and a backpacker traveller. “I have been into music from early childhood and love playing guitar. I also pack my bag whenever I get time and love to explore new destinations,” he said adding that one need not be a bookworm to find a dream job or excel in life. “One needs to learn to love and enjoy the little things in life. One also needs to discover one’s true calling and then should do everything to pursue the selected path,” he said in a message for the young generation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-lad-selected-for-phd-by-us-varsity-187650
22-12-2020||
||Christmas celebrations to be low-key affair this year||Amritsar, December 21 The Christmas celebrations by the local churches will be a low-key affair this year given the unprecedented situation due to the pandemic. Just as the Covid-19 contagion took away sheen from most of the festivals, Christmas too will be a restricted affair. The night curfew has already affected midnight mass service. Churches will be hosting early evening service on Christmas eve and no midnight mass will be held owing to Covid-19 restrictions. “We have announced to host early evening service by 5.30 pm for a limited number of people. Masks have been made compulsory for everyone visiting the church and we are sanitising the premises after every service. There was a tradition in our church that every Christmas we used to allow senior citizens to visit for blessings, this year we will close the church by 9pm and I will be visiting the houses of senior members of our community to offer blessings,” said Father Vijay Kumar from Christ Cathedral Church in the Ram Bagh area. St Paul’s Church, which gets over 10,000 devotees for the midnight mass service and the candlelight procession every Christmas, too will be restricting the celebrations this year. “There will be no candlelight procession and our early service for Christmas eve will end by 8pm. We will also be not having choir singing throughout the day as usual,” said Father Raj Kumar from St Paul’s Church. He said they were urging people to celebrate the festival in spirit and indulge in charitable causes. The churches will also continue their awareness programme for Covid-19 safety guidelines for its members. Also, the decorations used will be completely environment-friendly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/christmas-celebrations-to-be-low-key-affair-this-year-187651
22-12-2020||
||92-yr-old treated with endoscopic spine surgery||Amritsar, December 21 Doctors at a private hospital have successfully treated a 92-year-old woman using the new endoscopic spine surgery. Dr Sudershan Sharma, endoscopic spine surgeon at Badrinath Hospital, claimed that the technique, except for Delhi, is unavailable in North India.  Talking about the merits of endoscopic spine surgery, he said it was a minimal invasive surgery which is perfect for patients with old-age ailments as diabetes and hypertension. “No blood loss occurs during the surgery. In comparison to the open surgery where a large cut needs to be applied, the endoscopy surgery is almost stitch free,” he said.  He added that the patient requires minimum care after surgery as he could be discharged from the hospital a day after surgery. Dr Sharma said the chances of complications or infections after endoscopic surgery is very low as compared to the open cut surgery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/92-yr-old-treated-with-endoscopic-spine-surgery-187652
22-12-2020||
||Student felicitated at Christmas celebrations||Amritsar, December 21   Christmas celebrations were held at St Joseph’s Convent School, Khasa.  MLA Tarsem Singh DC, was the chief guest along with Sukhchain Singh, Commissioner of Police, Amritsar.  Rev Thomas Kolencheril, Director, St Francis Convent School felicitated Amrinder Singh, a student of Class VIII, for his  sports as well as academic achievements.  Amrinder stood first in the National Karate Championship held by ICSE Board and bagged third position at the 65th National School Games held in Jabalpur. He also stood second in the Al Wasal Club Dubai’s Budokan Cup Karate Tournament and participated in Milo International Open Karate Tournament in Kuala Lampur, Malaysia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/student-felicitated-at-christmas-celebrations-187653
22-12-2020||Amritsar||Boost for Aam Aadmi Party as many prominent personalities join party fold||The local unit of the AAP has got a boost with leaders from other parties and prominent personalities from organisations, including Gulzar Singh Bittu, Davinder Singh Johal, Sheetal Juneja, Dr Joginder Singh Arora and Manmohan Singh, joining the party fold. The customary ceremony was performed at the AAP’s office in the presence of AAP’s Majha joint secretary Ashok Talwar, Amritsar (Urban) district president Parminder Singh Sethi and Baljit Singh Khaira here on Monday. Those who joined the party said they were impressed by the decision taken by AAP’s national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to stand with the farmers at a time when other parties were doing politics. Gulzar Singh Bittu, who joined the AAP, was the Congress’ election in-charge from the Amritsar North assembly constituency. He is a real estate contractor by profession and is serving as the president of the Guru Ram Das Gurdwara Committee. He had earlier served as the District Congress Committee (Amritsar) secretary; the chairman of the Akhil Bharatiya Pratyashi Morcha, Amritsar; and as the block president from Ward No. 13 in Amritsar. He is one of the close associates of incumbent MLA Sunil Dutt. Dr Joginder Singh Arora, a member of the Chief Khalsa Diwan, was head of the PG Department of Commerce and Business Administration at Khalsa College, Amritsar. He is also the founding principal of the College of Technology and Business Studies at SAS Nagar (Mohali). He was a member of the GNDU senate. Another leader Davinder Singh Johal, who joined the party, had previously served as the convener of the Punjab Federation of University Teachers’ Association (PFUCTO). He fought for the demands of teachers while holding the posts of president, vice-president and secretary of the GNDU’s Teachers’ Association. Another entrant Sheetal Juneja was the general secretary of the District Youth Congress from 2000 to 2002; vice-chairman of the legal cell of the Congress from 2008 to 2009; secretary of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee from 2009 to 2012; and a member of the International Human Rights Organisation from 2010 to 2011. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/boost-for-aam-aadmi-party-as-many-prominent-personalities-join-party-fold-187654
22-12-2020||Our Correspondent 
||SSP assures retired employees of help||Tarn Taran, December 21 SSP Dhruman H Nimbale on Sunday assured the police department’s retired employees of all help. He expressed these views during a district-level ‘Police Elder Day’ function organised by the local district unit of the Punjab Police Pensioners Welfare Association here.  The SSP recalled the days of militancy during which the policemen performed their duties bravely and honestly. He said Tarn Taran was the district from where maximum number of policemen sacrificed their lives while fighting militancy. The SSP listened to the grievances of retired employees and assured early redressal of  problems. The policemen above 80 years of age were honoured on the occasion. Other police officials, too, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ssp-assures-retired-employees-of-help-187655
22-12-2020||
||Share the warmth: Collection drive for needy kicks off||Amritsar, December 21 Christmas is not as much about opening presents as opening our hearts. Celebrating the spirit of Christmas, FICCI FLO kicked off a three-day collection drive to collect winter items, including warm clothes, accessories, utensils, toys and other items of use. The executive members of the FLO have set up a collection stall where volunteer donors can come and drop in things that they can for distribution among the needy.  Meeta Mehra, Chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar, said the campaign was a way of sharing some joy during Christmas with the less privileged. “The members, along with their family members wholeheartedly came out with toys, clothing, books, medicines and everything they could give away.  Everyone left feeling overwhelmed with happiness and joy. It was a great start to the festivities lined up. We urged donors to give things that are usable and support the cause. It’s a three-day drive and anyone interested in donating can come do so at our stall outside Mukut House, till December 24th. We will shortlist the organisations and individuals, who need donations from everything that we collect and hand them over the collected items,” she said.  The donation drive would be conducted from December 26 to 31. Day one saw donors giving warm clothes in abundance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/share-the-warmth-collection-drive-for-needy-kicks-off-187656
22-12-2020||Bathinda||15,000 more from Amritsar to join protest||Responding to the call given by the farmer unions, thousands of farmers are expected to leave for the national capital from December 25-27.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) secretary Shingara Singh Mann said: “A group of 15,000 farmers from Amritsar would leave for Delhi through the Singhu border on December 25. As many farmers will head to the national capital from the Khanouri border on December 26. On December 27, thousands of farmers will leave from the Dabwali border.”Thousands of farmers have been staying put at several Delhi border points for the past 26 days, demanding a repeal of the new farm laws. They continued to step up their preparations in view of staying put in this harsh weather as temperature continue to drop in and around Delhi.As the time is passing by, the protest is getting more response as people from even non agriculture background are heading for Delhi to participate in the protests on daily basis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-000-more-from-amritsar-to-join-protest-187739
