23-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Tourism industry hit despite change in quarantine norms||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 22The tourism industry continues to remain in doldrums despite several changes in norms for the stay of visitors in the state.A week after the government had exempted the visitors who were visiting the state for less than 72 hours from the mandatory home quarantine; there is a little change at the grassroots level. As per the changed norms, they only need to submit a formal undertaking at the border check-post.APS Chatha, president, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHARA), said it did not improve the room occupancy in all the categories of hotels in the city, which boasts of an array of luxury properties.Earlier, the government had permitted hotels, along with malls, to resume functioning from June 8 but half of them here did not open. He stated that hotels like Ramada and Hyatt are yet to reopen.He claimed that a large number of those, which had opened after June 8, have either closed or are on the verge of closing their units. He added that the business of take-away and home delivery had gained some success due to the demand generating from the local population but hotels do not run such commercial activities from their premises. So due to the want of customers, they were closing.Piyush Kapoor, general manager of the Ritz Plaza Hotel, said they had not simply reopened the 55-year-old luxury property as no travelling was happening. He said the opening of a hotel meant that the expenditure on the establishment, power tariff, groceries, and other heads will immediately resume. On the other hand, there was no reason for people travelling from other states unless it was urgently required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourism-industry-hit-despite-change-in-quarantine-norms-116838
23-07-2020||
||Decorated Army officer HS Panag ‘demystifies’ forces in latest book||Amritsar, July 22 Author and decorated Army officer Lt Gen HS Panag (retd), participated in an online discussion about his book ‘The Indian Army’.  The conversation centred around the book, that is a collection of Panag’s musings in the form of essays about the Indian Army, was moderated by Sq Ldr Rana Pratap Singh Chinna, Army historian and an officer himself, on Majha House’s online platform.  Panag is working as a defence analyst and commentator on strategic affairs. Asked about his book and what made him write it, Panag said he was asked by a friend’s daughter to script his views on the Army and life in the Armed forces for a newspaper and then later for a journal.  “The aim of these essays was to demystify and humanise the Armed forces, to detail life in the Army as it truly is,” he said. He found the task to be a pleasure and continued to write for the sake of writing and now, they have been compiled in a book. “The book is divided into six sections, which address important questions and concerns about human rights, reforms, leadership, conflict etc.,” he informed the audience. Sharing his views about the Indian Army in particular, Panag said although all Armed Forces and all Army officers were devoted to their country, what makes the Indian Army unique is the factor of the moral compass.  Sq Leader Ran Chhinna also asked Panag for his views on the politicisation of the Armed Forces, to which he replied that the armies of China and Pakistan were totally politicised as the state agenda was at play strongly in the army and the army also takes an active part in politics.  “But an army should be apolitical, which is quite the case with the Indian Army. Although, we do have our weekly talks with the foreign office, the politics of the state is kept at bay,” he said. Chhinna also brought into focus the contentious issues and relations with China that India is facing. “Although some areas had been encroached upon by the Chinese forces, it had withdrawn its forces from some parts while some still remain under accession,” said Panag on the matter, adding that he felt that India’s ties with powers such as the US would help in correcting the balance of power.  Talking about the current government’s statements and visits to the troubled areas, he said: “I do feel that some obfuscation and denial is taking place, but there is absolutely no need for that.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/decorated-army-officer-hs-panag-demystifies-forces-in-latest-book-116839
23-07-2020||---||Some relief: No death in past 2 days; 26 new cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, July 22With 26 new cases on Wednesday, the district Covid-19 tally reached 1,360. The new cases include 19 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and seven contacts of Covid patients. In what could be termed as a return towards normalcy, the district reported no deaths in the past two days. A total of 273 active cases are admitted at various hospitals in the district.One ILI case each was reported from Guru Nagar (Verka), Ram Dawali Village (Majitha), Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Guru Ramdass Avenue, Fatehgarh Churrian Road, Green Avenue, Ajnala, Guru Teg Bahadur Colony (Baba Bakala), Guru Ram Das Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Mustafabad, Wadala, Navi Abaadi, Mahindra Colony, Police Lines, Ranjit Avenue, Chaura Bazar (Gate Hakeema) and the Railways workshop.One contact of Covid patient each from Green Field and 88 Battalion of the BSF posted at Khasa, two from Shareefpura and three contacts from IVY Hospital tested positive for the disease.The district health authorities stated that 13 patients were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the count of recovered persons to 1,023.Meanwhile the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Shivdular Singh Dhillon, appealed to the public to cooperate with the mobile teams visiting their areas to collecting swab samples. The DC said in some areas, residents were not cooperating, which was defeating the purpose of extensive testing. He said people could voluntarily give samples so that early intervention could help in containing the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/some-relief-no-death-in-past-2-days-26-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-116840
23-07-2020||---||6 illegal vends razed in Kabir Park market||Amritsar, July 22Officials of the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation removed six illegal vends in the Kabir Park market here on Wednesday. The officials conducted the anti-encroachment drive in response to a petition filed in the Punjab and Haryana High Court by a social activist, Kirpal Singh Randhawa.A large number of illegal vends have been set up outside the shopping complex in front of Guru Nanak Dev University. In his PIL, Randhawa had sought removal of vends to make the market encroachment-free.Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said: “We removed six vends today (Wednesday). Some goods were seized and destroyed. We will continue the drive till the market is made encroachment-free.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-illegal-vends-razed-in-kabir-park-market-116841
23-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Arshpreet tops Tarn Taran dist in CBSE Class X exams||Arshpreet Kaur of Akal Academy Teja Singh Wala here has topped the CBSE Class X examinations in the district by scoring 97.02 per cent marks, said Sandeep Kaur, principal of the school. Arshpreet Kaur comes from a middle class family and her father Gurbhej Singh is a farmer. She said her goal was to make her parents proud of her and also inspire girls who are deprived of education in rural areas. Principal Sandeep Kaur said Arshpreet had been a focused student through her schooling. “She won many gurmat and music competitions. She has opted for the medical stream and wants to become a doctor and serve the people of her area,” the principal said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arshpreet-tops-tarn-taran-dist-in-cbse-class-x-exams-116842
23-07-2020||CENTRAL GOVERNMENT PAY SCALES FOR NEW RECRUITS||Employees wear black masks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 22The ministerial staff of all state government departments is protesting against the state government notification which stated that the pay of the Punjab Government recruits will be at par with those at the Centre.The employees have announced to wear black masks till July 31 as part of the protest. The Punjab State Ministerial Staff Union (PSMSU), a representative body of the employees, has threatened to initiate pen-down strike from August 3 if the government did not withdraw its notification.Manjinder Singh Sandhu, senior PSMSU leader said, “The government’s decision would result in decrease in pay for the new recruits by at least 25 per cent.” He added that the government decision is unjustified as the new recruits already have to work at basic pay for the three years of probation.The union stated that the Punjab government had not paid dearness allowance to its employees for the past many months. They added that it has also failed to implement the report of pay commission.PSMSU General Secretary Jagdish Thakur said, “The government had earlier scrapped old pension scheme for employees recruited after year 2004. The new order would further create a different category of employees already recruited and those who would be recruited in future.”Thakur added that the salaries of those aspiring to join would be less. “Till now, Punjab had been paying better pay scales than the Centre. The sudden change in the policy is incomprehensible,” he added.Protest in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: State government employees on a call given by the Punjab-UT Mulazim and Pensioners’ Joint Front organised a protest by breaking pots here on Wednesday. They were protesting against the state government decision to give salaries to its new recruits on a par with the Central government employees. The state government employees salaries are higher than those of Central government employees.Baljinder S Doblian, district president of the Punjab Subordinate Services Federation, said the state had not released DA instalments for the past one year. He alleged the state government had not fulfilled the promises made to the employees during the 2017 elections. He said the government had not regularised the jobs of contractual workers, daily wage and outsource company employees. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/employees-wear-black-masks-116843
23-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Health first: Residents put cycling on pedestal amid pandemic times||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 22When the ongoing pandemic first broke out who would have thought that it would also falsh it’s bright side. None were optimistic as it continued to knock down not only but also the spirits of people. The only thing that seemed perpetually running through the minds of people was how to stay alive.Nonetheless, if one climbs up the pandemic’s wall of misery to take a look over and beyond it, one will find that the virus has taught people many things. From importance of living in hygenic conditions to gravity of the term ‘health is wealth’.And the city residents, in this aspect, are quick learners. They have realised well the significance of keeping in shape, especially amid these pandemic times. Eventually, cycling has emerged as the people’s favourite. Many have taken to pedalling on the roads to assit their health. Moreover, doctors and environmentalists are further urging people to adopt cycling and avoid the traffic congestion. As a result, nowadays, It is a commonplace sight to been men and women in varying age brackets pedalling about, and even kids have not lagged behind. They can be seen on the cycle tracks.Also, the absence of an alternative mode of transport has made people adopt the cycling as a healthy and an eco-friendly option. They are not only using it for as a a means of exercising but also for short-distances commuting.However, lack of dedicated cycle tracks is a thorn in their flesh. Many cyclists have expressed their disdain. There are several options to construct cycle track such as the banks of UBDC canal. As of now, there is only a 2km long track near the Trillium Shopping Mall. It does not suffice.The beacon of hope, the proposal of dedicated cycle track network spanning 23.2 km across the holy city under the Smart City project, is much-awaited. It is estimated at cost of Rs 19.22 crore. Under this, two kinds of tracks will be laid with ample of width. On narrow roads, epoxy paint marking will be there on the surface to indicate cycling path. The cycling track will be set up on the Circular road alongside the walled city, Ranjit Avenue, Islamabad area, Maqbool road and the Mall road.Linking of residential areas with the educational institutes like Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) and Khalsa College, public parks, Gobindgarh fort is going to be one of the main features of the track. It will offer easy accessibility to cyclists.Initially, a pilot project (2.5km) will be rolled out at Ranjit Avenue. Experience gained from it will help in setting up the track in other parts of the city. All in good time.SPEAKING OUTHere, cycle is a poor man’s conveyance. Everyone wants a motorised vehicle. But it is an eco-friendly mode of conveyance. It keeps you fit and healthy. More people should adopt this. —Dr Gurpreet Singh, CyclistI keep cycle in my SUV. There are dedicated tracks for cycling in Chandigarh. Here, too, there is a dire need for such tracks. I do cycling on the bypass road, which is not safe at all. —Gurshabad Singh, Punjabi singer and actorAfter Covid-19, I realised the importance of fitness. So, I started cycling in March. Now, It is my routine. If we want to encourage cycling, we should have separate tracks alongside roads. —Bhawandeep Singh, TeacherDuring the lockdown period, I was restricted to home. Some friends of mine asked me to join their cycling group. I found it interesting and beneficial for health. Cycling is my passion now. —Jagmeet Singh, Cyclist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-first-residents-put-cycling-on-pedestal-amid-pandemic-times-116845
23-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Heritage character of Amritsar railway station to stay intact, assures DRM||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 22Allaying fears of heritage lovers that redevelopment of the Amritsar railway station would change its heritage character, the Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railway has announced that the original structure of the railway station would be maintained during its facelift.Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Ferozepur Division, said: “Concerns of heritage lovers over lose of heritage character during the facelift of the Amritsar railway station are completely unfounded.”DRM Aggarwal said the aim was to upgrade all facilities at the railway station to provide totally different experience to the passengers the moment they step in. The Indian Railways has decided to give an iconic look to the station, befitting to the stature of it being the holy city on public-private partnership model, he said. The railway official said it was difficult to provide all facilities, including divyang-friendly entry and exit, in the existing building.The Indian Railways Station Development Corporation (IRSDC) confirmed that the present building would not be demolished and a new station building would be constructed which would serve as entry/exit point to the platforms. The plan was to carry out adaptive re-use for the existing building so that its unique features could be utilised to enhance the user experience, the DRM said.He said upon consulting the old records of the Railways, it was found that the original building, which was built during the period from 1859 to 1862, was demolished long back to pave the way for more platforms and the present building was constructed thereafter. The present building had never been tagged as heritage building by any national or international agency, he said.Though the present building was developed keeping in mind the local history and the Sikh architecture that public and professionals consider being of heritage value, the official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heritage-character-of-amritsar-railway-station-to-stay-intact-assures-drm-116846
23-07-2020||Amritsar||3-member SIT forms teams to arrest suspects||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the Punjab Government to probe into alleged fake Covid reports scam has started making efforts to arrest the suspects, who had been on run since the registration of an FIR against them.The complainants in the case have also been demanding their arrest without any delay even as the local court has rejected the bail of three doctors while remaining accused had withdrawn their bail applications. The three-member SIT is headed by Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill while Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Agarwal and Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh were other members of the team.Gill confirmed that separate teams were made to arrest the six accused in the case. “Though the investigations were under progress and SIT members had been holding meeting on regular basis, teams were also constituted for nabbing them,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-member-sit-forms-teams-to-arrest-suspects-116847
23-07-2020||Amritsar||Chemist robbed of Rs 1.1 lakh||Airport director calls on MP MalikAmritsar: The newly appointed director of Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport, Vipin Kant Seth, and Airport Traffic Control head Anirudh Sharma met Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik at the latter’s residence and discussed various issues concerning the development of the airport. Malik said: “When the Congress was in power at the Centre, the airport faced a deficit of Rs80 crore. Since the BJP government assumed power, it took several initiatives to increase the airport’s income. At present, the profit of the airport is growing by 12 crore per year.” He said the Centre had started new domestic and national flights which resulted in increase in footfall at the airport. Director Kant said: “We are setting up a new VVIP lounge, duty-free commercial shops, food court, spa and health centre, domestic and international food chain at the airport to provide world-class facilities to passengers.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemist-robbed-of-rs-1-1-lakh-116849
23-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Waste dumped at telephone exchange flattens MC’s tall claims of cleanliness||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 22The civic authorities have developed a habit of hurling strong claims of having efficient solid waste management system in place – which are nothing but hollow. The belief is turned into reality upon seeing the huge garbage piles lying outside the telephone exchange in the walled city area here.Come weekend and other holidays, the situation worsens when Municipal Corporation’s (MC) safai karamcharis are not on duty. The area has a big market of vendors besides a busy cloth and garments market. The waste produced from these establishments are also dumped at the site, hence, piling up the heap of misery and a blame game between authorities and residents.“The problem started when the safai karamcharis responsible for lifting the garbage did not turn up during weekends or decide to take a day off especially during the rainy season, ” says Joginder Singh, a resident of the walled city. “This is not the story of a particular area here, It is the same everywhere,” he adds.To go by the the MC’s sources, it is believed that there are around 18 wards in the old walled city where door to door collection is not available due to congested lanes and roads. Therefore, there are designated collection points put in place where large bins are put up and the trash is lifted by the corporation’s hydraulic vehicles from time to time.While residents demand a regular lifting of garbage and uplift the surroundings also, the authorities, point the finger of blame toward the residents for the mess. “When there are designated spaces in place, why the people prefer to threw garbage on the chowks and intersections or on the road sides?” the officals question. “If a person threw garbage in open, others also started following.”Meahnwhile, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu acts as a mediator. “While civic authorities try their utmost to streamline the garbage lifting system by introducing door to door collection even in the congested areas, the people should also help the corporation to make their surroundings garbage free, ” he says, before highlighting the role of people, “They can play an important role in making the walled city beautiful and litter free by adopting several healthy habits as such not throwing garbage in every nook and corner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/waste-dumped-at-telephone-exchange-flattens-mcs-tall-claims-of-cleanliness-116850
23-07-2020||---||Dist Civil Surgeon sets an example||Amritsar, July 22Setting an example true to the Hippocratic Oath, newly appointed Civil Surgeon — Dr Navdeep Singh — performed a life-saving surgery on a 27-year-old female at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital on Tuesday.This has come at a time, when there have been reports of a few Health Department employees trying to use their political or bureaucratic connections to avoid a Covid-19 related duty.Otherwise, too, for Civil Surgeons and other senior Health Department officials, performing a clinical duty, including a surgery, is very rare. In the recent times, none of the other Civil Surgeons have performed such a duty in the district.In 2017, Brahm Mohindra, the then Health Minister, had also instructed all Civil Surgeons and Senior Medical Officers posted on non-clinical posts to perform clinical duties every Saturday, besides performing scheduled surgeries in government hospitals on fixed days, but despite that, it failed to bring any change.As a general norm, the Civil Surgeon and other senior health administration officials stay away from clinical duties claiming that they are over-occupied with administrative duties.Sources in the Health Department reveal that Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh, a gynaecologist himself, along with a team of gynaecologists at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil Hospital saved the life of a young female patient by performing hysterectomy, a procedure to remove the uterus.On the condition of anonymity, a Health Department employee said: “Even district programme officers do not perform clinical duties and a Civil Surgeon doing it is rare. Those who are trying to avoid duties due to Covid-19 scare have a lesson to learn.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dist-civil-surgeon-sets-an-example-116851
23-07-2020||Amritsar||Takht: Don’t politicise issue of missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib||The Akal Takht and the SGPC have warned against giving political colour to the case of missing 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib and assured that “the guilty would not be spared”.The panel constituted by the Akal Takht has summoned Kanwaljit Singh, the retired superintendent of SGPC’s publication department. Kanwaljit retired on May 31. It was then that the issue of missing of ‘saroops’ came to the fore.Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said the panel would submit its report within a month. “It is a pity that the issue is being raked up to gain political mileage. It is a religious issue, which is being scrutinised in a transparent manner. Those found at fault, whosoever he or she may be, will be liable to face action as per ‘maryada’,” he said.The Akal Takht has appointed Justice Navita Singh, a retired judge of Punjab and Haryana High Court, to conduct the probe. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/takht-dont-politicise-issue-of-missing-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib-116570
