23-04-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Curfew brings him close to nature||Tarn Taran, April 22“The lockdown has redefined my role towards society. At present, I have been focusing on prevention and inspiring patients for the same,” said Dr Gurkirat Singh Aulakh, an orthopaedic surgeon. Before the lockdown, he used to stay busy examining patients from 10 am to 3 pm. Sometimes, he had to look after his patients till 5 pm.He said, “Now, I enjoy my time amid the chanting of hymns at dawn and dusk. Chirping of birds gives me symphonic notes to the amalgamation of spirituality, science and discipline. Tarn Taran is a green zone till date due to services of health workers, administrative officials and police personnel.”His day begins with prayer for the wellbeing of humanity. Thereafter, he does some exercise and plays cricket with his son. He also helps his wife in household works. In the afternoon, he gives consultations to his patients as well as people engaged in enforcing the curfew. In the day, he also attends webinars to upgrade academic knowledge.Besides, he likes to click photographs of flowers and birds. Dr Aulakh has written two poetry books — ‘Beauty unto Eternity’ (2017) and ‘The Cup of Tea’ (2018). He said, “The human mind can trapped by thoughts and these are not always good. Instead of focusing on bad things, people should think of beautiful things.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-brings-him-close-to-nature-75025
23-04-2020||---||Three friends work round the clock to help border area residents||Amritsar, April 22Three friends — Harvinder Sandhu, a media professional, Harsimran Singh, an advocate, and Arvinder Singh Raju — are working round the clock to ensure that no needy sleeps on an empty stomach.They are distributing food and other relief material to families in the remote villages along the Indo-Pak border. “These villages have not been getting ration and other supplies on a regular basis, while some have not received even once. Since I belong to Rouran Wala village, which is 2 km from Attari, I know getting essential supplies can be really difficult for people. So we have been preparing food kits and supplying to these areas,” said Sandhu.He said while distributing ration door to door, they ensure zero contact and social distancing. “We especially take care of the elderly and widows, who generally shy away from seeking help. So we identify such people and help them.”Sandhu said they had also been preparing face shields using plastic sheets and fabric for medical workers.“We know that medical professionals who are working on the frontline are not equipped with protective gear. So we make these face shields using the standard procedure shared by the WHO and distribute to several hospitals,” said Sandhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-friends-work-round-the-clock-to-help-border-area-residents-75024
23-04-2020||---||DEO gets nod to telecast programmes for students||Amritsar, April 22The Education Department has asked the district education office to go ahead with its plan to telecast syllabus-specific TV programmes for students of Classes VII and VIII during the lockdown.ChannelsAccording to the orders issued by the Secretary, Punjab School Education, the programmes will be telecast between 9 am and 11am and 4pm and 6pm on DTH and Doordarshan.District Education Officer Rekha Mahajan said: “Though only Classes VII and VIII have been included, efforts are on to have more channels and add more classes under this programme. This has been done to facilitate studies of students hailing from rural and border areas as digital classes were not quite successful in these areas due to poor connectivity and network limitations.”Apart from this, online classes and televised learning programmes for other students will continue as per the schedule.Besides, the Punjab Education Department has also roped in some radio channels for radio classroom programmes. The channels include FM radio 100.2, Doaba Radio, Chann Pardeshi and AIR frequencies for several cities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deo-gets-nod-to-telecast-programmes-for-students-75023
23-04-2020||Amritsar||Notices to GMC staff flayed||Scribe booked under IT ActTarn Taran: A Patti-based newsman, Kuldeep Singh, alias KP, has been booked under Section 66-A of the IT Act for spreading false news on coronavirus on his Facebook page. The police said Kuldeep Singh in his news item put on his Facebook page ‘Nau Lakhi Patti’ had shown a patient infected with the virus in Tarn Taran district, however, the district administration had denied such report. Meanwhile, a deputation of the newsmen met the SSP and demanded reinvestigation of the case as the newsman had received the news from some other source. ocOil stolen from transformerTarn Taran: Some unidentified persons stole oil from a 63 KVA transformer installed by the Powercom in the grain market of Goindwal Sahib a week ago. The Goindwal Sahib police on Tuesday registered a case under Section 379 of the IPC. The police said a complaint in this regards was lodged by Satnam Singh (SDO). OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notices-to-gmc-staff-flayed-75022
23-04-2020||---||No entry to wheat with high moisture content in mandi||Amritsar, April 22In a strong message to farmers bringing wheat containing high moisture content than the permissible limit, the mandi board officials on Wednesday did not allow many trolleys to enter the Bhagtanwala grain market and sent them back.As per guidelines issued by the government, the wheat with moisture content up to 12 per cent is fit for procurement. The mandi board officials stated that as wheat arrival had just started they wanted to send a strong signal so that farmers should bring their crop only if it was fully ripened.The mandi board has set up a counter to check passes of trolleys and grain moisture content. Most of the farmers are also confused about the system of passes started by the government this procurement season to keep check on rush at markets.Jagpreet Singh, a farmer said, “The guidelines state that one farmer is allowed to bring one trolley only. If a farmer has more than three acres of land, he would require more passes. Besides, the farmers get their all fields harvested in one go, what would the farmer do with the remaining crop.” The arthiyas too are not much sure about the system at present, he said.Meanwhile, the district mandi officials stated that the system was working efficiently. Amardeep Singh, Secretary, Market Committee, Bhagatawala, said, “The arthiyas can issue more than one pass to a farmer depending on his requirement. One pass is for one unit (trolley) and in case he has further requirement, he can get the same from his arthiya.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-entry-to-wheat-with-high-moisture-content-in-mandi-75021
23-04-2020||---||Set up advanced virology lab in Amritsar, demands NGO||Amritsar, April 22Keeping in view the scarcity of virology labs in the North, the Amritsar Vikas Manch has shot off a communiqué to the Union Government, seeking to set up an advanced centre of virology in the holy city.Principal Kulwant Singh Ankhi and Dr Charanjit Singh Gumtala, both patrons, and Manmohan Singh Brar, president of the manch, raised the demand in the communique to Prime Minister Narinder Modi, Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Harsh Vardhan and Union Minister of Civil Aviation Hardip Singh Puri.They urged them that this centre would focus on addressing North India’s needs in virology, diagnostic, research and therapeutic evaluations to cope with Covid-19. The sudden onset of the pandemic had necessitated setting up the centre in Amritsar.This is the oldest Medical College of North India, formerly known as Glancy Medical College, Lahore. It was established in 1864 and then relocated to Amritsar in 1920.At present, the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, is the only institution in a country. So, setting up of an advanced centre of virology, on the lines of NIV, will help in providing a well-coordinated medical and public health services to the entire north India.Government Medical College is also included in the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojna, which has led to better care of patients and teaching and research projects. They reminded the Union Government in the communiqué that CMCapt Amarinder Singh had also made the same request to the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/set-up-advanced-virology-lab-in-amritsar-demands-ngo-75013
23-04-2020||---||Good Samaritans extend helping hand to Amritsar residents||Amritsar, April 22Though people belonging to economically weaker sections of society have been facing a tough time during the curfew and are unable to earn something, Good Samaritans have come forward to help them.A local NGO arranged American spraying machine to disinfect city areas more efficiently. The focus of the NGO is to disinfect the areas where underprivileged live.Office-bearers of the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Welfare Club launched a sanitisation drive from Gurdwara Guru Ka Mahal here on Wednesday.Sarabjit Singh Shantty, president of the club, said, “We have been serving ration for the past one month. We have an objective that no one should sleep hungry in the holy city. We have distributed ration among 4,500 families. Initially, we had decided to distribute ration among 5,000 families. Now, we will continue to provide ration till the curfew is lifted.”Members of the club, which was established in 2005, have also been distributing ration among people living in slum areas, including Rasolpur Kalar and Lohgarh.“While fighting against the coronavirus, we bought a new spraying machine to sanitise localities. We have four machines which have been working from morning to evening,” said Shanty.Meanwhile, police personnel distributed study material among needy children. While serving food to people in the Gate Hakima area, ASI Daljit Singh from the Gate Hakima police station found that some school students were deprived of notebooks and other study material. He immediately arranged stationery items for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/good-samaritans-extend-helping-hand-to-amritsar-residents-75012
23-04-2020||---||Social distancing a casualty during immunisation of kids||Amritsar, April 22Even as the government has issued guidelines for ensuring social distancing as a precautionary measure to keep the spread of Covid-19 at bay, a huge rush of patients, that too in complete disregard to the guidelines, was witnessed at government dispensaries and health centres here on Wednesday.At government health centres, (every) Wednesday is the day on which immunisation of newly born children is done. So, today being Wednesday, a large number of people, along with their children aged between 2-day-olds and 6-year-olds, were present at the centres for their immunistion.The parent of a child, who visited the health centre at Mustfabad for immunization, said, “All the three government employees administering immunisation injections to children were sitting in the same room without obeying the social distancing norm. Besides, around 150 women carrying children in their lap were standing in the corridors outside.” She said by not following the social distancing norm at such places, even small children were being exposed to the risk of infection.Visitors at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), Kot Khalsa, too reported the same scenario. They stated that a huge rush of patients in the waiting areas was a cause for concern. “A system to ensure social distancing for the safety of the general public and medical staff should be put in place,” said Jaswinder Singh, an area resident.The district health authorities stated that it was also the responsibility of the residents to keep distance. “We do not have security guards or cops to enforce social distancing. The medical staff can only provide medical services and cannot be expected to enforce discipline. The public should understand its responsibility and help in ensuring that no government guidelines are violated,” said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-distancing-a-casualty-during-immunisation-of-kids-75011
