23-09-2020||Amritsar||Navjot Sidhu conducts 'rosh march' in Amritsar against farm Bills||Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday took to the streets of Amritsar against the farm bills.Among several slogans raised by the former minister's supporters, "aa gaya Sidhu, Chha gaya Sidhu", "Sidhu teri balle balle..baaki saare thale thale", and "Sidhu teri soch te...pehra diyange thok ke" stood out the most.Sidhu's cavalcade conducted a massive "rosh march" from Bhandari Bridge to the Hill Gate—the centre of the Holy City, that connects the Wall City to the Civil Lines areas.While addressing the gathering, Sidhu stressed, that he believed in "politics of solution", and the people of Punjab would infuse their strength to ensure its implementation, be it against sand mining, cable or liquor mafia, and, now the "Kaala Kanoon" (black laws) enacted in the shape of farm bills.“Kissan saada ‘Imaan’ hai…Saadi ‘gairat hai…‘pag’ hai ..te Saadi ‘pag’ nu ohna ne hath paya hai eh kanoon bana ke”. I have stepped out for farmers, and for the united cause of Punjab for which I will fight till my last breath. Above the party lines, 90 per cent MLAs opposed it. All Punjabis should unite against it”, he said.He cautioned that the BJP-led Centre has another Draconian bill in waiting, which is "Electricity Amendment (Draft) Act 2020".“Once it’s implemented, it will be the last nail in the coffin and destroy Punjab’s Agriculture model. The draft is already ready. Whenever they wish, they would implement it in no time”, he said.He said, that the electricity amendment act would equip the Centre to have control over power regulation. Now, the control is with the PSPCL.After this act, the whole control would shift to the Centre, and the biggest impact would be, that all power subsidies would be scrapped.He said, that the Centre was replacing the "successful mandi model" with the "free market model"—which has failed in the US and Europe. He said, that it would impact the state's revenue to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore per annum, that was incurred from mandis only.“Where there are no mandis in states, the farmers faced worst conditions and were resorted to doing petty labour jobs The MSP, since 1980 was raised just by 15 times whereas the employees of all sectors got enhancement of more than 500 times during the same pan. It was through farmers’ that the Centre procure food grains for underprivileged people on subsidised rates and the farmers were being ruined”, he said.The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed in both houses of Parliament, amid protests by opposition parties.The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday.“The ‘roti’ is the most essential commodity. How could it be shunted out of the essential commodities list?. Similarly, hoarding which has been legalised that would resort to food inflation”, he concluded. However, farmers in Punjab will be intensifying their agitation after “Punjab Bandh’ on September 25. An indefinite “Rail Roko” campaign will be launched in the state from October 1 onwards.This decision was taken in a joint meeting of 31 farmer unions, held at Moga on Wednesday.The representatives of all these unions decided, that an indefinite campaign would be launched next week onwards, to force the BJP-led Central government to withdraw the three controversial farm Bills.It has also been decided, that they will be forcing the Capt Amarinder Singh government to call a special session of Punjab Vidhan Sabha to reject the Bills.“The Congress government, too, should show their sincerity towards saving farming by rejecting these Bills,” said Jagmohan Singh, General Secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda).Other than this, the farmer unions will start "gheraoing" the houses of all BJP leaders in the state and boycott them.“The most important decision taken in the meeting today is to ask all Gram Sabhas in Punjab to pass resolutions against the Bills and reject them,” said Dr Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union.In the coming days, these Unions plan to intensify their agitation and start to "gherao" Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhu-conducts-rosh-march-in-amritsar-against-farm-bills-145435
23-09-2020||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Kangana Ranaut asks 'why target me' after NSUI Punjab burns her effigies for her 'terrorist' remark against farmers||Actor Kangana Rananut on Wednesday reacted to the protests in Amritsar which broke out over her recent 'terrorist' remark. She re-tweeted the Punjab Congress' post, and wrote: "First congress in Maharashtra threatened me and beat my posters with chappals now congress in Punjab burning my effigies, seems like a clear case of mistaken identity. Am I some minister or a great opposition leader? Who they think I am? This is rather flattering @INCIndia." Kangana's comments on the farmers' protests on the three farm Bills passed by Parliament have drawn a severe backlash. Sharing pictures of the protest on the microblogging website, the Punjab Congress wrote: "Under the leadership of  @AkshaySharmaOrg, @NSUIPunjab burnt the effigies of Kangana Ranaut at Amritsar. They further criticised her for crossing all limits by disrespecting the farmers by labelling them terrorists. #IRejectAntiFarmerAct #KisanVirodhiNarendraModi." First congress in Maharashtra threatened me and beat my posters with chappals now congress in Punjab burning my effigies, seems like a clear case of mistaken identity. Am I some minister or a great opposition leader? Who they think I am? This is rather flattering 😂 @INCIndia https://t.co/uHEAPRN6l0  In a tweet on Sunday, the actor had termed the protesters as "the same terrorists who indulged in bloodshed even as no citizen lost citizenship due to CAA" as she re-tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  प्रधानमंत्री जी कोई सो रहा हो उसे जगाया जा सकता है, जिसे ग़लतफ़हमी हो उसे समझाया जा सकता है मगर जो सोने की ऐक्टिंग करे, नासमझने की ऐक्टिंग करे उसे आपके समझाने से क्या फ़र्क़ पड़ेगा? ये वही आतंकी हैं CAA से एक भी इंसान की सिटिज़ेन्शिप नहीं गयी मगर इन्होंने ख़ून की नदियाँ बहा दी. https://t.co/ni4G6pMmc3  NSUI Punjab, president, Akshay Sharma also addressed the issue on the microblogging website.This is a new low for you @KangnaTeam. Not only is your arrogance demeaning to our farmers, but it is such a shame for every Indian too. Enough with your half baked knowledge, and two faced bigotry. https://t.co/EeYbhOZ20m||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kangana-ranaut-asks-why-target-me-after-nsui-punjab-burns-her-effigies-for-her-terrorist-remark-against-farmers-145414
23-09-2020||---||PESCO staffer smuggles drugs, mobile phone into prison, held||Amritsar, September 22 The Central Jail authorities have nabbed a Punjab Ex-Serviceman Corporation (PESCO) employee while trying to sneak drugs and a mobile phone into the complex. He has been identified as Harbhej Singh. Jail officials seized 35-gm heroin besides Rs 10,000 in cash and a mobile phone from him during a search. A preliminary investigation revealed that he was going to deliver the drug to Ali, a resident of Gwal Mandi area who has been lodged inside the jail. Sources in the Central Jail said Ali lured Harbhej Singh into bringing in drug consignment by promising a payment of Rs 10,000. He got the heroin from one Amarjit outside the jail. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act and the Prisons Act against Harbhej and Ali. According to information, the police are scrutinising the call details of Harbhej Singh to know whom he got the drug from. More names are likely to surface during the further course of investigation, the police said. An official, requesting anonymity, said the jail staff strength had been decreased as many of them were shifted to Covid jails where infected prisoners from different jails were kept.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pesco-staffer-smuggles-drugs-mobile-phone-into-prison-held-145332
23-09-2020||Neha Saini||I love exploring antagonists’ side: Anand Neelakantan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Netflix India recently announced the launch of its two-part web series based on Baahubali sequel, Rise of Sivagami. The project that has been in the pipeline for two years is being highly anticipated given its original source, the global blockbuster Baahubali films broke many box office records.Excited about the collaboration, Anand Neelakantan, the bestselling author, whose books sell half a million copies on more than a few occasions, talked about the larger than life presence of the OTT platforms and his passion to retell mythological stories from a different perspective.The author had recently interacted in a web session with Amritsar audience at Majha House’s online platform about his second book in the Baahubali series – Chaturanga.“The Baahubali franchise of films changed the way the global audience viewed the Indian films that the strong and immersive characters and larger than life production was not seen before. When SS Rajamouli approached me for a book series collaboration, I looked at the project through my own lens,” said Anand. Writing about the same characters seemed unexciting. So, he decided to tell the story of Sivagami. “She was one of the strongest characters in the films and not much was revealed about her rise to power. My first book in the Baahubali series was Rise of Sivagami, a story about a girl from ordinary background and her journey to become a queen,” he said. Rise of Sivagami received massive success commercially and critically. And Anand is confident that the web series will be able to shift that successful storytelling on the digital screens.“OTT platforms have grown massively over the past seven years. The visual impact they are able to create is unmatched as we saw with Baahubali films.” Asked if he expects Chaturanga to be received similarly as Rise of Sivagami, Anand said he never expected the book series to be such a huge franchise altogether.His rise as an oral storyteller to an author, who chose to tell stories of the defeated, forgotten characters from Puranic tales, Anand said that he wanted to retell these popular stories through a different perspective. “I mean how many times we have read about good winning over evil and stories of protagonists. For once, I wanted to explore the story behind antagonists, their situations.”Right from his first book Asuras, which was about the story of Ravana and his clan, to Chaturanga, his signature storytelling has been consistent, immersive and full of surprises for the readers. He has also written a children’s book, his first one as that. “I want to experiment with different genres now. You see, when you become successful in a particular style of writing, people expect you to continue with that. I feel trapped as writer sometimes and want to write humour and thriller, maybe,” he adds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/i-love-exploring-antagonists-side-anand-neelakantan-145333
23-09-2020||---||Entry of pvt players will hit  agriculture sector: Farmers||Amritsar, September 22 Amid the debate around the pros and cons of three agriculture-related Bills passed by the Union Government, local farmers say leaving wheat and rice market at the mercy of private players will be detrimental to the whole sector. Citing the example of high vegetable prices, they say the growers get low prices while purchasers have to shell out heftily to buy veggies. “Take potato for instance. Its prices has increased to Rs 35 per kg within three months since its harvesting whereas the farmers had got not more than Rs 4 per kg. Being a non perishable item, potato is largely stored by traders. Even during harvesting days, its price did not drop below Rs 10,” said Harman Singh, a potato grower from Jandiala. According to another farmer, Navjeet Singh, tomato growers had to sell their produce for Rs 2 per kg whereas buyers in urban areas had been purchasing it for Rs 20, the lowest retail price in the city this year. “The vegetable market is solely dependent on private buyers. If big corporate houses are involved, the subsequent removal of restrictions on stocking would turn the scales against the farmers and consumers alike. “Most of the farmers are primarily dependent on wheat and rice crops. They sow vegetable as the third crop to supplement their income. It is illogical to say that private buyers will be more farmer friendly than the MSP regime of the government,” said one Kuljit Singh. Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, president, Vegetable Growers’ Organisation, said, “The private players in the local vegetable market, at present, are small fish as their capacity and power to exploit farmers and consumers is limited. Apart from farmers, several retail sellers are earning their livelihood by selling vegetables.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/entry-of-pvt-players-will-hit-agriculture-sector-farmers-145334
23-09-2020||Amritsar||Girl  accuses youth of rape bid||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/girl-accuses-youth-of-rape-bid-145335
23-09-2020|| ||Cleanest city tag in Swachhta Survey-2021 my top priority: Mayor||Amritsar, September 22Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Komal Mittal review the sanitation arrangements in ward number 41, 42, 63 of South Assembly Constituency and ward number 50, 59 and 61 of Central Assembly Constituency here on Tuesday.  During the visit, councillors Dalbir Singh Manmanke, Vikas Soni, Mohan Singh, Rajbir Kaur, Kirpal Singh, Balwinder Singh, Pargat Singh Dhunna, Baljit Singh, Dara, Dr Sarabjit Singh Bhullar and Dr Jagpreet Singh Dhammi were present.During inspection of the areas, the city mayor instructed the officers to make the sanitation arrangements efficient and accurate. While addressing the gatherings,   Mayor Karamjit Singh said that it was quite disappointing that our city ranked in the list of dirtiest cities. Major efforts are needed to change the image of city and it could not be changed without participation and cooperation of resident. I hope that during the Swachhta Survey-2021 all citizens of Amritsar will make every effort to bring Amritsar in the forefront of the country, the Mayor said. The residents present on the occasion raised their hands and pledged their support to the Municipal Corporation.Dr Yogesh Arora, Health Officer; Dr Ajay Kanwar, Health Officer; Chief Sentry Inspector JP Babbar; Chief Sanitary Inspector Sahil Malhotra; area sanitary inspector and members of the sanitation staff were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cleanest-city-tag-in-swachhta-survey-2021-my-top-priority-mayor-145337
23-09-2020||---||International University Sports Day celebrated at KCPE||Amritsar, September 22The first-ever International University Sports Day was celebrated at Khalsa College of Physical Education (KCPE) here on Tuesday as per the directions of Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University (PSU), Patiala. A friendly hockey match between the students of GNDU and the Khalsa Hockey Academy was played on the college’s ground to mark the occasion.“The day is celebrated world over under the aegis of International University Sports Federation (FISU), a Russia-based body that aims to encourage university sports at international level. The motive behind organising and celebrating the event was to highlight the importance of sports on university campuses and in general,” informed Dr Kanwaljit Singh, principal, Khalsa College of Physical Education. He thanked PSU VC Lt Gen Jagbir Singh Cheema (retd) for choosing the college campus for organising the event. He said the newly formed university under the leadership of Cheema aimed to promote sports culture in Punjab and outside apart from the focus upon sports education. Renowned hockey coach Baldev Singh and others were present during the match.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/international-university-sports-day-celebrated-at-kcpe-145338
23-09-2020||Our Correspondent ||10 women sit on chain hunger strike over demands in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 22On the call of Punjab-UT Mulazam and Pensioners’ Joint Front, 10 women members of the district unit of the organisation sat on chain hunger strike here on Tuesday.  The women members were Seema Sohal, Gurwant Kaur, Ranjit kaur, Charan kaur, Manjit Kaur, Inderjit Kaur, Charanjit Kaur, Nirmal Kaur, Prabhjot Kaur and Rajwant Kaur. The agitators by organising a motorcycle rally in the town apprised the residents of unfulfilled promises of the state government. A large number of employees participated in the rally organised at the local bus stand, near the chain hunger strike camp. Ms Seema Sohal, Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind and Karaj Singh Kairon were among the others who addressed the protesting employees.  The leaders said the organisation had been demanding regularisation of the services of contractual, daily wage and outsource employees, besides implementation of the sixth pay commission recommendations and DA arrears.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-women-sit-on-chain-hunger-strike-over-demands-in-tarn-taran-145339
23-09-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar District sees two-fold increase in +ve cases in last 20 days||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22With an addition of 4,448 cases in the last 20 days, the number of positive cases in the district has more than doubled to 8,690, while it merely had 4,242 cases till September 2.With nine more people, including a 102-year-old woman, succumbing to the virus on Tuesday, the death toll reached 322 in the district. The health authorities have also reported 266 new positive cases.The deceased have been identified as Joginder Kaur (102-year-old) of Sandhu Colony, Sarbjit Kaur (43) of Guruwali village on Tarn Taran road, Manjit Kaur (47) of Chatha village, Rajiv Kumar (64) of Kartar Nagar (Chheharta), Krishan Kumar (70) of New Tehsilpura, Seema (35) of Haripura, Joginder Kaur (67) of SA Enclave, Basanti Devi (55) from Guru Nanakpura and Amrik Singh (77) of Dalla village.The district health authorities said of the new cases, there are 162 influenza like illness (ILI) cases and 104 contacts of positive patients. The total count of positive cases in the district has reached 8,690, of which 6,566 have recovered so far.With a total of 1,802 active cases, the district witnessed a sudden increase in infections.Delayed RT-PCR reports irk residentsWhile the authorities’ claim that the reports of RT-PCR tests conducted at government labs are made available to patients within 24 hours, residents claimed otherwise. They complained that the reports were not being delivered before 48 hours. They said only patients who test positive were receiving a message on their mobile phones, while those testing negative were not informed. “Even for those who test negative, a system to send an intimation on mobile should be introduced. One remains constantly worried whether he/she is negative, unless it is confirmed by the lab test,” a resident said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-sees-two-fold-increase-in-ve-cases-in-last-20-days-145342
23-09-2020||Avneet Kaur||Beware of fake mobile apps that claim to check your blood oxygen level||Jalandhar, September 22If you happen receive a forwarded WhatsApp message asking you to download an app from the Google Playstore that can check your blood oxygen level using your mobile’s rear camera, then beware!It’s most likely a phishing attack to hijack your biometric as well other confidential data from your cellphone.As per information, a viral message, which reads “Every one please install an app and measure oxygen level daily in this corona time and if oxygen level falls below 90 please consult a doctor immediately. App for oximeter, blood pressure and heart rate, give permission of camera to measure on app” has been making rounds on social media and people are falling prey to it, which they unknowingly consider as a cheaper option for the oximeter.However, the truth is that the claims made by these applications are unrealistic in nature and completely void. Throwing light upon the issue, Cyber Security Researcher, Palvinder Singh, CEO and founder of Secuneus Technologies, here, said fraudsters from announcing unbelievable discounts on online purchases to winning a jackpot worth crores to deferring of EMIs, keep finding new ways as per the trend to dupe people.“As doctors these days, due to the rise in the number of Covid cases, have been advising people to check their oxygen saturation level on a daily basis to stay safe, therefore, this latest oximeter app thing is nothing but an attempt by cybercriminals to take advantage of innocent people and steal their confidential data,” he said. He said this scam was first reported in Mangaluru in Karnataka and then there were reports that in Kolkata several WhatsApp users ended up compromising with their data security by sharing sensitive biometric data such as fingerprints after installing the app.“There has been no victim of this cybercrime in Punjab, so far, but yes, some people in the city claimed to have received this forwarded message,” he said. On possible risks it possesses Palvinder said biometric data such as fingerprints that are used for e-wallet transactions and as an alternative to passwords and screen lock could be misused. Besides, there is also a threat of personal photos and data being stolen, as it asks for storage and gallery permissions during installation, he said, adding that such apps can also read the SMS inbox that has the bank account transaction alerts.Modus operandiNecessary precautionsIn mobile, fingerprint scanners alone can never calculate oxygen level, thus, any such app which claims to measure oxygen level by camera or fingerprint scanner, consider it fake. Always verify and install apps after verifying the developer, ratings, reviews, bugs and total downloads before installing an app. “In case you are not able to recognise if it’s a fake app and you end up installing it, then while you are in the process to check your oxygen level, make sure you do not give permission to share your location, SMS, call log or camera access, as all these permissions are never required for an oxygen measuring app,” said Palvinder Singh.Govt’s warningLast week, the cybersecurity handle of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, on Twitter had warned users not to install fake oximeter mobile apps from any links they may have received over email, SMS or social media. “... these apps may steal your personal or biometric data from your mobile phone,” it said in the tweet.Is there an app that checks o2 level?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/beware-of-fake-mobile-apps-that-claim-to-check-your-blood-oxygen-level-145344
23-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||NASA draws attention to fires in fields||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 22Though National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) showing red spots in Amritsar depicting stubble burning thereby ringing the alarm bells in the government, the agriculture department authorities claimed that the number of such incidents was not big.Chief Agriculture Officer Gurdial Singh Bal said that just 14 incidents were reported in the holy city in the satellite images gathered by remote sensing centre located at Punjab Agricultural University (Ludhiana).“This is start of the harvesting season, but the number is not high. I have asked the nodal officers to check the places where these farm fires were informed and submit a report by tomorrow,” said Bal.However, images from NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) have revealed that the farm fires were started in Punjab and Haryana and that Amritsar had reported over 50 farm fires in September.An agriculture department official said, “Amritsar is among the first region where farms fires are reported during this period every year”. He said the administration should take up adequate measures for not only sensitising the farmers about harmful effects of this detrimental practice, but also taking some stringent measures.However, another official said that at current times when the farming community was agitated against the farm bills passed by the Centre and holding demonstrations, it would not be appropriate to take tough measures such as registering cases against offenders.Chief Agriculture Officer Bal further pointed out that as per the instructions of National Green Tribunal, the peasants are being sensitised to plough the crops residue in the land itself which would enrich it (agricultural lands) with beneficiary nutrients.Gurpreet Singh Khaira, Deputy Commissioner, said that the agriculture department had arranged 1,775 machines on subsidy to the farmers, farmer groups and cooperative societies for managing crop residue. He said that the owners of baler machines were called from the Malwa region so that farmers did not face any problem for managing straw. He said it would cost Rs 1,000 per acre for the same.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nasa-draws-attention-to-fires-in-fields-145345
23-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Farm bills: Sunny Deol will not be allowed to enter Gurdaspur, say Congmen||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, September 22Protests erupted in Qadian, Batala, Dera Baba Nanak and Pathankot over BJP MP Sunny Deol’s tweet in favour of the farm Bills. Members of various kisan unions and Congress activists claimed they would not allow Deol to enter his constituency for his “anti-farmer stance”.In Qadian, 200 activists led by Kanwar Partap Singh Bajwa, general secretary, Punjab Youth Congress, blackened the posters of the MP.Kanwar said despite claiming to be a farmer’s son, Deol had gone against the interests of farming community. “We will not allow Deol to enter his constituency. If he does try to come, he should be ready to face consequences. He knows nothing about the ground reality.”He said, “Instead of standing with people who voted for him, he stood with his party, which is doing things which are totally detrimental to the interests of farmers. Today, we blackened his posters and if he comes, we will blacken his face. In just one stroke, the Centre made farmers apprehensive whether they will get minimum support price (MSP) for paddy and wheat produce.”MLA Fateh Jung Bajwa said Deol has turned out to be a “disaster”. “Instead of going public on social media, Deol should have kept quiet. Now, people are repenting what sort of representative they have elected. I fail to understand why he has entered politics when he knows nothing about it,” said the MLA.In Pathankot, protestors led by Sanjeev Bains, working president, Pathankot District Congress Committee, held demonstration in front of the residence of Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma.“Deol has proved to be a misfit in the world of politics. He is turning a blind eye towards the interests of farmers. Under no circumstances he will be allowed to enter the constituency. He calls himself a farmer’s son, but ironically he could not look after farmers. He should resign,” said Bains.Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, too, vented his ire on the MP. “We are fighting with the Centre, but for some inexplicable reason, MP Deol is battling farming community. He delivers good dialogues, but politics is not about acting. I ask Deol to keep in mind the anger of farmers next time he decides to come to Gurdaspur,” he said.“He is a man who carries misplaced confidence. If he is so sure and confident of himself, why does he not take up issues relating to the welfare of people of Gurdaspur in Parliament? Actually, we all are waiting for him to make his debut speech in the Lok Sabha,” added Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farm-bills-sunny-deol-will-not-be-allowed-to-enter-gurdaspur-say-congmen-145374
23-09-2020||---||Navjot Sidhu to spearhead stir in Amritsar today||Amritsar, September 22Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu today said he, along with councillors and his supporters, would hold a protest against the farm Bills at Hall Gate in his Amritsar East constituency tomorrow.‘Farmers should form cooperatives’Farmer unions should form cooperatives with small farmers as equal partners to protect them from exploitation by capitalists. — Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress leaderSidhu’s announcement came in response to the Congress’ call asking its MLAs to hold protests against the Bill. He held a meeting with his supporters here today.The Congress leader has asked farmer unions to form cooperatives with small farmers as equal partners to protect them from exploitation by capitalists. He also said challenging the Bill in the Supreme Court appeared to be the best way to counter the Central Government’s decision.“There is a need to chalk out a common minimum programme to safeguard the farmers’ interests. Only six per cent of India’s farmers were benefitted of the basic MSP, whereas the 94 per cent who roam the markets end up doing petty labour jobs to make both ends meet,” he said, adding that farmers of Punjab and Haryana contributed substantially to distributing food through the public distribution system.The Punjab and Haryana farmers carried the load of the country’s PDS, supplying cheap foodgrain for 80 crore people by keeping the MSP much below the genuine market price. Punjab has 1,850 purchase centres including 152 big mandis.He said the Union Government had made the mistake of choosing a failed free-market structure from the US and Europe over India’s successful ‘mandi pattern’. “The move will favour big crony capitalists at the cost of public enterprises, farmers and labourers,” he said, adding that the Bills would adversely affect India’s federal structure and impinge upon the state government’s jurisdiction.“Who has spared the thought for 28,000 arhtiyas and four to five lakh allied labourers of mandis who are on the verge of losing their livelihood,” he asked.He also claimed that the Bills could lead to “unprecedented” food inflation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/navjot-sidhu-to-spearhead-stir-in-amritsar-today-145197
