23-03-2020||The fight against Covid-19 has turned into a mass movement in the district. From the top bureaucrat - the Deputy Commissioner (DC) - to safai sewaks||All-out efforts on to tackle Covid-19||The movement took off when Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) secretary Roop Singh and other officials met DC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and informed him that office-bearers of the gurdwaras managed by the SGPC have been instructed to observe precautionary measures. The administration then held a meeting with chemists of the district and appealed to them to not overcharge customers for hand-sanitisers, paper napkins and face masks. Instructions were also issued to bus operators, shopping mall owners, hoteliers and owners of restaurants to avoid functions with large gatherings.The administration has advised the public to not resort to panic-buying of food and other items of daily use. It also warned stockists against hoarding essential items. Also, it has ensured that establishments selling essential commodities such as grocery, fuel, LPG and medicines remain open. People have been advised to stay away from functions where large gatherings are expected.A close tab is being kept on the rumours doing the rounds on the social media and the persons responsible for spreading these. The Health Department has set up two isolation wards, comprising 30 beds at the local Civil Hospital and 15 beds at a private hospital here. A control room (phone No. 01852-385115) has been set up by the district administration to give medical advice to residents. The local district unit of the Indian Medical Association is making people aware of the need of home quarantine.Karamjit Singh, who retired as the Director of the Health and Family Welfare Department, is engaged in making people aware of precautionary measures against the disease. Dr Kashmir Singh, an eye specialist, is visiting villages to spread awareness. Dr Dinesh Gupta, a former PCMS officer, has assumed the task of spreading correct information about Covid-19.At a meeting with the DC, local industrialists pledged their support for the awareness campaigns. Safai sewaks have started wearing masks and gloves to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Rickshaw-pullers, too, seem to have learnt a lesson as they are being seen more often on the outskirts of the town, possibly to avoid large gatherings in the inner city.Mazdoor sabha activist writes to CM over ‘atrocities’ on ex-servicemanA leader of the Punjab Khet Mazdoor Sabha (PKMS) has come forward in support of an ex-serviceman of his village, who is allegedly facing atrocities at the hands of police and administrative officials. In a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and other officials, Sarwan Singh Nagoke of the PKMS said owing to pressure from some Congress leaders, police and administrative officials had been harassing Kamaljit Singh, a resident of Nagoke village in the Tarn Taran district, for the past one-and-a-half years."Kamaljit, who has served the country, and members of his family have been booked in various cases by the Verowal police. On the other hand, cases lodged against his rivals have been buried under the carpet," said Nagoke. He said Kamaljit's father Dharam Singh died around a year ago under mysterious circumstances, but the police did not investigate the case. Kamaljit wrote many letters to the authorities concerned but did not get justice, he said.The leader demanded that a judicial inquiry be conducted in the case and strict action be taken against the errants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/all-out-efforts-on-to-tackle-covid-19-59912
23-03-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Complete lockdown in rural areas||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22A complete lockdown was seen in rural areas of Amritsar district here today. A visit to various small towns of the border belt — Khasa and Bhakna and revealed that not even a single shop including those of karyana or vegetables was open.The roads too wore a deserted look as negligible traffic was seen. Only a few two-wheelers and cars were seen on various roads. The gathering at Gurdwara Chehharta Sahib was also thin.In many villages, announcements regarding safety from the virus and the state government’s decision for complete lockdown were made from loud speakers at gurdwaras. Police laid checkpoints at entry points to the city at certain places where the police asked commuters their reason of travel.Many residents told The Tribune over phone people preferred to stay at homes. However, their only concern remained that as the government had announced a complete lockdown till March 31, they might face problems in getting supply of essential items."People have to go to other places to sell milk and vegetables. Members of low income groups, who work as labourers, are solely dependent on their daily income. It would be big problem for them,” said a farmer, Harnek Singh.He said many people in rural areas had better stock in terms of floor and rice, the staple food items."Except for a negligible number of families, most people in rural areas keep their year’s stock of rice or wheat at the time of harvesting. But for other items such as pulses or medicines, they are solely dependent on shops,” said another farmer Gurnam Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complete-lockdown-in-rural-areas-59909
23-03-2020||BQ||Tough time for domestic helps||Charanjit Singh TejaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22 As many as 25,000 domestic workers in the city are facing tough time as a number of employers have asked them to stay at home for the next few days following the coronavirus threat. Office bearers of Domestic Workers Ekta Union claimed that a large number of domestic helps associated with the union told them about the problem being faced by workers. There are around 19,000 domestic helps in the district who are associated with the union and around 9,000 of them are reportedly registered with the state government. Demanding financial aid during the period of lockdown in the state they said, “We work on minimal monthly wages and only a few good samaritans are paying salaries during this period.” However, several workers fear that they would not be given any salaries for the leaves during this period. Ekta union president Daswinder Kaur said, “Domestic workers run their homes not merely from monthly salaries but are aided by other facilities such as food items, clothes and other such products that they get from their employers. They earn Rs 1,500 to Rs 45 per month, which is insufficient to run a house. The present times are difficult for us as we are forced to stay home that too without work.” “As the government released Rs 3,000 relief for each construction worker similar measures should be taken for domestic helps as a large number of workers are widows and sole earners in their families,” said Daswinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tough-time-for-domestic-helps-59908
23-03-2020|| ||Train ticket refund rules relaxed||Amritsar, March 22After cancellation of all train services in the wake of Covid-19, the Railways has made special measures to refund passengers fare. All passenger train operations in the country have been cancelled till March 31. To ensure essential supplies, movement of goods trains will continue.  To make it more convenient for passengers, full refund for all cancelled trains may be taken till June 21. The Railways has simplified refund rules for the passengers. Refund across counter can be taken on submission of tickets up to 45 days from date of journey, instead of normally following extant rule of three hours to 72 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/train-ticket-refund-rules-relaxed-59906
23-03-2020||---||Man booked for culpable homicide||Amritsar, March 22A man has been booked on a charge of culpable homicide in connection with the death of Shakti Sharma (40), who had died under mysterious circumstances two months ago.The suspect, identified as Preetam Singh of Sirsa, was booked following the autopsy report confirmed a severe injury on the victim’s head.Surinder Sharma, a relative of the victim’ told the Bhindi Saida police said Preetam and his brother-in-law Shakti had gone to Toot village for some work on a tractor on January 18. He said in the next morning, his relative Ashwani Kumar told him that Preetam informed him over the phone that Shakti had died after being hit by the tractor.He told the police that the suspect used to work as a daily wager with his brother-in-law Shakti.He said at that time, the police did not register the complaint as they found the issue suspicious. Now, the autopsy report has confirmed that he had a head injury. Therefore, a complaint was lodged at the Bhindi Saida police station.A case under Section 304 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-culpable-homicide-59905
23-03-2020||---||PNB told to pay Rs 8k to complainant for delay in payment||Amritsar, March 22The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed a bank to credit Rs 10,000 deducted from a pensioners account while using ATM along with Rs 5,000 as compensation and Rs 3,000 as litigation expenses. Earlier, Avtar Singh (65) had filed a complaint against the Punjab National Bank stating that he had gone to withdraw his pension from an ATM on December 1, 2017. He said though the machine did not dispense any cash, Rs 10,000 were debited from his account. The complainant said on being contacted, the opposite party assured him that the amount would be credited to his account within 15 days. After several requests, when the complainant failed to get the money back, he filed a complaint with the consumer forum on February 19. The opposite party in its reply stated that if any such incident of non-disbursement of cash from an ATM happens, then on receiving a complaint, the IT cell of the bank immediately looks into the matter and the amount is credited to the account. During the proceedings of the case, it claimed that the amount was reversed to his account on April 25, 2018 and there was no deficiency in service on the part of the opposite party. The forum observed that the opposite party had failed to produce any evidence to prove that the complainant had received the money back. It stated that as the amount was debited on December 1, 2017, the complainant was entitled to get the said amount within 15 days. It added that as the complainant has not received the amount till date, the opposite party is at deficiency of service.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pnb-told-to-pay-rs-8k-to-complainant-for-delay-in-payment-59904
23-03-2020|| ||Gangster’s aide among 12 booked in Khai Mohalla||Amritsar, March 22 A notorious criminal Kartik Ghora is among around 12 persons booked by the local police in Saturday’s firing incident in Khai Mohalla near Gate Khazana in which around five persons were injured. Besides Kartik, the police have booked Danish, a resident of Rambagh, while remaining accused were yet to be identified. All were booked on charges of murder bid and arms act. Police authorities said raids were on to nab the perpetrators who were absconding since the incident. According to information, Kartik was accomplice of notorious gangster Bobby Malhotra gang. He had conducted recce of Congress councillor Gurdeep Singh who was shot dead in 2018 by the gangsters. The police said a dispute between the children over Rs 130 took the ugly turn on Saturday. Danish had come on the scene on behalf of his relative. The arguments during the gathering to reach on compromise turned violent as the accused opened fire. The police were also investigating into the legality of the weapon used in the crime. Five persons suffered gunshot injuries. They were identified as Manju, Swayam, Gautam, Charanjit Kaur and Vishal Singh. Gautam (12) and Swayam (14) reportedly sustained three and one bullet injuries respectively. Swayam was hit on his lower back. He and Gautam were playing near the spot while the remaining victims were passersby. The injured were rushed to the Civil Hospital from where they were referred to a private hospital. Their conditions were out of danger, claimed police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangsters-aide-among-12-booked-in-khai-mohalla-59903
23-03-2020||Amritsar||IIM sees 100% placement||The IIM Amritsar has achieved 100 per cent placement for its fourth batch of students. In a statement issued here on Sunday, IIM authorities said students were placed with various groups with an average cost to company (CTC) reaching up to Rs 12.61 lakh per annum showing a modest increase as compared to previous year.The authorities said as many as 106 students were placed under the drive since September. Highest domestic annual package spiralled to Rs 40 lakh per annum. He said students were placed in various management domains such as marketing, sales and finance along with operations and analytics.An official of IIM said it was for the first time that a healthy spike in advisory and consulting roles was offered to students in three big accounting firms, including Deloitte, Ernst &Young and KPMG. International firms such as Amazon, Grant Thornton and Bisleri also visited the institute under the drive. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/iim-sees-100-placement-59902
23-03-2020||---||Clinic helper shot at, injured||Clinic helper shot at, injured  Amritsar, March 22  Two unknown youth opened fire at a person in a robbery bid in Shahpur village here late Saturday evening.  The victim identified as Nirvail Singh of Kot Sidhu village, used to work as helper with a doctor. He sustained splinter injuries while the accused fled away from the spot.  He stated to the police that he was closing down the clinic at around 8.30 pm when two bike-borne persons came to the spot. One of them remained on bike while the second entered the clinic. They had covered their faces with handkerchiefs. He said the accused threatened to kill him and demanded cash from him.  Nirvail Singh said he pushed the accused out of the shop and tried to bolt the door from inside. He said the accused, however, shot at him with a .12 bore pistol. He said he sustained injuries on his arms and leg. He said as he raised the alarm, people rushed towards his shop while the accused fled away. The police have registered a case under murder bid, robbery and arms act against two unidentified youth. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clinic-helper-shot-at-injured-59901
23-03-2020||
||Lockdown a welcome move: Chhina||Amritsar, March 22 Senior BJP leader Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina today hailed positive response of the public to the `Janata Curfew’, wherein people in general stayed indoors and did not venture out on Sunday. He said the act would go a long way in warding off the deadly coronavirus, which was taking the whole country into its grip. He also welcomed the lockdown in the state by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh today. “This is a welcome step as the only way to protect citizens from the virus is to stop crowding of people and break the chain of human contacts,” he said. He said the lifespan of the virus was about nine hours, hence, if it did not find a human body within this period, it would perish on its own. He, however, appealed to the state government to ensure the supply of essential commodities to people. Chhina also stressed that public and private places should be sanitised across the state. He said the health and sanitation staff should initiate the process immediately on a war footing. “All public offices, bus stands, railway stations, educational institutions, jail complexes, police stations, hospitals and the public transport must be sanitised,” he said. Chhina added that it was also understandable that staff and infrastructure were limited but if antibiotic sprays were not available, the sanitising staff could at least spray saline water in these areas to stop the spread of the disease. Sanitation workers remain at work  On the occasion of ‘Janata Curfew’, workers of the solid waste management company carried out door-to-door collection of garbage here on Sunday. Officials of the MC’s health wing said sanitation workers will continue their work in the coming days. Dr Ajay Kuwar, Municipal Health Officer, said, “All services are necessary for the public health. The door-to-door collection of garbage, cleaning streets with broom, mechanical sweeping of roads and fogging will continue during the complete lockdown announced by the state government.” Health officials said to prevent residents from the other flues, viral diseases and fever, they had initiated fogging in the city. “Though fogging only helps keep mosquito larva at bay, it will keep people safe from fever. If they have string immunity, the coronavirus will not affect them. So, we are conducting fogging and making effort to keep the city clean,” said Dr Kuwar. The health authorities asked residents to cooperate with them by not littering during the lockdown. “Our teams have been encouraging residents to keep hygiene around them. Residents should use bins at homes and must follow the guidelines of the government. They should stay at home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-a-welcome-move-chhina-59900
23-03-2020|| 
||Daily wagers hit hard, demand financial help||Amritsar, March 22 Daily wagers such as labourers, porters, vendors and other professionals who earn their bread from daily earnings are irked by the government for not announcing any allocation to make up for their losses. They are demanding financial, ration and medical assistance from the government. Hari Krishan Sahu, a daily wager, said he was unable to earn any money from the past four days. “I used to earn Rs 400 a day as a construction labourer and have not got any room on rent here as my family stays in Bihar,” he said. He said the government must provide compensation to meet expenditures for all these days. Javed Ahmad Lone and Nazir Ahmad Sufi, both from Srinagar, said their business of selling shawls to remote villages of Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and areas in Amritsar had came to a standstill after transport services were banned by the state government. “We’re unable to return back to Kashmir and are compelled to stay here. We appeal the government to extend financial help to small vendors and daily wagers to make up loss of their living,” they said.  Jobanpreet Singh (20), a youth in city, said he did not earn a penny for the past six days. “I’ve not got any call for job from traders who told me that all transactions have came to naught due to fear of the spread of coronavirus,” he said. Hailing from Naushehra Dhalla village he said with no transport connectivity he could not go home.  A local leader Mandeep Singh Manna, who unsuccessfully contested last Assembly election independently, said the Central and state governments had been doing their part in spreading awareness on coronavirus.  He said though our government is following the footsteps of foreign governments in issuing guidelines but have failed in providing any financial help to citizens. For instance, the UK government announced to pay 80 per cent of salaries to employees and house loan instalments too were stopped for some months. He demanded that the Union and provincial governments too must announce similar packages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/daily-wagers-hit-hard-demand-financial-help-59899
23-03-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Amritsar residents extend full support to ‘Janata Curfew’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 22The entire city was closed heeding to the call of Janata Curfew today. The appeal given by the Prime Minister got full support from the public, commercial establishments, religious organisations and different sections of society.Golden Temple witnesses record decrease in footfallOnly a few devotees visited the Golden Temple. Prominent markets and trade hubs of the city were closed. Hoteliers, restaurants, dhabas and eating joints also observed the curfew. Tourist spots such as Partition Museum, Gobindgarh Fort, War Museum and Sadda Pind were closed.The ISBT and the railway station wore a deserted look. All roads were also deserted as people abstained from moving out. Only two two long-distance trains, Tata Muri and Howrah Mail, arrived at the local railway station today.City’s commercial areas such as Katra Ahluwalia, Shastri Market, Tahli Wala Bazaar, Pratap Bazaar, Mai Sewa Wala Bazaar, gold and silver ornaments’ market Guru Bazaar, Bhandiyan Wala Bazaar, Chaurasti Attari and Batti Hatta were closed. All grain markets were also shut. Industrial areas such as focal points in the GT Road, Mehta road, Islamabad, Chheharta and other areas of the city were also closed.Police personnel were seen manning streets and keeping a close watch on negligible number of commuters. They also enquired them why they were out on streets. They also asked some of them, who were out without any reason, to return to their houses.A resident of Wadali village had tested positive for coronavirus yesterday. Local residents were scared after learning that he came home from Delhi in Shatabdi Express on March 19. They felt that residents need to be vigilant enough as he must have come in close contact with his co-passengers and visitors at the railway station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-residents-extend-full-support-to-janata-curfew-59898
