23-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Parents dig deep into their pockets, online classes of children to blame||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22In response to the Covid-19 lockdown, the government as well as private schools have started teaching online, which has proved to be an effective step in these critical times. But, this has also led to a financial burden on parents. Parents, who generally never allowed their children to use cell phones, are now forced to buy smart phones for them.Before the Covid-19 outbreak, most of the parents never allowed children to access mobile phones due to their harmful effects on eyes and psyche. Now, school managements have asked parents to provide them with smartphones with Internet connection. As classes are being taken using various online applications such as Zoom and WhatsApp, students need smartphones with a good storage capacity.“I have three children and I have one mobile phone. A school conducts online classes for three to four hours for one child. Now, I have to arrange at least two separate mobile phones or laptops. Moreover, I am concerned about their health as well. Overuse of mobile phone will affect their eyesight and psychology. I am not opposing the online system. It may help students, but at the cost of making a deep hole in parents’ pockets,” said Jaswinder Singh, a resident.Gurshran Singh, a student of Class IX, said: “My mother has a phone with moderate storage and RAM. I was using it for a week. But now, it is not working due to low-storage capacity. Teachers asked us to get new phone. My parents don’t have any source of income after the lockdown. I am in a fix as to how will online classes work.”“We know the financial status of students studying in government schools. Poor parents can’t even provide phones to children. Teaching through TV is way more effective than online classes,” a government teacher said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/parents-dig-deep-into-their-pockets-online-classes-of-children-to-blame-103089
23-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Cop among 35 test +ve, tally 808 in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22With 35 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the total count of cases has increased to 808. The district health authorities reported that 28 of the new patients are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases while seven are contacts of positive patients.The district has witnessed a recent spurt in positive cases and deaths due to the disease. Of the total positive cases till date, 24.13 per cent (195 cases) were reported in the last eight days (since June 15).Further, of the 195 cases reported in the last eight days, nearly 72 per cent (140 cases) are ILI cases. The patients tested for Covid-19 after reporting at flu corners or identified by health teams for symptoms are termed as ILI cases. With possibly no known contact history or travel history, the ILI patients can be presumed as cases of community spread. In the same period, a total of 11 deaths and 35 percent of the total 31 deaths reported so far have occurred.Meanwhile, of the new cases reported on Monday, an official posted at the B Division police station was found infected. The localities — Gurnam Nagar, Aata Mandi, Devi Wali Gali (Chintpurni Road), Gobind Nagar, Putlighar (near Navpreet hospital), A-block (Ranjit Avenue), C-Block (Ranjit Avenue), E Block (Ranjit Avenue), Baba Deep Singh colony, Ajit Nagar, Lawrence Road, Katra Khajana, Haripura, Kashmir Avenue, Varindavan Enclave, Gurbaksh Nagar, Lahori Gate, Shingar Avenue, Vijay Nagar, Noori Mohalla and Dolo Nangal each have reported one ILI case. Areas like Ram Bagh, Duni Chand Road and Guru Amar Dass Avenue each have reported two ILI cases. Of the seven cases with contact history, three have been reported from Duni Chand Road, two from Gurbax Nagar, one from Varindavan Enclave and one from Shingar Avenue.1 fresh case in Tarn TaranOne more Covid-19 positive case was reported in this border district on Monday. He has been admitted to the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital here. The brother of the patient, who is in the Punjab Police, is already a Covid-19 patient and admitted here.Officials of the Health Department said three patients who were under treatment here had been sent to their homes and there were now a total of 16 positive cases under treatment in the district.Labs issuing false reports to face actionMedical Education and Research Minister OP Soni has said those private labs which are found issuing false positive reports will be dealt with strictly. He said though the government lab was fully equipped, some people preferred private facilities. In the recent past, a private laboratory was found issuing false reports and he had reported the matter to the Health Minister on June 7. Recently, the Vigilance Bureau had seized the records of a private lab, Tuli Diagnostic Centre, on Majitha Road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-among-35-test-ve-tally-808-in-amritsar-103090
23-06-2020||---||Gold robbery: Police get CCTV grab of suspects||Amritsar, June 22The police have stumbled upon CCTV footage about the suspects who had looted a goldsmith in the Guru Bazaar area in the walled city here on Sunday. The armed persons decamped with gold jewellery worth Rs2.50 lakh from his shop.Deputy Commissioner of Police Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said investigation was under way and there were certain clues on which police teams were working. “Nothing can be said at the moment as investigation was under progress. The police were looking into all possible theories to crack the case,” he said.The victim, Amar Yadav (goldsmith), told the police that he ran a shop in the name of Ashok Kumar and Sons located on the third floor of a building in the Guru Bazaar area. He said at around 12.30 pm on Sunday, he was present in the shop and was preparing lunch. He said two unknown persons with covered faces came and said they wanted to get a gold ring repaired. He said he refused to repair it as due to a stricter lockdown on the weekend there was no work going on.He said, meanwhile, two more persons arrived and thrashed him at gunpoint and took away his gold chain of 30 gm, a gold ring of 4 gm and 42 gm of gold tilian of customers.The police have registered a case under Sections 392 and 452 of the IPC and Sections 25, 54, 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons in the regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gold-robbery-police-get-cctv-grab-of-suspects-103091
23-06-2020||---||12 booked for bid to murder in Ajnala||Amritsar, June 22The CaseSeveral armed persons on Friday barged into a house, attacked and seriously injured a person identified as Kuldip Singh. The incident occurred at Lal Wala village, falling under the Ajnala police station, and a monetary dispute is reported to be the reason behind the attack.On the statement of the victim, the police have booked 12 persons on the charge of murder bid. Among those booked were Amarjit Singh, Jasmer Singh, Amritpal Singh and Binder Singh, all residents of the same village, Banvir Singh of Teda Rajputa village, Sukhjinder Singh, Manjinder Singh, Harvinder Singh of Barlas village and four unknown persons.Kuldip Singh told the police that around 10 pm, when he was sleeping in his house, someone called him from the outside. As he woke up and opened the gate, the suspects barged into his house and started hitting him, he said. Jasmer took out a pistol and fired three gunshots at him, but he had a lucky escape, Kuldip said.He said on hearing the gunshots and the noise, nearby residents came, following which the suspects fled. Kuldeep was admitted to the Ajnala Civil Hospital.ASI Jasbir Singh said the victim’s brother Hardeep Singh had lent some money to one of the suspects and when he demanded it back, a dispute began between them. The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 323, 458,148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-booked-for-bid-to-murder-in-ajnala-103092
23-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga
||No regard for distancing norms in markets post weekend curbs||Tribune News Service Amritsar, June 22 Social distancing norm went for a toss on Monday post the weekend curb as a large number of people were seen on roads visiting retail markets. Besides, sweltering heat and sultry weather compelled people to take off their masks often, which increased their chances of exposure to the virus.  Heavy traffic was witnessed at retail markets including Ram Bagh, Hall gate, Gole Hatti Chowk and Hide market. A plenty of manually driven carts selling a variety of fruits congested the stretch from Ram Bagh Chowk to the Hall gate. The place was further congested with people thronging these vends to buy fruit.  Inside the Hall gate, people did not mind the yellow line and parked as per their will. Consequently, half of the road was occupied under the parked vehicles.  Traffic cops were seen asking people to obey traffic norms. However, it was onerous for them, as a large number of people vanished in showrooms nearby after parking their vehicles.  Samir Ahuja, a pedestrian who came to buy summer essentials for his family, said it was beyond comprehension that people were undeterred by the massive spread of coronavirus.  “People on road and at shops were hardly following the norm of social distancing,” he said. Harjit Singh, a shopkeeper, said he constantly asked shoppers at his shop to maintain distance, but people did not heed to it. “Instead, they insisted that they be given their choice of product at the earliest. They should exhibit some patience and understand that it takes time to locate the object, pack it and sort out payments,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-regard-for-distancing-norms-in-markets-post-weekend-curbs-103093
23-06-2020||---||Bains brothers start cycle rally to highlight agri crisis||Amritsar, June 22To highlight the agrarian crisis, MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and Balwinder Singh Bains of the Lok Insaaf Party and other activists started a cycle rally — Kisan Bachao, Punjab Bachao Rosh Yatra.The leaders paid homage at the Golden Temple and also visited Jallianwala Bagh before flagging off the cycle rally. Simrajit Singh Bains said the cycle rally would culminate at Chief Minister’s residence in Chandigarh on June 25. The rally would pass through different areas of the state to mobilise support and create awareness.He said to save Punjab, its farmers should be saved. The agriculture and farmers are under threat not only from the corporates, but also from the government, he said.Criticising the Centre for bringing ordinances on agriculture recently, Bains said: “Agriculture is a state subject and bringing ordinance in such a manner only hints at centralisation of powers.”He said federal structure of the Constitution was being diluted deliberately, adding that farmers would be the worst affected if the MSP on paddy and rice was scrapped. He said citizens must try to save farmers and agriculture. He also criticised SAD for not protecting the interests of the state. He said SAD had not spoken a word on the dilution of federal structure. He said the government was trying to clear the way for corporatisation of agriculture in the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bains-brothers-start-cycle-rally-to-highlight-agri-crisis-103095
23-06-2020||Neha Saini||MHRD sanctions first instalment for GNDU’s centre for interfaith studies||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22GDNU will shortly establish a centre for interfaith studies as announced in the Syndicate meeting held on Monday. Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu presided over the meeting, while Prof KS Kahlon, Registrar, presented the agenda.While welcoming new members of the Syndicate — MLA Dr Dharambir Agnihotri and MLA Surinder Singh Choudhary — Prof Sandhu said a new centre has been approved by the Cabinet as a major initiative of GoI to celebrate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.Prof Ved Parkash, former chairman UGC and Rahul Bhandari, secretary, higher education, participated in the online meeting.The VC said the original Detailed Project Report (DPR) was submitted to the MHRD with financial proposal of Rs482.12 crore, which was subsequently revised to Rs439.00 crore.“This revised DPR of Rs439 crore was approved by the MHRD with first phase of five year’s financial layout of Rs175.87 crore. Of this, the first annual instalment of Rs49.11 crore was sanctioned by the MHRD and will be released soon for establishing the Centre of Interfaith Studies,” he said. He also gave details about the activities of the university during the lockdown period.The other agenda of the meeting was online education being imparted to students. He said the UGC had given the new eligibility criteria for online education, in which Category-I & II University or University with NIRF ranking in Top-100, in overall category, were eligible. “Under Category-I University, the Guru Nanak Dev University is finalising its process of online studies. A directorate of online studies of the university would also start functioning soon. We are also getting repeated requests from Punjabi community and the alumni from across the world to start some online courses especially in the field of Punjabi language and culture. So, that is on the cards as well.”GNDU to be first paperless working university soonIn another significant announcement, Professor Sandhu said Guru Nanak Dev University was going to be the first paperless working university shortly. Professor Sandhu in his previous tenure had made the campus vehicle-free as well. As many as 13 PhD degrees were also approved in the meeting. The university had vacated hostels to create Covid-19 isolation centres. In this regard, the minimum charges of the hostel residents have been waived off. The Syndicate also approved that all regional campuses, constituent colleges and university colleges will waive off the rent due to the closing of canteens/ shops/parking stands citing financial difficulties of contractors.In the matter of conducting exams for exit classes, Professor Sandhu said the conduct of examinations of exit classes of the university would be held as per the decision of the University Grants Commission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mhrd-sanctions-first-instalment-for-gndus-centre-for-interfaith-studies-103096
23-06-2020||---||Dismissal of  22 lab technicians stayed||Amritsar, June 22The Health Minister has stayed the orders of the Additional Chief Secretary (Health) regarding the dismissal of 22 laboratory technicians working at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyr’s Memorial Civil Hospital here. The Health Minister issued a letter staying the orders of dismissal and cancellation of deputations of these employees after workers of the Health Department staged a protest on Saturday.Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu has also asked for a report from all the civil surgeons regarding the list of sanctioned posts of different paramedical employees’ cadres and details of posts filled through deputation or contract employment.The Additional Chief Secretary had ordered the dismissal of 22 lab technicians stating that the Civil Hospital had only five sanctioned posts of lab technician but a total of 27 were appointed at the place. While ordering the dismissal, the letter by the ACS had stated that these employees are “influential” and a fair inquiry into the case cannot be conducted.The employees unions at the hospital, however, reasoned that they had time and again demanded to increase sanctioned posts but it had not been done. “We have five sanctioned posts of pharmacist and five of lab technician. The 200-bed hospital runs many facilities like dialysis unit, emergency, blood bank and so on,” said Rakesh Sharma, chairman, Employees’ Welfare Committee Civil Hospital.At present, the hospital is facing the shortage of paramedics and specialist doctors. Even the sanctioned posts in various specialties are lying vacant. Of the eight posts of emergency medical officers, six are lying vacant. The hospital has no skin specialist.Further, the hospital does not have a permanent dialysis specialist and it has arranged to provide dialysis service for three days a week. Of the 92 sanctioned posts of staff nurse, 11 are lying vacant. The hospital does not have a single sanctioned post of nursing sister or nursing matron. As an arrangement, three nursing sisters have been deployed on deputation. The employees’ association has demanded that the number of sanctioned posts should be revised as per the workload.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dismissal-of-22-lab-technicians-stayed-103097
23-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||As construction cost goes north, plan to own a dream house put off||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22Construction cost has spiralled post the lockdown, which is acting as a deterrent for those wanting to raise a dream house. Davinder Singh, a building contractor, said the demand was missing from the market for construction material, yet their prices were increased after the lockdown restrictions were eased.He said the construction of an ordinary house rose from Rs1,200 to Rs1,300 per square feet to Rs1,700 per square feet.There was a tremendous fall in the construction activity in comparison to the corresponding period last year. He said since he dealt with construction of small houses, a majority of the users in this bracket had put off their construction plans. Both coarse and fine sand measuring 100 cubic feet were available at Rs3,600. Before the lockdown, fine sand used to be available at Rs2,000 and coarse sand at Rs3,000.Mandeep Singh, a leading architect, said only those who were in the need of housing were out in the market and people with long-term plan were watching the scenario to favourably change to start construction.Puneet Joshi, an advocate, who is in the middle of constructing his house, said he had to abandon construction of his new house after getting the foundation laid and raising 5-feet high boundary wall, as the lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Resumption of the stalled construction meant spike in material cost. A lot of 1,000 bricks now cost between Rs5,800 to Rs6,000, which was earlier priced at Rs5,000, gravel was now costing Rs3,000 from previous Rs2,200. Similarly, a cement bag rose from Rs360 to Rs400 and sariya (iron bar) costs Rs50 per kg now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-construction-cost-goes-north-plan-to-own-a-dream-house-put-off-103098
23-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Two booked for abducting teen||Courier boy loses phone to robbersAmritsar: Three unknown scooter-borne persons looted a courier delivery boy near Dutta Chowk here on Sunday. The victim, Sukhdev Singh, said he worked as a delivery boy with Express Beeth Courier located at Ganda Singh Wala on Majitha Road. He said he was going to deliver a parcel to a customer at Dutta Enclave and when he reached near Dutta Chowk he called the customer to confirm the address. He said three persons came from behind and snatched his mobile, Rs 5,500 and a delivery bag containing parcels and important documents. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC in this connection. TNSOnline yoga session heldAmritsar: To mark the International Day of Yoga, an online yoga session was conducted by Bharat Thakur, the founder of Artistic Yoga, for members of the FICCI FLO. This session was specially curated for the Amritsar FICCI FLO chapter. During the lockdown, Thakur launched a yoga application that has tailor-made yoga sessions. He laid stress on adoption yoga as a lifestyle and as an effective immunity boosting activity. Meeta Mehra, chairperson, FICCI FLO, said, “The yoga session was aimed at enhancing physical, mental and spiritual health of the members of the FLO Amritsar and to bring about a change in their sedentary lifestyle.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-abducting-teen-103100
23-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pritam Dhaba now dependent on online orders for survival||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 22Popular among train travellers, Pritam Dhaba is now dependent on getting orders online for survival. However, with dining yet not allowed and public transports, including trains and buses, yet to be fully operational, the income has dwindled drastically, says Davinder Singh, the owner of the dhaba.“We are earning just 5 to 10 per cent of what we used to make earlier. We can only pay wages to our workers and meet daily expenses. The orders are minimal at present,” said Davinder Singh.Ever since the curfew was imposed on March 23, survival has become very difficult. When people are afraid of eating out, there is no hope for the revival of fortunes soon. Though every precautionary measure is being taken, it appears things will become normal only by the next year and till then, our fingers are crossed. —Davinder Singh, owner of Pritam DhabaPritam Dhaba is just opposite the Amritsar railway station and a majority of his customers were visiting passengers. People travelling in luxury buses, operating from near the railway station, were also among his customers. “Now, there is no tourist or passenger as train and bus services are yet to become fully operational. People are also avoiding unnecessary travel and expenditure. It has directly affected our business,” Davinder pointed out.“The pandemic has not only hit us, but many others associated with our business. I used to have around 25 employees and am left with only 5 to 6, while a majority of others have left for their native places. Dairy people, vegetable vendors, cold drink dealers and many others were associated with us. They were also hit badly with our business going down,” he said.“Ever since the curfew was imposed on March 23, survival has become very difficult. When people are afraid of eating out, there is no hope of revival of business soon. Though every precautionary measure is being taken, it appears things will become normal only by the next year and till then, our fingers are crossed,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pritam-dhaba-now-dependent-on-online-orders-for-survival-103101
23-06-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Covid lockdown casts shadow over her dream of becoming a teacher||Tarn Taran, June 22The Covid-induced lockdown has cast a shadow over the bright future of 28-year-old Harsimrat Kaur of Mughal Chak village here.The sad thing about the pandemic is that nobody knows its end, she says. Harsimrat has done her master’s in English with 62 per cent marks and BEd with 67 per cent marks. As she was a student of English, it was easy for her to clear the IELTS with sufficient bands to move any foreign country she likes. “However, I want to live here in my country and serve the poor and needy persons,” she says.The Education Department advertised 2,182 posts of master cadre teacher and I applied for the exam. It was to be conducted on March 29, but due to the lockdown, the exam got postponed. God knows when the paper would be conducted now. —Harsimrat KaurHarsimrat cleared the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) in 2018, scoring 120 out of 150 marks. She then prepared for the subject test in English, an exam that the candidates have to pass to get the job of a teacher in the state.“The Education Department advertised 2,182 posts of master cadre teacher and I applied for the exam. It was to be conducted on March 29, but due to the lockdown, the exam got postponed. God knows when it would be conducted now,” said Harsimrat.She was hoping that by April she would be working as a teacher at a government school. “According to a press release by the Secretary of the Education Department, the selected candidates were to be given appointment letters before April 1, so that they can join before the start of the new academic session. But Covid outbreak changed everything,” Harsimrat said, adding that with the kind of efforts she has put in, she is sure of cracking the exam when it is held.Harsimrat’s father Nachhttar Singh, who has been a senior leader of a teachers’ organisation, said the family was worried about the future of their daughter as the state government was planning to abolish several posts in various departments after the pandemic hit the state finances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-lockdown-casts-shadow-over-her-dream-of-becoming-a-teacher-103102
