23-10-2020||Amritsar||Two nabbed with 262-gm heroin||Property of drug peddlers freezedAmritsar: The rural police have freezed the properties of two drug peddlers, identified as Kewal Singh and his brother Lakhwinder Singh, both residents of border village Daoke here. The police said in a statement issued here on Thursday that Kewal Singh was nabbed with 2-kg heroin in October 2015. Investigations revealed that he and his brother Davinder Singh had procured 40 kanals of agricultural land each which was worth Rs 2.01 crore. Earlier, the police had freezed the properties of his another brother Lakhwinder, who had over 40 kanals land worth over Rs1 crore in July. TNSGNDU VC gets addl chargeAmritsar: The state government has established Sri Guru Teg Bahadur State Law University in Tarn Taran district, which will offer specialised courses in law and jurisprudence from this year onwards. For now, the university will start its LLB programme from a temporary campus at Guru Nanak Dev University. Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, GNDU, has been given the additional charge of the law university while Prof KS Kahlon, Registrar, GNDU will hold the additional charge of the Registrar. The-Vice Chancellor has already written to the UGC for approval under Section 2-F of the UGC Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-262-gm-heroin-159965
23-10-2020||---||Virus claims four lives, 32 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 22The district reported the death of four more persons due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 439 in the district on Thursday. The deceased have been identified as 45-year-old Daljit Kaur, a resident of Guru ki Wadali village; 60-year-old Tara Singh, a resident of Guru Nanakpura (Kot Khalsa); 82-year-old Satyapal, a resident of Gali No.2 on Majitha Road; and 67-year-old Jagjit Singh, a resident of Bhawani Nagar.The health authorities also reported 32 new positive cases taking the tally to 11,584 in the district. Besides, the recovery count has reached 10,886 with the recovery of 56 more patients. At present, the district has a total of 259 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-claims-four-lives-32-new-cases-in-amritsar-159964
23-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Residents suffer as Tarn Taran main road cries for urgent care||Tarn Taran, October 22Residents of the town are a disturbed lot as the GT road, which is the lifeline of the town, is in bad shape and is causing trouble to them. Besides, to add more trouble to the residents, it has been encroached upon by vendors. Parking of vehicles on either side of the road has become a threat to commuters. From the Amritsar-Chabal bypass to Sarhali bypass at T-point, the road was about 5-km-long with two bridges on the Kasur drain.Eight years ago, the state government got it repaired, giving it a new look. From constructing storm sewer lines to providing dividers to widening of the bridges on Kasur drain on both Sarhali and Amritsar sides to installing of interlocking tiles alongside the road almost all works were done here at a cost of over Rs 25 crore.No one had thought then that after eight years the road would turn into a pitiable condition with potholes dotting after a space of every few inches and depressions noticeable at many points with. Even encroachments on a large scale were never expected.Milkha Singh, owner of Kandiala Electric Works on the Amritsar road in front of the Modern Diagnostic Centre, and his fellow shopkeepers pointing at the broken site said the road had been in such a terrible condition for the last six years and in spite of repeated requests to PWD officials and politicians, earth mixed with sand was filled in potholes. As a result, shopkeepers along the road had to face the problem of dust raised by passing vehicles, making their lives miserable in the winter season.Besides the potholes, the Sarhali road is broken and has depressions at many places. Gursewak Singh, a resident of the road, said the road had depressions as deep as 50 feet for the last two years but the authorities never bothered about repairing it properly. He said after repeated complaints, the authorities got the caved-in portion filled with garbage a year ago, making the matter painful. It emitted foul smell for months. He said those living nearby the road and shopkeepers hesitated over complaining to the authorities concerned in this regard.Nirmal Singh, who lives in front of St. Francis School, said whenever the road was dug up for linking a new storm sewerage connection with the pipes, it was not repaired leading to road accidents. He said the road seemed to have been encroached on a permanent basis. He said that during the lockdown period, the local Municipal Council authorities had removed all encroachments at the Kasur drain towards the Amritsar side but it had been encroached upon again. Tara Singh Khehra of the town said the divider was broken by the MC authorities without the consent of the PWD just for political considerations.Sharanjit Singh, Assistant Engineer, PWD, said the 10-year-time limit of the road was going to end and then it would be renovated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-suffer-as-tarn-taran-main-road-cries-for-urgent-care-159963
23-10-2020||
||Sustainable trousseau is new fashion in the wake of Covid||Amritsar, October 22 The wedding season has begun as Unlock 5 brought lease of life back into business with few restrictions. The upcoming festive season too has lifted spirits of shoppers. Call it the lockdown effect, the festivities seem to have toned down and the weddings are not the usual grand affair as they used to be. This goes true for wedding trousseau business as well that has undergone a sea change due to pandemic.  The new buzzwords for post-pandemic wedding season seem to be revivalist and sustainable. “Unlike previously, when wedding trousseau was a detailed hunt for designer labels, now people are looking for multipurpose wear that would also be easy on the pocket. Of course, the taste for embroideries and bling is still there but buyers are looking for sustainability now more than fashion statements,” said Amit Mehra, whose bridal wear brand Bride’s Pride opened recently in city. His picks for the season are subtle colours and chic styling.  “People are going for simpler weddings, with cost effective budgets. So, bridal attires too have toned down,” he said. Now cost effectiveness doesn’t mean innovation takes backseat. His collection for the wedding season includes a bridal lehenga that has prayers and best wishes people generally give to the new couple, embroidered on the bridal skirt.  “It’s a unique concept that we created specifically keeping in mind the post pandemic weddings. With capping on number of guests that can attend a wedding event, many members of family are not able to attend. So, the idea to have prayers and best wished embroidered on the lehenga was to give auspicious vibe to the dress,” said Amit.  Even prominent fashion labels such as The Closet and Himani Arora have chosen toned down functionality for this wedding season’s collections. Himani Arora, a prominent designer from city, said fashion trend post Covid 19 would be sustainable, responsible and capitalise on local sourcing of material. Sargun Seth, designer and owner of The Closet too said this in absence of the extravagant weddings, the next best option would be to create simple, appealing clothes.  Revival is also another favourite trend of the season. “Post Covid-19, the spending power of the people has reduced. Cut downs are happening in wedding events, clothes, jewellery and for those attending multiple events, spending on new attire every time is no more an option. So, people are reviving old heirloom sarees, doing fusion wear with old season’s dresses and styling them differently,” said Aneeta Singh, who runs her own boutique in city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sustainable-trousseau-is-new-fashion-in-the-wake-of-covid-159946
23-10-2020||---||Amritsar's Khalsa College gets recognition for agri-based courses||Amritsar, October 22Khalsa College, Amritsar, has received the mandatory recognition for its BSc (Agriculture) course from the newly carved Punjab State Council for Agriculture Education (PSCAE), Punjab. In a communiqué, the authorities from the PSCAE said the college fulfils all stipulated conditions laid down by the council for its four-year degree course.The PSCAE was formed following the enactment of the Agriculture Act, 2017, to maintain the standard of agriculture education in Punjab. The council began its massive exercise last year seeking reports from the different colleges and universities of Punjab, giving them sufficient time to fulfil the basic parameters required for agriculture education.Many universities along with the Colleges of Punjab Technical University (PTU), Jalandhar, were included in the list of those colleges which were unable to fulfil the basic requirements of agriculture education in the first list.Dr Mehal Singh, Principal, Khalsa College, said: “The students of the Agriculture Department in the college have been assigned 50 acres of land for practical and 60 more acres of land for nursery, horticulture and organic farming. The college is awarding degrees in BSc Agriculture (Hons) since 1931 and various other streams of MSc (Agriculture) since 1961.”“The Agriculture Department of this college has a major contribution in ushering Green Revolution in Punjab. Due to the relentless efforts of the department, there is a lot of improvement in the conditions and directions of farming profession in the state,” said Dr Mehal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsars-khalsa-college-gets-recognition-for-agri-based-courses-159947
23-10-2020||
||Smart City CEO honours plastic recycling champions||Amritsar, October 22 Moving the ‘Clean Amritsar Campaign’ launched by the Municipal Corporation (MC) on October 2, a special competition was organised by Amritsar Smart City Limited from 2nd to 8th of October to encourage people in the city to recycle plastic bottles and cold drink cans.  Residents who had used filled the reverse vending machines with maximum items to recycle were honoured by the CEO Smart City and Municipal Commissioner Komal Mittal in a special event. Under the Smart City Mission, reverse vending machines have been installed at Municipal Corporation Office Vishal Mega Mart A-block, B and C-block, market Ranjit Avenue, Amrit Anand park and Rose Garden Ranjit Avenue, Company Bagh, Novelty chowk, Court Complex, Kabir park opposite GNDU University, Amra Talkie chowk, DAV College Hathi Gate, Model Town temple, Kairon market Hall Bazaar, Durgiana Temple, bus stand, Shivala Bhaiya Wala temple, gurudwara Shaheeda Sahib. The competition was organised to promote cleanliness in the city.  In the competition, Arshdeep Singh of Kot Khalsa, Mehak Gandhi of Shivala Colony, Jaspreet Singh of Ranjit Avenue, Ankur Bhatia of E-block and Sunil Kumar of C-block Ranjit Avenue and Rakesh Kumar of Nirankari Colony, inserted most bottles and cans into these machines. They were feted with a exclusive t-shirt made by mixing recycled plastic and cotton.  Mittal said that other residents should also take inspiration from them and cooperate to make the city clean and plastic free. Meanwhile, Mehak, one of the champions, said that even a common person can play a role to reduce global warming with small measures like using less plastic and recycling more. On the other hand, Arshdeep said that people should use these machines often to keep the city clean and plastic-free. “Total of 20 machines had been installed in the city in August for recycling plastic bottles and cold drink cans. So far, a total of 2,400 plastic bottles and cans have been put into the machine for recycling by the people. The lion’s share had been noted at the bus stand, where 458 bottles and cans have been added to the machine for recycling. People should use these machines regularly. Apart from this, they also get discount coupons and products like clothes, shoes etc. that are made by recycled items,” CEO Smart City said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smart-city-ceo-honours-plastic-recycling-champions-159948
23-10-2020||---||SGPC schedules special exhibition commemorating its 100th anniversary||Amritsar, October 22The SGPC has planned to hold a special exhibition commemorating its 100th anniversary scheduled in November. The exhibition will depict the sacrifices that were made in the Sikh history. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said a decision to this effect was taken at a meeting held here on Thursday.“The exhibition will be conducted in front of Gurdwara Manji Sahib between November 12 and 15. A weeklong painting workshop has been scheduled and the best painting will be exhibited at the designated place. The theme would be to showcase the Sikh history, struggles, wars and sacrifices that paved the path to establish the SGPC,” he said. Earlier, a similar exhibition of paintings was set up by the SGPC at Sultanpur Lodhi on the occasion of the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.Prominent ones present in the meeting included former senior vice-president of SGPC Rajinder Singh Mehta, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakohna, and head priest of Gurdwara Sri Fatehgarh Sahib.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-schedules-special-exhibition-commemorating-its-100th-anniversary-159949
23-10-2020||---||Farmer bodies relax rail roko stir, shift venue to platforms||Amritsar, October 22With farmer organisations deciding to allow passage of goods trains, the protesters shifted their protest from the railway tracks to the platforms at the Buttari railway station near Beas.The farmers have been sitting on railway tracks for the last 22 days as a mark of protest against the three agriculture-related Acts passed by the Union Government.Farmer leaders stated that the relaxation to goods trains has been given in view of the Chief Minister’s appeal to allow transport of crucial items like coal, fertilizers, etc. They said passenger trains would not be allowed to pass.The leaders stated that the Union Government was ignoring the sentiments of society by not reconsidering its stand on the farm laws.They said instead of making it an ego issue, the Union Government must address their issues. Meantime, their protest at the petrol pumps run by Reliance, at toll plazas and outside the residence of Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik also continues.The leaders stated that while the farmers in UP were forced to sell their produce at low prices, the traders earn huge profits by selling the same in Punjab markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmer-bodies-relax-rail-roko-stir-shift-venue-to-platforms-159951
23-10-2020||---||SAD leader arrested for storing crackers illegally||Amritsar, October 22A SAD leader, a resident of Ajnala, was on Wednesday arrested by the police for allegedly storing and selling firecrackers illegally.He was identified as Jagdeep Kumar, a resident of Gali Patwaria in Ajnala. His arrest sparked a controversy after SAD leaders headed by former MLA Amarpal Singh Bonny Ajnala held a demonstration over his arrest.Jagdeep was later released on bail though a case under Sections 188 and 336 of the IPC has been registered against him.According to information, Jagdeep runs a shop in a densely populated area on Chogawan Road where he was selling crackers in an illegal manner endangering the life and property of people.The police conducted a raid and arrested him, besides recovering a huge quantity of firecrackers from the shop. According to the police, he did not have a valid licence for storing and selling crackers.Enraged over his arrest, Jagdeep’s supporters led by former SAD MLA Bonny Ajnala staged a protest at the Ajnala chowk. They alleged that the raid was politically motivated while several other shopkeepers in the area were also selling crackers illegally.1 held with Japanese pistolThe rural police have nabbed Jagdev Singh, alias Mukhtiar Singh, of Fatehgarh Sabhran village in Ferozepur for allegedly smuggling arms and ammunition.The police have confiscated a foreign made weapon used by army from his possession. During preliminary interrogation, the police have booked Manjit Singh of Jharunangal village who is currently lodged in Faridkot Jail.Jatinder Singh, Investigating Officer, said that Jagdev was produced in a court and brought on four-day police remand for further interrogation. He said Jagdev was earlier nabbed by the Tarn Taran police for similar offence.He said Manjit was also a notorious arms smuggler who had a couple of cases of arms smuggling against him.Jatinder said that he along with a police team was patrolling in the Baba Bakala area when an informer told that the accused was involved in arms smuggling. He was coming to Baba Bakala for supplying arms to his clients.During search the police found a .32 bore made in Japan pistol along with five live cartridges from his possession. He said that Manjit would be brought on production warrant for further investigations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-leader-arrested-for-storing-crackers-illegally-159952
23-10-2020||Neha Saini||Performing amid pandemic is dramatic enough for Ramlila organisers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 22Seemingly upbeat and choosing to instill some kind of hope among people, the Ramlila artistes in city have been on the go despite the post-pandemic gloom that has marred the festive season. At a time when many cities have chosen not to host the drama this year owing to the virus threat and financial constraints, 10 Ramlila committees across Amritsar have been given the administration’s nod but a slew of safety guidelines has to be followed.The much-anticipated enactment this year will see a cut down in audience and squeezing of budgets to ensure that enough safety measures are in place. “Hosting the Ramlila has been a challenge this year as you have to really restrain people from crowding or exceeding the said limit. Earlier, every night we used to get an audience of around 400-500 people, but this time we have barred the sitting to just 150-200,” said Satish Kumar Ballu, head, Bhalla Colony Dramatics Club, that has been hosting Ramlila in the city since 1976.Cutting down on the sets, props and equipment in budget to make way for buying sanitisers, gloves, masks and setting up a sanitisation tunnel at the entrance of the Ramlila venue, Satish says that the committees have braved the lockdown financial blues and ensured that all threats are kept at bay. With an average budget of Rs2-3 lakh, the committees this year have shrank the expenses to Rs1.5 lakh. “For first three days, we had not allowed kids and elderly to watch the Ramlila. But then, everyone wants some sort of entertainment after being incarcerated at home and despite our restrictions on number of entries, the walk-in of audience has been increasing. So, we have lifted that restriction. We are distributing masks to everyone and have made it mandatory for the artistes to not use same make-up kits,” he shares.But despite all the measures, people thronging the venue need a reminder every now and then, for even a slightest of slip-ups can trigger an adverse outcome as big as the event itself. “We have to keep check that everyone in the audience is wearing masks. Some people do not listen or follow proper safety instructions. So, we keep on announcing in between acts about mandatory safety guidelines. We have also got all our 50 artistes tested before the beginning of Ramlila,” shares Pawan Sharma of Shree Vaishno Dramatics Club that hosts Ramlila in Naraingarh and Chheharta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/performing-amid-pandemic-is-dramatic-enough-for-ramlila-organisers-159953
23-10-2020||---||GNDU holds webinar feting Baba Banda Singh Bahadur||Amritsar, October 22The Department of History and Centre On Studies in Sri Guru Granth Sahib, Guru Nanak Dev University, organised a national webinar on the theme ‘Baba Banda Singh Bahadur: Struggle and Legacy’ dedicated to the 350th Birth Anniversary of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur. Three eminent speakers spoke on various aspects of the life and struggle of the venerable figure.Prof Amarjit Singh, head, Centre on Studies in Sri Guru Granth Sahib, said Baba Banda Singh Bahadur was the first to challenge the authority of the Mughal Empire in last 750 year history of the country. First speaker, Prof (Dr) Jaspal Kaur Dhanju, former professor and head, Department of History, Punjabi University, Patiala, said his struggle should not be seen as tugging between Islam and Sikhism, but stepping up against oppression of the Mughals. She analysed Persian, English Gurmukhi and Rajasthani sources on Banda Singh Bahadur.Prof Jasbir Singh Sabar, a former professor and head, Department of Guru Nanak Studies, Guru Nanak Dev University, narrated that during struggle against the invaders, Banda Bahadur emerged as an example of religious tolerance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-holds-webinar-feting-baba-banda-singh-bahadur-159954
23-10-2020||Amritsar||Most farm fires in Amritsar, Tarn Taran||The two districts in Majha region, Amritsar and Tarn Taran, have reported the maximum number of stubble burning incidents during the ongoing paddy harvesting season in the state at 1,657 and 2,086, respectively.The figures clearly indicate at the extent of violation of the ban on burning crop residue in fields. However, officials reasoned that figures were high (in comparison to other districts) as harvesting of paddy began early in Majha as compared to Malwa and Doaba. They added that the final figures after the harvesting is over in the entire state would give a clear picture.Employees of the Agriculture Department claimed that the ongoing protest against the farm Acts had emboldened the farmers. “The farmers know that it will be hard for the government to take strict action against them amid the ongoing protest,” said an official of the Agriculture Department.Also, the figures bring attention to the fact that the government’s endeavour of providing machines on subsidy to farmers as an alternative way to manage crop residue seemed to have yielded no result.Jagjit Singh, a farmer, said, “Despite the claims of the government, it is difficult for the farmers, especially vegetable growers, to prepare fields without burning the residue.” He added that the farmers were reluctant because they would have to bear additional monetary burden if they went for alternative ways to manage crop residue.Tarn Taran Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini, who also holds an additional charge for Amritar, said, “It’s too early to say that the two districts have reported more fire incidents. In other districts, the harvesting is going at a slow pace as compared to Amritsar and Tarn Taran.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/most-farm-fires-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-159665
