23-12-2020||A day in the life of a theatre artiste||A theatre of dreams||Neha SainiTribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22The times a theatre artiste is having at Singhu border is going to be a lifetime memory printed in the mind. The artistes from Punjab have become important carriers of the message that farmers’ agitation is trying to propagate.Sarabjeet Singh, 41, a senior theatre artiste from city has been performing at the site along with Kewal Dhaliwal’s Manch Rangmanch and his day at the heart of one of most important protest movement in recent history, he says, is nothing short of a dream come true.“The energy and determination one feels among those protesting farmers is just indescribable. I lived with them for three days, sleeping in makeshift tents, living in trollies that have been converted to mini kitchens and homes. The protest has turned into a common man’s rebellion where every person participating is significant,” he said.Sarabjeet performed the Punjabi play ‘Hardiyan Sohniyan’ which is based on farmers’ rights. “Our day spent there was much more disciplined than usual as everything is organised in such a manner right from morning chores to conduct of stage and activities. We used to have breakfast at 9 am and the stage used to open at 12 with scheduled cultural and creative activities being conducted till 4 pm,” he shares. The evenings were reserved for discussions, open forums and exchange of the ideas on farm laws as there is a large gathering of Punjab’s ‘think tank’ that has become a part of the protests. “We used to stage our play several times and interact with other artistes as well.”As a theater artiste for past 25 years, Sarabjeet shared that the three days spent there made him realise the importance of his craft. “As artistes, we became the loudest voice of dissent, reflecting upon the sentiment that those brave farmers, who have been determinedly demonstrating for past 25 days. Theatre and folk art of Punjab is leading from the front during these times and I am proud to be a part of it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-theatre-of-dreams-188199
23-12-2020||---||Prisoner escapes from hospital, 3 ASIs booked for dereliction of duty||Amritsar, December 22 Yet another prisoner made Guru Nanak Dev Hospital as his escape route after he was admitted to the hospital for treatment. This is the third incident in the past two weeks. Following the incident, the police have booked three cops deputed to guard him in the hospital premises.  A case under Sections 223 and 224 of the IPC was registered against the prisoner and the three cops. The prisoner has been identified as Bikram Masih, while the three ASIs   have been identified as Baljinder Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Sawinder Singh.  Bikram was nabbed by the Gurdaspur police in a robbery incident. He was lodged in jail and on December 15 he was admitted to the hospital for treatment. On Monday, when the police team visited the hospital, they found the prisoner as well as the guards missing from the spot. They could not find them even after a search.  Following this a complaint was lodged with Majitha road police and a case was registered against them. On December 11, an ASI Gurlal Singh and HC Sukhpal Singh were booked for dereliction of duty after a prisoner escaped from Government TB hospital here. The escapee prisoner was identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukhpreet Singh alias Sarabjit Singh of the New Gurnam Nagar area located on Sultanwind road here. He was booked under the NDPS Act.  The city police arrested three jail wardens—Amritpal Singh, a resident of Pheruman, Jugraj Singh of Verka and Parminder Singh of Kamoke village— in connection with fleeing of another prisoner Baldev Singh escaped from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital on December 9. Baldev Singh, alias Desa, a resident of Fatehabad, Tarn Taran, was lodged in jail under the NDPS Act registered with the Goindwal police in April last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-escapes-from-hospital-3-asis-booked-for-dereliction-of-duty-188200
23-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Railway police SHO, munshi booked under NDPS Act||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22The Government Railway Police (GRP) have booked Sukhwinder Singh Malhi, former Station House Officer of GRP here, on the charges of fraud, criminal conspiracy and under the NDPS Act after 1 kg of smack went missing from the malkhana and found way into the hands of drug peddlers.Besides Malhi, the GRP also booked its munshi Kuljit Singh in the case. The incident came to light when the CIA staff of city police nabbed Vinod Kumar of Maqboolpura and Raj Kumar, alias Tita of Ram Tirath road, for allegedly possessing 1 kg of smack from their possession on November 9. A case under Sections 21, 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against them.Their interrogation revealed that they had procured the contraband from Kuljit Singh at Rs 85,000. Following this the police nominated Kuljit Singh. However, he went absconding in the case and was yet to be arrested.However, taking a serious note of the incident, GRP authorities formed a special investigating team headed by AIG rank official in the case to probe the missing of smack from the malkhana.Balvir Singh Ghumman, SHO, GRP, said the case was registered following preliminary probe conducted by Parveen Kumar Kanda, SP, Bureau of Investigations. After the probe a case under Sections 409 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 59 of the NDPS Act was registered against Sukhwinder Malhi and Kuljit Singh and they were placed under suspension.He said that now a special investigation team headed by DSP Aswani Kumar Atri had been formed to probe into the case further. He said that now the two drug peddlers were brought on production warrant by the SIT for interrogation.No arrest has been made as the matter is under investigation by the SIT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railway-police-sho-munshi-booked-under-ndps-act-188201
23-12-2020||---||Health staff works overnight to test passengers from UK||Amritsar, December 22 After the reports of a new strain of Covid-19 virus in the UK, the health teams remained busy testing passengers of a flight from the UK throughout the night after the plane landed at 12.05 am here on Tuesday. Though the administration had issued an advisory to the relatives of passengers regarding the mandatory Covid-19 testing, a large number of them arrived at the airport to receive the passengers.  The department had claimed that the passengers would be allowed to leave the airport only after their test reports are available, which could take seven to eight hours. However, due to a large number of passengers, the administration had a tough time pacifying passengers who were adamant on leaving the airport at the earliest.  The health officials said the government had decided on the RT-PCR test for incoming passengers as its reports were more accurate than the other tests. The officials said the RT-PCR test reports take more time than other tests as a result of which passengers and their relatives had to wait.  Civil Surgeon Dr RS Sethi said eight of the total 264 passengers had tested positive. He said patients include six males and two females. The positive patients have been kept under institutional quarantine to prevent the spread of the virus.  Dr Sethi said four teams of health employees were deployed at airport to collect samples. He said usually the test reports were available after 24 hours, but the employees working overnight as a team managed to achieve the target in almost 13 hours.  The news reports regarding the new strain of the deadly virus being circulated on news and the social media platforms have also worried the residents. The Health Department officials said residents should not panic but must take ample precautions while going out of their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-staff-works-overnight-to-test-passengers-from-uk-188202
23-12-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar district reports two deaths, 25 new cases||The Health Department has reported two deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday with which the toll has increased to 541. The deceased have been identified as Avinash Rani (75) of Azad Nagar (Putlighar) and Bhupinder Singh (64) of New Amritsar.The health authorities have also reported 25 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 14,252. The new cases include 13 influenza-like illness cases and 12 contacts of positive patients. The department has also reported recovery 50 patients. A total of 13,110 patients have recovered so far. The district at present has a total of 601 active cases. — TNSMP Aujla tests +ve MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, who has been sitting at Jantar Mantar to lodge protest against the farm laws, with other Punjab MPs, has contracted the virus. Aujla said he has quarantined himself at his official residence in New Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-reports-two-deaths-25-new-cases-188203
23-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||4 yrs on, Metro service yet to become self-sustained||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22The Metro bus service, being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) of the government’s Rs550-crore project to provide public transport in the city, completed four years on December 16.But even after four years, the government is spending crores every month, as the authorities have failed to make it self-sustainable.At present, a total of 52 buses are being run on the dedicated 31-km corridor and catering to an average of around 20,000 commuters per day. The authorities claimed that a majority of riders on Metro Bus were school and college students and staff. Educational institutes were closed after the outbreak of Covid-19 and this affected the ridership, which had further dipped to 15,000 to 20,000 per day after the pandemic. Earlier, the average per day ridership was between 25,000 and 30,000 before Covid.Inderjeet Singh Chawla, CEO, BRTS, said: “The entire transport sector witnessed a major blow with the pandemic. The BRTS is recovering and we have made several plans to revive its ridership.”The BRTS authorities have been planning to initiate some more routes with the collaboration of ASCL. The Department of Local Governments has recently taken over the BRTS project from Punjab Infrastructure Development Board.The first phase of the former deputy CM Sukhbir Singh Badal’s dream project was inaugurated on December 16 in 2016. The service was re-launched by former Local Bodies Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu after the completion of track and stations in January 2019 after completing the routes. Free rides were announced for three months, which witnessed the ridership rise to up to 75,000 daily, but later it plunged to around 15,000 to 20,000 again.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-yrs-on-metro-service-yet-to-become-self-sustained-188204
23-12-2020||Amritsar||Prisoner injured in attack by inmate in Amritsar Central Jail||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-injured-in-attack-by-inmate-in-amritsar-central-jail-188205
23-12-2020||---||Drone module: Cops probing into ‘clients’ of arrested duo||Amritsar, December 22Day after the arrest of two Delhi residents for allegedly assembling and supplying drone to alleged drug peddlers Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh, the Amritsar rural police has been probing their clients who had procured drones from them in the past.The police had arrested Lucky Dhawan of Janakpuri and Baldev Singh of Meharganj in Delhi. As per investigations, they were involved in assembling and selling of the drones without any authorisation and documentation required under DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) norms.So far, the police have recovered four drones, drone hardware and five mobile phones besides other documents from them. According to the officials, Baldev used to procure the drone components from e-commerce sites and later assembled and sold these. They had sold the heavy-duty quadcopter to Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh for Rs4 lakhs.The police sources privy to the investigations revealed that they were dissecting that if they had sold the drones to some other smugglers in the past. Both Lucky Dhawan and Baldev Singh would be produced before a court tomorrow after the expiry of police remand. The police would seek extension of their remand for further probing.Till now, eight persons have been arrested, including four drug peddlers, lodged in Amritsar Central Jail in the case. The police have been raiding different parts of the border belt, especially in Ajnala area on Tuesday. The four smugglers arrested in the case also belonged to this belt.As per the probe, the four smugglers – Harjit Singh, Sarabjit Singh, Simarjit Singh and Surjit Masih – were in contact with three Pakistan-based smugglers identified as Chisti, Malik and Maqsood. Chisti’s name also figured in previous drone modules busted by the Punjab Police, an official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drone-module-cops-probing-into-clients-of-arrested-duo-188206
23-12-2020||Our Correspondent---||‘Regular study, revision can ensure success in NDA exam’||Tarn Taran, December 22  NDA graduates and former students of the Nishan-E-Sikhi preparatory Institute (NDA), Khadoor Sahib, addressed the current batches of the institute at Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here today. They said focus on regular study; knowledge and confidence were the key to crack the NDA written and practical tests, including the SSB. Adesh Parkash Singh, who joined as an Air Force Officer, said in the Air Force, one has to be in-touch with upgrading knowledge throughout the career. “Written tests are to test your knowledge, physical tests for athleticism and agility while interviews are for the assessment of your confidence and conceptual clarity,” he added. Harsidakpaul Singh, who joined the Indian Army as officer, said, “You should study maximum in the classroom, otherwise you could face difficult times in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/regular-study-revision-can-ensure-success-in-nda-exam-188207
23-12-2020||---||Shastri Indo-Canadian Research Grant for GNDU’s faculty member||Amritsar, December 22Dr Amritpal Kaur, Associate Professor in the Department of Food Science and Technology, Guru Nanak Dev University, has been awarded Shastri Institutional Collaborative Research Grant (SICRG) for the year 2020-21 by the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute. This grant is supported by funds from the Ministry of Human Resource and Development (MHRD), Government of India.This award is given to the scientists for outstanding research work and those who have received recognition from national and international academics. Dr Kaur will work in collaboration with McGill University, Canada for two years.Vice-chancellor, Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, faculty members and officials congratulated Dr Kaur for her selection for this prestigious award. Dr Kaur, encouraged the students, scholars and faculty members of the university to avail of maximum benefits and support from the SICRG, a non-profit organisation.Associate Professor to work with McGill UniversityThis award is given to the scientists for outstanding research work and those who have received recognition from national and international academics. Dr Kaur will work in collaboration with McGill University, Canada, for two years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shastri-indo-canadian-research-grant-for-gndus-faculty-member-188208
23-12-2020||---||Medical officer’s suicide: Health Department asks staff to explain||Amritsar, December 22The Health Department has initiated investigations into the delay in the release of pension benefits to deceased Senior Medical Officer Arun Sharma after his wife Dr Sonia Sharma committed suicide on Monday.In a letter written to a senior assistant and a dealing clerk from the administrative staff, the Health Department has asked them to give an explanation.Her husband died after contracting CovidDr Sonia, a medical officer with the Municipal Corporation here, had allegedly consumed some poisonous substance, after which she was admitted to a private hospital. Earlier, her husband Dr Arun Sharma, a senior medical officer at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, had died on August 30 after contracting Covid-19.The said employees have been asked to furnish the details regarding receiving the documents regarding the benefits and the date on which these were forwarded to the treasury to ascertain that if there was any delay in disbursal of the benefits.The Health Department after the death of Dr Sonia on Monday had stated that the compensation of Rs50 lakh announced by the government for corona warriors in case of death has already been disbursed to the family. The department had stated that the provisional pension had also been started. It was also stated that the disbursal of other benefits was in process and approval had already been granted for the same.Dr Sonia, a medical officer with the Municipal Corporation here, had allegedly consumed some poisonous substance, after which she was admitted to a private hospital. Earlier, her husband Dr Arun Sharma, a senior medical officer at Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital, had died on August 30 after contracting Covid-19.The employees association at the Civil Hospital had also brought the matter of delay in the disbursal of benefits to the family of Dr Arun to the notice of Health Minister last month. Sources close to the family said Dr Sonia was upset after the death of her husband due to delay in disbursal of benefits.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/medical-officers-suicide-health-department-asks-staff-to-explain-188209
23-12-2020||Amritsar||Protests staged outside centres of Sikh organisations||Activists of various Sikh organisations on Tuesday staged a protest outside the Sikh organisations — Chief Khalsa Diwan and Khalsa College — demanding expulsion of pro-BJP leaders from these organisations.In the backdrop, the Sikh activists contesting the agricultural laws demanded that Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, honorary secretary of Khalsa College Governing Council and Iqbal Singh Lalpura, a member of Chief Khalsa Diwan be removed as both of them share allegiance to the BJP, which had been adamant of not repealing the contentious farm laws.Chief Khalsa Diwan President Nirmal Singh said that the demand letter submitted by the protesters has been received today, which will be sent to Lalpura and he will be asked to submit clarification in this regard, which will be tabled later in the members’ meeting.The protestors, Mehtab Singh and Jaswinder Singh, said a letter had also been sent to Satyajit Singh Majithia, President, Khalsa College Governing Council to remove Chhina.Chinna, in a statement, termed the protest outside Khalsa College gate as unfortunate but misrepresented by some mischievous elements. He said his affiliation or ideology towards the party was his personal matter and that he has been serving the college without any self-interest. During his stint, he said he never let politics take over the matters of the organisation. The activists said people from all walks of life in Punjab opposed the ‘black laws’ enacted by PM Modi government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protests-staged-outside-centres-of-sikh-organisations-188210
23-12-2020||---||Everything about ‘A Bit of Everything’||Amritsar, December 22Writing about home in context with the mass exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley in the troubled 90s in his book ‘A Bit Of Everything’, author Sandeep Raina channelised his own pain of migration and fictional story of a protagonist named Rahul somehow resonates with so many who were forced to leave their homes during the time.Can still feel migration pangsSandeep, in a web session held by the Majha House, said this recently published book is about a Kashmiri Pandit boy, rather an autobiography even though he himself is a Kashmiri Pandit. His book delves into the migration of Kashmiri Pandits in the 90s and mirrors their mentality well. He said he still could feel the pain of migration, due to which this book and its characters are heart-touching. The book came out this year.In conversation with Bani Gill, Sandeep in a web session held by the Majha House, told that this recently published book is about a Kashmiri Pandit boy, rather an autobiography even though he himself is a Kashmiri Pandit. His book delves into the migration of Kashmiri Pandits in the 90s and mirrors their mentality well. He said that he still can feel the pain of migration, due to which this book and its characters are heart-touching. The book came out this year and its protagonist Rahul goes from Kashmir to Delhi and ultimately to England. “For this reason, the house and its meaning to us are special subjects of the book. As for the title, we all want to get everything in our life whether those things are material or value-based like freedom, ideology and home. But in life, we do not get everything, so we have to live comfortably with small portions of everything,” he said.The differences between cities are also reflected in his book. While they present Kashmir with colours of peace and affection, Delhi is shaded as a city with fast-paced life and cranky where the character feels alienated. “Even in London, he keeps searching for his language, which reflects his loneliness. The house, in my story, is not only the building of brick rubble, but the language, mountains, rivers, weather and sky are also like a house,” he shared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/everything-about-a-bit-of-everything-188211
23-12-2020||---||Tarn Taran family alleges police inaction in youth murder case||Amritsar, December 22  The family members of a youth, who was killed by several armed persons over a property dispute in the Bhikhiwind area in Tarn Taran on October 11, have been running from pillar to post for past two months for justice. They accused the police of inaction alleging that barring one suspect they had not arrested the other accused. Though the Tarn Taran police have constituted an SIT to probe the case, it has failed to make any progress so far. On the other hand, the accused who were booked for murder are roaming free. Ironically, two members of the SIT were recently transferred and the family members of the deceased, Mandeep Sharma, feared that investigation would be derailed. Mandeep Sharma was shot dead on October 11 at his petrol pump in Bhikhiwind. The police had booked seven persons by name along with around 20 unknown persons for murder, criminal conspiracy and under the Arms Act. Though one person was arrested in the case, no further arrest was made as the matter was ‘under investigation’. Maninderpal Sharma, father of the victim, said among those who were booked included Satinder Pasi, his sons Gurpreet Singh and Charanjit Singh, Surjit Singh, Kulbir Singh and Gurnam Singh. After getting Gurpreet to surrender before the police, they later used their influence and got an enquiry marked to an SIT. He alleged the accused were trying to usurp their land adjoining their petrol pump and had got a stay from the court. Despite this, the accused tried to start the construction of shops at the disputed land following which a complaint was lodged with the police. He said this enraged the accused who came to the petrol pump and shot dead Mandeep. Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said the police had already arrested the prime suspect, Gurpreet Singh, in the case. “I am personally supervising the case and it would be investigated in a transparent and fair manner,” he said, adding that action would be taken on merit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-family-alleges-police-inaction-in-youth-murder-case-188212
23-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Piddi village leads from the front in farmers’ stir||Residents of Piddi village in Tarn Taran district have been leading from the front in the farmers’ protest against the Union Government for enacting the farm laws.It was the native village of Satnam Singh Pannun, state president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab. Jasbir Singh Piddi, state leader, and Fetah Singh, senior leader of the KMSC, and many others, too, hail from the village.The village, which has a population of just 2,200, is known for revolutionary spirit. Bhai Gurdit Singh, Bhai Kishan Singh, Bhai Kishan Singh Alaki and Joginder Singh Shant were others who played a remarkable role in the country’s freedom movement. Late Raghbir Singh Pannun was a member of the Azad Hind Fauj (Indian National Army) who played an active role in the freedom struggle. Even he was put behind bars twice by the British Government.The villagers have erected a gate in memory of late Raghbir Singh Pannun with his life history at the entry point to the village. Raghbir Singh Pannu was awarded the Shamsheer-E-Dasat by Subhas Chandra Bose for his courageous spirit.The KMSC is the only farmer organisation, which has been leading the farmers’ protest at the national and state levels. Workers of the organisation have been staging a dharna at the Jandiala Guru railway station since September 24 when other farmer organisations vacated the rail tracks.A group of farmers from Punjab led by Jasbir Singh Piddi was the first group which managed to reach the Singhu border (Delhi) crossing all the barricades put up by the Haryana Government on November 28. Sukhwider Singh Sabhra, district president of the organisation, too was among the first key leaders leading a group of the organisation. Satnam Singh Pannu, with as many as 700 vehicles, led farmers on December 11. The leaders of the village not only motivated the villagers but were also active in uniting farmers for the national-level struggle. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/piddi-village-leads-from-the-front-in-farmers-stir-188213
23-12-2020||Our Correspondent||Couple robbed of car at gunpoint||Tarn Taran, December 22 A couple was robbed of a Toyota Car and other belongings by six armed robbers at gunpoint. The incident occurred at Khara village on the national highway No 54 on Monday night. Sarhali police ASI Surinderpal Singh, Investigation Officer (IO) of the case said the victim Sohan Lal of Mana Singh Wala (Ferozpur) village, along with his wife, was going to Gurdaspur from his village on his Toyota. When the couple reached near Khara village, six armed robbers, who were on three motorcycles, dropped them. The robbers robbed their car at gunpoint. Sohan Lal said he lost cash worth Rs 8,000, his Aadhar Card, pan card and a driving licence in the robbery. A case under Section 379-B of the IPC has been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couple-robbed-of-car-at-gunpoint-188214
23-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amid new strain worry, 8 from UK test +ve at Amritsar airport||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 22Eight passengers, who arrived from London (UK), tested positive for Covid at Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Tuesday.The Health Department teams conducted the RT-PCR tests of all 264 passengers who arrived on a flight from London to Amritsar that landed here at 12.30 am.Of the eight passengers who tested positive, six are male and two female. They have been sent for the institutional quarantine as per the government instructions.On Monday, the government had decided to suspend all inbound flights from the UK following the emergence of new virus strain but the aircraft had already taken off from London by the time of announcement.In view of the Centre’s instructions, the district administration made the required arrangements at the airport to conduct the RT-PCR tests. Four teams of the Health Department led by Ajnala SDM Deepak Bhatia were deployed at the airport, which carried out continuous testing all night. The process of testing was completed in 12-13 hours. .Meanwhile, passengers staged a protest against the authorities for the alleged delay in conducting the tests and not allowing them to go out of the airport premises. Family members, who were waiting for the passengers outside the airport, also protested in the morning as the authorities were reportedly not informing them about the ongoing Covid tests.OP Soni, Minister for Medical Education and Research, appreciated the tireless service of doctors and other staff. “The intention of the district administration was not to harass anyone but to protect its citizens from the new Covid strain. The passengers could not be allowed to leave the airport without the RT-PCR test report,” he said.18 more Covid deaths in 24 hours||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-new-strain-worry-8-from-uk-test-ve-at-amritsar-airport-188122
