23-11-2020||Open House||Blanket ban on manufacturing of crackers need of the hour||Awareness campaigns can play a major role'Rules are meant to be broken' is a popular saying and this aptly fits the residents of city. The Air Quality Index (AQI) was at its worst in Amritsar already due to stubble burning but smoke emanating from crackers played havoc with the health of people, especially children and senior citizens. The administration should enforce the rules more strictly and impose heavy penalties besides initiating legal recourse to the violators. Ban non-green crackers and sale of only eco-friendly green crackers should be permitted. The corporators and councillors should be entrusted with the task of sensitising the people apart from launching social media awareness campaigns. The Residents Welfare Committees should come forward and help administration in maintaining clean and safer environment during festival season.Anil VinayakLaws should strictly be implementedDiwali is a festival of lights not bursting of crackers. The year 2020 has been a black one for all of us. The government had banned it but people went on till 12 in the midnight. Rules made should strictly be implicated. The person indulging in the act beyond the time limit issued should be fined. To analyse, citizens should also be worried about their health and safety and should not burst crackers beyond the permitted time and the government must also be careful about all this.IzleenAct seriously before it gets too lateYou have to be strict to enforce the rules in letter and spirit. Nobody will care for the laws unless the offenders are brought to book. Proper responsibility would have to be fixed at different levels as there remains a massive gap between the lawmakers and its implementers. The ones who fail to implement need to be punished first before the offenders. Proper communication of the rules and punishment for the offenders through different channels must be made. This can bring a positive change. Highly qualified, deserving, honest and environmentally cautious people should be deployed to attain the desired outcomes. A war scale preparation is the need of the hour as air pollution is a global issue now. Efforts should be made to make people understand the severity and sensitivity of the problem. We all are parts of an ecosystem and everybody will have to reduce his/her carbon footprint. The day doesn't seem far when everybody would be suffering from contaminated environment-related diseases. We have to start acting seriously before it gets too late.Anil SharmaPolicy on fireworks should be overhauledThe firecrackers leave a toxic mix of heavy metals, smoke and dust in the air, putting everyone’s health at risk; sometimes for days. The cold air and the lack of favourable winds do not let the smoke from the crackers dissipate. Instead, it hangs around exposing even those who did not participate in the festivities. The banning of crackers is a bold and welcome move by different state government. But no such ban succeeds without proper implementation. The government would need hundreds of flying squads to stop the bursting of crackers across the megalopolis. Culprits must face heavy fines. As government agencies has consistently pointed out, common people, too, must learn to understand the perils of their own act and cooperate with it. The air pollution is at its peak right now and we are seeing how Delhi is covered in smog. Last year, many people had vowed to not burn crackers on Diwali. It should be celebrated together at common place through a laser show without fireworks. Use of green firecrackers should be encouraged to reduce the hazardous air. What would a reasonable firecracker policy look like? First, leave decisions to states and local governments. Second, announce a two to three-year timetable for the transition to less polluting types of firecrackers; with states like Tamil Nadu that produce such bursts helping the industry make the transition. Third, promote moderation and responsible use of firecrackers, using a mix of public education, taxation and restrictions. If we get rid of our bad policy habits, it is possible at most places in India to both celebrate Diwali with firecrackers and be responsible towards the environment.Amarjit KalsiBan on fireworks need of the hourThe ban imposed on bursting of firecrackers and the window of two hours provided for were torn into smithereens by the people of Punjab without any compunction and consideration. Consequently, air pollution levels increased manifold on Diwali rendering the quality of air to the 'very poor' category in comparison to the 'poor' quality witnessed in 2019. The level of most dangerous particle called PM 2.5, considered hazardous for breathing, was 90 micrograms per cubic metre as compared to 43 in last year. The ban was flouted with impunity making a mockery of the whole well intentioned exercise. The window of two hours from 8-10 pm was recklessly misused as people went on bursting all types of crackers past midnight. Even resolutions made by people vanished into thin air displaying sheer irresponsibility. Therefore, to enforce the rules in letter and spirit, a blanket ban must be imposed on the manufacturing and sale of crackers next time. The workers engaged in making of crackers should be provided alternative means of livelihood and officials who failed disastrously to enforce the ban should be taken to task so that next time they perform their duty earnestly. An exemplary action should be initiated against the violators. People should be enlightened to give up their 'sab chalta hai attitude' if they want to breathe easy during Diwali next time. The laxity on the part of the authorities, who let the things slip out of their control, should be probed to make them understand their responsibility and accountability. Those who blatantly violated the two-hour window should be penalised heavily to make them see reason and logic. It is not only the duty of the government but also of the people to maintain the sanctity of the air and environment. People ought to know that homes should be filled with prayers and illuminated - not with fume, smoke and noise.Tarsem S BumrahCreating awareness best viable optionThe need of the hour is to create awareness. However, highly educated citizens are just jeering crowd on violating rules on ban of crackers. Creating awareness is the best counter to this consequence. It is better to start with ourselves. Joining peaceful campaigns and going in neighbouring areas; educating unaware and illiterate people about importance of eco-friendly celebrations and harmful impact of fireworks on environment, animals will certainly bring a visible change. Advertisements on websites, banners, posters, leaflets can all contribute in bringing improvements. The meetings should be conducted by sarpanches of the villages. In spite of wasting money on firecrackers, donating reusable items, clothes, sweets are the best ways to have eco-friendly celebrations. And, violators should be put in prison. Moreover, the government should take some steps towards it. In my opinion, harmful crackers should totally be banned and people selling them should be behind bars. Awareness about green crackers should be passed among people.Gurpreet KhushTwo-hour time limit has no meaningWhen Lord Rama came back then earthen pots were lit by people, I wonder from where the ritual of bursting crackers descended. As in Punjab, government allowed bursting of fireworks for two hours only but I think it will not work here or anywhere in India. So, either you ban it or you don't. Here are some takeaways. Firstly, the transportation of crackers must be stopped from entering the state. So, the policemen are the anchor here. Secondly, if the crackers belong to a registered company then government should sue it. If unregistered, then origin must be traced and appropriate action should be taken. The newspapers should highlight this point and insist people to use only diyas and candles.Raghav SharmaBe a whistleblower, help catch culpritsPolice should be stricter towards lawbreakers. Every individual can act as a whistleblower by using his/her smartphone to capture any wrongdoings and sending it to the concerned department. Even cash prizes should initially be announced for such a scheme so that people anticipate with full vigour, while being discreet at the same time. Every person buying firecrackers from the market should be informed about the allotted time to burst them by the seller. Text messages containing information about the rules to be followed during festivals should be sent to all the people in the district, as some may not be aware about them.Jatinderpal SinghNo-nonsense attitude required from govtAccording to me a strict action should be taken, all the crackers and rockets should be banned in markets so that people wouldn't buy them. Almost all crackers cause same amount of pollution. I know that people are not following rules but government should take a firm stand.Navjeet KaurNeed to formulate a practical planSurely, it must have not surprised many that the ban on fireworks went up in flames since it's a ritual on every Diwali. It seems the concerned officials do not want to draw any inspiration from the old adage 'actions speak louder than the words.' Just announcing laws and regulations can't help till a plan is also made to ensure every rule declared is sincerely practised. After all, just issuing statements is the easiest affair. But of course, we should learn from our mistakes and never repeat them. Let's not forget, pollution is a big concern. The biggest lesson is clear enough - we need to formulate a practical plan during the ban period. The first step should be to check that no one sells crackers, taking police's help at all levels. This time many shops kept selling crackers. According to many, including certain news reports, police took bribe from many of the sellers. Hopefully, next time such odd scenarios where corruption gets involved are also taken into consideration. The top officials in the police department should take note; else we will fail to help ourselves and most importantly the environment.Rameshinder Singh SandhuSensitising masses would help big timeAwareness is a pre-requisite to curb the sale and purchase of firecrackers. This is the reason most people do not think about the environment and keep buying it. If someone tries to make masses aware, the irascible people, it leads to a brawl. This kind of behaviour is unacceptable. I see some empty-headed people questioning others and asking 'What is your problem if we burst crackers and how are you contributing to save environment?' Even if no one is contributing, at least we should not raise the AQI level by lighting crackers. In my opinion, the school children should be taught the consequences by their teachers. This will help a lot because if children are not demanding firecrackers, then it's quite obvious parents would not buy it. I hope that in the next Diwali, which is on 4th November 2021, the mindset of people will change and a green Diwali and a very low AQI will light it up.Saahil HansWhere are the law enforcing agencies?The ban on firecrackers this time was not adhered to by the people. Instead, we polluted the environment with great zeal and enthusiasm. The role of the law enforcing agencies was negligible. The government should have put a blanket ban on the sale of crackers. Its manufacturing should be banned and defaulters behind the bars. The government should take care of the health of the people and not hanker after votes all the time. Let's learn from it and don't let it happen next time.Ravi DavesarStrike at the root of the problemIn our country guidelines for any fruitful purpose carry no meaning. See the fate of stubble burning and traffic rules guidelines. It is only the strict rules with huge amount of fines that plays as a deterrent to enforce the same. A massive advertisement campaign by the Centre and the state governments failed to convince the general public about the ill-affects of the air pollution caused by firecrackers. The main headline of your newspaper reads 'Ban not enforced, Delhi air worst in 4 years and the next page carries the news heading 'Cracker ban goes up in smoke'. Instead of banning the sale of firecrackers, the central government should ban its manufacturing because different state governments banned the sale when the traders of the firecrackers had already made a huge investment, hence, to recover the same, traders do adopt all sorts of tricks to recover their investments. So, the permanent solution to the problem is to ban the manufacturing of all sorts of firecrackers by issuing a notification at least six months prior next Diwali.Harsh N JoharQUESTIONA second wave of Covid-19 is feared in Punjab as the number of cases is witnessing a rise everyday. What should the authorities and residents do to prevent a second outbreak of the virus?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (November 26).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blanket-ban-on-manufacturing-of-crackers-need-of-the-hour-174342
23-11-2020||GS Paul||Bharti Singh’s arrest shocks artistes from Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 22The arrest of stand-up comedian Bharti Singh along with her husband Harsh Limbachiya by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) following seizure of ganja (cannabis) from her house in suburban Andheri in Mumbai, has shocked the artistes fraternity of Amritsar.Kewal Dhaliwal, a well-known Punjabi playwright and theatre director, said it was a shocking development that Bharti could be involved in such things. He said lately she was in contact with him and also recorded comments over a documentary.“I could not believe that it was true, though media reports claimed she had confessed her offence. She must have been entangled by some mysterious elements, but I have gut feeling that she would come out clean of all the charges,” he said.Dhaliwal said she could never afford to tarnish her successful career like this. “She was very ambitious and talented at the same time. With her mother, she used to run a small-time garments shop near railway station to earn her livelihood. She has two siblings. She used to perform acts at college level and joined my group Manch Rang Manch,” he said.The artiste fraternity believed that after Shushant Singh Rajput’s mysterious death, the whole film industry has got dwindled as many top rank stars were allegedly involved in drug consumption for having contacts with peddlers.Bharti had faced tough times after losing her father at a very early stage. She graduated from BBK DAV College and started her career in acting from Amritsar in the late 90s by associating with local artistes and conducted various stage shows and plays during the initial days, before migrating to Mumbai. She came to limelight after making her presence felt in ‘Laughter Challenge’.Jatinder Brar of the Punjab Naatshala said Bharti was more like a daughter who had also performed on the Naatshala’s stage in 2003-2004. “If Bharti herself comes to tell me that she is involved in narcotics, I will not believe it. She is an ambitious actor and we look at her as a role model for youth of Amritsar,” he said.Gurinder Makna, who has been a part of various Bollywood and Punjabi films, said though it was an unbelievable development that Bharti could be involved in such things, yet if it was true then it was terribly shocking.“Mumbai’s glittering film industry can influence anyone easily to invite vices along with success, if number of cases of drug consumption or peddling is anything to go by. During my decade long career in Mumbai, I observed that intake of weed was prevalent among some well-known stars. Having said that, it still depends upon your conscience and will power to control getting swayed by forbidden activities,” he said.She is very ambitious and talented at the same time. With her mother, she used to run a small-time garments shop near railway station to earn her livelihood. Kewal Dhaliwal, Punjabi playwrightIf Bharti herself comes to tell me that she is involved in narcotics, I will not believe it. She is an ambitious actor and we look at her as a role model for youth of Amritsar. Jatinder Brar, Punjab NaatshalaIf the number of cases of drug consumption or peddling is anything to go by, Mumbai’s glittering film industry can influence anyone easily to invite vices along with success. Gurinder Makna, actor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bharti-singhs-arrest-shocks-artistes-from-amritsar-174327
23-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Constable dies of heart attack in Tarn Taran||Two arrested with firearmsTarn Taran: Two country-made pistols with 34 cartridges were seized from two persons. A police party, led by ASI Lakhwinder Singh, of the CIA staff arrested Jagroshan Singh, alias Roshan Hundal, of Kaler village with a pistol and two cartridges. Meanwhile, the Patti Sadar police arrested Harpal Singh, a resident of Ruknewala (Ferozpur) and recovered one 32 bore pistol with 32 cartridges. The accused have been booked under Sections 27,54 and 59 of the Arms Act. OCDist logs 1 death, 44 new casesAmritsar: With the death of an 82-year-old man due to Covid-19, the toll in the district increased to 550 on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Vijay Singh, a resident of Karori Chowk, Gali Kang Singh Wali. The district health authorities have also reported 44 fresh positive cases, with which the total count of cases in the district has increased to 12,642. The new cases include 21 influenza-like illness cases and 13 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 44 patients, the recovery count has also increased to 11,614. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/constable-dies-of-heart-attack-in-tarn-taran-174340
23-11-2020||Amritsar||Minor girl’s marriage: 7 booked in Amritsar||The police have booked around seven persons, including a bridegroom and three women for allegedly marrying a minor girl in Beas.Those booked have been identified as Bimla, Malkit Singh, Shinder Kaur and Mahinder Singh, all residents of Gurdaspur, Princepal Singh, Ranjit Singh and Bevy, all residents of Wajir Bhullar village.Father of the victim who filed a complaint with the police said the accused connived with each other and married her 15-year-old daughter with Princepal. A case under Sections 9, 10 and 11 of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girls-marriage-7-booked-in-amritsar-174336
23-11-2020||---||Chief Khalsa Diwan appoints assistant education directors||Amritsar, November 22The Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) on Sunday appointed five assistant directors, education, during the general house meeting held at Gudwara Sri Kalgidhar Sahib hall.During the meeting chaired by president of CKD Nirmal Singh, the house welcomed the newly-inducted 74 members who were admitted during the previous meetings.The ‘mool mantra’ was recited to pay tributes to deceased secretary Surinder Singh Rumalianwale, who died due to Covid-19 recently, and other members who died in recent times.Nonetheless, honorary secretary Savinder Singh Kathunangal read out the agenda to describe that the CKD stressed on raising and propagating Sikh religion and education.Five senior principals—Nirmal Kaur, Ripudaman Kaur, Urminder Kaur, Dapinder Kaur and Kiranpreet Kaur Dhami—have been elevated to the posts of assistant director.Nirmal Singh told that the house also recommended the nomination of Sikh intellectual Ashok Singh Bagharia, grandson of first president of CKD Arjan Singh Bagharia, as member of the management board of Takht Sri Patna Sahib.He also told that 14 acres of land at village Tugalwala had been donated by some donors to the CKD for setting up a school.It was unanimously decided in the meeting that the voting process to fill the vacant post of secretary could not be held till the Covid-19 threat prevailed. However, Ajit Singh Basra has been elected as the acting secretary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chief-khalsa-diwan-appoints-assistant-education-directors-174337
23-11-2020||---||Burning green waste goes unchecked in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 22The practice of burning green waste after pruning of trees has been going unabated in the city. Instead of digging compost pits, residents prefer to burn leaves and tree residue.Officials of the heatlh wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) claimed that they issue a challan and impose a penalty of Rs 5,000 for burning green waste in the city.“The practice is going on in the city, but we are making serious efforts to curb it. Several challahs have been issued for burning plant residue. We will not tolerate anyone and take stern action,” said Dr Ajay Kawar, Municipal Health Officer. Dr Ajay said the MC had installed shredders to chop branches of trees to put it in compost pits.“We have developed wonderful infrastructure to decompose green waste and convert it into manure. Our trucks collect tree residue from all over the city. The service is free of cost. Instead of burning green waste, residents should contact the MC for lifting tree residue. We have installed shredders at Golbagh and Chheharta to chop leaves and branches. These machines are capable of chopping the branch of one-inch width. Then we put it in the compost pits,” said Dr Ajay.“We have large compost pits at Bhagtanwala and we are filling these pits with green waste. The resident should cooperate with us. Burning of green residue is prohibited and we impose heavy penalty,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/burning-green-waste-goes-unchecked-in-amritsar-174338
23-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Covid brought in much-needed respect, honour for his profession||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar November 22Shiva, a safai karmchari of the Municipal Corporation at Katra Parja in Ward Number 50, starts his day at 6.30 am. He reaches the zonal office to mark his attendance at 7 am and then starts off with his work — sweeping streets in the area.As per the official schedule, there is no tea or lunch break for him, but he takes a small break in between to have something on the pavement.Ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, Shiva has observed a change in the attitude of people and the MC officials. Now, the MC conducts their regular check-up. Not only this, safai sewaks were even honored with garlands and showered with flowers during the peak days of the pandemic.“Residents have become more conscious about hygiene but there still are some people, who are not concerned with cleanliness at all. We don’t mess up with anyone. I am thankful for those who avoid littering here and there. Residents should also cooperate with the sanitation staff to keep their surrounding clean,” Shiva said.“We clean the streets in the morning and put the garbage in the bins. Later, garbage collection vehicles collect it and shift it to the dumping site. But a number of shopkeepers open shops around 10 am and scatter all garbage in the street after cleaning the shops. The MC has installed bins, but residents avoid using it. Shopkeepers and residents should dump garbage in the bins, as it is convenient for us to collect it,” he said.Shiva and his co-workers have some grievances with the MC as well about their duty timings and work. However, they are now satisfied that the civic body has released their salaries on time without any delay. Earlier, we used to get salaries late which demotivates workers. We have some demands and our unions are struggling for it.Shiva left for the day around 2 am, but during festive season, he puts in extra hours to keep our surroundings neat and clean.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-brought-in-much-needed-respect-honour-for-his-profession-174339
23-11-2020||---||Shooting video inside operation theatre: Action sought against Civil Surgeon in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 22After the Punjab State Commission for Women issued a show-cause notice to Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh and other employees for the photo opportunity at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs Memorial Civil Hospital operation theatre on November 17, blame game has begun with Dr Navdeep issuing a notice to a few junior employees.Ankur Gupta of the Progressive Youth Forum, a local organisation, has asked the Health Minister to take action against the Civil Surgeon.In the notice issued to junior employees, the Civil Surgeon has held them responsible for shooting the video and issuing a press release to highlight their efforts at performing clinical duties without his permission and knowledge.Sources within the department said the said junior employees had acted upon the instructions of the Civil Surgeon. The Civil Surgeon had performed four C-section surgeries on November 17. To highlight this, the department released a statement along with the pictures and the video. The video recording had Civil Surgeon and others performing a surgery on a woman inside the operation theatre. Later, the Women Commission issued a notice to the Civil Surgeon and others for violating the privacy of a female patient. As the Civil Surgeon received a rap from higher-ups, he, in turn issued a notice to junior employees, said sources within the department said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shooting-video-inside-operation-theatre-action-sought-against-civil-surgeon-in-amritsar-174341
23-11-2020||---||Unattended pits on this stretch leave commuters in the lurch in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 22The pits which had been dug up for sewerage works on the Majitha road have spelled trouble for commuters. Many of them complain that they are always on tenterhooks while travelling through the stretch. The road is of strategic importance as residents of numerous residential colonies take it to visit Majitha and nearby villages. It is also the route to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and Employees State Insurance (ESI) Hospital.Shopkeepers operating their business along the road stated that the pits were dug months ago for sewerage repair. Instead of being filled properly, these pits were used to dispose of waste and garbage, said a shopkeeper. He added that as the area under the pits is higher than the surrounding road, it has been rendered non-motorable.The stretch of the road was earlier dug up for laying CNG gas pipes. The commuters stated that driving on the road has become a problem for the past few months as the traffic moves at snail’s pace.The pockmarked stretch further poses inconvenience to commuters. “The drivers have to suddenly apply brakes on reaching near the potholes. Sometimes, two-wheelers skid due to pebbles scattered near the potholes,” complained another shopkeeper Sukhwant Singh.As the two big hospitals — GNDH and ESI fall on this stretch, the movement of ambulances is frequent here. The potholed road also affects patients visiting the hospital. Area residents demanded illegal encroachments along the road be removed so as to ease the flow of traffic. “The road near GNDH is heavily encroached upon. When the schools were open, it used to be a nightmare to drive through this road as it used to be jam-packed with school buses,” said another resident, Kewal Singh, adding that the removal of encroachments could help in curtailing the traffic jams.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unattended-pits-on-this-stretch-leave-commuters-in-the-lurch-in-amritsar-174328
23-11-2020||---||Liquor smuggling racket busted, kingpin arrested in Amritsar||Amritsar, November 22A day after the seizure of a huge quantity of country-made liquor from five persons, the Amritsar rural police in a joint operation with the Excise Department have nabbed the kingpin of the racket from Tarn Taran area on Sunday.He has been identified as Supreet Singh, alias Joti Sekhon, of Nadohar Chowk, Patti. His interrogation further led to the busting of around eight illegal liquor vends in Patti in Tarn Taran, while more recoveries are likely to be made during the further course of investigation, the police claimed.On Saturday, the rural police had nabbed Lovepreet Singh of Kaler Kalan, Karanpreet Singh of Kaile Kalan, Pehaljit Singh of Ghuman Kalan, Lovepreet Singh of Ghuman Kalan, all residents of Gurdaspur and Baljinder Singh of Patti (Tarn Taran).According to the police they used to smuggle Indian made foreign liquor (meant for Arunachal Pradesh) via Tarn Taran to Amritsar, Batala and Gurdaspur through link roads. The police recovered 90 boxes of liquor containing 810 litre liquor.“Following a tip-off from the Excise Department, a joint checkpoint was laid at Jandiala Guru T-point. Three vehicles including Maruti Suzuki Brezza (PB-06-AG-9444), Verna (PB-65-M-8686) besides a goods carrier containing 90 boxes of country made liquor (total 810 litres) were intercepted at the checkpoint,” said SSP Dhurv Dahiya.The interrogation revealed that they brought liquor from Supreet Singh and his brother Harman Sekhon. On the information provided by them, the police, in a joint operation with excise officials, raided the designated spot, where they found a bottle and empty boxes and arrested Supreet Singh.Singh told the police that after the seizure of 90 boxes of liquor, they shifted the entire stock to another godown in Tarn Taran. He said the liquor first came at a godown in Chandigarh and from there it was supplied to Majha region via Tarn Taran.Dahiya said the accused also used to run eight liquor vends in Patti. He said these vends were identified and Tarn Taran police had been informed about this.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/liquor-smuggling-racket-busted-kingpin-arrested-in-amritsar-174329
23-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Kite used for slipping cigarettes inside jail in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 22In a bizarre incident, unscrupulous elements tried to sneak in prohibited material inside high security central jail with the help of a kite. The brazen attempt has baffled the jail authorities as well as security agencies.As per information, a home guard deployed at tower number 10 alongside the boundary wall of the Amritsar Central Jail informed the control room that a kite had fallen near the tower.As the jail staff reached near the tower they found around 20 cigarettes and a headphone fixed with the kite with the help of adhesive tape, stated Avtar Singh, assistant superintendent of central jail in his complaint to the Islamabad police. The police have registered a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act against unknown person in this connection.The central jail authorities have already been struggling to curb the incidents sneaking of prohibited materials, including mobile in the high security jail complex. It has initiated many steps besides deploying a company of paramilitary force to nail the perpetrators. It is located in the densely populated area which is the main reason behind seizures of mobiles from the inmates. According to sources in the jail, the unscrupulous elements used this method to slip in mobiles and cigarettes.4 held with illegal weaponsThe police have nabbed four persons in two separate incidents and recovered four illegal weapons from their possession. In the first case, the Chatiwind police have arrested Karanpreet Singh son of Shankar Singh and Karanpreet Singh son of Heera Singh, both residents of Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar area.Vikrant Sharma, in charge, CIA staff (Amritsar rural police), said the duo was nabbed from near a pear garden in Chatiwind. The police confiscated two pistols and four bullets. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused brought weapons from Madhya Pradesh and used to sell the same for Rs 40,000 to Rs 50,000. One of the pistols have a marking of ‘Made in Italy’ and Beretta Gardonevt CAL 78mm, PAT 7421. He said around six persons were involved and they were conducting raids to nab their accomplices.In the second case, the Mattewal police arrested Harwinder Singh, alias Kallu, of Mattewal, and Harmesh Masih of Bhoewal village. The police have recovered a revolver and a pistol with eight live cartridges from them.Sub-Inspector Lovepreet Singh said the accused were travelling on a motorcycle when the police intercepted them. He said Harwinder had three cases of attempt to murder registered against him in Mattewal and Jandiala. He said a case under the Arms Act has been registered against the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kite-used-for-slipping-cigarettes-inside-jail-in-amritsar-174343
