24-08-2020||Amritsar||Power theft: 190 consumers fined||Two held with 1-kg poppy huskAmritsar: The rural police have nabbed two persons with 1kg of poppy husk. They were identified as Rakesh Singh of 100-feet road and Manjinder Singh of Udham Singh Nagar on Tarn Taran Road. ASI Atma Singh said the suspects were arrested at a checkpoint on the Khasa-Ramtirath road. He said both were travelling in an SUV and during checking contraband was found from their vehicle. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against them. TNS3 mobile phones found from jailAmritsar: The Central Jail authorities here confiscated two mobile phones from two jail inmates, identified as Harmanpreet of Umarpura village and Ravinderpal Singh, alias Ghora, of Patiala, while one phone was found near window of an isolation cell. Bhagwant Singh, assistant superintendent, said the phones were found during checking by members of the jail staff. The police have registered a case under the Prisons Act. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/power-theft-190-consumers-fined-130619
24-08-2020||---||Youth arrested with sedatives in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 23The Crime Investigating Agency of the local police nabbed a man for allegedly possessing sedative pills. The suspect was identified as Sandeep Singh alias Sunny of Sandhu Colony on Batala Road here. The police recovered 15,000 intoxicant tablets and 4,000 intoxicant capsules from his car. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the suspect was held at a checkpoint. During the search, the police recovered the capsules and tablets from his car. He could not produce any documents regarding the sale and purchase of the drugs, the CP said. A case under the NDPS Act was registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-arrested-with-sedatives-in-amritsar-130618
24-08-2020||Amritsar||Writers: Re-erect memorial for Punjabi Partition victims||The International Sai Mian Mir Foundation and various literary and social organisations have strongly condemned the removal of a memorial erected in the memory of Punjabis killed during Partition.Diljit Singh Bedi, former Secretary of SGPC, Gurbhajan Singh Gill former president of Punjabi Sahitya Akademi Ludhiana, Harbhajan Singh Brar, President Sai Mian Mir Foundation, Harjit Singh Sandhu, President of Pathak Lekhak Manch Chheharta and Principal, Jagdish Singh, Director, Senior Secondary School, Nawan Pind, have jointly stated that during the Partition of the country, more than one million people were killed in communal hatred. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/writers-re-erect-memorial-for-punjabi-partition-victims-130614
24-08-2020||---||Man hurt in attack||Amritsar, August 23Two unknown persons armed with sharp-edged weapons attacked and seriously injured Harjap Singh of Pakharpur village here on Wednesday. The accused assaulted him near Sahnewali village falling under Kathunangal police station.He, along with his wife, and a 10-month-old boy, was returning to home from his in-laws’ place at Abdal village. His hand was chopped during the attack, while he also sustained injuries on his thigh.As he was not fit to give statement, a case was registered against the unidentified persons on Saturday. Harjap told the police that when he reached near Sahnewali village, some unknown persons attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. In the second attack, Datar hit his thigh. He said the accused then tried to hit datar on his hand and when he tried to resist the attempt, his hand got chopped.He said he fell on ground after this. Hearing the cries of his wife, people started gathering and the accused fled. His wife called his brother Pargat Singh and they rushed him to a private hospital in Amritsar where he was under treatment.Police authorities said a case has been registered under Sections 307, 324 and 34 of the IPC was registered in this regard, while further investigations were under progress to identify the attackers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-hurt-in-attack-130611
24-08-2020||---||Vendors at Amritsar railway station, ISBT hit hard||Amritsar, August 23The weekend curfew is causing a lot of inconvenience to commuters, besides financial losses to vendors carrying out their businesses at the ISBT and railway station. Shahid Madan Lal Dhingra Interstate Bus Terminal wore a deserted look as entire bus operation came to a halt. Vendors, who have been complaining of low footfall, rued the loss of two more days of business.At the city railway station, passengers alighting from the trains were shocked to find no mode of conveyance to reach their destinations. They said they can walk on roads with the help of their tickets which would serve as the lockdown pass but it was extremely tough to carry bag and baggage along. The daily footfall at the railway station had decreased to below 3,000 from around 50,000 before the lockdown period.Similarly, the number of trains also came down from 130 to less than 10 per day. Popular trains daily departing and arriving at the local railway station are Flying connecting with Delhi, Frontier and Deluxe to Mumbai, Sachkhand to Nanded Sahib and Janshatabdi to Haridwar.Vendors said they were incurring huge losses on account of the lockdown. Only a trolley and a vend are open at the local railway station as remaining 12 stalls, eight trolleys and a food plaza have been lying closed since the introduction of the lockdown. They said, “ The city railway station falls under category ‘A’ but there is no scheme from the railway to help them overcome the economic crises. Since shops remained closed their fixed expenses on shops and domestic remained intact”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vendors-at-amritsar-railway-station-isbt-hit-hard-130609
24-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Double whammy!  Garbage heaps, stray dogs haunt Amritsar residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23The stray dog menace and stink emanating from heaps of refuse dotting the narrow lanes of the city have been giving a hard time to the residents. The garbage has not been lifted for the past two days due to lockdown.Sushil Dhawan, a resident of Katra Dullo, a locality from where some Covid positive cases had been detected, said a stray dog bit him while he was parking his bike along the road.Harjinder Singh, another resident, said the dogs not only feed on the left-overs, but also litter the streets. The canines had a free run during lockdown. Now, they have turned ferocious and are attacking and biting people.Manish Mahajan, a resident of Katra Parja, pointed out that residents started dumping garbage recklessly during the lockdown. On the other hand, tardy garbage lifting during the weekend lockdown has also aggravated the situation.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the number of stray dogs has witnessed an upsurge as no sterilisation drive has been taken for the past many decades. He added that the Municipal Corporation had commenced a sterilisation drive at a small level with the help of NGO. Gradually, he said, the MC would soon have its own dog sterilisaton centre, as its construction is under way at the Naraingarh area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/double-whammy-garbage-heaps-stray-dogs-haunt-amritsar-residents-130607
24-08-2020||Open House||Punjab took the easy way out in fight against virus||State government must enhance testingThere is no connection between the night curfew and spread of Covid -19. Rather working hours should be increased to avoid rush of people in offices at any given point of time. The curfew from 7 pm to 5 am is just for the administration and the police patrolling units to have a sound sleep. To combat the pandemic, the state government should have taken steps to enhance testing. The Bathinda AIIMS is without a Covid care centre and a working test lab, which has a Cabinet Minister in the Central Government. So instead of taking result oriented measures, the state government has taken an easy route of the night curfew.Naresh MohanLogic behind night restrictions unclearImposition of night curfew from 7 pm to 5 am in all the cities is an idiotic decision taken by the state government. The government is imposing curfew only in night, but during the daytime, everyone is free to go anywhere. It seems that Covid-19 gets active only in night. I would like to emphasis on Rainik Bazar of Jalandhar and Guru Bazar of Amritsar where massive crowd can be witnessed during the daytime. Nobody bothers about that. In fact, everyone wants to know the secret behind the night curfew.SAAHIL HANSCurfew has affected business of hotelsNight curfew was imposed only to prevent late-night gathering. To a great extent, the night curfews have put an end to gatherings in markets and other areas. Experts believe that the night curfews and weekend curfew do not have a direct influence on the rate of spreading of virus. However, it has definitely decreased the rate of road accidents. Night curfews have affected business of hotels and restaurants. Everything has advantages as well as disadvantages. But during these difficult times, night curfews have really contributed in combating the pandemic.Khushpreet Kaur BrarAwareness campaigns are need of the hourIn a bid to control the surge in Covid-19 positive cases, the night curfew has been introduced in the state. Due to hot and humid condition in Punjab, people prefer to visit outside during the night or early morning. Night curfew may restrict movement of people, but it will not stop the spread of the pandemic in the state. The state government has issued a fresh set of guidelines and made mask mandatory in public places. However, people ignoring the health guidelines have become a headache for the government. Large scale movement of persons into the state has also led to the surge. The administrative and healthcare system may find it difficult to cope with increase in number of cases. The need of the hours is to launch mass awareness campaigns. The government alone cannot fight Covid-19. Therefore, equal participation from residents is must.AMARJIT KALSIWithdraw order on plying of busesImposition of the night curfew in the state is nothing but a piecemeal approach to check spread of the pandemic. Amid steep rise in positive cases, besides high fatality rate, a staggered lockdown is the need of the hour. Since 95 per cent rise in case load is attributed to the post unlock relaxations, it is justifiable to reimpose restrictions with an immediate effect to control the situation from going bad to worse. Shop timings should be reduced and liquor vends should be closed on weekends. With virus spreading its tentacles to rural areas, the government must restrict movement of people from cities to other parts. The government must withdraw its order of plying buses with full passenger load as it is near impossible to practice social distancing norm in a public transport.Anil VinayakMove won’t break the chain of infectionA viral infection can be transmitted from an individual to another in multiple ways - directly from a person to another through touch or if the infected individual coughs or sneezes in close vicinity of another person. And indirectly when an infected individual touches a surface and another individual touches the same surface. The night curfew will not break the cycle of infection as Covid-19 persists two to three days on plastic and stainless steel objects. However, the lockdown is an effective strategy for reducing new infections. Covid-19 has a high incubation rate. Every positive patient can infect on an average 2.6 others, making it almost as infectious as yearly influenza outbreaks. Someone who is infected with the Covid-19 would be able to pass it on to someone else up to two weeks, even if the former isn’t yet displaying any symptoms. Results from this study indicate that Covid can be transmitted through aerosols (clusters of the virus in the air) aerosol and fomites (objects such as plastic, steel, other metals contaminated with the virus) are plausible, as the virus can remain viable in aerosols for multiple hours and on surfaces up to days. Hence, the night curfew or weekend curfew cannot break the cycle of infection as it is being claimed on social media. The need of the hour is strictly ban all types of gatherings - political; social, religious; inaugurations, and protests.Dr Gursharan Singh KainthPeople deliberately defy restrictionsAs the graph of Covid-19 cases in the state is surging, the decision of the government to reimpose the night curfew will certainly help in combating the pandemic. Virus is wreaking havoc in major cities, including Amritsar, Ludhiana, Patiala, Jalandhar and Mohali. It has been seen that people often flout the health guidelines during the daytime. Taking undue advantage of night, people deliberately defy the curfew restrictions. This gives an elbow room to Covid-19 to flourish. It’s feared that Covid will peak in the state in the next few weeks. Hence night curfew will play an important role. The World Health Organisation says spread of Covid-19 around the world is driven by young people in their 20s, 30s and 40s many of whom are not just asymptomatic, but are also unaware that they are infected. The state has reported around 14,000 cases in the first 15 days of August. The number of deaths during this period is around 400. Therefore, the night curfew does make sense. The government has made it mandatory for marriage halls, restaurants and offices where 10 or more people gather to appoint a Covid “Monitor” to ensure full compliance of health guidelines. People’s cooperation, the government’s strenuous efforts and the night curfew together can halt spread of virus in the state.Tarsem S BumrahQUESTIONAccording to a survey by the NCERT, at least 27 per cent students do not have access to smartphones to attend online classes. Though the state government has started distribution of smartphones among government school students, only Class XII students will get the devices in the first phase. Do you think the lack of phones hinders access to education? What steps can be taken to make education reach every student?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (August 27).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-took-the-easy-way-out-in-fight-against-virus-130606
24-08-2020||---||Metro employees awaiting salary for lockdown period||Amritsar, August 23The Metro bus staff has not been paid salaries for the lockdown period. The buses are being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS). The company hired by the Punjab Bus Metro Society (PBMS) to operate the buses reportedly has not paid the salaries for the months of March, April, May and June.The buses were not operational due to lockdown during these months. The staff of Metro bus led by BRTS Employees Welfare Association had suspended the operation for some days in July to protest the nonpayment of salaries.The company did not pay the salaries for that period, when buses were off road. The BRTS Employees Welfare Association filed a case in the Labour Court and claimed their salaries for the period of lockdown. The next hearing for the case is on September 1.Now, the company officials have been asking the staff to pay the salaries as per the decision of court. The government pays the company on the basis of per kilometer operation. The company officials said when buses were off road during lockdown, the government did not pay them so they were not liable to pay the staff for the period when buses were nonoperational.Jageer Singh Sandhu, President, BRTS Employees Welfare Association, said, “We have struggled for long to get the salaries. The company had assured us to pay the salaries but failed to do so during the lockdown period. They only paid for some days of July, when service was operational. The case is now sub-judice in the Labour Court. We are waiting for the court’s decision.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/metro-employees-awaiting-salary-for-lockdown-period-130605
24-08-2020||Our Correspondent||AAP dharna enters fourth day||Tarn Taran, August 23Kotkapura Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan has condemned the Capt Amarinder Singh government for its failure to check the supply of spurious liquor in the border area. The spurious liquor had claimed over 100 lives here. He said it was a matter of great concern that even after the deaths the district administration and the government had failed to woke as the spurious liquor had claimed two more lives in Pandori Gola village recently.Sandhwan was addressing the party volunteers participating in the indefinite dharna on the fourth in front of the District Administrative Complex (DAC) here on Sunday. He said the party had demanded that the culprits responsible for more than 100 deaths should be booked under Section 302 of the IPC. He said the SSP had no time to assure the residents that there would be a complete check on the supply of spurious liquor in the area.Protesting volunteers were led by Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal. The party passed a resolution that if any volunteer while participating in dharna was infected with Covid-19, the responsibility would fall on the state government, especially Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had made the party to stage dharna for the indefinite period.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-dharna-enters-fourth-day-130603
24-08-2020||---||Separate dialysis unit for Covid patients with kidney ailments||Amritsar, August 23In view of the problems being faced by the health authorities in providing dialysis to Covid-19 patients with co-morbidity of acute kidney disease, a separate unit has been set up at Government Medical College here.Earlier, the hospital authorities were facing problems since Covid-19 positive patients requiring dialysis could not be taken to the general dialysis unit as it could have resulted in infecting the entire area.“A significant number of Covid-19 deaths in the recent times were those of patients with acute kidney disease. Patients with co-morbid conditions are considered high-risk patients,” said a faculty member at the college.The college officials said the new dialysis facility for Covid patients would help in decreasing the mortality rate. With over 3,200 positive cases and 125 deaths so far, the district has reported a mortality rate of 3.90 per cent. The high mortality rate in the district has been a cause for concern for the health authorities and efforts were being made to reduce it, health officials said.They said apart from acute kidney disease patients, maximum Covid deaths have occurred in cases with conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Earlier, after a review of the treatment facilities, Additional Deputy Commissioner Dr Himanshu Aggarwal, who is also the in charge of Covid treatment, had asked the hospital authorities to set up a separate dialysis unit for Covid patients with kidney disease.Meanwhile, Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni said total 2,78,064 people have been tested for Covid-19 at the Government Medical College. He said of the total coronavirus related deaths in the state, only 431 have occurred at the three government medical colleges in state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/separate-dialysis-unit-for-covid-patients-with-kidney-ailments-130602
24-08-2020||---||73 fresh cases surface in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23The district health authorities reported 73 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total count to 3,263. No death was reported on Sunday. However, a total of 125 persons have lost life to the disease in the district so far. With a total of 2,573 recoveries, the district had 565 active cases on Sunday.The new cases include 43 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 30 contacts of Covid patients. Of the ILI cases, two each have been reported from Holy City and Ajnala and one case each has been reported from Ranjit Avenue, Majitha Road, Jujhar Singh Avenue, Fairland Colony, Pawan Nagar, Hargobind Avenue, Khanna Street (Circular Road), Waryam Nangal village, Aman Avenue, Mandir Kaali Devi (on Fatehgarh Churrian Road), Tungbala, Muradpura, Verka, Green Avenue, Haripura, Shakti Nagar (Chehharta), Khapar Kheri village, Ram Tirath Road, Kale Ghannupur village, Bhagatpura, Lawrence Road, Shareefpura, Prem Nagar, Mustafabad, Hargobindpura, Preetam Nagar, Katra Khajana, Thoba village (Ajnala), Sant Avenue, Railway Colony, Shanti Avenue, Lahori Gate, Mehta, Kotli Saakka village, Rajasansi, Gokal Bagh, Khandwala and Heir village.The contact cases include three patients each from New Amritsar, Ranjitpura and Milaap Avenue, two each from Preet Vihar, Khandwala, Harkrishan Nagar, Prince Avenue, Rayya, Bhullar (Ajnala), Gharinda, A-Block Ranjit Avenue, Tarn Taran Road and Pritam Nagar (Sultanwind Road) and one case from Partap Avenue.Officials distrust govt facilitiesWhile the government claims to have made ample arrangements for treatment of Covid-19 patients at government hospitals, the fact that most senior officials, including some from the Health Department, are preferring treatment at private hospitals is baffling for the general public. People are raising voices, mainly on the social media, over the issue and saying if the government really wants to repose general public’s faith in government facilities, it should make it mandatory for all government employees to get treated from government hospitals only.Families of cops worriedWith at least 132 cops testing positive till date, the coronavirus has made their families worried. “Our families are concerned about us, but we fear we may infect them instead,” said a cop, adding that people were not ready to follow Covid-related precautions and this had made their job more difficult. Over 10 employees of Government Medical College here have also tested positive for the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/73-fresh-cases-surface-in-amritsar-district-130601
24-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||PHRO seeks probe into how suspended ASI got reinstated||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 23Assistant Sub-Inspector (ASI) Jorawar Singh, who was dismissed by the Tarn Taran police on Saturday, after his video of consuming drugs went viral on social media, was earlier arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) for possessing drugs a year ago.An STF was constituted by the state government to nail drug peddlers and stem the problem of rampant drug addiction in the border state.He was posted at the Gharinda police station in Amritsar rural police district at that time. Though he managed to get a bail within a month, the police never filed a final report in the court even after a year.The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), an NGO headed by retired justice Ajit Singh Bains, has now demanded a high-level probe into how he managed to get bail and got reinstated in the department with his tainted record. According to rules, an official gets suspended after an FIR is registered against him.On August 12, 2019, a team of STF border range headed by Inspector Varmeet Singh got a tip-off that ASI Jorawar Singh and ASI Avtar Singh, both posted at the Gharinda police station, were hooked to drugs. The informer told that the duo had links with drug peddlers and used to smuggle drugs in Gharinda and its adjoining areas besides other parts of the border belt.Following this, an FIR under Sections 21, 25, 29 and 27 of the NDPS Act was registered against them and a raid was conducted. They were caught red-handed at Bhakna Chowk while consuming heroin. The STF recovered 10-gm heroin from ASI Avtar Singh and 5-gm heroin from ASI Jorawar Singh. After their arrest, ASI Avtar Singh shot himself in the STF custody the next morning.Sarabjit Singh of the PHRO pointed out that a cop with such tainted record was reinstated in the department. “Not only this, he was again posted in the border belt by the Punjab Police,” he said, adding that: “Ironically, the STF did not even file the final reports in the case in the court. This needs a high-level probe. We urge Capt Amarinder Singh to probe the matter as to how a cop booked under the NDPS Act for having connections with drug peddlers managed to get bail and was reinstated in the department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/phro-seeks-probe-into-how-suspended-asi-got-reinstated-130600
24-08-2020||---||21-yr-old missing youth found dead||Amritsar, August 23Three days after a youth identified as Monu Verma went missing, his body was found from bushes near railway tracks in the Mohkampura area here on Sunday.This development led the family to stage a protest by keeping the body outside the Mohkampura police station against the alleged police inaction in the case who said had the police acted on time, Monu would have been alive. Pyara Lal, the father of the deceased, said: “The cops sought money from us for registering an FIR in the case.”Chandan Verma, brother of the deceased, said on Thursday, Monu (21) came to give him a lunch box at the shop he (Chandan) worked at. He left the shop for home, but did not reach there. He said they then tried to locate him. He said they lodged a missing complaint with the Mohkampura police.Pyara Lal alleged that a few days ago, Monu had a quarrel with some boys at an eatery point. The boy threatened to kill him, however, the family did not take the matter seriously, considering it a minor dispute. He said the family suspected the same boys killed Monu. “Monu’s body had injury marks of a sharp weapon in his neck, stomach and hands.The Commissioner of Police, Sukhchain Singh Gill, termed the allegations of the family baseless. “A missing report was filed when the family told the police that Monu had gone missing. A case under Section 346 of the IPC (kidnapping) was registered on Saturday. Now, the FIR will be amended and murder charge will be added. A person has been rounded up for interrogation.”Rajwinder Singh, investigating officer, said the family had given the names of Gagan and Kalu, both residents of the Mohkampura area, in the case. Further investigations were underway, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/21-yr-old-missing-youth-found-dead-130599
24-08-2020||---||4 nabbed for links with Pakistan intruders||Amritsar, August 23The killing of five Pakistan intruders by the Border Security Force in Tarn Taran yesterday has led the Punjab Police to a narcotics nexus thriving in connivance with local residents in the remote rural belt along the International Border. Four Indian nationals have been detained from the border belt in this regard.The four had established connections with the five Pakistan nationals, say police.Tarn Taran SSP Dhruman Nimbale said details of weapons recovered from the intruders were being investigated, though no radical activity had surfaced so far.“Prima facie it appears to be an attempt to push narcotics from the Pakistan side in connivance with drug smugglers on this side of the border,” he said.Without identifying the four men, as it could hamper the investigation, the SSP said: “We unlocked the two mobile phones recovered from the scene. The call details and data led us to some border-belt residents. The phones have been sent for technical forensic examination, as it may lead us to more drug operators.”As part of the investigation, teams of the Punjab Police in coordination with the BSF have been searching the area falling under the Dal border outpost, where the five were shot.On its part, the BSF is awaiting a reply from the Pakistan side after a protest was lodged during a flag meeting with Pakistan Rangers. IG (Punjab Frontier) Mahipal Yadav said: “As per the norms, the bodies will be kept for 72 hours. We will dispose of the bodies here if the other side does not claim these.”Around 9 kg heroin, arms and ammunition, two phones and Rs 610 in Pakistan currency were recovered from the slain infiltrators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-nabbed-for-links-with-pakistan-intruders-130555
