24-09-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covid stigma: Residents shun RT-PCR, antigen tests; go for X-ray, CT scan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 23The social stigma attached with Covid is forcing people to conceal their health status as, instead of going for a RT-PCR or Rapid test, many are getting chest X-Ray and CT scans done to detect the infection.While physicians can detect Covid infection with the help of an X-ray and CT scan report, RT-PCR and rapid tests are standard tests for detection of of Covid.“Getting a positive report of a RT-PCR or rapid test means neighbours would come to know of your health sooner or later. It would be either due to visit of a health team or a health employee passing this information to his relatives in your area,” said Jagjit Singh, whose sister had tested positive earlier. Another resident said: “A street in our locality was referred to as ‘Corona wali gali’ after a family tested positive. When I test positive, the last thing I would wish to hear is somebody telling me that I had infected him or his family.” He added that lack of awareness and fear has resulted in people boycotting Covid patients, instead of extending help to them.The administration had earlier asked all diagnostic labs to report details of patients with Covid-19 symptoms coming for scans as X-ray and others. “Such patients usually exhibit mild symptoms but if they do not follow proper isolation guidelines, they can infect others,” said a health department official, adding that RT-PCR and rapid tests were being done free of cost at government hospitals.6 deaths, 223 cases in district||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-stigma-residents-shun-rt-pcr-antigen-tests-go-for-x-ray-ct-scan-145728
24-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Bagh Ramanand, first planned locality of city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 23Densely populated Bagh Ramanand in southeast of the Golden Temple was the first planned locality of the city. Once, it was a Bagh of custom collector Ramanand, who used to work with Misar Ralia Ram (died in 1864), in-charge of customs, during Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s rule. A tomb of Nizam-Ul Mual, Dabir-ud-Dowla, Rais-Azim of Amritsar Ralia Ram, talaab and a temple in the memory of Ralia Ram is the only memorial. There is no memorial of Ramanand in the locality.From Bagh to localityBagh was ruined before the Municipal Committee planned the locality. Anand Ghaba, an eminent historian mentioned in the book, “Amritsar, a Study in Urban History”, that it was a planned locality with 12 to 20-feet wide lanes allowed under the bylaws of the Amritsar Municipal Committee, 1922. The development of the Bagh commenced in 1920 and it was completed in 1938. Most of the traders of the walled city preferred to stay here. Swami Building, a massive residential building was completed in 1941. There were some old structures inside the Swami Building. Locals are witness to the changes over several decades. Kishore Chand, a shopkeeper, said: “I saw the garden and open area during my childhood.”Study of localityProf Balvinder Singh, former Head of Guru Ramdas School of Planning, conducted study of the locality in 1980 while pursuing his master degree in “City and Regional Planning” at Guru Nanak Dev University.“My first assignment was to study some parts of the locality. I got an opportunity to study Bagh Ramanand. I was surprised to find that there was no garden in Bagh Ramanand. Later, I found that a large number of such localities were developed after ruining gardens,” he said.Prof Balvinder found that due to poor planning of civic body, old houses in the area were demolished. “In 1980, I found that almost all houses in the locality were around 5-feet low from the street level. The MC recarpeted the street without considering the level of houses in the area. This forced residents to demolish their houses.”Ramanand’s contributionsA majority of population in Bagh Ramanand is unaware about the role and contribution of Ramanand. Giani Gian Singh mentioned name and role of Ramanand in his book titled, “Tawarikh Sri Amritsar”. He mentioned that Maharaja Ranjit Singh used to call Ramanand “Baba ji” to pay respect. He was one of the elites in the city. Ramanand spent Rs7 lakh for the construction of wall around the city.Harpreet Singh Bhati, a researcher said, “Ramanand was custom collector under Misar Ralia, son of Missar Chhaju, most trusted general of Sadha Kaur, mother-in law of Maharaja Ranjit Kaur. Sadha Kaur appointed Missar Chhaju as the first in-charge of Katra Kanheya in the city. Ralia Ram was appointed in charge in 1811 and Ramanand was his custom collector.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bagh-ramanand-first-planned-locality-of-city-145729
24-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Hit by downturn, tenants in Amritsar vacating commercial premises||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 23Unable to meet the fixed expenditures, many tenants have left commercial premises due to the recessionary trend spiralling out of the Covid-19 lockdown.A majority of these tenants were fence sitters as far as liquidity was concerned. They could not absorb a lockdown-like blow and had to abandon the field. So, rental price in the commercial markets within the city plunged up to 12 per cent.Also, they say they got no support from the government or the property owners to withstand the crisis. On the other hand, fixed expenditures like staff’’s salary, power tariff, rent, tax, loan, etc., remained unchanged.Sanjay Vasudev, a real estate expert, said a small section of such tenants with enough savings were out in the market to buy commercial properties to get benefit from the slowdown.He elaborated that property prices had varied segments. Commercial and residential segments within the city suffered a minor 5 per cent correction, while the demand is largely standstill. On the other hand, residential and commercial components of the localities situated out of the bypasses suffered maximum decline. Prices in the residential localities came down between 20 and 25 per cent. The rates of commercial properties plummeted between 30 and 40 per cent.Even in this scenario, the number of customers has also halved in comparison to those available before the Covid-era in the market.Even then, there appears to be a silver lining as far as the properties of the Amritsar Improvement Trust are concerned. It recently held an auction and elicited a handsome response from participants.For instance, in spite of the reserve value of Rs25 lakh of a shop built on 44-square yard in New Amritsar, it was auctioned for Rs94 lakh, which after adding taxes would cost Rs1.04 crore.Dinesh Bassi, chairman of the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT), said the auction belied the slowdown trend. He said people invariably repose faith in the localities set up by the Trust. He said plots in some localities got low-price bid but this could be referred to as correction.He said preference of people to buy properties in the schemes of the Trust could be attributed to the massive maintenance facilities in terms of sewerage, potable water supply and other civic amenities being ensured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hit-by-downturn-tenants-in-amritsar-vacating-commercial-premises-145730
24-09-2020||Our Correspondent||PSPCL employees hold meeting over  pending demands||Tarn Taran, September 23The employees of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, (Powercom), and Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (Transco), under the banner of Sub-Station Staff Welfare Association, Punjab, organised a meeting of the unit here on Tuesday and discussed the current demands of the staff.Jaswinder Singh, divisional president of the organisation presided over the meeting, while Manjit Singh sate general secretary of the association was among others, who addressed the meeting. The speakers appreciated the services of the staff of the substations, who worked hard to maintain undisrupted power supply to the hospitals and other institutions, involved in tackling with the Covid-19 threat services. The speakers said in spite of the sincere efforts of the staff the management of the Powercom was dilly-dallying to implement the accepted demands of the employees.The leaders took it seriously that the staff of the substations due to the shortage of the staff worked more than 50 hours as over-time in the past quarter (three- month) but the staff was paid for only 50 hours 00 payment. The leaders stressed not to cut the existing posts in the substation workers to provide better power supply to customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pspcl-employees-hold-meeting-over-pending-demands-145733
24-09-2020||---||Radical Sikh groups support farmers' Sept 25 bandh call||Amritsar, September 23Radical Sikh organisations have come out in support of farmers against the agrarian Bills.Showing solidarity with the farmers, Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwarpal Singh Bittu said that besides Dal Khalsa, the activists of SAD (Amritsar) and Akal Federation have decided to join the farmers in their September 25 bandh call.He said the BJP had been ill-treating its alliances. In Punjab, SAD has alliance with the BJP. “The saffron party has signed its political death warrant by bringing in farm ordinances. It is necessary that all Sikh parties should snap ties with the BJP which has its Hindu Rashtra agenda. If any party still maintains association with the saffron party, it would be considered as anti-Punjab party. The SAD too was cornered due to sacrilege and misappropriation of saroops and panthic authorities for their vested political interests”, he said.Damdami Taksal president Harnam Singh Khalsa said the bandh call by farmers would be supported by them too. He said that the farmers took to streets as their interest was absolutely ignored by the Central Government.He said the Centre should withdraw the Bills. Instead of politicising this sensitive issue of farmers, he urged the political parties not to ignore the sentiments of farmers.“The farmers who fill the food basket of India are being ignored by the Centre with its ill-conceived policies. The farmers are still the backbone of the economy of the country. It is a matter of grave concern that the Modi government has completely failed to address the grievances of farmers who are reeling under debt,” he said.Expressing identical views, All India Sikh Students Federation president Manjit Singh Bhoma said the federation stood like a rock with the farming community and support the September 25 bandh call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/radical-sikh-groups-support-farmers-sept-25-bandh-call-145734
24-09-2020||---||Kangana reacts after NSUI burns her effigy||Amritsar, September 23Taking note of the NSUI Amritsar’s protest against her recent remarks on farmer protests, actor Kangana Ranaut in tweet asked that why was she being targeted. Re-tweeting Punjab Congress’s Twitter post, the actor wrote, "First Congress in Maharashtra threatened me and beat my posters with chappals now Congress in Punjab burning my effigies, seems like a clear case of mistaken identity. Am I some minister or a great opposition leader? Who they think I am? This is rather flattering @INCIndia."The NSUI wing in city had held protest at Rattan Singh Chowk on Tuesday, led by NSUI Punjab president Akshay Sharma, who had also dared the actor to come to Punjab. The protests were held against her tweet about farmer protests against the new Bills.  Akshay Sharma on Tuesday said Kangana had crossed all limits by "targeting the beleaguered farmers, labelling them as terrorists".Leading a protest against the Bollywood actor’s recent comments on farmer protests, Akshay Sharma said, "She should be shameful for what she has said."The members held a protest march and burned an effigy of Kangana while raising slogans against her. “Demeaning the farmer protests for their right is a despicable thing. We openly condemn her comments. These self-appointed guardians of society on Twitter who know nothing about anything need to be apprehended,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kangana-reacts-after-nsui-burns-her-effigy-145735
24-09-2020||---||Cong protests ‘draconian’ farm Bills, seeks withdrawal||Amritsar, September 23The Congress party workers staged a protest outside the residence of BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik over the issue of three farm bills introduced in the Parliament by the Centre.The party workers termed the bills as 'draconian' and against the interests of the agrarian community, which would marginalise small farmers and promote corporatisation of agriculture. Bhagwant Pal Sachar, District Congress Committee Rural President, said, “The BJP has back stabbed the farming community by bringing the three ordinances and then getting these passed in the Parliament without discussion and with voice voting.”He also criticised SAD leader Harsimrat Badal. He added that it was a political compulsion for the SAD. He said Harsimrat should have reigned when the three ordinances were discussed by the cabinet. He added that the Congress would oppose the bills with all its might and demanded the government to withdraw them.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) appealed to all sections, including all political parties, social and religious organisations to support the farmers' struggle against the anti-agriculture black laws introduced by the Modi Government and make the September 25 bandh a success.AAP also termed the announcement of 'Chakka Jam' by the Badals on September 25 as a conspiracy against the peasant struggle. Addressing a press conference here today, Kultar Singh Sandhwan of AAP alleged that despite the resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal was a 'drama’.Senior party leaders Manjinder Singh Lalpura, Ashok Talwar, Rajinder Palah, Jaskaran Bandesha, Sohan Singh Nagi and Anil Mahajan were also present on the occasion.Trade unions to back Punjab bandh on September 25Tarn Taran: Numerous associations have extended their support to the kisan unions for the proposed “Punjab bandh” on September 25. The Revenue Patwar Union in its meet held under the chairmanship of Sarabjit Singh Sandhu decided to support the farm unions. Members of the union termed the Bills as anti- farmer and decided to wear black badges on September 24 and 25 in solidarity with farmers. Karnail Singh Deo, chief, Federation of Arhtiya Association, announced to support the bandh. Volunteers of the AAP urged masses to take part in the bandh. Members of 10 national-level trade unions protested at the DAC and announced to support the bandh. Gurpreet Gandiwind of the trade unions termed them as anti-farmer Bills. The Zamhoori Kisan Sabha and Dehati Mazdoor Sabha held a protest and asked shopkeepers to take part in the bandh for safeguarding the interests of farmers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cong-protests-draconian-farm-bills-seeks-withdrawal-145738
24-09-2020||The Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee||Women lead agitation over farmers’ demands||Parallel Kisan Sangharsh Committee formedAs the Kisan Sanghrash Committee (KSC), Punjab, became popular among the farmers, Kisan Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, led by Baljinder Singh Lohian, had come into existence recently. This organisation was formed after parting way from Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, founder Convener of the KSC. The KSC, Punjab, was formed in 2000 in the area, which fought successful agitations. The organisation managed to establish its units in other districts too. But the internal differences came to the fore among the senior leaders of the organisation, resulting in formation of a parallel organisation under the same name of Kisan Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, under the leadership of Satnam Singh Pannu in 2007. The organisation led by Satnam Singh Pannu has converted its name as Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, three years back. Harjinder Singh Tanda, another leader of the organisation, formed Azad Kisan Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, few years back. There was another Kisan Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, led by Indertjit Singh Kot Budha, which was known as the KSC, Punjab (Kot Budha). The ongoing agitation launched by the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee, Punjab, had been gaining much attention of the farmers now. Baljinder Singh Lohian of the newly formed KSC said a six-member state committee had been formed to launch its activities further.Teacher honoured for his hard workThe efforts of Gurkirpal Singh, Centre Head Teacher (CHT) of Government Elementary Girls School, Kairon, has been recognised by the state government. Gurkirpal was awarded on this Teacher's Day. Most of students studying in his school were from the weaker sections of the society. It was his hard work which led to the selection of 21 students of the school in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyavala (JNV), Goindwal Sahib, after they cleared the admission test. Gurkirpal persuaded the donor to spend sufficient donation for the renovation of the institution a smart school. Every classroom has been fitted with LED with projector for the students to learn the latest technique. The village panchayat too have honoured Gurkirpal Singh for his dedicated work for uplift of the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-lead-agitation-over-farmers-demands-145740
24-09-2020||---||Rebate nears end, Rs5.38 cr property tax collected so far||Amritsar, September 23While the last date (September 30) to avail a 10 per cent rebate in property tax is just seven days away, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has collected only 5.38 crore during the ongoing fiscal till date. Even after several efforts by the MC, residents aren’t coming forward to pay the dues and on Wednesday, only Rs18 lakh was collected till the evening.The MC is offering the 10 per cent rebate to those who pay the tax for the current financial year before September 30. For the tax payers’ convenience, the civic body has been accepting tax payments at all zonal offices and the main office.There are around 1.5 lakh taxable properties in the city, but only one lakh property owners file tax return. Officials of the MC said despite exemption from penalty and interest, residents do not avail the benefit of the offer due to financial crisis induced by Covid-19. The officials said residents who had failed to deposit their property tax could get 10 per cent rebate only till September 30. After the end of the offer, they will have to pay both penalty and interest.Pardeep Rajput, nodal officer of property tax, said: “The 10 per cent rebate offer is for the benefit of residents, so they must take avail themselves of the scheme and pay tax by September 30.”Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has also urged residents to deposit pending tax by September 30.1 lakh property tax payers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rebate-nears-end-rs5-38-cr-property-tax-collected-so-far-145741
24-09-2020||---||Travel biz shut, owner turns delivery man||Amritsar, September 23Vinod Gupta, 40, had been working in the tourism and travel sector for the past 20 years. Three years ago, he planned to set up his own travel business and started working to achieve his dream of running his own firm. And then came Covid. As the world saw, the first victim of the Covid-19 pandemic was the travel and tourism industry.Hit hard by the recession, Vinod spent his lockdown hoping for the pandemic to pass, so that he could get back to working on his dream. Vinod, who now works as a delivery agent for an e-commerce giant, says, “No one had thought that the entire year would be gone in fighting the pandemic and our livelihoods will be ruined. My small travel business that was beginning to establish itself has been completely rooted out. I had no other skill and the job market is very tight,” he said."Working as a delivery agent is not enough to support a family, but at least it keeps running our household expenses. It was a necessity for me to begin earning somewhere as one cannot keep sitting idle thinking that things will turn better,” he says.Vinod works throughout the week with his delivery assignments and has been alternately looking for additional jobs to make extra bucks. “For a middle-class family, things have become really tough. Schools are demanding fee and there is no waiver of any sort from the banks. One has to manage the food, electricity and other expenses. There has been no support from the government in providing relief, especially to the travel and tourism industry workforce as many business establishments have been forced to shut shop,” he said.While the city is witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases every day, he adds that the travel industry will need at least two to three more months to re-open.But he is hopeful that he will get back to his dream of running his travel firm once things normalise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/travel-biz-shut-owner-turns-delivery-man-145742
