24-05-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar reports one more death; 7 new cases take tally to 322||With the death of a 60-year-old man of Gali Chaati in the Katra Dullo area of the city, the death toll in the district due to Covid-19 rose to six here on Saturday. Health authorities said the deceased, identified as Vimal Mehra, was on ventilator. The victim had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 21.Advisory for barbers and owners of salonsMeanwhile, the district health authorities also reported seven fresh positive cases. Three of the patients are family members of Vimal Mehra; his two sons and wife. The fourth patient is a man from the Tarsikka area who had returned from Gujarat recently and had reported at the flu corner due to having cough and flu symptoms. The remaining three patients are local residents, who are admitted to hospital in Gurdaspur.With the seven new patients, the total count of positive cases in the district has increased to 322. With six deaths and 295 recoveries, the district now has 21 active cases.Meanwhile, the Health Department has authorised its employees to issue challans to those who are found spitting in public places, roaming without a face mask and violating quarantine orders. As per the guidelines, if a person is found roaming without a face mask, he would be fined Rs 200; fined Rs 100 for spitting in public places; and made to pay Rs 500 for violating the quarantine orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-one-more-death-7-new-cases-take-tally-to-322-89137
24-05-2020||Amritsar||Shops open beyond 7pm, three booked in Amritsar||Even as the relaxation timings in the lockdown period are till 7pm, people still come out on roads in the evening, inviting the ire of policemen.“The district administration has given clear directions that no commercial activity is allowed after 7pm and people are supposed to remain indoors, but they care two hoots,” said a cop on duty in the Putlighar area.On Friday, the police booked three shopkeepers, including a cigarette vendor, for opening their establishments after permissible time. Moreover, social distancing is also a casualty at these shops.If police officials are to be believed, people are not serious about taking precautionary measures in view of the coronavirus pandemic. DCP, Law and Order, Jagmohan Singh said, “We urge the people to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration else action would be taken as per the law.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shops-open-beyond-7pm-three-booked-in-amritsar-89138
24-05-2020||---||He’s doing his best to treat critical patients||Amritsar, May 23Taking challenges head on during the Covid-19 pandemic, doctors have been selflessly working round the clock.Similarly, city-based Dr Jatinder Malhotra, MD, critical care physician, is treating critically-ill patients during the lockdown.“We have been treating sick patients round the clock even in this difficult situation. The Corporate Hospital has never refused even a single patient, as we know if we refuse them, patients cannot be treated elsewhere due to the protocol. We have been taking all precautions and conducting necessary tests before admitting patients,” he said.“We have been reading about new conditions in Covid-19 patients, which have increased the concerns of doctors. A condition dubbed as silent hypoxia has been killing a number of coronavirus patients. Hypoxia is a state when the body experiences dangerously low level of oxygen in blood. Such patient will typically show signs of breathlessness. Covid-19 affects the lungs and respiratory system. Such cases have been reported in the US. But we need not fear and we must move with caution,” he said.Despite the rising number of cases, he said the medical fraternity had been fighting all guns blazing to control the situation. “The situation is most difficult for hospital to manage, as we are neither learned nor trained to tackle these types of diseases as medical science totally works on evidence-based medicine and literature to support. In the case of Covid-19, both are lacking. Still, we are doing our best by applying our mind and skills to give the best results,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hes-doing-his-best-to-treat-critical-patients-89155
24-05-2020||---||Amritsar remembers legacy left behind by this theatre stalwart||Uma Gurbaksh Singh, a stalwart of Punjabi theatre’s history and the city’s legacy, passed away on Saturday morning after a prolonged illness. She was 93 and had been bedridden for the past few months. She was cremated in the presence of her family members and personalities from theatre and literary field.Uma Gurbaksh paved the wayUma Gurbaksh Singh was born at Khana Baluchistan, in undivided India, on July 27, 1927The journey of Punjabi theatre got a novel swing, when Punjabi novelist Gurbakhsh Singh ‘Preet Lari’ established a township ‘Preet Nagar’ in Amritsar in 1938. She introduced the concept of open air theatre and gave Punjabi theatre its first female actor with his daughter Uma Gurbaksh Singh CorporationShe had the lead role in his play Rajkumari Latika alongside Gurbaksh Singh’s eldest son Navtej Singh in 1939, another bold move considering the time that got people talkingKewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi, who has extensively researched about her work and legacy, said: “With her entry to theatre, many more girls got encouraged and they started participating in plays being staged at Preet Nagar. One among them was Rajinder Kaur, who later adopted the cine-name of Achla Sachdev. Apart from being a theatre artiste, she was a writer, singer and also played sitar very well.”She gained exposure by meeting many of her contemporaries and senior writers in Preetmilnis held at Preet Nagar including many upcoming and established writers, artists such as Irish great grandmother of Punjabi theatre, Norah Richards; Punjabi writers Dhani Ram Chatrik, Amrita Pritam, Mohan Singh Mahir, Balwant Gargi, Balraj Sahni and Urdu writers Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Sahir Ludhianvi and Mulk Raj Anand. She also performed musical plays being staged by a troupe led by opera director Shiela Bhatia. She shared stage with Sarod Maestro Ali Akbar Khan, great Sitarist Ravi Shankar and versatile theatre artiste Benoy Roy, when musical play named ‘Immortal India’ was staged at open-air theatre, Lawrence Garden, Lahore.Her courage off and on stage was well-known. Her younger brother Hridaypal Singh, who is the general secretary of Gurbaksh Singh Nanak Singh Foundation, had once shared: “In 1945, she was arrested by the British government along with her six female companions for performing ‘Hullehullare’ that had often repeated musical dialogue Kaddeo bahar firangi noon, kardeo paar firangi noon, (push out the foreigner, throw away the foreigner).”“She believed in good social behaviour, discipline and hard work. Even at 93, I had never seen her tired or gloomy. On the contrary, she was very affable, never a wrinkle appeared on her forehead,” shared Dhaliwal. In her later years, she mostly remained in the background, extending support to one and all. “Probably why, nothing much has been written about this first female artiste of Punjabi theatre till today,” says Dhaliwal, adding excerpts from one of his interactions with her.She had said: “Never mind, if I do not act now, if I do not sing now, but by getting plays staged here, by listening to music performed here every month, I have not allowed the actress in me to die. When I see young girls on stage, I feel relieved that the courage we had once shown has not gone waste.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-remembers-legacy-left-behind-by-this-theatre-stalwart-89156
24-05-2020||Vishal Sareen||‘Eliminate fear of Covid for success of resort biz’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?As many as 150 marriage functions scheduled to take place in my two resorts between March 23 and May 30 were cancelled. Wedding functions are a major source of revenue generation and many trades such as banqueting, dairy, floral business, boutiques and saloons depend on marriage events.Do you expect resumption of your business in the near future?The government has allowed a gathering of not beyond 50 persons at an event, which is insufficient for the progress of the business as each resort is spread in acres. For the time being, a gathering of not more than 200 persons with all precautions and norms should be allowed. We have to postpone the opening of the third resort in October.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?I have retained my all employees and paid them salaries. However, workers from Bengal involved in the installation of tents, cooks from Uttarakhand and waiters from Nepal have left for homes.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?I have learnt that one must never put entire money in a trade. I have been reinvesting to extend the family business as the third resort is under construction. This taught me that there should be diversification in choices of business.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is definitely a challenge. It is difficult to eliminate fear from the minds of people. On my part, I ensure that hygienic measures such as sanitisation of each person and commodities are followed.What are your expectations from the government?The government should make efforts to eradicate fear among people. Thereafter, people will start planning marriage functions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eliminate-fear-of-covid-for-success-of-resort-biz-89157
24-05-2020||Amritsar||Crackdown on bootleggers, 100 held in Amritsar in 4 days||Cracking the whip on bootleggers and liquor smugglers, the Punjab Police have made huge recoveries in the past four days and nabbed over 100 persons in the city as well as in its rural areas.CM Capt Amarinder Singh had directed the Police Department to nail liquor smugglers after the state economy was badly hit by the two-month curfew.SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said in the past four days, the rural police had registered cases against 95 persons and arrested 41, besides confiscating over 1,000 ltr of illicit liquor, 9L illicit liquor and 10,310 kg lahan (hooch). The police also unearthed five working distillery stills, he said.On Friday, the rural police held a meeting with Excise Department official and chalked out a strategy to hit the illegal liquor trade. The SSP said 17 ‘striking teams’ comprising excise and the police officials were formed which would exclusively work to nab bootleggers by conducting joint raids. He said preventive plans were also made.The city police have arrested 68 persons since May 17 and recovered 1,918 bottles of liquor in the drive.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the police were working in liaison with the Excise Department to deal with the problem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crackdown-on-bootleggers-100-held-in-amritsar-in-4-days-89158
24-05-2020||---||Chemists, store owner booked for selling sanitisers at high rates||Amritsar, May 23After taking medical store owners to task for overpricing masks and sanitisers declared under the Essential Commodities Act, the Vigilance Bureau is now contemplating similar action against grocery store owners for fleecing people by selling essentials at higher prices.One held by Vigilance BureauOn Friday, the Vigilance Bureau range catering Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts had registered three cases against medical and the grocery store proprietors involved in black marketing and hoarding of sanitisers and masks in the border belt. They were booked for fraud under the Essential Commodities ActAmrik Singh, of Seron village in Tarn Taran, who owns Khaira Karyana Store, was booked. Similarly, Sukhinder Singh of Seron village in Tarn Taran running a medical store was held by the Vigilance. In another incident, Balwinder Singh of Janta Medical Store and Kahnuwan in Gurdaspur was held for the offence.Parampal Singh, SSP, Vigilance, said there were certain complaints against the grocery sellers and even tobacco vendors wherein consumers alleged that these shopkeepers were charging higher prices.He said as per the orders of the government, the vigilance has launched a campaign against chemists and medical store owners who were found selling masks and hand sanitisers at higher rates. The government has fixed the prices of masks and sanitisers and it appeared that some greedy people found an opportunity to earn easy money at the time of unprecedented health crisis following Covid-19 pandemic.On Friday, the Vigilance Bureau range catering Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts had registered three cases against medical and the grocery store proprietors involved in black marketing and hoarding of sanitisers and masks in the border belt. They were booked for fraud under the Essential Commodities Act.He said Amrik Singh of Seron village in Tarn Taran, owner of Khaira Karyana Store, was booked for selling sanitisers at higher prices. Similarly Sukhinder Singh of Seron village in Tarn Taran running a medical store was held by the Vigilance for overpricing sanitisers. In another incident, Balwinder Singh of Janta Medical Store and Kahnuwan in Gurdaspur was held for similar offence. The vigilance recovered sanitisers from their possession.He said the main aim of the drive was to ensure proper supply of sanitisers and masks to the general public at government approved rates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemists-store-owner-booked-for-selling-sanitisers-at-high-rates-89161
24-05-2020||Amritsar||11 MC officers found absent during checking||MC Commissioner Komal Mittal conducted a check at various MC offices on Friday and found 11 officials and several employees absent. The inspection was conducted to break the immovability in the departmental work after the lockdown.The officials including Superintending Engineer (Civil) Dapinder Sandhu, DCFA Sandip Kumar, law officer Amritpal Singh, Executive Engineers Sunil Mahajan, Sanjay Kuwar, Municipal Town Planners Tejpreet Singh, Iqbalpreet Singh Randhawa, Superintendent Health Wing Raj Sethi, accountants Rajinder Kumar and Monika Kapila were absent.The offices of National Urban Livelihood Mission and Pardhanmantri Awas Yojana were found locked. A number of junior employees, including seven clerks were also absent. The movement registers were missing from the offices and no one had marked the attendance in registers. MC Komal Mittal issued show-cause notices to absent officials and employees. They have to respond the notice within two days. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/11-mc-officers-found-absent-during-checking-89162
24-05-2020||Amritsar||Pay water, sewerage bills by June 30||The state government has extended the last date of depositing water and sewerage bills with a 10 per cent rebate under the one-time settlement (OTS) policy till June 30. The move will encourage residents to pay their dues. The Municipal Corporation suffered a major blow after the lockdown.Sanjay Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Local Government, extended the time limit of one-time settlement policy for the recovery of arrears of water and sewerage charges in the urban local bodies of the state up to June 30.The government also extended the date for the OTS of property tax with 10 per cent rebate. Those who have not deposited property tax, can deposit the principal amount in lump-sum with the rebate at the rate of 10 per cent of the amount by June 30. Those who fail to deposit the property tax by June 30 may deposit the principal amount along with penalty at the rate of 10 per cent thereafter, within next three months. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pay-water-sewerage-bills-by-june-30-89163
24-05-2020||Amritsar||District Congress Committee chief inspects Public Distribution Service outlets||Jatinder Kaur Sonia, president of the District Congress Committee (Urban), inspected different PDS outlets to oversee the distribution of ration to economically weaker sections.She ensured that all commodities were weighed before being handed over to people. She said the government was offering 15-kg wheat per person and 3-kg cereals per family for free.She asked depot holders to employ transparent methods and approach to distribute ration among the needy without any discrimination.She said after the Narendra Modi government did not give adequate package to the state government, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ensured that there was enough grain for the economically weaker sections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-congress-committee-chief-inspects-public-distribution-service-outlets-89164
24-05-2020||Batala||This social activist ensures that his winged friends remain well-fed||In the past several years, social activist Harmanjit Singh Goraya has purchased thousands of earthen pots, which are kept in parks and open spaces in the town. He ensures that his winged friends remain well-fed.He considers it his sacred duty to fill these pots with water every now and then, so that “his friends can quench their thirst”. “I do not feed birds because they need me. I feed them because I need them. Feeding birds means feeding yourself. Birds are a part of nature and feeding nature is nothing but feeding yourself,” says Goraya, who heads a social organisation, ‘Jan Kalyan Charitable Society’.On being asked when will the scare of Covid-19 go away, he said: “God will give us some directions in the times to come. We should always remember that God gives a low branch to the bird that cannot fly.”He has been into social service ever since he left college. Knowing that kids studying in government schools are not privileged enough to buy certain things, Goraya has been coming to their rescue by providing them with water coolers, uniforms, shoes and socks.His main focus is on differently-abled kids. He provides them with crutches, wheelchairs and tricycles to mitigate their sufferings. Even during the lockdown, he made sure that such children were not left at the mercy of the elements.“I often tell these kids that their abilities are greater than their disabilities. We must stop believing that disabilities keep a person from doing something. That is simply not true. Having a disability does not stop anybody from doing anything,” he said.Without any fuss and away from the glare of publicity, he has been distributing dairy products, including milk pouches, among people living in slums.“I get in touch with poor people on the basis of lists provided by the administration. This is the least I can do in these uncertain times. The poor should not be ignored. They, too, have dreams. Actually, we all dream and it does not matter whether we are rich or poor. Every time the rich ignore the poor, the rich become poorer,” he said.In his message to people, he said: “All of us want to survive the pandemic. Most of us will and after that, we will look back either with pride or regret on how we dealt with things during the crisis.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-social-activist-ensures-that-his-winged-friends-remain-well-fed-89165
24-05-2020||Tarn Taran||Procurement to end on May 31||Heroin seized near borderAmritsar: The BSF has confiscated around 540-gm heroin hidden near Daoke border village. The incident came to light when a complaint was lodged at Gharinda police station in this regard. An assistant commandant of 71 battalion of the BSF posted at Daoke border out post said during patrolling around 6 am, the jawans confiscated a packet containing powder suspected to be heroin. It was apparently hidden by Pakistani smugglers who entered into the Indian territory to hide the contraband at night. The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act against unknown persons. TNSTheft at DACTarn Taran: A computer and a LCD screen were stolen from the office of Juvenile Justice Board situated in the District Administrative Complex here. The local Sadar police registered a case under Section 457 and 380 of the IPC on Friday, while the theft took place a week ago. The Deputy Commissioner, SSP and other district-level officials work from this building. Rajesh Kumar, District Child Security Officer (DCSO), said official record was stored in the computer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/procurement-to-end-on-may-31-89166
24-05-2020||GS Paul||Rare dolphins spotted in Beas as pollution dips||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 24With a drastic fall in the water pollution level amid the Covid lockdown, Indus river dolphins, one of the world’s rarest mammals, are being sighted often these days at the Harike Wetland Sanctuary, lower stream of the Beas river.This was observed by a group of riparian communities tagged as “Beas Mitars (friends of the Beas)”, living on the shores of the Beas Conservation Reserve. They have been trained by the WWF-India and the Punjab Forest Wildlife Preservation Department under an activity plan executed in collaboration with the DCB Bank. They are proficient to monitor the Indus dolphin population and jot down the survey sheets certified by WWF-India in its official report.WWF-India’s Coordinator, Aquatic Biodiversity, Gitanjali Kanwar, said Beas Mitars helped compiling the baseline data and documentation of Indus river dolphin during the lockdown period.“A maximum of four dolphins at one point of time in the Karmowala area and minimum of one at another spot that fall in the Gadhka area, both in Tarn Taran, was spotted quite often. The lockdown has taught us a positive lesson that for prosperity of natural resources and aquatic life, human beings must not commit the error of polluting rivers anymore,” she said.The Beas conservation Reserve is the home to the only population of Indus river dolphin (platanista gangetica minor) in India. The areas with the most regular dolphin sightings are in the vicinity of remotest villages like Dhun, Karmowala, Gadhka, Mundapind, Dhunda, Goindwal, Baisal and Gagrewal.Who could have imagined about the unusual situation that novel Covid 19 brought with it? Yet, not a single day had passed when the WWF was not getting updates from Beas Mitars about the water level, its quality, and health of the aquatic life.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rare-dolphins-spotted-in-beas-as-pollution-dips-89068
