24-04-2020||Amritsar||Chopped hand reimplanted||Three nabbed for burglaryAmritsar: The Rambagh police have arrested three persons, Yadwinder Singh, Ashu and Vishal, all residents of Kothi Sham Di locality in the Hussainpura Chowk area, in a burglary case. According to the police. the accused burgled a shop of Raghav Bhardwaj located in Hussainpura chowk on April 18. They were produced before a court and brought on police remand for interrogation. More recoveries are likely to be made from them, said Neeraj Kumar, SHO, Rambagh police station. TNSScreening camp for rly policeAmritsar: A Covid-19 screening camp for personnel of the Government Railway Police (GRP) was organised by the Punjab Medical Representatives Association (PMRA) at GRP police station here on Thursday. Over 150 persons were screened at the camp. Raman Malhotra, the state president of the PMRA, said: “We have also been distributing food among needy persons and encouraging the sanitation workers to continue performing their duty with dedication. We delivered free medicines to the needy. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chopped-hand-reimplanted-75492
24-04-2020||PK Jaiswar||Jailbreak bid thwarted, five prisoners caught||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, April 23    The Amritsar Central Jail authorities foiled a jailbreak bid of five prisoners in the wee hours on Wednesday.    The prisoners have been identified as Joga Singh of Kale village, Balkar Singh, Prabhjit Singh, Jagjit Singh and Harjinder Singh, all residents of Harike in Tarn Taran.      According to information, the inmates took out four bricks to make a hole in the wall of their barrack. However, the jail staff got a tip-off and they thwarted their attempt to escape. Immediately, additional police personnel were deployed outside the barrack and security was strengthened in the jail.  During a search operation, the jail authorities seized a rope made of sheets and blankets, four bricks, a piece of iron grill and two sharpened spoons from their possession.   A case under Sections 224, 225-B, 427, 511 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 52 of the Prisons Act has been registered against them.    Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh said the prisoners were held following a specific input. On Wednesday morning, they were held from the barrack.  Three undertrials, identified as Gurpreet Singh, his brother Jarnail Singh, both residents of Khadoor Sahib, and Vishal of Majitha Road area, had escaped from the jail in the intervening night of February 1 and 2 this year.    They escaped after making a hole in the wall of their barrack by removing 10 bricks. Later, they scaled the inner 16-foot wall by standing one atop the other and then scaled the outer wall (around 22-foot high) by using a hook made of a steel bar and the cover of a quilt to make a ladder. Thereafter, they escaped from the jail complex from near tower no. 10, which was not under the CCTV cover.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jailbreak-bid-thwarted-five-prisoners-caught-75490
24-04-2020||Quote||Sans motivation, they are devoting more time to ensure hygiene||“We are going through a tough time and being a sanitation worker, I am aware about my responsibilities towards society. We are devoting more hours than the normal duty and collecting garbage from door to door. Sanitisation is now everyone’s top priority. People have now got aware about the importance of maintaining hygiene," Gursewak Singh, a sanitation worker-------Charanjit Singh TejaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 22Covid-19 scare and the lockdown may have been keeping most people indoors, but not them.Gursewak Singh, an employee with a solid waste management company, is working eight hours daily and collecting garbage door to door in his designated area.Gursewak claims that he is devoting more hours to his job to ensure proper sanitation amid Covid outbreak.He has been provided masks, gloves and sanitisers for the safety and he is also following social distancing norms. “I also have a family and I am very much concerned about their health. I have adopted all safety measures. It feels good when people recognise our services," he says.Gursewak said since the lockdown, littering had been reduced and residents were producing less waste while sitting inside home.“We are going through a tough time and being a sanitation worker, I am aware about my responsibilities towards society. We are devoting more hours than the normal duty and collecting garbage from door to door. Sanitisation is now everyone’s top priority. People have now got aware about the importance of maintaining hygiene," added Gursewak Singh.Though the company has some conflict with the Municipal Corporation authorities and workers often get their salaries after much delay, more than 600 workers have been working hard without any motivation since the last month.“I can’t make any comment on the financial issues of the company or the MC, but we are working on the forefront to prevent the spread of virus. The company, the MC and the government should recognise our services and address our issues”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sans-motivation-they-are-devoting-more-time-to-ensure-hygiene-75489
24-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Many people out on roads without passes, say cops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 23Though most of the residents prefer staying at homes to prevent the spread of coronavirus, a sizeable crowd can be seen out on city roads and streets.“Everyone roaming outside has some or the other excuse and most of them claim some medical emergency. We are keeping a check on commuters and asking them for curfew passes,” said a cop on duty at Majitha Road.A number of people, especially women from economically weaker section, can be seen in the streets in search of someone who can provide them with ration or cooked food.Tari, a resident of Tung area, said: “We had ration for 15 days and some savings with us. But now, it’s been a month and we are sitting idle at homes. We got 10 kg flour last week. A local politician distributed potatoes. I got information and visited his place. We have to go outside to receive langar or government aid. No one comes home to provide food.”Similarly, some people are now attempting to earn some money from their previous professions.Manga, a rickshaw puller from Navi Abadi, said: “How long can we sit at home? I stepped out to earn some money. I got two passengers from Jeevan Singh to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and earned Rs50. If I get another trip till evening, I can buy some vegetables, soap and other daily need items.”A scrap dealer, also roaming in a street, said: “I collect junk from homes and sell to scrap yards. I stepped out of home after 20 days and got some old newspapers. I couldn’t visit the scrap dealer as cops had barricaded the main road. We used to earn our livelihood on a daily basis. Now, we can’t even stand outside the councillor’s residence to get ration,” said Baldev Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/many-people-out-on-roads-without-passes-say-cops-75488
24-04-2020||Amritsar||FlyAmritsar Initiative for more evacuation flights to Canada||FlyAmritsar Initiative has appealed to the Canadian Government for more evacuation flights for Canadian permanent residents from the Amritsar airport.In a letter to Francois-Philippe Champagne, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Government of Canada, FlyAmritsar Initiative has thanked the Canadian Government for making flight arrangements from the Amritsar airport through a series of humanitarian evacuation flights for Canadian citizens and their immediate permanent resident relatives stranded in Punjab.The Initiative is a non-government civil society advocacy campaign working on aviation-related issues linked to Punjab with impetus on direct air connectivity of Amritsar with Canada.In a press note issued here on Wednesday, Anantdeep Singh Dhillon, convener (North America), FlyAmritsar Initiative informed that hundreds of Canadians stuck in Punjab had now been united with their families after returning to Canada on these flights from Amritsar via Delhi and London.Dhillon said, according to the Canadian High Commission in India and Consulate General of Canada in Chandigarh, all the current and additional flights were being made available only to the Canadian citizens and their immediate family members who are permanent residents of Canada and who are travelling with them.Thousands of permanent residents and their families are feeling abandoned and let-down by the authorities of the nation they chose as their new home. Since the numbers are huge, he could fathom the reason to first accommodate Canadians falling in the citizenship category, but at the same time we fervently appeal to the government to further make logistic arrangements for a series of new humanitarian evacuation flights from Amritsar and other airports in India, to bring back these stranded permanent residents. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flyamritsar-initiative-for-more-evacuation-flights-to-canada-75487
24-04-2020||Amritsar||MC working on all fronts to prevent Covid spread: Mayor||Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the Municipal Corporation (MC) has been working on all fronts to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city. He claimed that by providing all facilities on the doorstep, they could motivate people to stay in their homes. The Mayor said the tele-screening of city residents was going on and over three lakh persons were being called from the Covid-19 control room, set up at the MC office. The MC has constituted 20 rapid response teams to conduct medical check-up if someone complains about health issues. Besides, the sanitisation drive is also on a full swing in the city. Areas, including Krishna Nagar and Amarkot, from where two  fresh Covid positive cases were reported, are being sanitised. MC teams conducted sanitisation of all houses in the area. Manual spraying was also being conducted in containment areas. The Mayor said many social organisations and individuals were helping society in this hour of crisis by providing rations, medicines, PPE kits and  gloves. Amy Singh hosts live poetry symposium  Amy Singh, a progressive and spoken word poet, TEDx speaker, who was the heart and soul behind the now popular Daak initiative, participated in a poetry symposium with several young poets from city. The symposium had 10 poets reading out poetry and engaged in conversation regarding literary works. Amy is a Chandigarh-based poet, who runs a street poetry initiative called Cross Connection Poetry. Her letter writing initiatives Daak – Letters to Lahore, was a viral success as she wrote letters touching upon the subjects randomly while also reflecting the pain and tragedy of Partition and yearning with stories from across the border. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-working-on-all-fronts-to-prevent-covid-spread-mayor-75485
24-04-2020||
||Online workshop dwells on book, article publishing||Amritsar, April 23   Guru Nanak Dev University in collaboration with Springer Nature, a global publisher of academic content, organised an online workshop on book and article publishing and content platform demonstration here on Thursday. The workshop was aimed at providing information and intuitive tips about how to write and publish a book and an article to faculty members and researchers.  As many as 1,000 faculty members and researchers from across the country attended the workshop.  Alpana Sagwal, marketing manager, central Asia, Springer Nature, coordinated the workshop. Dr Gaurav Singh was the subject matter expert from Springer Nature. He delivered both sessions on book and article publishing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-workshop-dwells-on-book-article-publishing-75484
24-04-2020||Amritsar||Five booked in firing case||Five persons have been booked for allegedly firing in Balian Manjhpur village. The incident took place on March 26 but a case was registered on Wednesday. The suspects have been identified as Akashdeep Singh, his brother Jagdish Singh, Karanbir Singh, Harpreet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, all residents of Balian Manjhpur village. A case under Section 336 of the IPC and under the Arms Act has been registered. However, no arrest has been made so far. Pargat Singh of the same village told the police that on March 26 when they were going to sleep, they heard someone shouting outside their house.  He said some people were abusing residents, who had raised voice against drug peddling in the village. He said suddenly Akashdeep took out his revolver and fired several shots in the air. Thereafter, Karanbir also fired three gunshots with his revolver. Later, they fled the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-booked-in-firing-case-75483
24-04-2020||GS Paul
||After fresh Covid cases, creating more isolation wards a priority||Tribune News Service Amritsar, April 23  With two fresh cases of Covid-19 emerging from Amritsar, there is an urgent need to increase the number of isolation wards. Further fine-tuning its plans to offer isolation centres, the Railways authorities, according to sources, have added four more bogies which would be transformed into isolation wards. Now, a total of 12 bogeys would be spared by the Railways for the purpose at the Amritsar railway station.  These bogies would be stationed at platform no. 1-A, where eight bogeys used to accommodate symptomatic cases earlier.  An official, preferring anonymity, said nothing had been finalised on transforming the bogies into isolation wards, as the Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) was scheduled to take the final call after a meeting.  Nonetheless, the Railways, on its part, has also stationed one more coach for the medical staff at the Amritsar railway station. In the backdrop, the Amritsar MC along with the Health Department have been conducting mass screenings of around 12 lakh residents with infrared thermometers and are noting down their health and travel history status.  After a lull of 14 days since April 9, a father-son duo aged 68 and 37, respectively, were found to be symptomatic during the rapid testing of over 300 residents yesterday.  They belonged to Krishna Nagar, the same locality where two Covid positive patients Balbir Singh and his wife lived. They were the secondary contact of former Golden Temple hazoori Ragi Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, who was Covid positive and died on April 2 due to cardiac arrest during treatment. Meanwhile, Balbir Singh had recently gone home and got cured after he was quarantined, whereas his wife was still under observation at Government Medical College.  Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said following fresh cases from Krishna Nagar, as many as 19 residents of the same locality were kept in isolation wards, which included their family members and medical staff members too. “None of them had any overseas travel history. Their samples have been sent for examination and results are awaited. As per the government directions, PCR (polymerase chain reaction) tests were being conducted on residents under which 50 residents were covered today,” he said.  With this, the Covid positive patient count in Amritsar has reached 10, of which five each are in isolation wards at GMC, Amritsar, and Fortis. There is one recovery and two deaths so far in the district.  The state government had made arrangements for 3,500-bed isolation centres for symptomatic cases in different parts of the holy city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-fresh-covid-cases-creating-more-isolation-wards-a-priority-75482
24-04-2020||Our Correspondent
||Farmers of Rasulpur village take to ‘mutual’ harvesting of wheat crop||Tarn Taran, April 23 Gone are the days when farmers used to help each other in harvesting crops. But, two marginal farmers of Rasulpur village, 6 km from here, seem to have revived this tradition and have decided to harvest their wheat crop mutually with the help of pooled labour.  Call it their compulsion, to harvest crop this way as early as possible, as further delay may cause loss of yield.  Both farmers — Baljinder Singh, son of Partap Singh, and Baljinder Singh, son of Balkar Singh —have wheat crop on two acre land each. The combine harvesting machines are not easily available as most of these had gone to the neighboring states and have not returned so far. A few combines have been dropped at the Punjab border and the state government was not allowing its entry. Not only this, if allowed to enter, the labour and other employees of the combines would have to be kept under 14-day quarantine.  The labour available locally has left the work of harvesting wheat crop and taken to other works. They are now either pulling rickshaws or selling grocery items or fruits among other things. The migrant labour has still not returned. The two namesakes have decided to harvest their wheat crop with mutual understanding to help each other in pooling labour. Partap Singh’s grandson Vishaldeep, too, is helping his father in the job. The harvesting of their crop started on Wednesday and they are hopeful that the crop on an acre land would be harvested in two days, after which the crop of other Baljinder Singh would be harvested.  They will keep cooperating this way till the dry residue of wheat settles down. The entire work (of both farmers) would be completed within 15 days. The next paddy crop would be planted in the second half of June. The two farmers, before sowing paddy, will take to a third crop in between which would help in meeting their expenditure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-of-rasulpur-village-take-to-mutual-harvesting-of-wheat-crop-75481
24-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||PSSSB Chairman makes efforts to mitigate sufferings of underprivileged||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 23For Raman Bahl, Chairman, Punjab Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSB), the lockdown does not mean time has come to a standstill. On the contrary, he has been making efforts to mitigate the sufferings of the underprivileged through three social organisations — Environmental Protection Committee, floated by his father and former Cabinet minister Kushal Bahl, Dushhera Mela Committee and the Helping Hands Society.In between whenever he finds time, the law graduate likes to read fiction. Reason enough why one finds Ernest Hemingway’s classic, ‘The Old Man and the Sea’, and Ayn Rand’s bestseller ‘The Fountainhead’ adoring his coffee table.“In Hemingway’s novel, an old man fights the vagaries of nature. Right now, humanity, too, is into a somewhat similar fight. Mother nature is testing us. We have been fighting a battle which, ultimately, we are going to win. You might win some, you might lose some. But when you go in, you challenge yourself and you become a better man, a better individual and better fighter. This is the time when we have to put up a collective fight against Covid,” he maintained.Even as he was asking one of his acquaintances to ensure ration kits were ready for distribution in interior areas of the city, news came in that Gurdaspur had reported its first positive case. “Now this is unfortunate. Hopefully, health officials track his contacts and get them tested,” he said.Pointing towards a tree in his backyard at his Gurdaspur residence, Bahl said, “God has cared for these trees, saved them from drought, disease, avalanches and a thousand tempests and floods. Likewise, God will once again come to our rescue in our fight with the virus,” said Bahl.He admitted that during the pre-lockdown days, he seldom found time to look into problems faced by people in his home town.“Now, I can understand what they need. I have already donated Rs50,000 in cash to the administration, 300 ration kits and several stacks of medicines. I have been juggling my resources to purchase more food items which I will personally deliver to the people particularly to those who spend their nights in the open and cannot afford two square meals a day,” he said.He agreed that the wheel of the world had come to a halt. “The economy is going to take a hit. People come and tell me almost every day how their mutual funds have taken deep cuts. I shudder to think how bad it is going to get. I hope the disease does not act as a trigger of recession. But these things can be discussed later. What needs to be done now is that countries should join hands to find a vaccine,” he added.Staying busy is a great way to keep the mind active, he said.“No matter what you are doing, the brain is constantly working, either because of the task at hand or because it is already planning ahead. Nevertheless, I can guarantee that this is a wonderful way to stay mentally healthy,” said Bahl.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/psssb-chairman-makes-efforts-to-mitigate-sufferings-of-underprivileged-75480
24-04-2020||
||Delayed  harvest: Wheat arrival slow in mandis||Amritsar, April 23 Owning to delayed harvesting, a total of 9,500 tonnes of wheat has arrived so far at grain markets of the district. Besides, Mandi Board officials on Wednesday did not allow the tractor-trailers bringing wheat as it had the moisture content more than the permissible limit. Gurpal Singh, a farmer from Malawali village, said, “Yesterday, a total of eight farmers from the village had taken one trolley each to the Bhagtanwala grain market. Seven trolleys were returned and only one was allowed inside the market.” He added that due to strictness, farmers had now stopped harvesting and were waiting for the grains to dry. The officials stated that around 6,700 tonnes of wheat crop had been purchased by the government procurement agencies with Pungrain procuring the maximum amount of the crop. Agriculture experts stated that firstly sowing of the crop was delayed due to excessive rains. Even many farmers had to sow the fields afresh as the seeds failed to germinate due to unfavourable weather conditions. Intermittent rain that lashed the district last week had resulted in increasing the moisture content in the wheat crop. Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Harinderjit Singh said with two or three days of good sunshine the crop would ripen fully. “Once the harvesting picks up pace, the entire crop could be harvested within 10 days as the state has a large number of combine harvesters,” he said. Meanwhile, Mandi Board officials have advised farmers to bring fully ripened crop with the moisture content less than 12 per cent. “The moisture is checked at the entrance of the grain market and if it exceeds the limit, the trolley is not allowed to enter. The farmers are advised to abide by the government instructions,” said Amardeep Singh, secretary, market committee, Bhagtanwala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/delayed-harvest-wheat-arrival-slow-in-mandis-75479
24-04-2020||
||2 new cases reported from Krishna Nagar; district tally 13||Amritsar, April 23 The Covid-19 patient count in the district has increased to 13 as the Health Department reported two fresh positive cases from the Krishna Nagar locality here on Wednesday. The patients have been identified as a 37-year-old man and his 70-year-old father. The Health Department has sent samples of 19 contacts — three of family members, a staff nurse and others — for testing. The reports are awaited. Meanwhile, the government had asked the department to intensify PCR testing in the area after which 50 samples were collected on Thursday. The development has come at a time when the district had not reported any positive case in the last 13 days. Residents were hoping that with the containment plan working, the city would enter ‘green zone’. As per the government guidelines, a district, which does not report any positive case in 28 days, is declared green zone. The development has worried the health authorities as well as residents, especially of Krishna Nagar and adjoining localities, as the area has become a hotspot for the virus infection. Earlier also, the locality had reported two positive cases. Sixtyfive-year-old Balbir Singh and his wife living in the locality had tested positive for Covid-19. While Balbir Singh was discharged from Government Medical College three days ago after complete recovery, his wife is still undergoing treatment. Civil Surgeon Kishore said, “The department had conducted 323 tests with rapid testing kits two days ago. Three of the persons tested were found positive in rapid test reports. Later, the samples were tested at GMC for confirmation. Two samples came positive and the third was negative.” Dr Kishore said the patients were asymptomatic as of now. The health officials stated that though the two patients lived in the same area as Balbir Singh, but no contact of them could be traced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-new-cases-reported-from-krishna-nagar-district-tally-13-75478
