24-06-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||SPS Oberoi to repatriate Punjabis stranded in UAE||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, June 23Dubai-based construction magnate Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi has decided to charter four flights from Dubai, two each to Chandigarh and Amritsar, to bring back hundreds of Punjabis stranded in various cities of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) ever since flying restrictions were imposed due to the Covid lockdown.Oberoi, who shot to limelight in 2010, when he paid the blood money worth US Dollars 2.2 million to the relatives of Pakistani man allegedly killed by a group of 17 boys belonging to Punjab, said the staff of his charitable organisation ‘Sarbat-Da-Bhala’ was in touch with the officials of the Indian consulate and Embassy in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, respectively.“Nearly 4.5 lakh Indians have been trapped in the UAE. A majority of these people belong to Punjab and work in Abu Dabhi, Dubai, Ajman and Sharjah. Their companies have abandoned them and they are now living in pathetic conditions. I receive scores of calls daily and have listened to horrendous tales of their survival, following which I decided to do something. In the first phase, two flights will land, one at Chandigarh and another at Amritsar. Each flight will carry 171 passengers. Once the first phase is over, two more flights will be chartered,” Oberoi said. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla has been asked to work out the modalities with Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri.Aujla confirmed the development. “I had elaborate discussions with the minister yesterday. Aviation officials are now working out the details,” he said.Oberoi said each flight would cost Rs38.40 lakh. “This is different from the Rs2,470 tax to be levied per passenger. This comes to Rs4.22 lakh per flight. I will be paying tax, too, because it is obvious that passengers are not in a position to pay,” he said.“My Dubai-based staff, in consultation with the consulate and embassy, has drawn up the lists of people willing to get repatriated. Priority will be accorded to pregnant women, individuals who have lost jobs due to the pandemic, senior citizens and people who came to the country for short visits or to hunt for jobs and have medical issues. Then, there are those who have lost someone in the family and need to return,” he said. Oberoi confirmed that his staff was in touch with several airlines.“We may choose ‘Fly Dubai’, a UAE-based airline, because it already has local aviation clearances in place thus saving time, which was essential,” averred a staff member of the charitable trust.Sources reveal the UAE was home to 30 lakh Indians, of which 4.5 lakh want to return now. “Air India is doing a commendable job in the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission, but it is not capable of doing everything itself. Hence, the need for chartered flights,” the businessman said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sps-oberoi-to-repatriate-punjabis-stranded-in-uae-103330
24-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Fearing stigma, Amritsar residents say no to Covid testing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Bizarre requestFearing social stigma attached to the contagious coronavirus, residents of Bombay Wala Khoo, situated inside the walled city, a containment zone, have been refusing to give samples for Covid-19 testing, said Medical Officer Dr Mandeep Singh Sandhu.Dr Sandhu said teams of ASHA workers and nurses had been visiting the area for the past few days for surveillance or active-case sampling, but not a single resident had come up to get tested.People are hesitant to get tested as they feel they would be discriminated against by others if they tested positive. Besides, they fear that they would have to stay at a hospital for over weeks.Dr Sandhu said he told the residents that they could choose home quarantine over institutional isolation as per the new guidelines released by the government but he could convince none to give sample. “As per the new norms, after evaluation of domestic condition of a Covid patient, the person is recommended for a 17-day home quarantine,” he said. Dr Sandhu said officials of the Health Department met the area councillor to help convince the residents but the efforts did not bear fruit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fearing-stigma-amritsar-residents-say-no-to-covid-testing-103331
24-06-2020||---||IMA, Amritsar Chapter, observes ‘medical bandh’||Amritsar, June 23Private hospitals and clinics led by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Amritsar Chapter, observed a medical bandh to protest against the implementation of the Clinical Establishments Act (CEA).IMA leaders claimed that if the CEA was enforced in Punjab, the cost of treatment would increase and it would put a burden on the poor patients. Most of the hospitals in city and surroundings areas did not attend to patients, except for the emergency cases.Dr Balwinder Kaur, a former president of IMA, Amritsar, said, “The Bill is not in favour of the general public. We feel that the healthcare is already costly and with many provisions in the Bill, treatment would become even more costlier.” She claimed that doctors would be forced to charge more from the patients in case the bill comes into force.Dr Kuldeep Singh, another leader of the IMA said, “The government, instead of taking the stakeholders into confidence, has used the ordinance route to enforce the law in haste.” He claimed that small clinics or single-doctor hospitals would be the worst affected. The IMA also objected to the government asking hospitals to install sewerage treatment plant and effluent treatment plants in their buildings.The doctors accused the bureaucracy of misleading the government in this regard. They claimed that the states, which had adopted the CEA had seen a fall in the standard of medical treatment.The Union Government, with the objective of regulating the functioning of private hospitals in the country, had enacted the Clinical Establishment Act-2010. Though the bill was adopted by many other states, the then Punjab Government had decided to draft its own Bill. It had constituted a Clinical Establishment Act Drafting Committee in 2012. However, the draft was never accepted due to pressure from the private hospitals’ lobby.Tarn Taran: On the call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) all private hospitals, clinics and the USG centres remained closed in protest against Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) and hike in medical education fees to the tune of 77 per cent.As a result, in Tarn Taran district more than 45 medical institutions besides in Patti, Bhikiwind and rest of the district were closed. Dr Haripal Kaur Dhaliwal District president and Dr Dinesh Gupta, secretary, IMA said this Act would make medical treatment very costly, promote inspector Raj, hence corruption would increase, stress on doctors who were already regulated by so many acts.Members of the Association said the Act would put unbearable burden on the poor patients and to get treatment would go beyond their approach from the private hospitals.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ima-amritsar-chapter-observes-medical-bandh-103332
24-06-2020||---||Seeking regular jobs, MGNREGA workers stage protest||Amritsar, June 23Members of the MGNREGA Workers Union today held a protest, seeking regularisation of their jobs.They burnt those documents which were sent against some of their protesting members while protesting close to the office of Deputy Commissioner. Harinderpal Singh Josan, Union President, stated that those who were hired on contract under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, have been protesting for the past many years, despite any success.He recalled that before the formation of the Capt Amarinder Singh government they were promised to give regular jobs but it remain unfulfilled. He said they were now demoralised that the government had advertised to hire person through outsourcing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/seeking-regular-jobs-mgnrega-workers-stage-protest-103333
24-06-2020||---||Amritsar MP joins farmers in sowing paddy||Amritsar, June 23Member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Tuesday gave a pleasant surprise to farmers when he joined them in rice transplantation early morning. Aujla was on a visit under ‘Aao Pind Chaliye’ campaign to Rakh Jhita village, near Manawala. He said his purpose of going into the fields was to observe and motivate farmers to adopt ridge or bed sowing technique for paddy. “This helps conserve water. The rice is planted on a raised bed. This technique was developed by a progressive farmer from Ludhiana Daler Singh and it yielded desired results,” he said. Many people lose jobs Amid Covid-19 lockdown, it was also a message for the youth to take to farming. "There has been a dearth of a labourer in rural areas as they had migrated back to their native places. No job is inferior, I appeal the youth to find opportunities in farming, instead of making greener pastures overseas", he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mp-joins-farmers-in-sowing-paddy-103334
24-06-2020||---||Work on recarpeting of McLeod Road started||Amritsar, June 23Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu along with Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi inaugurated work on recarpeting of McLeod Road here on Tuesday. The work is estimated to cost around Rs 2 crore.In his address, the mayor said development works which were put on hold due to the rising cases of Covid-19 had been resumed and the work of constructing McLeod Road had been started. The mayor said the construction of roads in different constituencies of the city had been estimated to cost Rs 20 crore and recarpeting works were going on in almost every constituency. He said no ward of the city would be deprived of development and there would be no shortage of funds for development works.On the occasion, DCP Jagmohan Singh, Sanjeev Tangri, Padam Prakash Babbi, PL Handa, Dilip Puri, Partap Khanna, Vijay Khanna, Ripaljit Singh, Kimti Lal Tangri, fire officer Lovepreet Singh and a large number of local residents were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-recarpeting-of-mcleod-road-started-103335
24-06-2020||                         ||Breach in Kasur Branch Lower plugged||Our Correspondent Tarn Taran, June 23 A breach occurred on Tuesday in the Kasur Branch Lower (KBL) near Shahabpur village, 10 km from here making the situation fearful as it was the same point where there was a breach occurred before less than a year before. Crops in thousands of acres were washed away then.Rashmider Pal Singh, SDO (Canal), said he received the information about the breach at about six am and  reached the spot with employees of the department and the breached was repaired shortly with no loss to the crops.The SDO said it was the handywork of mischievous element. The SDO, said  meanwhile the condition of the Canal, too, was not in a good condition and it deserves repair. He said four years earlier, the department had made a project worth Rs 1,600 crore to repair, renovation and modernisation of the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) but due to the lack of the funds from the government the work on the project had not been started as yet.The flow of the water was not towards the fields of farmers but towards the Patti road side, as a results there was no loss except the wastage of Canal water. The Workers Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee lodged their  protest at the breach site by calling it the negligence on the part of the government and the department. Photo caption- The SDO Rashmider Pal Singh, supervising the breach rearing work and the farmers lodging protest in Shahabpur village on Tuesday. Photos: Gurbax Puri.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/breach-in-kasur-branch-lower-plugged-103336
24-06-2020||---||Rural pharmacists burn effigy of Panchayat Minister Bajwa||Amritsar, June 23Rural pharmacy officers burnt an effigy of Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa outside the Zila Parishad office here today. The pharmacists complained that they had been working on contractual basis for the past 14 years.Association president Gurpreet Singh Kaler said, “The rural pharmacists have been working 24x7 during the pandemic. One of our colleagues in Sangrur had contracted the virus. Government has done nothing to secure the future of our families.”Rural pharmacy officers have been protesting for the last five days. The association has now announced to organise an indefinite sit-in outside the residence of Bajwa from June 25.The employees demanded regularisation of their services and also sought the same benefits that the government had announced to its regular employees engaged in Covid duties. The association has also requested the Punjab Human Rights Commission to intervene and issue the instructions to the state government. The employees complained of exploitation owing to their contract and sought an action in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-burn-effigy-of-panchayat-minister-bajwa-103338
24-06-2020||Our Correspondent||25-yr-old woman strangled to death||Tarn Taran, June 23A 25-year-old married woman was allegedly strangled to death by her in-laws at Pakhopur village, 35 km from here, on Tuesday.Harjit Kaur, mother of victim Gurroop Kaur, in her complaint to the police alleged that Jaglal Singh, the victim’s husband and her father-in-law Bhagwan Singh were allegedly harassing her daughter for bringing dowry. The accused were ready to cremate her when the police reached the spot. The victim was married six years ago, and has a five-year-old son. Sub-Inspector Sonamdeep Kaur, SHO, Chohla Sahib police station, said that victim’s husband and father-in-law had been booked under Sections 304-B and 34 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/25-yr-old-woman-strangled-to-death-103340
24-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||1 more death, 3 areas declared micro-containment zones in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23The district reported one more death due to the Covid-19 pandemic and 23 fresh cases on Tuesday. The death toll has mounted to 32. On the other hand, the count of positive cases has climbed to 831 till date.The deceased has been identified as 67-year-old Usha Arora, a resident of the Loha Mandi area. She was admitted to Government Medical College where she died this morning. Officials of the Health Department stated that she had come to the flu corner in the Civil Hospital with symptoms of SARI. She was on ventilator support and authorities claimed that she was suffering from diabetes mellitus and psoriasis.Of the new cases, 10 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases and the remaining 13 are contacts of positive patients. Ekta Nagar, Gali Bhai Salo, Gurnam Nagar, Fakir Singh Colony, Azad Nagar, Gali Sita Ram, Lahori Gate, Namak Mandi, Basant Avenue and Gali No.2 on Sultanwind Road have each reported one ILI case.Besides three contacts of a cop deputed at the Ram Bagh police station, four contacts from Gali Suniara Wali, four contacts from Jaura Fatak, one contact case from the Police Lines and one contact case from Police Colony have been reported.After two containments zones, the district administration has now declared three more areas as micro containment zones. The areas include Dayanand Nagar (Lawrence Road) with seven positive cases, Medical Enclave with five positive cases and Pandori Mehma village near Mannawala with six cases.As per the guidelines, any specific area with a village/ward having more than five and up to 14 positive cases and with a population of not more than 500 will be designated as micro containment zone.Earlier, the district administration had earlier declared two areas with more than 15 cases each as containment zones for the purpose of checking the spread of the virus. Earlier, nine streets of the Gate Khazana area and localities surrounding Bombay Wala Khoo were notified containment zones.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-more-death-3-areas-declared-micro-containment-zones-in-amritsar-district-103342
24-06-2020||Tarn Taran||Withdraw ‘false cases’: farmers||Property worth Rs3.36 cr freezedTarn Taran: The district police on Tuesday freezed properties worth Rs 3.36 crore of three drug smugglers. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said the district police had freezed the properties of 69 drug smugglers worth Rs 77 crore in the last eight months. The SSP informed that the smugglers whose properties were freezed on Tuesday, are Gurwinder Singh of Jhuggian Natha Singh (Patti), Gurbhej Singh Bheja of Madur Mathra Bhagi (Khalra) and Davinder Singh of Theh Sarhali under Valtoha police station. The movable and immovable property of Gurwinder Singh was worth Rs 1.43 crore, Gurbhej Singh Bheja of Rs 1.20 crore and Davinder Singh of worth Rs 73 lakh. OCFive booked for dining outAmritsar: The police on Monday booked five persons for dining at a restaurant near Trillium Mall in violation of restrictions imposed to curb the spread of Covid. A restaurant worker has also been booked for serving them food. Those booked have been identified as Tejinder Singh, Saurab Gill, Tisa Arora, Kajal, Harleen Kaur and Noor (restaurant worker). ASI Sandeep Kumar from the Majitha Road police station said they got information that a restaurant opposite near Trillium Mall was offering dine-in facility. On reaching there, the police found the suspects having meal at the place. A case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/withdraw-false-cases-farmers-103345
24-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC to outsource  manual sweeping||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Development works worth Rs4 cr approvedAfter ending the contract of a mechanical sweeping company some months ago, now the municipal corporation is going to outsource sanitation workers for manual sweeping in the areas. At a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee held at the MC office, a resolution on outsourcing sanitation workers was discussed here on Monday. The MC would take the legal opinion before outsourcing sanitation workers for manual sweeping.Following its poor services, the MC had terminated the contract of the company hired for mechanical sweeping on major roads and streets leading to the Golden Temple in November 2018. The company was outsourced by the SAD-BJP government four years ago.The MC had hired the company in August 2016 for mechanical sweeping of roads stretching up to 109 km. There are 17 roads and streets that lead to the Golden Temple. The MC used to pay Rs 1.50 crore per month to the company. Following a financial crisis, MC officials had reduced the route from 109 km to 55 km in 2017.Now the MC is planning to spend Rs 50 lakh on the manual sweeping of the entire city by outsourcing the workers. But the resolution to hire tractor-trailers for cleaning major roads of the city has been put on hold. Apart from outsourcing the sanitation workers, the civic body also approved development works costing around Rs 4 crore. The development works passed in the F&CC meeting are: construction of rooms at the municipal dispensary, work of verandah, interlocking tiles at the Kot Khalsa cremation ground, Guru Ki Wadali and Khaparkheri Road, installation of two handbore tubewells in Ward No. 58, construction of streets with cement concrete and installation of interlocking tiles in various areas.Those present at the meeting included Commissioner Komal Mittal, ADC Sandeep Rishi, Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi, Deputy Mayor Younis Kumar and other MC officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-to-outsource-manual-sweeping-103346
24-06-2020||---||35-year-old man found murdered in Kot Khalsa||Amritsar, June 23A 35-year-old man was reportedly killed during a minor altercation with a friend in the Bohri Sahib area in Kot Khalsa here on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Ajay Kumar, a resident of Qadian. His friend Sagar, alias Vicky, has been booked by the police on a charge of murder. Vicky used to work with Ajay.Sanjeev Kumar, SHO, Kot Khalsa Police station, said before the Covid outbreak, Ajay had installed swings at an event in the Bohri Sahib area, the place where the incident occurred. Post lockdown, Ajay couldn’t shift these from the place, so he asked Sagar to look after the swings, said the SHO. They would often sit and party at the site.According to the police, nearby residents saw Ajay and Sagar sitting at the spot and drinking liquor on Monday evening. The police have also recovered an empty liquor bottle from there. The cops suspect that the two might have entered into a scuffle over some issue and Sagar hit on Ajay’s head. Later, he fled from the spot.The police have launched a manhunt to nab the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/35-year-old-man-found-murdered-in-kot-khalsa-103347
24-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||His plans to join a coveted German company go awry||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Covid-19 and its elaborate restrictions have put Jaspreet Singh, a young engineer's dream to get job in a German Automotive Industry, on hold.A BTech in Mechanical Engineering, he passed out from the Global Group of Institutes, Amritsar, and was to get a job in a German Automotive company, but his plans got delayed when lockdown was announced. He was placed in the Greaves Cotton Ltd, a diversified engineering companies in India with core competencies in diesel/ petrol engines, farm equipment and generator sets.He has a penchant for German Engineering. During his graduation, he attended a number of industry-oriented sessions where he nurtured a dream of carving out a career in the automotive sector in Germany.“With this vision and ambition, while acquiring practical technical skills, I always kept myself updated with the latest in the field of automobiles,” he commented.After getting a rich exposure at Greaves Cotton Ltd, he got a lucrative job opportunity at Force MTU, Pune, which is a joint venture of Force Motors and Rolls-Royce in India. Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Limited is a British luxury automobile maker and a wholly owned subsidiary of German group BMW, which designs, manufactures and distributes power systems for aviation and other industries.“While beginning my innings at this prestigious company, I was sure to get a chance to visit Germany, while working on a prestigious project assigned. Unfortunately, the entire process was put on hold held up due to suspension of international travel because of Covid-19 pandemic spreading across the globe,” says Jaspreet.He says initially he was very disappointed because of the delay but my seniors and mentors encouraged and motivated me to think positive and do some innovative things in this tough and struggling time.Dr Akashdeep Singh, Vice Chairman of Global Group of Institutes, opines that Jaspreet's dreams have been delayed but not shattered. Post Covid-19, Jaspreet’s technical skills will definitely lead him to his dream destination, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-plans-to-join-a-coveted-german-company-go-awry-103350
24-06-2020||---||Covid leaves paan shop owner in lurch||Amritsar, June 23One of the oldest paan shops in the Lawrence road area, United Paan (betel leaf) shop has been receiving a very little footfall these days even as the market places have opened up, following relaxations in the lockdown.Vinod Kumar, owner of the shop said, “Earlier, we used to remain open till 10-11pm. People would come late in the night after dinner and order paan. But now the markets get closed at 6 pm and the business has been affected badly.” He added that even people are wary of buying loose items.Over the decades, Vinod had also started selling other items apart from paan and cigarette. “Market has changed drastically in the past two-three decades. Now, you cannot bet on a single product.” The shop is also a one-stop spot for buying ice creams, getting phone accessories, paying phone bills, snacks and even getting a document photocopied.“During lockdown, many people started recharging their phones and paying their bills online. There are youngsters at home to help them out with the paying the bills online,” he said.Vinod added that he does not see a revival in coming months. “I feel is that things would get worse in the coming months. The businesses would suffer more,” said Vinod.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-leaves-paan-shop-owner-in-lurch-103351
24-06-2020||The Tribune interview||‘Centre must come up with transparent biz policies’||Amit Kapur, one of the proprietors of Adison Pharmaceuticals and also general secretary of the pharmaceutical manufacturers' association, believes that when it comes to offering a relief package to MSMEs, the government has no funds to offer to them. However, when heavy industries and big corporate houses need financial help it offers them a big relief package. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Amit shares the impact it left on his business. Excerpts:How has the lockdown impacted your business?There has been a sharp decline in the sale of ethical products as the clinics and OPDs were closed and timings of the medical shops were fixed.Do you expect any of your businesses will resume in the near future?Yes, as we deal in life-saving drugs we have future plans to start a new segment in the pharma sector. However, things can be different if Sino-China relations deteriorate further and raw material does not come from China as 70 per cent of active pharmaceutical ingredients or bulk drugs used by the Indian pharma industry comes from there.Have you paid salaries to your workers during the lockdown?We are paying full salaries to our employees every month.What is the share of online trading in your profession?An exact number cannot be given but there is a small market in online or e-commerce pharma retail and mostly B2B trading is done.What have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?There are a plenty of lessons for entrepreneurs in the lockdown. One of the most important things is inventory management like raw material stocks and finished goods should be given more and more focus so that the needs of the market can be fulfilled.How do you consider the current crisis — as a challenge or an opportunity?It's more of a challenge for us to sustain in these hard times. Running a business on a micro or small scale without any external financial aids is no longer a cake walk.What are your expectations from the government?We urge the government that at least its policies should be clear and transparent as these come with so many terms and conditions that most industrialists either avoid them or fail to take the benefit of such policies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-must-come-up-with-transparent-biz-policies-103352
24-06-2020||Amritsar||Bihar cops paste notice outside  Navjot Sidhu’s house||With no response coming from Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, Bihar police officials today pasted a notice in a case over election code violations at the entrance to his house in Amritsar.For the past five days, two Bihar Police Sub-Inspectors, Javed Ahmad and Janardan Ram, have been waiting for the former minister so that they could serve him the notice in a case that was registered against him for his remarks at a poll rally in Katihar in 2019.Since June 18, they have been camping under a tree outside Sidhu’s residence.Javed Ahmad said since Sidhu was not ready to meet them, they had no option but to take the legal recourse by pasting the notice at the entrance to his house. He said Sidhu’s staff members did not tell them about his availability or whereabouts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bihar-cops-paste-notice-outside-navjot-sidhus-house-103411
24-06-2020||Amritsar||748 Indians to return from Pakistan in 3 phases||The Attari-Wagah border will be opened on June 25 to facilitate the repatriation of 748 Indian nationals stranded in Pakistan due to the Covid-19 lockdown.As per the understanding between the authorities of Islamabad and New Delhi, the repatriation process will be completed in three phases. Immigration officials, who have been notified by the Pakistan Government to ensure smooth repatriation, said the first batch consisting of 250 Jammu and Kashmir residents, mostly medical students, would arrive on June 25 through the Attari-Wagah border.An equal number of people would return on June 26 during the second phase and 248 on June 27 in the third phase of the repatriation process. They will be screened and quarantined for at least 14 days in their respective states.Islamabad has also asked New Delhi to schedule the return of Pakistani nationals stranded in India under identical circumstances. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/748-indians-to-return-from-pakistan-in-3-phases-103412
24-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pakistan agencies roping in youth through social media: Intel||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 23Pakistan-based agencies and anti-national elements are targeting youth via social media platforms for carrying out terror attacks and targeted killings in Punjab.This came to fore during the interrogation of Khalistani operative Gurmeet Singh, who along with another aide Vikram Singh, was held by the Punjab Police on June 19. The duo is under 10-day police custody.‘LURING PUNJABI YOUTH OF ANY FAITH’ The Pakistan-based agencies are looking for Punjabi youth of any faith whom they can radicalise for furthering their interests, including disrupting peace and promoting hatred in the region.—  Police officer The agencies are targeting the youth who are economically weaker and have inclination towards ‘separatism’. They are also trying to lure gangsters for the purpose.A police official privy to the investigation said Gurmeet Singh, a drug addict, was involved in trafficking of opium from Rajasthan though there was no FIR registered against him. The official said he was ‘spotted’ by Pak agencies through social media. Later, he was called with a religious jatha to Pakistan where he met his handlers in 2017.He remained in touch with them via video-conferencing through various apps.Talking to The Tribune, the investigation officer said Gurmeet revealed that the Pakistan-based agencies were not targeting youth of a particular community. “They are looking for Punjabi youth of any faith whom they can radicalise for furthering their interests, including disrupting peace and promoting hatred in the region,” the officer said.Busting a terror module with their arrest, the police had confiscated a German-made MP5 sub-machine gun, a 9-mm pistol with four magazines and two mobile phones from them.Meanwhile, the police are trying to identify those persons who had dumped sophisticated weapon in the fields near Gurdaspuria Dhaba on GT Road. When some persons came to retrieve the weapons, locals got suspicious and informed the police, following which the suspects were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pakistan-agencies-roping-in-youth-through-social-media-intel-103421
