24-11-2020||Ferozepur/Amritsar||As trains resume in Punjab, farmers block traffic in Amritsar||Stalled for over two months, the train services resumed from the Amritsar Railway station with hiccups on Tuesday.Within 24 hours of the partial restoration of train services in Punjab, members of Kisan Majdoor Sangharsh Morcha (KMSM) blocked the railway track at the Jandiala Railway station in Amritsar district on Tuesday morning.As the Amritsar-Delhi railway line remained blocked near Jandiala Guru railway station, 10 km away from the holy city, the railway authorities diverted the trains from the mainline to Beas and Tarn Taran to reach Amritsar.Activists of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) went to squat on the tracks at Jandiala Guru railway station at 3 am. Sarwan Singh Pandher of the KMSC said their railway blockade entered the 62nd day on Tuesday.Due to the protest, the route of the Golden Temple Express from Mumbai Central to Amritsar had to be diverted via Bias and Tarn Taran. Besides, one goods train had to be stopped at Bhaktawala railway station.V P Singh, ADRM, said the members of the KMSM blocked the railway track around 3.00 am.Also read: Centre calls Punjab farmers for second round of talks on December 3“The members of the farmer’s union insisted that they would allow the trains to move ahead only after checking the trains. We are unable to do anything in such a situation,” said Singh.Satnam Singh Pannu, President, KMSM, said that they will only allow the movement of goods trains in the state. “No passenger train shall be allowed to move till the time the union government cancels the anti-farmer agri-laws,” he said.On Monday, one goods train, loaded with gypsum, had started from Jammu and crossed Punjab in the evening on its way to Lucknow. Another empty BTPN (Bogie Tank Wagon for loading of Petrol) was moved from Jalandhar to Delhi following the call to suspend the “Rail Roko” stir by farmer union.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-trains-resume-in-punjab-farmers-block-traffic-in-amritsar-175102
24-11-2020||Pathankot||Abhyam is Pathankot district NSUI chief||45 fresh cases reported in districtAmritsar: The district health authorities have reported 45 new Covid cases in the last 24-hours. The new cases include 27 influenza-like illness cases and 18 contacts of positive patients. With this, the total number of infections has risen to 12,687. The district reported no deaths due to the disease on Monday. However, it has reported a total of 478 deaths till date. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 36 patients, the recovery count, too, has increased to 11,650. The district at present has a total of 559 active cases. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/abhyam-is-pathankot-district-nsui-chief-174812
24-11-2020||Amritsar||Dal Khalsa to join protest in New Delhi||Expressing solidarity with the farmers on agri laws, the Dal Khalsa has announced that their activists will join the farmers march to Delhi on November 26. Notably, the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call has been given by 30 farmer organisations to protest against contentious farm laws. Party spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh in a statement said the BJP government had adopted a vindictive approach towards Punjab and its farmers.He slammed the BJP government led by PM Narendra Modi for outrightly refusing to concede to farmers’ rightful demand to repeal the controversial laws. Stating that farming is the backbone of Punjab and farmers are our honour, the leader of the hardliner organisation said the ongoing agitation had wider ramifications. “Our activists along with youth organisations will join Delhi protest march on November 26-27 to tell the Modi government that Punjab is united and its people are determined to take the farmers’ agitation towards its logical conclusion”, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dal-khalsa-to-join-protest-in-new-delhi-174813
24-11-2020||---||Session held on protest poetry||Amritsar, November 23The relationship between poetry and protests isn’t new. The poetry has been an integral part of literary tradition of Punjab and contributed in social, cultural and political movements.Even the Bhakti Movement had its fair share of protest poetry, challenging the prevailing social practices and dispensations of those times by the Sufis, Bhaktas and Sikh Gurus.Punjabi folklore created its own powerful anti-establishment and dissident poetry to be seen in the qissas of Dulla Bhatti and Mirza.The freedom struggle raised the pitch of protest poetry with ‘Mera Rang De Basanti Chola’ and ‘Pagri Sambhal Jatta’, followed by the leftist progressive movement, feminism and Dalit voices in the post-Independence period.At present, politics of majoritarianism has been often challenged and countered by the voice of dissent in form of poetry. Even farmers’ protests had inspired many poets to write on pain and distress of farming community.Highlighting and celebrating this genre of poetry, an online session of ‘Protest Poetry’ curated by Sarbjot Singh Behl, an academician and a poet, was orgniased by the Majha House.The session featured verses by Behl, Neetu Arora, Simran Aks, Jagjeet Sandhu. The session was initiated by Sumail Singh Sidhu.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/session-held-on-protest-poetry-174814
24-11-2020||---||Now, Pingalwara comes up with another noble initiative||Amritsar, November 23A medical incinerator for burning bio-medical waste generated at the medical facilities run by the Pingalwara Charitable Society was inaugurated at its Mannawala branch on Saturday. The plant was inaugurated by Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, IG.The Pingalwara management stated that the plant was set up at a cost of Rs 20 lakh. The project was funded by Harbans Singh, a resident of Ekalgadda village in Tarn Taran, who is presently living at Apna Ghar, an old age home run by the society. Harbans Singh has made the donation in memory of his mother Kartar Kaur and father Mewa Singh.Dr Inderjit Kaur of Pingalwara said a 100 feet high chimney had been installed as part of the plant so that harmful gasses emitted during the burning of bio-medical waste were released at height without causing any harms to the city residents.She said that proper management of biomedical waste is essential to protect human health and environmental pollution.Honorary secretary of society Dr Mukhtar Singh, vice-president Dr Jagdeepak Singh, members Rajbir Singh, Dr Sarabjit Singh Chhina, Col Darshan Singh Bawa (retd) and others were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-pingalwara-comes-up-with-another-noble-initiative-174815
24-11-2020||Amritsar||Two booked on sodomy charges in Amritsar||Two youth booked for allegedly subjecting a minor boy to unnatural sex. Though the Jandiala police have registered a case following the statement of the father of the victim, no arrest has been made till now.The victim’s father stated to the police that on November 17 his 10-year-old boy went to a grocery shop for buying some eatable. However, Gurpreet Singh and Karanjot Singh, both live adjoining to his house, lured and took him to a tubewell room and sodomised him. They also threatened to kill him if he told anyone about this.The police have registered a case under Section 377 of the IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act against Gurpreet and Karanjot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-on-sodomy-charges-in-amritsar-174811
24-11-2020||Neha Saini||Students in Amritsar turn post-pandemic scenario into biz model||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, November 23Self-care post-pandemic tops everybody’s priority list. Three students from the city turned the opportunity into a post-pandemic business plan and ranked first at the ‘Studentpreneur Challenge 2020’. The competition was conducted by University of Arizona in association with Education USA for pan India high schools.Out of 160 schools that participated, three students of Senior Study II managed to impress a panel of judges in five minutes on how to run a successful business model post-pandemic.Gurjot Kaur, Wishavdeep Singh and Mayur Kandhari, came up with a grooming-on-wheels concept termed ‘Trakme’.Wishvadeep, a commerce student, said, “India has a lot of long route trains with its extensive railway network. Not many people are opting for public transport system, which is affecting the revenue. As the Indian Railways has invited public-private partnerships, we came out with an idea of collaboration between Lakme’ and the Indian Railways. It is a model, which offers beauty and grooming services on long-route trains to make people opt for public transport post- pandemic.”Gurjot KaurGurjot Kaur, who aspires to become a Civil Servant, said, “We were just given five minutes to pitch our idea. I believe that any business model that targets women as customers has the ability to work. Post-pandemic, there is a need to attract people back to using public transport. We combined the concept of ‘Vocal for Local’ and post- pandemic scenario to create a realistic plan.”One of the highlights of this model was to opt for recycling old railway coaches and turn them into grooming compartments on wheels. “It’s economically viable. We worked out all the aspects, including funding, resource management and overheads. It was exhaustive task,” said Gurjot.Mayur KandhariMayur Kandhari, who wants to be an entrepreneur, said, “The key was social responsibility along with profit making. It was a challenge for us to present our idea and convince judges online. But our team was confident.”The trio has won $40,000 scholarship, eight-week mentorship with Prof Carlos J Alsua, Senior Lecturer, Eller College of Management, University of Arizona.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-in-amritsar-turn-post-pandemic-scenario-into-biz-model-174807
24-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||Three trains to chug off from Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 23Though the Indian Railways is set to resume train services on Tuesday, uncertainty still prevails as the Kisan Mazdoor Sanghrash Committee (KMSC) categorically refused to allow movement of passenger trains.Adequate security arrangements had been made at railway station and all platforms were cleaned by mechanical sweeper. Scanners were installed at the entry and exit points of the railway station.The Government Railway Police personnel said they had received schedule of trains which would ply from Amritsar. Officials said three trains, including Amritsar-Jainagar Express (11.55 am), Amritsar-Delhi Shatabadi (04.50 am) and Golden Temple or Frontier Mail (09.25 am) would leave in the morning.The trains which are scheduled to arrive today include Jainagar-Amritsar (23.55 pm), Nanded to Amritsar (8.55 pm) and Pashchim Express (7.20 pm). Golden Temple Express from Mumbai and Anandpur Sahib would arrive at 5.30 am and 01.45 pm.An official on condition of anonymity said they had made all the arrangements to resume services. He said all the railway tracks had been inspected as trains remained suspended for the last couple of months. Meanwhile, farmers were against moment of passenger trains. They held a meeting with Inspector General of Border Range SPS Parmar, who informed the farmer union that a meeting between them and Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has been fixed for November 25.Farmer leaders, including Sarwan Singh Pandher said they would not relent until the Centre revokes controversial farm laws. He said they would meet Capt Amarinder Singh. “We are ready to allow movement of goods trains, but the Centre is trying to dictate terms,” said Pandher.The farming community had blocked rail traffic from the last two months.Activists of the KMSC had been sitting on rail tracks near Jandiala. While all other farmers’ organisations had given their consent for allowing resumption of services after a meeting with the Chief Minister, the KMSC had been adamant on not allowing passenger trains. The farmers’ organisations would be holding a protest in New Delhi on November 26.Officials said three trains — Amritsar-Jainagar Express (11.55 am), Amritsar-Delhi Shatabadi (04.50 am) and Frontier Mail (09.25 am) will begin their journey before noon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-trains-to-chug-off-from-amritsar-174808
24-11-2020||---||Historic stretch in Amritsar cries for attention||Amritsar, November 23A stretch adjoining historic Kos Minars near Cantonment police station has been crying for attention. The heritage structures (two Kos Minars) right in the middle of the road and potholes had further turned the stretch into an accident prone area.The problem aggravates, especially during monsoon as rainwater accumulates in potholes, which poses risk to commuters. Due to widening of roads for construction of Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) several years ago, two Kos Minars built in the era of legendry Sikh ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh came right in the middle of the road.As a result, numerous mishaps took place as vehicle rammed into these pillars. Fog would further engulf the area thereby decreasing visibility. The minars were built on the Ajnala-Gobindgarh Fort stretch, now the GT Road. Barring these two mile pillars, others got damaged over the years.Dr Balvinder Singh, a conservation expert and former head, Guru Ram Dass School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said the Kos Minars of Mughal era constructed on the Grand Trunk road built by Emperor Sher Shah Suri had been preserved by the Archaeological Survey of India, but those built by legendary ruler Maharaja Ranjit Singh faced neglect. He said the best option was to relocate these minars to the roadside. The authorities should also put up a plaque containing information in order to make people aware regarding the importance of these minars.Jasbir Singh Sodhi of the Public Works Department said shifting of historic structures does come under their purview. He added that recarpeting of the GT Road was due and he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/historic-stretch-in-amritsar-cries-for-attention-174816
24-11-2020||---||Shooting video inside operation theatre: Amritsar Civil Surgeon shifted, Dr Sethi is new incumbent||Amritsar, November 23The Health and Family Welfare Department has appointed Dr Rabinder Singh Sethi as the new Civil Surgeon in place of Dr Navdeep Singh, who got embroiled in a controversy after getting his video recorded inside the operation theatre on November 17.Dr Navdeep has been appointed deputy director at the district headquarters, a post which was earlier held by Dr Sethi. Dr Navdeep was issued a show-cause notice by the Punjab State Women Commission for allegedly violating privacy of a woman patient.Dr Navdeep is scheduled to retire next month. With only a month left in his superannuation, voices for action against him, especially from his critics in the department received an impetus due to the controversy.The Punjab State Women Commission had summoned Dr Navdeep and other staffers who were present in the operation theatre at the time of the recording of the controversial video to Chandigarh on November 24.Meanwhile, Dr Navdeep had also issued notice to his juniors for allegedly shooting the video and circulating it without his knowledge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shooting-video-inside-operation-theatre-amritsar-civil-surgeon-shifted-dr-sethi-is-new-incumbent-174817
24-11-2020||Our Correspondent||NRI, wife robbed of gold chain, Rs 37,000 in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, November 23An NRI and his wife were robbed by five miscreants at gunpoint when they were on their way to pay obeisance at Gurdwara Ber Baba Budha Sahib, Thatha, on Sunday.The Sarai Amanat Khan police have registered a case.NRI Rachhpal Singh of Jethuwal Nangal (Amritsar), who had come from America just a few days ago with his wife Sukhwinder Kaur, was going to the gurdwara in a Fortuner (PB-02, DB-4111). He stopped his vehicle near Mianpur village, when five armed robbers on two motorcycles appeared. One of the robbers had a country made pistol in his hand while another had a datar (sharp-edged weapon). The one holding the pistol fired a shot at him, but he had a narrow escape.The robbers forcefully dragged out his wife from the vehicle and robbed Rs37,000 from the couple, a five tola gold chain from his wife, his USA Bank card, driving licence, ATM with other important documents, mobile phones (Samsung S-8 and Apple iPhone-7) and escaped in his car.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nri-wife-robbed-of-gold-chain-rs-37-000-in-tarn-taran-174818
24-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Historic structures in Amritsar lie ignored, need repair||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 23Amritsar city has a rich heritage of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, but most of the historic structures were in a shambles.A large number of heritage monuments, including historic gates and wall around the city were demolished by the Britishers. The remaining heritage buildings had been crying for attention.The Shiromani Akali Dal renovated Gobingarh Fort during its tenure and handed it over to a private firm to manage it, but historic Ram Bagh and Summer Palace remains neglected.Gobindgarh Fort located outside Lohgarh Darwaja has a treble line of defance and a deep moat around the outer wall. The fort was built in 1809 by Maharaj Ranjit Singh. The treasury of Maharaja was also kept in the same fort.The most important heritage of the city is the Summer Palace of Mahraja Ranjit Singh in Ram Bagh. The centre of the garden featured a double storey palace (construced in 1819) with a basement, which served as a cold underground chamber.The Heritage Department of the state government has been renovating the palace for the last several years. A huge portion of the garden had been being encroached upon.Rahul, an activist said, "After Lahore, Amritsar city was favourite of Maharaja Ranjit Singh. He constructed fort, developed garden, built palace, made walls and gates in the city. Unfortunately, the governments are unable to take care of heritage structures. The city witnesses rush of tourists, but no one is concerned for heritage monuments."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/historic-structures-in-amritsar-lie-ignored-need-repair-174819
24-11-2020||---||Tour guides in Amritsar survive on alternate livelihood, hope for revival||Amritsar, November 23Though ease in Covid restrictions proved to be a glimmer of hope for tourism in the city, the tour guides and operators in city remain skeptical. The tourism and travel industry was almost rooted out during the pandemic, worldwide and Amritsar, like any other international tourist hotspot, felt the maximum heat. Many tour guides were left without jobs, some adapted to change in livelihood and others survived, barely.With the new normal in place for most industries, the tour guides and operators, too, have managed to slip into different roles, taking up different professions, while still hoping for tourist revival. “I have been working as a salesman for an electronics showroom for two months now. The earning is not as much as I earned as a tour guide, but it’s still better than sitting idle. I would want to go back to my original profession as soon as the industry revives,” shared Gurinder Singh, who used to work tour guide for past 10 years. The reason for this is that tourism industry had been booming right before Covid-19 hit with full force.“I used to earn anything between Rs 40,000- Rs 60,000 per month depending on the influx of tourists. The industry is going to revive but it seems that it is going to take at least three-four months at least for international travel to normalise,” he says. He hopes that with revival of domestic travel, things might improve.Unlock 5.0 has had little effect on the tour operators as well. Not taking many risks, many have become active but with caution. “We had planned one or two cycle tours in city post lockdown but only with corporate collaborations as otherwise it’s too much of a financial risk. We had reduced the number of tourists to minimum,” said Rishabh Mahajan, whose start up City on Pedals got shut during lockdown. No immediate plans of re-opening, he says that he has managed to absorb some of the tour guides who used to work for him, as sales team in his other IT based start up. “We are hoping that international travel opens again. Only then can we think of business possibility. Till then, we are getting a lot of couple tour requests as domestic travel has begun.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tour-guides-in-amritsar-survive-on-alternate-livelihood-hope-for-revival-174820
24-11-2020||Amritsar||Will not  allow passenger trains: Farmers’ body||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee are adamant on blocking passenger trains if these are allowed to run. The conclusion was arrived at after meeting the IG Border Zone here today. Observing the ‘rail roko’ agitation against the new farm laws, they have been staging a sit-in near Jandiala Guru rail track for the past 61 days.State president of the committee Satnam Singh Pannu said there was no problem in allowing the movement of goods trains. The farmers are all set to stage an agitation at Delhi on November 26. A day prior, a meeting with the CM, Punjab, has also been scheduled at Chandigarh to discuss the issue. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/will-not-allow-passenger-trains-farmers-body-174872
24-11-2020||Amritsar||SGPC poll: Race on for new Sikh apex body chief||The SGPC’s command will be handed over to its new president for the next term on November 27 when the general house meeting of the Sikh body has been scheduled. Other office-bearers and the executive body will also be elected as per Gurdwara Act 1925.SAD enjoys majorityWith SAD enjoying a majority in the House, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal reserves all rights to take a final call. He has already started having “deliberation” sessions with SGPC members.With SAD enjoying a majority in the House, party president Sukhbir Singh Badal reserves all rights to take a final call. He has already started having “deliberation” sessions with SGPC members. Gobind Singh Longowal, the incumbent president, has successfully completed his third term. He headed the SGPC in 2017, 2018 and again in 2019.In the absence of any “suitable” face in the existing body, he might be told to continue for another term.However, speculations are also rife about a change in the command of the Sikhs’ body which has invited the ire of the global Sikh community due to the 328 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib and misappropriation by its officials and staff members while indicating sheer lack of administrative control.Though the SGPC had dismissed or suspended the erring officials, submitted public apology beforethe Akal Takht and faced religious punishment, the resentment againstthe SGPC never died.Earlier too, the command was changed in 2016 after a crisis erupted due to the flip-flop exoneration of Dera Sirsa cult in 2015 when Kirpal Singh Badungar succeeded Avtar Singh Makkar. Nonetheless, SGPC’s former chief Bibi Jagir Kaur and veteran SAD leader Tota Singh are in the race for the post.Bibi Jagir Kaur (66) said that it would be the party’s discretion to choose the candidate, but admitted the administrative lapse that led to disappearance of ‘saroops’ and leniency in handling it. “Whosoever occupies the coveted seat ought to be a vigilant and a strong administrator,” she said.Tota Singh (79), the old guard of the party, said, “I am not projecting myself to head the SGPC, but I would have no hesitation if the party considers my experience.”As per information, Sukhbir Badal will hold a customary meeting with the members on November 26 before opening the cards.On the other hand, dissident Akali parties including SAD (Democratic), SAD (Taksali) and other Sikh organisations may try to incorporate their members in the 15-member executive body.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-poll-race-on-for-new-sikh-apex-body-chief-174875
