24-12-2020||---||Cigarettes parachuted into Central Jail premises||Amritsar, December 23On the complaint of the Central Jail staff, the city police have booked some unidentified person for ‘sending cigarettes in jail’ with the help of a kite here on Tuesday.This is the third time, in the last one month, when some unidentified persons have used a kite to sneak prohibited material inside the high-security jail. This time, the jail authorities confiscated four packets of cigarettes that were fixed with the kite with some adhesive tape.Not the first timeSimratpal Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, said: “Head Matron Davinder Kaur informed Jail Control Room that a kite has dropped outside the lady ward. While on checking, a packet was attached to the kite, in which there were four packets of cigarettes.A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police, following which an FIR was registered against unidentified persons under Section 42 of the Prisons Act.The jail authorities claim that they have been keeping a check on such activities, wherein attempts are made to sneak prohibited materials into the jail. The jail is located in a densely populated area, which is the main reason behind such incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cigarettes-parachuted-into-central-jail-premises-188516
24-12-2020||---||Haphazard parking creates traffic chaos||Amritsar, December 23With the cold wave gripping the region, most residents started using four-wheelers for their daily commute. As a result, haphazard parking of vehicles on the roadsides and market places leads to massive traffic jams. Drivers often park their cars in a wrong way, thus blocking the entry and exit of parking lots.Residents said use of four-wheelers increases when the temperature plummets and people avoid using two-wheelers. They said as cars need more parking space, the existing parkings lots cannot handle the rush.Residents said the police should keep a check on violators so that traffic movement can be smooth.To deal with the issue, shopkeepers at Nehru Shopping Complex roped in parking attendants from their funds who assist drivers to park their vehicles at vacant parking slots.“Drivers try to park their vehicles near the entrance anticipating that they would not get an empty slot. Attendants keep a tab and guide drivers accordingly. They do not let people park their vehicles on the driveway,” said a shopkeeper adding that customers, too, prefer to visit a market where they get abundant parking.Situation worsens, especially during evening as people head for shopping. Locals said the traffic police should deal sternly with offenders and start an awareness drive on parking.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/haphazard-parking-creates-traffic-chaos-188517
24-12-2020||---||One dies, 40 test positive in Amritsar district||Amritsar, December 23The health authorities reported one death in the district due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. With this, the toll has reached 542.The deceased has been identified as Shivram Pahur (73), of Nawi Abadi, Verka. The health authorities reported 40 new cases with which the total count of infections has increased to 14,292.The new cases include 22 influenza like illness cases and 18 contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with recovery of 40 patients, the total recovery count has reached 13,161.At present, the district has a total of 589 active cases.DISTRICT ROUND-UPPositive count 14,292Death toll 542Active cases 589||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-dies-40-test-positive-in-amritsar-district-188518
24-12-2020||---||Mayor, Cong councillors sit on hunger strike against farm laws||Amritsar, December 23 To lend support to the protesting farmers on Kisan Diwas, city Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, along with Congress councillors, sat on a one-day hunger strike in Company Bagh area here on Wednesday.  While talking to mediapersons at the protest site, Rintu said, “We are supporting the genuine demands of our farmers. The three laws passed by the Modi government are not only anti-farmers but also unconstitutional. So, the Central Government must revoke these laws immediately.” He further said being the Mayor of Amritsar, he could proudly say that thousands of people from this city were contributing to these protests in one way or the other. Thousands of farmers from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts are sitting in Delhi and various other protest sites against the laws. “We are sitting on hunger strike to express our genuine concerns for these farmers and their cause,” he said. The Mayor said if the BJP was really serious about resolving the issue, the Central Government must stop this propaganda and deter its cadre from labeling our farmers as Naxalites and terrorists. Taking a pot shot at the state BJP leadership, Rintu said those who had not won a single election in their life were misleading people through false and malicious propaganda. “I come from an agricultural family and can understand the pain and agony the farmers are going through after the passage of these laws. But continued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-cong-councillors-sit-on-hunger-strike-against-farm-laws-188519
24-12-2020||---||Bizmen seek rebate on electricity bills, OTS policy||Amritsar, December 23 A delegation of industrialists, businessmen and traders representing 42 associations of Amritsar on Wednesday met Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, DTC, Excise and Taxation, Rajwinder Kaur and Chief Engineer, PSPCL, Border Range, Punjab, Pardeep Saini in support of their demands. They gave an ultimatum to resolve their issues by January 5, otherwise a massive agitation would be launched against the state government. The delegation included prominent industrialists like Pyare Lal Seth and Ranjan Aggarwal, president and vice-president of the Punjab Beopar Mandal, Sameer Jain, chief secretary, SK Wadhwa, treasurer, and Surender Duggal, president of the Amritsar unit. Ranjan said their demands included the settlement of VAT cases of before July 2017 under the one-time settlement policy and reimbursement of fixed charges of electricity during the lockdown period from April to September. “The businesses suffered a lot during the lockdown period as all the trades were shut. Now the economy is in the doldrums. At least, a 25 per cent rebate should be given on the ongoing electricity charges,” he said. Duggal said during a meeting with the CM twice in the past, the traders were promised that there would be an early settlement of VAT cases under the one-time settlement policy but nothing had been done in this regard so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bizmen-seek-rebate-on-electricity-bills-ots-policy-188520
24-12-2020||---||School heads brainstorm Mission Shatt Pratishat||Amritsar, December 23A three-day workshop was organised for government school heads as an exercise to gather ideas for the implementation of Mission Shatt Pratishat (mission cent per cent) by the Punjab Government, wherein school headmasters and principals were asked to prepare a powerpoint presentation (PPT) highlighting key points they plan to adopt to accomplish the mission and spruce up infrastructural facilities to accelerate the pace of education reforms.The workshops, which started on December 21 and concluded on Wednesday, saw the participation of District Education Officers, Deputy District Education Officers, members of Zila Shikhiya Sudhar teams, district mentors, Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab coordinators and school heads.“The Education Department officials and school heads were imparted training regarding systematic data analysis for meticulous planning for the purpose. They were trained to prepare PPTs on comparative analysis of the performance of students in different subjects during the house examinations conducted during the current academic session and progress report on the implementation of the 20-point programme for sprucing up infrastructural facilities for ensuring judicious use of resources for bringing in qualitative improvement in education,” said Satinderbir Singh Singh, District Education Officer (SE), Amritsar.Several school heads had an interactive session while delivering PPTs, wherein practical approaches that could be undertaken to improve the academic results were discussed at length.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/school-heads-brainstorm-mission-shatt-pratishat-188521
24-12-2020||---||Guru Nanak Dev University starts offline exams||Amritsar, December 23Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has started conducting offline exams for various classes. The departments have been given a window till January 27 to conduct exams for specific courses keeping in mind the health guidelines in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. BTech exams are underway and second phase will begin from December 28.Manoj Kumar, controller of examinations, GNDU, said, “We are conducting exams in shifts. Examinations dates for affiliated colleges and constituent colleges will be given after January 21, 2021,” he said.Students appearing for exams seemed satisfied with the safety measures.Aditya Takiar, a student of BTech, said, “There are 25 to 30 students in one room. Earlier, there used to be 50-60 students in each classroom. Safety measures are in place, including sanitisers and masks have been made mandatory for teachers and students.” Students from Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh reached the campus for appearing in offline exams. GNDU has announced to alot hostel rooms to students from remotest places first.Recording studio to come up in varsityGuru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) will soon establish a recording studio with a Faculty Development Component Fund of Rs 3.5 crore provided under the RUSA scheme. The recording studio will be used to record lectures by eminent scholars.Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, said the process of setting the studio has already begun.Dr Sandhu also addressed the concluding ceremony of GNDU’s Online Faculty Induction Programme. The four-week programme was attended by teachers of various subjects, including chemistry, economics, management, mathematics, music, physics, physical education, punjabi, and social sciences.He said, “We hope to work on a proposal to programme offline from the next session so that an emotional connection is not lost between the faculty and students.”He said GNDU was fully committed to the professional development of the faculty, but in the present scenario there was no viable option other than conducting these programmes online.Prof Adarsh Paul Wig, Director, UGC-HRDC, said several topics, including teaching skills, ICT, SWAM, MOC courses, e-subject development, research ethics, literature, funding schemes, and UGC’s CAS guidelines were touched upon during the induction programme.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-starts-offline-exams-188522
24-12-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Use pesticides judiciously’||Tarn Taran, December 23The Department of Agriculture has advised the farmers to use chemical fertilisers and pesticides judiciously to decrease their input costs and to guard soil health.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Kuljit Singh Saini on Wednesday said for taking full advantage of the weedicides, these should be sprayed after the first irrigation of the wheat crop. He said farmers should also avoid the spray of chemicals which in their previous experience had not yielded good results.He said some chemicals, if used in more soil moisture conditions, could also damage the crop so optimum level of moisture was the key to spraying chemicals.He said while spraying chemicals, the farmers should only use hand-operated and battery-operated spray pumps and should never use spray guns. To get the full benefit of chemicals, 150 ltrs of water per acre at the time of spray was recommended by experts, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/use-pesticides-judiciously-188523
24-12-2020||Amritsar||Gurmat Samagam organised in remembrance of four sahibzaadas||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) organised a ‘Gurmat Samagam’ dedicated to martyrdom of Baba Ajit Singh, Baba Jujhar Singh, Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh, four sahibzaadas (beloved sons) of the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, at gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall at the Golden Temple complex.Kids recited ‘Japji Sahib’ and students of various educational institutions paid homage to the martyrs of Sri Chamkaur Sahib, including sahibzadas and Mata Gujri through kirtan, kavishari (poetry) and other activities.Bibi Jagir Kaur, chief, SGPC, said, “The martyrdom of Guru Gobind Singh’s sahibzaadas along with his beloved Sikhs, and Mata Gujri, is a shining example of protection of the rights, truth and religion. It is very important for sangat, especially youth to be aware of these pages of the Sikh history.”She appealed the sangat to make efforts to connect their children with history of the sahibzadas so that a spirit of doing something for the nation and society could be instilled in them.She also announced Rs 21,000 each for schools/colleges that participated in the ‘Gurmat Samagam’.The SGPC chief announced that on the occasion of the martyrdom day of younger sahibzadas Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh, a youth summit of school/college students would be held on December 26, at gurdwara Sri Fatehgarh Sahib with the participation of children from all over the state. Earlier, ‘Akhand Path’ was conducted on the occasion of sahibzada’s martyrdom day.250 bedsheets donated by sangatFor the convenience of pilgrims and staying at the sarais here, sangat from Pathankot donated 250 bedsheets. Among those who donated the bedsheets include Ranbir Singh, Manpreet Singh, Sandeep Singh and Gurwinder Singh from Gurdwara Singh Sabha of Pathankot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurmat-samagam-organised-in-remembrance-of-four-sahibzaadas-188524
24-12-2020||Amritsar||190 saplings planted in city||Students and faculty of Aakash Institute on Wednesday planted 190 saplings, equal to the number of selection of their students in competitive exams this year from the city, at the CP Park Cantonment.  The third consecutive year of the campaign called ‘Green Amritsar Clean Amritsar’ was organised to raise awareness about the importance of having a green cover for the city. Aakash Chaudhry, MD, Aakash Educational Services Ltd. (AESL), said: “With increasing pollution and destruction of natural habitat of birds and animals, tree plantation drives hold a great significance and it’s a small step towards sustainable future. Our students and faculty have been running tree plantation drives across the country. We renew our pledge to make the environment around us clean and green.” Gokul Mahajan from the Ministry of Defence graced as the chief guest. Mahajan said: “The environment is facing a lot of problems like pollution and degradation of green cover and if we don’t address these issues today, we will be doing immense harm to our future generation. I hope such drives are held in all parts of Amritsar and it turns into a green city.”  — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/190-saplings-planted-in-city-188525
24-12-2020||ACADEMICS IN PANDEMIC||‘Primary education has to be child-centred, not performance-centric’||Alka Sharma, who received the prestigious CBSE ‘Best Teacher’ award for the year 2019-20 in the primary teacher category, believes in her mantra of 4Ds — determination, devotion, dedication and discipline. Being the only teacher from Punjab to have won the honour, this teacher from Bhavan’s SL School, says, it is time that approach towards primary education changes in India. She shares her ideas and understanding of her profession in a conversation with Neha Saini.What has been your approach towards teaching all these years?When I started teaching 12 years back, I noticed that the basic understanding of primary education is focused only on completion of curriculum. Learning has to be child-centric, especially in early classes, where a child's ability has to be explored. My approach is quite simple - one has to come down to the level of children while making them learn. You cannot force feed texts and concepts into a young mind but only learn with them. I believe the way a teacher treats her students in and outside class, is reflected in student's output. I had heard somewhere that you pass on your energy to your students when you enter a class - negative and positive.The Tribune InterviewThis generation of kids is quite technologically aware and digital classes have only increased their interest. For younger kids, the novelty of the entire online classroom is exciting and keeping them engaged. We have moved over the early challenges and I feel that even for primary school teachers, to have the opportunity to become technologically educated and empowered is very encouraging. But I still feel that revival of offline school education would be the best move, though with caution. —Alka Sharma, Primary Teacher The performance pressure starts early. It has its roots in parental expectations and schools pushing for competitive education. What's your take on it?I feel that there is systematic way of understanding a child's physical and intellectual capabilities. Nothing has to be shoved down a child's psychology, they need some breathing space too and parents as well as teachers need to know that. In most cases, it is seen that kids who are academic achievers tend to become emotionally unbalanced because of the stress we put on them. A 5-year-old or 8-year-old need not have to be judged by the numbers they get on report cards. Instead understand their natural learning graph.What are the challenges of a primary school educator?The biggest challenge is to understand the need of the student. For example, I had a student who was a slow writer but not a slow learner. So, I had to engage him during class by calling out his name in between repeatedly. When he got used to the idea of being called out randomly during class, he started to become more alert and used to complete 50 per cent of writing in classroom. Similarly, so many learning blocks can be detected at early age by teachers if they are bit attentive and empathetic towards students and understand what a particular child needs rather that feeding them with designed standard curriculum.The two subjects you teach ie maths and value education (moral science) demand opposite approach in teaching. Which one's your favourite?I have a similar approach in teaching both the subjects. I feel that the adjective 'tough' is wrong to be used for mathematics as it's a subject in which one can have fun and learn at the same time. One has to teach with examples and understanding the concept first. Similarly, moral education can only be taught by understanding the concept first.What do you think of shift towards digital education for primary classes?This generation of kids is quite technologically aware and digital classes have only increased their interest. For younger kids, the novelty of the entire online classroom is exciting and keeping them engaged. We have moved over the early challenges and I feel that even for primary school teachers, to have the opportunity to become technologically educated and empowered is very encouraging. But I still feel that revival of offline school education would be the best move, though with caution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/primary-education-has-to-be-child-centred-not-performance-centric-188526
24-12-2020||Tarn Taran||56-yr-old Lineman electrocuted||Two nabbed with banned drugsTarn Taran: A team of the local CIA staff led by Sub-Inspector Sukhdev Singh arrested two persons from the National Highway near Rasulpur village and recovered 60,200 intoxicating tablets from them on Tuesday. After receiving a tip-off, the police had installed a naka on the highway. They signalled a Swift Desire (PB-10, B-2333) to stop. After searching the car, they recovered 23,000 tablets of Clovidol-100 SR and 37,200 tablets of Etizolam-0.5 mg. The accused have been identified as Ranjiv Rocky and Pawan Kumar of Ferozepur, who have been booked under Sections 22-C, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. OC2 held with 534 liquor bottlesAmritsar: The police on Wednesday arrested two persons and recovered 534 bottles of illicit liquor of various brands from them. The accused are Jatin Chabra of New Kangra Colony and Arun, alias Kallu, of Katra Baggian. ASI Rajinder Kumar, in-charge, Shivala Bhaiya police post, said two cars were also recovered from them. A case under the Excise Act was registered against them at the A Division police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/56-yr-old-lineman-electrocuted-188527
24-12-2020||The traffic diversion by the Tarn Taran police have come in for a lot of flak from residents. The police in its steps have installed blockades and tied ropes in all squares of the town and even pedestrians have been prohibited to pass from the squares. They have to cover much distance to reach their destination. One of the residents in his mail to the SSP said that the main squares of city like Bohri Chowk and majority of crossings have been permanently closed. He said this approach had created chaos among residents. His SMS message says that most central squares of the city cannot be permanently closed. Moreover||Traffic diversion draws flak from residents||Bhavya Gupta’s lockdown learningBhvya Gupta, daughter of a doctor couple, who is currently pursuing her MBBS from Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi, had made full use of the lockdown period by developing her hobbies. After attending her online classes, she made the best use of her remaining time by reading story books and developing nature-themed artwork. She developed her baking skills during the lockdown period and made cakes for all occasions. She achieved 301st rank in NEET in 2018 and got admission in a college of her choice. Dancing is her hobby and she is a part of dance society of her college. She has participated in many college-level dance competitions. Her father Dr Dinesh Gupta said Bhavya remained school topper altogether upto Class XII and was all-rounder trophy winner at DPS Amritsar.Process for local body elections beginsAfter issuing of the notification by the State Election Commission regarding holding of elections for the urban area local self-government institutions, the district administration has started the process for the election of Municipal Council, Patti, and Nagar Panchayat, Bhikhiwind. The election for the Tarn Taran Municipal Council has been deferred till demarcation of the wards is not finalised. The administration has increased the wards from 23 to 25. The process is to be completed by February 13 as per the State Election Commission directions. Deputy Commissioner-cum District Election Officer Kulwant Singh in a meeting with the officials concerned said that there were total 19 wards for the MC, Patti, with 36 polling booths. There are 15,691 male and 14,785 female voters in the MC Patti. The Nagar Panchayat Bhikhiwind has 13 wards with the same 13 number of booths. It has 4,737 male and 4,208 female voters. After completing all the process the final publication of the voters list would be released on January 5. The SDM Patti would be the Electoral Officer for the MC election and the District Development and Panchayat Officer (DDPO) has been made the electoral officer for Bhikhiwind Nagar Panchayat election.(Gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traffic-diversion-draws-flak-from-residents-188528
24-12-2020||GS Paul||Soon, devotees to see printing of saroops at Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 23Soon, the devotees visiting the Golden Temple will be able to get a live tour of the printing and upkeep process of Guru Granth Sahib ‘saroops’ and other holy books.Only the SGPC in Amritsar and the DSGMC in Delhi have the exclusive and legal rights for publication of the authentic version of ‘saroops’. In Amritsar, the printing is done by the SGPC’s publication department, Guru Granth Sahib Bhawan, located above the Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib at the Golden Temple complex.The first ‘saroop’, known as the Adi Granth Sahib, which later became the living guru and the successor of Guru Gobind Singh, was written by hand at this spot.The SGPC conceptualised the project to glorify the significance of the place and inform the visitors about the process and ‘maryada’ being adopted while printing the copies of ‘saroops’.Tours to educate Schoolkids, youthWe are planning to make visitors, especially schoolkids and youth, aware of the journey of Guru Granth Sahib by organising visits to the press. We will let them know the process of printing the scriptures. —Bibi Jagir Kaur, SGPC ChiefSGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said an additional structure would be raised that would be fireproof and dustproof, having the provision of a see-through glass wall. This would facilitate the visitors to have a glimpse of the holy books, their upkeep, and ‘maryada’ being observed during the printing procedure.“We are planning to make visitors, especially schoolchildren and youth, aware of the journey of Guru Granth Sahib by organising visits to the press. In these tours, we will let them know the process of printing the scriptures,” she added.The holy book has 1,430 pages. A special kind of maplitho paper and ink is needed for the printing of Guru Granth Sahib.SGPC former secretary Joginder Singh Adliwala said printing was done on an ultra-modern and fully computerised offset machine, procured from Germany. On an average, 8,000 copies, including the big, medium and small copies of holy scriptures, are printed annually, besides, Gutka (a breviary with hymns from Sikh scriptures), the Gurbani and books on the life of Sikh gurus.“The norms dictate that the persons involved must be teetotaller and cover their heads. They need to abandon their shoes outside and wear special rubber ones,” he said.The discarded ‘angs’ (pages) are collected and confined to flames with ‘maryada’, just like the old copies are cremated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/soon-devotees-to-see-printing-of-saroops-at-golden-temple-188496
