25-05-2020||---||Mini-bus operators hold protest||Amritsar, May 24Mini-bus operators held a protest against the state government at Lopoke Chogawa village here.Hundreds of operators and workers assembled and raised slogans against the government. They demanded that various taxes being levied on buses be waived off, insurance validity be extended and relief be provided on monthly instalments of loan availed by them.Sher Singh, an office-bearer of the Mini Bus Operator Union, said: “Since the lockdown, busses have been off the road. So we are not able to pay instalments of loan, taxes and insurance. The government should waive off the taxes and EMIs and extend the insurance validity.”Another demonstrator said: “On the one hand the government is talking about providing employment to people but on the other hand employment of mini-bus operators is being put in danger. No financial aid has been given to us by the state during the lockdown. Buses are still off road. The government should release funds for operators and workers.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mini-bus-operators-hold-protest-89695
25-05-2020||
||Cops, NGOs extend helping hand in solemnising marriage of poor girl||Amritsar, May 24   The Kot Khalsa police, along with two NGOs, on Sunday helped in solemnising the marriage of a girl, Rupa, in Indira Colony here. Rupa’s father works as a daily wager and due to the lockdown, the family was unable to make arrangements for the marriage.  “We don’t have any money for the marriage due to the lockdown. I am humbled by the Kot Khalsa police, which, along with some NGOs, helped us in the marriage,” said Shabbo, mother of the girl. Rupa said she had never dreamt that police personnel would perform rituals during her marriage. “A few days ago, it looked impossible for my family to make arrangements for my marriage. But I am thankful to the Kot Khalsa police and NGOs which had helped us,” said emotional Rupa. SHO Sanjiv Kumar said Dr Vaneet Sareen of the Akhil Bharatiya Human Rights Organisation and Harjit Gora of Navi Soch Association told him about the problems of the Rupa’s family. He said so, they decided to make arrangements for the marriage. Sareen said the Punjab Police have been doing a good job during these testing times. He said when the NGOs approached the Kot Khalsa police, they were more than happy to help the family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-ngos-extend-helping-hand-in-solemnising-marriage-of-poor-girl-89696
25-05-2020||  ||In drive against bootleggers, cops nab 27||Amritsar, May 24   Tightening noose around bootleggers, the police arrested 27 persons here on Saturday during their drive against the sale and smuggling of illicit liquor.  The rural police busted two illegal stills manufacturing illicit liquor and recovered 2,880kg of ‘lahan’ during raids in various villages in the past 24 hours. According to the police, they also confiscated 151.5 litres of illicit liquor and 127 bottles during the raids.   The illegal distillery units were running in Vanjawala village that comes under the Ajnala police station and Fattuwal village, which comes under the Khilchian police station here. The rural police nabbed 14 persons and registered 38 cases of liquor smuggling.  The city police also registered 14 cases under the Excise Act on Saturday and arrested 13 persons in these cases.   In a major catch, the city police arrested Harish Kumar of Gurnam Nagar area while his two accomplices Gora and Jagga, both residents of Anngarh area, managed to give the police the slip. Of the total 623 bottles of liquor seized by the city police, 348 bottles were of different brands, besides a cane of illicit liquor, which were confiscated in from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-drive-against-bootleggers-cops-nab-27-89697
25-05-2020||  ||2 hurt as dispute over panchayat land turns ugly||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 24   A dispute over panchayat land turned ugly when several persons armed with sticks, sharp weapons and firearms attacked two brothers in Taragarh Talawa village here on Saturday evening, leaving them injured.     The victims were taken to hospital after the incident. The police have booked nine persons in this regard. The suspects have been identified as Surjit Singh, Jagir Singh, Manpreet Singh and  Sonu Handa, all residents of the same village, while five persons are yet to be identified. Apart from murder bid, the suspects have also been charged for hurting religious sentiments.Jaswinder Singh (55) of Taragarh Talawa village told the police that on Saturday evening, he, along with his brother Sarabjit Singh, was going towards Taragarh Talawa village when the armed men came on four bikes. He said one of them wearing a white color headgear was armed with a pistol.     He said Jagir shouted to teach a lesson to them for getting the panchayat land freed from their possession. They hit them with sharp weapons, leaving them injured. Jaswinder added that they took away their gold chain and mobile phone.     A case under Sections 307, 323, 324, 341, 379 and 295-A of the IPC has been registered against the suspects, said Sub Inspector Tarsem Singh. He said the suspects were absconding and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-hurt-as-dispute-over-panchayat-land-turns-ugly-89698
25-05-2020||Tarn Taran||2 injured in Muse Khurd village clash||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-injured-in-muse-khurd-village-clash-89700
25-05-2020||---||5 fresh cases, dist count 327||Amritsar, May 24With the district reporting five new cases of Covid-19, the total count of positive cases in district has increased to 327. The district health authorities said one case was reported late Saturday night, while the four tested positive on Sunday.One of the patients is a male from the Rani Ka Bagh area with no travel history and another one is an accused in a criminal case and was arrested by the B Division police station in connection with an FIR. As getting a Covid-19 test before sending an accused to jail or before presenting him in court is mandatory, his sample was sent for testing. Both these patients apart from having no travel history are also not primary or secondary contacts of a previous positive case.Another patient includes a male who had recently returned from Afghanistan and landed in Delhi and later travelled to Amritsar by road. The patient was staying at a hotel here and was tested after he had reported coronavirus-like symptoms.The fourth patient is the brother of a positive male patient from Chananke village. A woman from Tarsikka area, who had recently returned from Aligarh, has also tested positive.Meanwhile, six more patients have been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Of the discharged patients, three were local residents, who were admitted to a hospital in Gurdaspur. With this, the district has seen 301 recoveries. A total of six deaths due to coronavirus has also been reported so far.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said: “The district has 20 active cases at present.”BOX: Medical consultation over phone from June 1To reduce the chances of catching Covid-19 infection among pregnant women, medical consultation by government doctors would be made available over phone from June 1 onwards. The gynaecologists would provide telephonic consultation from 8 am to 9:30 am. Tarn Taran Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said patients can avail the service from COVA mobile application of the Punjab Government or by logging onto esanjeevniopd.in.Medical consultation over phone from June 1||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-fresh-cases-dist-count-327-89701
25-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||6 flights connecting 4 cities from today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 24The city airport will restore six flights to four cities including Delhi, Mumbai Jaipur and Patna from Monday.“Amritsar expects to receive six flights daily with one additional on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,” said Manoj Chansoria, director, Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar.Airport authorities claimed that all arrangements have been made for the restoration of domestic flights. A ‘touch-free’ system was evolved by the authorities at the airport. The passengers will not come in contact with any airport employee. There will be web check-ins and passengers have to install Arogya setu app, launched by the government of India.“Passengers departing are required to do web check-ins and download Arogya Setu App. They have to wear masks at all time. Social distancing markings and touch-less entry procedures are being followed at the airport. Departing passengers will be subject to thermal screening and only those with normal temperature shall be allowed inside. All passengers arriving have to follow health advisory and instructions of the state administration,” Chansoria said.The airport authorities received detailed instructions from the government about the arrangement. The airport director claimed that from departure gate to boarding area, all arrangements were made for social distancing. Secondly, luggage would be sanitised to disinfect. Passengers would be asked to sanitise their hands at various spots.Travel guidelinesTrains Back on track from June 1People have started coming to reservation counters inside the railway station to book seats after the government announced to run certain trains from June 1. Vivek Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager (Ferozepur zone), said several trains would be operated from June 1. He said these trains would be different from the Shramik train being run to facilitate transportation of migrants. The DRM said all safety norms in the wake of novel coronavirus would be maintained at the railway station and on board. However, limited number of people was approaching the reservation centres to book berths due to the panic of the virus. — Neeraj BaggaThe scheduleDate Train||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-flights-connecting-4-cities-from-today-89704
25-05-2020||---||Migrants face police wrath in sweltering heat||Amritsar, May 24Hundreds of migrants from UP and Bihar had to face the wrath of police, when they approached to complete the requisite formalities to enable them to go back to their native states.Chaos prevailed when they were called up early in the morning to undergo medical examination and furnish documents to procure tickets here on Sunday.Braving the scorching heat, they resented that no thought was spared to at least make arrangement of drinking water.Mithlesh Kumar said he was to go back to Bihar. “I am continuously coming here for the last two days. I came at 6 am and till noon, the doctors’ team didn’t arrive and we were left to wait for hours. The landlord, too, will not entertain us back,” he said.Akhilesh Kumar said there was no arrangement for water and food. “We will die of starvation if not by coronavirus. We had requested the policemen to let us go in to fetch water, but in vain. Instead, they chided us and did not refrain from thrashing for no fault of ours. We have been coming here repeatedly, but were sent back empty-handed,” he said.For registration, migrants apply on government portal — covidhelp.punjab.gov.in. Once they are registered, they are intimated about their travel details on their registered mobile numbers with a token number. The local administrative, municipal and health officials pick them up from their destination, conduct formalities, including their medical tests, before getting them to the railway station to board the train.Many migrants find the registration process cumbersome and tedious to apply online due to lack of knowledge. Some complained that they get the intimation late.SAD (Parvasi wing) head Mahesh Verma, said after the intervention of the administrative officials, special arrangement of buses were made to ferry migrants, bound for UP, to Ludhiana. He resented the lack of arrangements at the place, where they were made to stay under severe hot weather with no food and water. “Actually, they assembled here due to some miscommunication, but there was no train scheduled for UP from here on Sunday. So, around 300 migrants were sent to Ludhiana, from where they would catch the train for their destinations such as Balia, Mau, Gajipur, Sitapur, Balrampur in UP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrants-face-police-wrath-in-sweltering-heat-89705
25-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Gian Di Hatti back with its famous lassi, but Covid fear casts shadow over sales||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 23Gian Di Hatti, famous for its refreshing lassi, is back to serve its customers after over two months, though with additional safety measures this time.The shop is en route the Golden Temple and there is hardly any tourist or pilgrim who does not make a halt here to savour mouth-watering lassi, which is being sold here for the past 93 years.Many well-known personalities, including Bollywood actors Amisha Patel, Shah Rukh Khan and Govinda, famous dancer Remo D’Souza, Union minister Rajnath Singh and former state Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal have fond memories of this place.Prabhpreet Singh, the fourth generation owner of the shop, says it was established by his great grandfather Lala Gurditta Mal in 1927. He said after remaining shut for almost two months, he is happy to return to the business. He said they had called just three workers as of now.He said to their surprise, they witnessed good sale in the first few days, but now again the business was low.The shop owner said most of their customers were tourists. However, due to the Covid threat and people still scared of venturing out freely, their business would continue to remain affected for some more time.To a query, he said it was not possible to calculate the loss of sale in terms of total litre of milk procured. "The quantity of milk being procured varies depending upon the response of customers," he said.Besides lassi, Gian Di Hatti is also famous for 'khoya burfi', 'pedda' and milk cake.Prabhpreet said his father Gurinder Singh and elder brother Charanjit Singh also sit in the shop to serve the customers.They say maintaining quality was of paramount importance for them. All workers wear masks and gloves and keep their head covered. They are adopting all safety measures in the wake of the corona outbreak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gian-di-hatti-back-with-its-famous-lassi-but-covid-fear-casts-shadow-over-sales-89707
25-05-2020||---||Lockdown derailed his study plans, not desire to achieve aim||I have been attending preparation classes for CAT for the past two months before the lockdown was imposed. Now, I am attending online classes, which is a difficult task as you have to dedicate two hours at stretch and a few hours of self-online researchAditya Takiar, a BTech (electronic) student of GNDUNeha SainiTribune news serviceAmritsar, May 23The Covid-19 lockdown has had a big impact on students, a majority of whom are now in a fix as to what their future roadmap looks like.Aditya Takiar, a BTech (electronic) student of Guru Nanak Dev University, is worried about his future due to uncertainty.“I do not know how to process each aspect that contributes towards my future right now. The university has not given any final date for our examinations and usually, July-August is when we expect placement drives. I am worried that these two things might clash, leaving us out of options,” he said.At a time when hiring seems a distant dream due to Covid-19, Aditya said he is ready to look for off campus placement. “It is a big possibility that we will have to make efforts on our own to find a job.”Aditya has been preparing for CAT to pursue MBA. “I have been attending preparation classes for CAT for the past two months before the lockdown was imposed. Now, I am attending online classes, which is a difficult task as you have to dedicate two hours at stretch and a few hours of self-online research.”He said his elder sister, who is studying bachelors in biology from a university in Canada, is not facing such a grim situation. “The government is supporting students with monetary help as there is a shortage of work there.”As far as technology is concerned, Aditya said digital classes have at least helped students of higher studies continue with their learning. “The digital classrooms are exhaustive, but one at least gets to complete their syllabus on time. I usually follow a set routine of studies every day. I also keep a track of any options for industrial training which is very important part of our course.”Despite the stress, he said he finds time to chat with friends and pursue other interests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-derailed-his-study-plans-not-desire-to-achieve-aim-89708
25-05-2020||---||Dengue testing lab at Ajnala||Amritsar: The district Health Department has received approval from the Union Health Ministry (UHM) to set up a dengue testing laboratory at the Sub Divisional Civil Hospital in Ajnala. Civil Surgeon Jugal Kishore said in 2019, several dengue cases were reported from the Ajnala, belt after which the state government sent a proposal to the UHM to start a dengue testing facility in the area. The Civil Surgeon said patients from the area would not have to go to private diagnostic lab for testing and they get the facility at the sub divisional hospital for free. He added that the lab would become operational from June this year. TNSSuspended DSP booked in PattiTarn Taran: The Patti city police have booked suspended controversial DSP Balwinder Sekhon under Sections 153-A, 295-A, 500, 508, 66-E,66-F and 67 of the Information Technology Act for posting derogatory remarks against Harminder Singh Gill, MLA, Patti, on Facebook. The police said the accused had used derogatory remarks against Harminder Singh Gill, who belongs to a Gursikh family. The case has been registered on the complaint of Congress worker Raj Karan Singh of Bhagupur village. ocPolice station staff isolatedAmritsar: Officials of the Departments of Health and Police have put staff of Division B police station on quarantine after a murder bid accused arrested by the police tested positive for Covid-19. The authorities are preparing a list of persons who visited the police station in the past few days. The suspect was nabbed by the police two days ago. His report came positive on Sunday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dengue-testing-lab-at-ajnala-89709
25-05-2020||Can online lectures compensate for classroom teaching?||Online learning forfeits the very purpose of education||It can help to some extentI would say something is better than nothing. At least, students are engaged in school activities. Online teaching cannot compensate completely but it can help to some extent and depends on the subject and the class of students. Its implementation is possible mostly in private schools and a few government schools which have proper infrastructure. But in rural areas, it is not possible due to poor knowledge of guardians and lack of access to internet and smartphones due to poverty. So, the government should take some drastic steps. It should ensure good internet speed in rural areas. It should distribute smartphones as promised by CM Capt Amarinder Singh in the run-up to the election. Teachers should be encouraged to use different methods for students of different age groups.Rohit Kumar SehdevClassroom helps pupils imbibe virtuesOnline teaching cannot compensate for classroom education in the near future. Education is not merely an act of learning of facts and figures, memorising theorems or solving sums. It is much more than that. In fact, education is the modification of the personality. Classroom helps a student to imbibe the virtue of camaraderie, friendship, competition, discipline and etiquettes whereas online teaching aids in rolling out only human encyclopedias. No doubt, online teaching can make a pupil learn the subject but without the presence of a teacher, even the most advanced equipment would not be able to carve a resilient and tenacious human being out of a student. A teacher gives wings to our imagination, gives a pat on our shoulders during testing times, bolsters creative thinking and leads by example. Moreover, a teacher also keeps a vigil on the behaviour, attitude and aptitude of the student that in turn leads to all-round development of the personality of a student. So, online teaching cannot replace classroom learning, anytime soon. Lon Watters, an eminent teacher, has famously said, “School is a building which has four walls with tomorrow inside.”Rajiv SharmaOnline teaching has its pros & consJust as the coin has two sides, so online teaching also has its pros and cons. If we talk about its benefits, such classes keep teachers engaged forever (specifically) in their curriculum - from preparing notes to PowerPoint presentation, regular follow-up with students and parents, along with the daily reporting to the management. However, students are not getting the required benefits from it. Our students, mostly at the primary and secondary levels, are more accustomed to classroom-based teaching. The online lecture access in schools is just restricted to multimedia classes. The actual interaction with the teachers during the classroom helps in instant clearing of doubts. The sudden shifting to the online classes during the lockdown, where teacher either has to assign the task or provide notes, appears little off the line. Taking into consideration the brighter side of the lockdown, it may prove to be a major academic shift, where not just the physical presence of the teacher but even their virtual presence vide video lectures can prove a boon for the students in their academic preparation.Gulshakh KaurStudents may indulge in internet surfingEverything has advantages and disadvantages. So is the case with online education. It is an effective measure taken up by schools to cope with the lengthy syllabus so that the studies of students do not suffer. In these testing times, online interaction is necessary for both teachers as well as students as teachers get to know the level to which students understand a lecture or a chapter. Moreover, students pay heed as they know they are being supervised by teachers. Online teaching is fruitful only if students grasp most of what they are taught. It also has demerits. Students can misuse it by indulging in internet surfing. Classes are often hacked by strangers. Moreover, many children do not have a good network facility and they have to leave online class midway. Students often have to share the device with their siblings, leading to their missing online class.Dishti KakkarThere is no need to panicIn 1947, our schools had been closed for three to four months and refugees coming from Pakistan were provided a make-shift accommodation. When they were opened, we saw two or three families sharing each classroom and cooking their meals on improvised hearths made with three bricks. With the help of students, each room was spruced up to resume regular studies which looked slightly easier on account of motivation. I am glad to recall that the courses were covered without many hassles. Perhaps, evaluation was also sympathetic because in my section (VI-B), no one failed. The present situation is not as bad as was then. Learners, sitting idle for the past two months, are eager to receive lessons.Prof Mohan SinghVirtual classroom concept need of hourIn these times of digital revolution, the virtual classroom concept is the need of the hour. Online coaching for various entrance exams has been in practice over the years. Many IT companies, banks, insurances firms, etc, have allowed their staff to work from home. The online teaching concept is likely to replace the classroom system in times to come with pupil pursuing multiple courses which are not feasible in the current times. With heatwave conditions prevailing these days, online teaching is the only alternative to complete the syllabus.Anil VinayakPoor students can't adopt this conceptThere is no alternative to classroom studies. Owing to the lockdown, most schools have adopted this concept, but poor sections of society would not be able to avail of this facility. As far as online studies is concerned, this is going to create a wide gap between rich and poor students' level of learning. Poor students will lag behind rich students. Online study is not possible for students of poor families, which are unable to feed their children, what to talk about internet connection. It would have been better if the government had declared summer vacation before time and made Saturdays full working days and cut other holidays in time to come to compensate the time lost during the lockdown.Naresh JoharScreen time can affect their visionIn this hour of crisis, online teaching can''t compensate for classroom teaching. My child, who already has poor eyesight, is experiencing too much stress on the eyes, besides getting a headache due to the constant gazing at the mobile phone screen. Many children can also face such problems as teachers are sharing lots of presentations through YouTube and the Internet. It can adversely affect children's health. The MHRD should take an appropriate decision on this crucial matter. The authorities concerned should either stop online classes till Class V or reduce the syllabus for Classes I to XII if schools are not opened in the months to come due to the pandemic.Anup MainiOnline classes are a health hazardOnline classes are a health hazard for children as constant gazing at the small screen can impair their vision. Moreover, without adequate planning and preparation by schools, parents and students are given more stress without any positive outcomes. This is also leading to the same rote learning-based education where the child listens and the teacher speaks. Instead of focusing only on one-way communication online teaching time can be utilised to facilitate children to reflect, develop life skills and make presentations on activities completed on their own.Varun Khannae-learning entails health problemsAs schools are shut, students are facing a lot of problems in continuing their studies. Apps such as Brainly, Diksha, Teachoo etc provide facility to conduct online lectures. But there is a risk of students facing health problems from prolonged exposure to mobile or computer screens. Those concerned about their health are avoiding online education.IzleenApps cannot create class-like environmentOnline classes on Google Meet, Zoom, Microsoft Team, Blue Button and other such applications can never replace classroom teaching. It can provide only temporary solution to the existing problems facing the education sector. Classroom challenges shape teachers and teaching as a profession. Online platforms can never create a perfect environment that a classroom offers. Classroom offers limitless possibilities to engage with students, their excitements and their boredoms. Online teaching and learning is not only short-sighted but also a reductionist one that destroys the organic space between a teacher and students. The online mode is a medium of interactions, and not a way to teach or learn. Any attempt to replace classrooms with online platforms will destroy the very idea of teaching pedagogy. Technology and virtual learning environment enhance abilities of a teacher and student but these cannot replace a teacher. Classroom teaching develops qualities such as determination, focus, peer interactions, intercultural communication skills, debating and public speaking and engagement skills in students. These are invaluable skills for students and teachers, more valuable in life than the curriculum-driven skills and certificates.Pankaj Kumar SharmaSwitch to online learning a challengeAmid the Covid crisis, online teaching has taken over the place of traditional classrooms. Most developed countries are unlikely to see much change as a majority of courses in these countries were already being imparted online. But for India, it's a quite new thing. During the lockdown, e-learning emerged as a saviour for students, as with the click of a button, they could get access to all information they needed. But learners and mentors are definitely missing the face-to-face interactive sessions that provided an opportunity to students to ask questions and get instant feedback from teachers. This is not feasible on online platforms. Also, switching to online learning is a challenge for both students and teachers. Technological glitches such as poor internet connectivity are making learning difficult, especially for students in rural areas. A study conducted by Buddy4Study (an educational platform) revealed that around 25 crore students (80 per cent of them were from economically weaker sections) have been affected by the Covid-induced lockdown. The online-only approach makes students devoid of hands-on experience given in lab classes. For teachers, creating content everyday is a laborious task. The pandemic has forced our educational institutions to reform its existing traditional approaches. Policymakers should work in collaboration with educational experts to build a flexible Indian education system, so a smooth switching from classrooms to online learning is made possible.Anureet Kaur BalConceptual topics can't be taught on appsThough attending classes on online platform is a safe way to continue studies, it is beneficial mostly beneficial for students of elementary classes as they have to learn and cram topics. Senior class students face difficulty in understanding topics of mathematics, physics or chemistry as they need to get to the concepts involved. As a result, students lose interest in academics. The authorities must allow schools to open for senior class students with half the staff and classes must be conducted in spacious rooms while adhering to the social distancing norm.Gurpreet SinghOnline education has ensured continuityWith schools closed amid the nationwide lockdown, teachers are doing their best to ensure students don't miss out on their education by conducting online classes with the help of technology. Though there are several challenges, online education is keeping everyone busy with worksheets, video lectures and assignments. However, most schools do not have sufficient infrastructure to upload lectures online. Teachers are trying hard to compensate for regular teaching but they do not have much technical expertise. Schools are using trial and error methods to send worksheets and videos, but unlike regular classes they do not have 100% attendance. Students who take online classes need to observe self-discipline. Most teachers find it difficult to cope with the challenges of online teaching. Lack of familiarity with the technology forces them to seek help from their children to set up app and deal with technical glitches. It is also unfair to expect the same level of concentration and involvement from both teachers and students as in classroom. Further, not many students have laptops, tablets and computers, especially those in rural areas. But it is uncontestable that online classes in times of crisis are better than suspending education.Amarjit Kalsie-learning boon for introverted studentsOnline teaching has brought many challenges for both teachers and students. Imagine the situation of students from economically weaker sections of society who do not have laptops or smartphones to attend online lessons being uploaded by their teachers. For schoolteachers who are continuing studies with online classes, it might not be as easy as classroom teaching where face-to-face interaction is the key feature. Hence, now is the time for teachers to prove their mettle by accepting the challenges and being more creative in reaching out to students. Some of the suggestions can be allowing students to call teachers during fixed hours and providing notes to those who cannot access online classes. If e-learning is seen in positive light, it is proving fruitful for introverted students who hesitate to ask questions in classrooms. They must be experiencing increased autonomy to ask questions to their teachers now. Talking about the role of parents, they should offer complete support to their children and ensure they get the right environment to attend classes at home.Rameshinder Singh SandhuOnline education not the solutionThe online education cannot replace classroom teaching. It is not at all useful as a majority of students are facing problems in accessing lectures due to poor network connectivity. Schools and teachers must come up with an alternative. Those appearing in 2021 board exams will be the worst sufferers. As students are the future of the country, education boards such as CBSE and ICSE must take decisions while keeping in mind the problems of students.Anju PunjQUESTIONMigrants have been getting a raw deal all over the country with several of them losing their lives while on the way to their native places. What more, according to you, the authorities must do to mitigate their woes?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 28).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-learning-forfeits-the-very-purpose-of-education-89710
25-05-2020||---||60-yr-old Amritsar man dies, kin test +ve||Chandigarh, May 24With 15 fresh cases of Covid-19 coming to the fore today, the state’s count has reached 2,060. Besides, one more death was reported in Amritsar, which has taken the toll to 40.A 60-year-old male patient from Katra Dullo died at Government Medical College in Amritsar late last night. The deceased, identified as Varun Mehra, was in a critical condition, said an official. His wife and two sons were also tested positive.As per the media bulletin, seven cases were reported from Pathankot, four Hoshiarpur, two Gurdaspur and one each from Jalandhar and Amritsar. Among the seven patients in Pathankot, six are contacts of already positive persons.After the release of the bulletin, five more cases were reported in Amritsar. The new cases include two patients with no travel history or contact with any previously tested positive case. One of them is an accused in a criminal case, who is in police custody, and another a 45-year-old man from Rani Ka Bagh. The other patients include an Afghanistan returnee, a woman who recently returned from Aligarh and the brother (contact) of a positive patient from Chananke village.As per the Health Department, so far, samples of 66,142 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 60,114 were found negative and reports of 3,968 were awaited.At least 1,898 patients have been discharged after treatment. There are now just 122 active cases in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/60-yr-old-amritsar-man-dies-kin-test-ve-89539
