25-09-2020||Toronto||Golden Temple langar gets big donation from Canada India Foundation||The Canada India Foundation (CIF) has announced to donate C$21,000 to the langar at the Golden Temple in Amritsar where over 100,000 people eat free meals each day.The Foundation, which also honours a prominent Indian from anywhere in the world with the Global Indian Award each year, is donating to the langar after the amended Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act granted registration to the Golden Temple to receive direct foreign donations.“We were very excited to hear the news that people from all over the world can now directly donate to the Golden Temple langar seva. We at the CIF want to be among the first to show our appreciation,” CIF chairman Satish Thakkar said.Thakkar thanked India for fulfilling the long-pending demand of the Indo-Canadian diaspora to make direct donations to the world’s biggest langar at the Golden Temple.“Thousands of devotees from Canada were prevented from sending money to the langar seva because of the stringent provisions of the FCRA. The Indo-Canadian community has reacted favourably to the Indian announcement,” added Foundation convenor Ritesh Malik.Toronto Sikh Bhupinder Singh Khalsa, founder member of the Foundation, said: “I feel blessed that now sitting in Canada I can send my humble contribution to the langar. Though Canada has always given us every opportunity to stay connected to our roots, culture and religion, this is a great step by India to help us to stay connected to the source of our faith.”Set up in 2007, the CIF is an advocacy group aimed at promoting India-Canada relations.The Foundation’s C$50,000 Global Indian Award also honours a prominent Indian each year.The late President APJ Abdul Kalam, industrialist Ratan Tata, Congress leader Sam Pitroda and noted economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia are among the past recipients of this award. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/golden-temple-langar-gets-big-donation-from-canada-india-foundation-146333
25-09-2020||Amritsar||Smoke from farm fires may aggravate Covid trouble: Amritsar Deputy Commissioner||As sporadic incidents of stubble-burning have been witnessed in Amritsar district, the administration has asked farmers to shun the practice.The authorities said smoke from farm fires could create serious problems for Covid-19 patients as they can face trouble in breathing.Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira said due to the prevalence of the Covid-19, smoke could result in aggravating health of positive patients.A visit to rural areas revealed that stubble-burning has started in vegetable growing areas on the outskirts of the district where farmers are in a hurry to clear their fields after harvesting paddy. The Deputy Commissioner said farmers should go for in-situ management of crop residue and opt for machines provided by the government on subsidy.He said farmers can use happy seeders for direct sowing of wheat without burning crop residue. He added that letting the stubble decompose in fields would enrich soil, which would decrease farmers’ cost on fertilisers.Khaira said a total of 24 fire incidents have been noticed in the district with the help of remote sensing techniques. He said they can precisely identify those fields where stubble-burning takes place.The administration is sending teams to all areas from where farm fires are reported, said Khaira adding that the Revenue Department has been instructed to mention the incidents in the revenue record of those farmers who are violating norms.Though paddy procurement is expected to start from October 1, numerous vegetable growers have started harvesting as they are getting ready for sowing vegetables (potatoes and peas).Farmers said allowing paddy stubble to decompose on its own requires time and if they do so, they would not be able to sow vegetable crops.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smoke-from-farm-fires-may-aggravate-covid-trouble-amritsar-deputy-commissioner-146240
25-09-2020||Amritsar||Casualty count continues to rise as 13 more succumb in Amritsar||The Health Department has reported 13 deaths in the district due to the Covid-19 pandemic on Thursday. As a result, the toll has reached 341.The deceased have been identified as Chaman Lal (75), a resident of Main Bazaar Majitha; Mohan Singh (77), a resident of Tarn Taran road; Amrik Singh (73), from Rayya; Sawinder Kaur (57); Ram Pyari (80), of Shivala Colony; Santosh Kumari (75); Sucha Singh (66), of Harar Khurd village; Mahadev (52); Balbir Singh (63); Santokh Raj (70), of Pawan Nagar (Batala Road); Sarbjit Kaur (53), of Dashmesh Nagar; Raj Kaur (50), of Madhoke village; and Baljit Kaur (56), of New Jawahar Nagar (Batala Road).The health authorities also reported 154 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 9,067.The new patients include 82 influenza like illness cases and 72 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 291 cases in the last 24 hours, the recovery count in the district has reached 7,099. At present, the district has a total of 1,627 active cases.Health staff laudedWhile lauding the efforts of the health staff, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira made a special mention of services being rendered by Dr Satnam Singh posted at Majitha, Dr Des Raj posted at Verka, Dr Kuldeep Kaur, Dr Ravi Kumar, Dr Shiv Dev Kaur and Dr Mandeep. Khaira said these employees had gone beyond their duties in providing medical services.He said all the Covid-19 related deaths were being reviewed by a committee. He added that early detection of virus can help in tackling it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/casualty-count-continues-to-rise-as-13-more-succumb-in-amritsar-146241
25-09-2020||Amritsar||Speedy probe sought into 4-year-old investment scam||Accusing the police of dilly-dallying over the probe into the four-year-old Rs400-crore “multicrore investment scam”, the Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), an NGO, has urged the Chief Secretary, Punjab, to shift the investigation to some state-level special investigation team (SIT) for a speedy inquiry.The NGO alleges that cops are sitting on the evidence to help the high-profile accused, including a political leader. Several people have lost their hard-earned money to fraudsters.“The state government should transfer the probe to a state-level SIT besides sharing information with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Income Tax, and the Enforcement Directorate for further action,” said Sarabjit Singh Verka, Principal Investigator, PHRO, in a communique to the Chief Secretary.“The case needs to be looked into by the ED and the Income Tax sleuths but the Punjab police did not inform them, suggesting that the latter have been shielding the suspects,” he pointed out.It also sought appropriate action against those officers who allegedly hushed up the matter and had not taken the evidence on record to favor the suspects and main culprits.The city police had registered two FIRs in 2016. The first case was registered by the Chheharta police in July 2016 in which Ramesh Kumar Chug and his family members were booked. Parveen Kumar Tandon and his family were booked in November same year. While several accused got bail, others are still at large and the big fish are still enjoying immunity.The scam was unearthed by the PHRO, headed by former Punjab and Haryana High Court Judge Ajit Singh Bains. It carried out an investigation for months and collected evidence against the suspects. It handed over its over 3500-page report to the DGP. “However, investigators failed to make any progress and the files must have been gathering dust,” alleged Verka. He said the local police did not bring the probe conducted by PHRO on record even after four years. He alleged a local MLA was influencing the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/speedy-probe-sought-into-4-year-old-investment-scam-146243
25-09-2020||Amritsar||Youth booked for raping minor girl||A matriculation student was allegedly raped by a youth in Gaggomahal village. Though the incident took place around a week ago, a complaint was lodged with the police on Wednesday following which a case was registered.The 17-year-old victim stated to the police that she studied in the village government school. She alleged the accused, identified as Daljit Singh of Soofia village falling under the Ramdas police station, used to stalk her on her way to the school while adding that the accused also used to make vulgar gestures towards her. The victim said she did not tell everyone about this due to social stigma and insult.The victim said on September 17, she was alone at her home when she heard knocks at the door. She said when she opened the door the accused pulled her out and took her to some unknown secluded place on his bike where he raped her. She said though she raised the alarm he did not stop. Later, he dropped her far away from her house.The victim said she narrated the entire incident to her parents, but they remained silent due to social insult. She alleged the suspect was continuously threatening her and her family of dire consequences and therefore they lodged a complaint with the police.The police have booked suspect Daljit Singh under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC, Section 4 of the POCSO act. Police authorities said that the medical examination of the victim was conducted on Thursday and further investigations were underway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-booked-for-raping-minor-girl-146244
25-09-2020||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran||Lakhna village resident booked for raping teen||The Bhikhiwind police have booked Sahijpreet Singh of Lakhna village, falling under the Valtoha police station, for allegedly raping a teenaged schoolgoing girl of the scheduled caste family.The police said the victim on Tuesday left her home for online house tests and was abducted on the way. The suspect took her to an abandoned room in the fields and raped her. Later, he dropped the victim near her house in the evening. The victim brought the matter to her parents’ knowledge. Then her parents went to the police station and lodged the complaint on Wednesday.The police have registered a case under Sections 363, 366-A, 376 of the IPC, under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and the SC/ ST Act. The victim was medically examined at the local Civil Hospital. The medical examination of the victim confirmed that she was raped, said ASI Balwindert Kaur, Investigating Officer. The accused was absconding, the ASI said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lakhna-village-resident-booked-for-raping-teen-146245
25-09-2020||BBK DAV College for Women is the only women college in the city that is being run by a private institution. The college was founded in 1967 and is a multi-faculty institution that aims to blend professional and vocational education with traditional courses. It runs an illustrious sports programme and is the alma mater of two international cyclists — Elangbam Choaba Devi and Sushikala Durgaprasad Agashe — and international Kayaking player Komal Bisht. Among its other noted alumni include comedy artiste Bharti Singh||‘Online education presents both challenges and opportunities’||In an interview with Neha Saini, principal Pushpinder Walia says during the pandemic, the college has realised the true potential of its faculty as well as students. Excerpts…The college is conducting online exams for exit classes under GNDU guidelines. This is the first time that exams are being conducted via a virtual mode. What challenges are you facing in the exercise?As we know that the sanctity of our education system lies in examinations, so it is important to conduct exams for exit courses, as they have a direct impact on a student’s career. Of course, it is a challenge to undertake online exams in this rush for such a large number of students. But we have tried to streamline as much as possible. We have formed several teams of faculty including a trouble shooting team that is set to help any student who faces any problem during or after the exam. We send question papers to students 15 minutes before the start of exam and we double check the papers for any irregularity. Once students finish the exam, they email the answer sheets in a PDF format which we get printed and send for evaluation. The area that we are looking to work on is reaching out to private candidates and students facing accessibility problems.The current pandemic has put a sudden pressure on faculty as well as students as the education system has shifted to the online mode. How are you, as an institution, coping with the stress?It is true that the shift towards online teaching was a forced one and not voluntary. So, the initial response was slow and had many gaps. But as we got the hang of things, I feel, it brought out the true potential of both faculty members and students. Many of our teachers developed new skill sets and so did the students. The initial anxiety among the students has also now faded and they are more confident and have adapted to the change.How has the online admission process of the college been? Have you introduced any new course that is related to the ‘new normal’?Initially, due to stress among students and the prevailing uncertainty, the process of online admissions was very slow. But now that the students have settled in and faculty is equipped to conduct online classes, we have added five more skill-oriented courses to our academic itinerary. These courses have been approved by the UGC. Keeping in mind the acute shortage of healthcare workers in the country that was felt during the pandemic, we have started courses in hospital management and healthcare resources; diet and nutrition counseling and retail management.What is your prediction of the future of higher education in the post pandemic-world?This sudden change in our individual as well as institutional existence has radically changed our perceptions about things. In education, though I feel there is no substitute for classroom teaching, virtual classrooms have opened up a whole new set of possibilities. For instance, webinars have become more effective, crisp and engaging. It allows maximum participation sans any limitation. As far as technology is concerned, it has only now proved its true potential as a tool of learning and education. And this is what the future is going to be.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-education-presents-both-challenges-and-opportunities-146246
25-09-2020||Amritsar||6 mobile phones found in jail||Finance company employee robbedAmritsar: A finance company employee was robbed by four armed persons in Teda Khurd village falling under the Jhander police station here on Wednesday. Inderjit Singh, a resident of Harkrishan Nagar here, said he was working as field officer in Satin Micro Finance company. He said on Wednesday he was going towards Teda Khurd village falling under the Jhander police station for collection of instalments. He said four unknown persons travelling on two bikes came from behind and stopped him. The victim said they snatched his bag containing over Rs 27,000, a tab and other important documents. The police have registered a case. TNSOne held with 750-gm heroinTarn Taran: The Goindwal Sahib police arrested one Manjit Singh of Dhun Dhae Wala with 750-gram heroin on Wednesday. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale today said a police party, led by Inspector Harinder Singh and Goindwal Sahib DSP Jaspreet Singh, nabbed the accused from the area. A case has been registered. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-mobile-phones-found-in-jail-146247
25-09-2020||Amritsar||In solidarity with farmers, SGPC to shut offices today||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-solidarity-with-farmers-sgpc-to-shut-offices-today-146164
