25-07-2020||KARAN VERMA ||‘After remaining busy in work for years, I got time for family’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Like others, our business was also affected due to the imposition of the lockdown. Our sales had gone down to almost zero as we had to provide a comfort to suppliers and buyers. In such a situation, bigger companies had been worst hit, so we took a balanced approach and had to provide assistance to our suppliers and buyers as we had business relations with both over the years.Do you expect any of your businesses to start running in the near future?As far as our various businesses are concerned, we are achieving around 40 to 45 per cent efficiency, but the figures keep changing and my aim is to maintain consistency.Did you pay salaries to workers during the lockdown period?We consider staff and employees to be part of a larger family, so we tried to be as compassionate as we could and tried to provide them maximum support after mutual discussion.What is the share of online trading in your profession?We have a limited scope of online trading, but during the lockdown we attempted to implement maximum technology, and we encouraged the work from home culture and calling employees in office at various shifts and alternate days to achieve maximum contactless work.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?Every event is a learning experience, especially in current difficult times. After remaining busy in business and work for years, I got time for myself and family. I spent this time equipping myself with some online courses and reading and listening to people. This is the time where we cut costs and be more efficient.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?I consider it as a challenge. Post Covid-19, the world would be different as new sectors will emerge and some old sectors may lose their relevance. I am trying to find new opportunities but it will be clear once the pandemic is over.What do you expect from the Centre?The government is facing the biggest health crisis in 100 years. It should provide assistance to the MSME sector and weaker sections of society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-remaining-busy-in-work-for-years-i-got-time-for-family-117674
25-07-2020||Tarn Taran||College holds webinar on field engagement||Sri Guru Angad Dev College of Education, Khadoor Sahib, on Friday organised a webinar on ‘Field Engagement with Community and Community Programme’ in the college complex under the supervision of college principal Simarpreet Kaur.It was the first online webinar in which college students participated with enthusiasm. The principal of Anand College of Education, Jethuwal (Amritsar), Kanwarbir Kaur was the chief speaker. She elaborated the concept of field engagement and its activities in detail. She also discussed the subject of ‘new education’ and how it should be implemented in schools.There was a question-answer session at the end of the webinar and Kanwarbir Kaur answered students queries. Simarapreet Kaur thanked the chief speaker and students who participated in the webinar. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/college-holds-webinar-on-field-engagement-117667
25-07-2020||---||49 fresh infections, count 1,445 in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 24The district reported 49 fresh positive cases on Friday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1,445. The fresh cases included personnel of the Army, BSF, ITBP and the police. Meanwhile, with no fresh casualty reported by the Health Department, the death toll remained at 65.Of the new cases, 37 are influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 12 are contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each was reported from Ranjit Avenue, Ajnala, Jujhar Singh Avenue, Green Avenue, Majitha Road bypass, Kot Khalsa, Fatehpur Rajputan, Palak Vihar on the Majitha road, Military Hospital, Green City, Gurnam Nagar, Sandhu Colony, Mall Road, Diyanpur, Baba Bakala, Ganda Singh Colony, Tehseelpura, 22 Battalion (BSF), Shivala Colony, Ranjit Avenue B-block, Guru Amardas Avenue, Vikas Nagar, Chheharta, Basant Avenue, Jaffarkot Ajnala, New Pawan Nagar, East Gobind Nagar, ITBP, New Amritsar, Darshan Avenue, Kanwe tehsil in Ajnala border subdivision, East Mohan Nagar and Gumtala colony, Loharka. Two cases each were found from Sudarshan Nagar and Sundar Nagar.Besides, of the 12 contacts of positive cases, three are from police control room; one each from the Central Jail, Shivala Colony, Jafarkot and Canals Colony (Rayya) and four from the Beas hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/49-fresh-infections-count-1-445-in-amritsar-117668
25-07-2020||---||Pregnant woman dies after abortion, husband booked||Amritsar, July 24A four-month pregnant woman lost her life after her husband and sister-in-law allegedly got her child aborted against her wishes. The deceased has been identified as Jyoti (26).The police have booked the duo, identified as Gurpreet Singh of Thothia village and Veero of Sarhali, on the statement of her father Sukhpal, a resident of Ludhiana.He told the police that Jyoti got married to Gurpreet around five years ago and the couple had a girl child. He said his daughter was four months pregnant. He also said Jyoti told her mother Harjit Kaur that Gurpreet got her scanned which revealed the gender of the baby. She said following this, he started pressurising her to get the foetus aborted. She said on July 16, Gurpreet and his sister Veero took her to Tarn Taran, where they got her child aborted. He said this led to infection inside her body. She was admitted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital where she succumbed yesterday.Following this complaint, the police have registered a case under Section 313 (Causing miscarriage without woman’s consent), 314 (Death caused by act done with intent to cause miscarriage), 316 (causing death of unborn child by act amounting to culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code against her husband and sister-in-law. They are yet to be arrested.SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said raids were on to nab the suspects who were absconding following the death of the victim. He added investigation was on to ascertain the place where she was scanned and got the child aborted. He said stringent action would be taken against them as well.2 held with illegal weaponThe Majitha police nabbed two persons, identified as Robinpreet Singh and Karanbir Singh, both residents of Naag Kalan village, for allegedly possessing illegal weapon here on Thursday.They were nabbed by a police team from Jalalpura village. Balwinder Singh, investigating officer, said he was patrolling near Jalalpura village when they were held following a tip off. “There was specific input that the suspects were going to commit some crime with the weapon,” he said while adding that the police recovered a .315 bore pistol with three live rounds. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pregnant-woman-dies-after-abortion-husband-booked-117671
25-07-2020||Neha Saini||Visual art & artists fail to see light at end of the tunnel||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, July 24There’s no denying the fact that the path an artist treads is akin to a walk on hot coals. Most have to go through the thick of things before the name is an established one. That is there and will always be. But the suffering and hardships the pandemic is laying upon them, is the shoving of extra embers. And the visual artists are feeling the heat.As the lion’s share of the art fraternity has found solace — just like many other professions and industries amid these times — in the digital discourse of things, the visual artists, unlike their counterparts in the performing arts; who may have reinvented themselves and found audience, have been on the receiving end. They are struggling to absorb the changed scenario.The art studios and galleries continue to be shut and the guidelines on reopening are much-awaited. No exhibitions means no buyers or patrons. All of it is taking a toll on the creative process of the artists. With no avenues to support to make their art visible, most are living off scraps — except the few well-known names. Many senior city-based artists including painters, sculptors and other visual artists are making the most of the digital webinars by conducting online art workshops and live exhibitions as they try get their hands on a few bucks.Here is the bigger picture. The earnings from virtual art exhibitions or workshops for each artist is between Rs 3000-5000 per appearance or on month, depending on the promoting agency – the agencies too have not fared well. Moreover, even the government backed or aided cultural agencies of promotion are acting funny. None have stepped up in their support.However, in such difficult times, Indian Academy of Fine Arts has made few attempts to support the needy visual artists by organising online art shows, interactions and conducting online art classes — the academy has also supported a few of them financially throughout the lockdown. Meanwhile, some independent organisations like Kausa Trust, are becoming the pillar of strength for such arts. The Kausa Trust has been working to provide over 70 artists in need with financial aide during this crisis-torn days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/visual-art-artists-fail-to-see-light-at-end-of-the-tunnel-117675
25-07-2020||---||GNDU takes a leap forward for agricultural research||Amritsar, July 24Guru Nanak Dev University has established a Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation (CARI) under the Rashtriya Uchchattar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA-II).The major focus of the centre was to build a world-class ecosystem to promote research and find innovative and meaningful solutions in the field of agriculture. The centre has the mandate to integrate research and outreach education in agriculture, food systems and the environment to establish an ecologically and economically sustainable model.To expand its purpose, the Centre for Agriculture Research and Innovation and the Department of Agriculture of the university has jointly signed an MoU with the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, National Chung Hsing University (NCHU), Taiwan.The NCHU is known for its contributions to the research and development in the field of agriculture and natural resource conservation technology. “Under this MoU, a broad agreement has been reached to promote cooperation in teaching, training and innovative research in the field of agriculture. This academic engagement will also facilitate the exchange of faculty, students and provide an opportunity for of joint PhD degrees to students,” said Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Sandhu.The PUM (Programma Uitzending Managers), Netherland has identified a senior expert Carel Zwinkels for strategic mentoring of the centre to achieve excellence in the field of agriculture. Carel has more than 40 years of horticultural technical experience and has worked in various capacities in many multi-national agriculture-based companies.Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu has expressed his gratitude to the MHRD and state government for providing financial assistance to the University under RUSA-II programme to establish this centre.He said the agricultural research centre, which is set up at the university, has a very strong advisory board and with the partnering of these international institutions it is surely going to bring new knowledge, technology and opportunities to agriculture and in turn will catalyse the economy of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-takes-a-leap-forward-for-agricultural-research-117658
25-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||No salaries for staff, BRTS buses remain off the roads||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 24Even after nine days, the Metro bus service being run under the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) remained suspended on the 10th day on Friday with its employees not willing to join work till they receive their salaries. They have been on strike since July 15 in protest against non-payment of salaries.Jagir Singh Sandhu, president of the BRTS Employees’ Association, said, “Company officials have asked us to meet them on Monday. They have assured us of releasing the salaries. But we will not resume the service till we receive our salaries.”The BRTS staff had also approached to the Labour Commissioner to get the salaries last week. “Even project officials had also assured us that our salaries would be released soon. So, the employees have approached and appealed to the Labour Commissioner,” added Jagir Singh Sandhu.On July 15, the employees suspended the bus service due to the non-payment of salaries. The transport service was closed due to the lockdown imposed after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The buses remained off the road for the months of April, May and June. The Punjab Bus Metro Society has stopped the payments of the company, which operates the service. The employees kept demanding salaries continuously. Several meetings were held between office-bearers of the association and company officials. The Punjab Bus Metro Society also assured the employees that they would get their salaries.“On July 6, the project officials met and assured us that the salary bill of the last two months had been passed, which will be released by July 10. After that, the employees returned to work and the buses started running again on the route. But on July 10, salaries were not received. Finally, we went on strike to get salaries pending for four months with a 12.5 per cent annual hike on it,” said another employee of the BRTS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-salaries-for-staff-brts-buses-remain-off-the-roads-117659
25-07-2020||---||Civic body tells hospital to dismantle illegal bridge||Amritsar, July 24The Municipal Corporation on Thursday sent a notice to a local multispecialty hospital located on the GT road, asking it to remove an illegal bridge within a period of 15 days. The notice has been issued on the basis of a complaint by Neetu Tangri, councillor of Ward No. 53. The hospital has “encroached” a government street by constructing an illegal bridge between two of its buildings, apparently to connect these.In her complaint filed on March 19 in 2019, Tangri informed the civic body that the management of the hospital had encroached government property illegally and had restricted movement of the public. She stated that the management had placed a generator set in the street and established a room for security guards, locker room and a RO system on the both sides of the street.Acting on the complaint, officials of the Master Town Planner office visited the site on June 2 and found that the management was violating government rules and had disrupted public movement in the street. The officials reported that an illegal bridge at a height of 25 feet had been raised by the hospital management.The MC officials removed the illegal establishments on the street last week and have now served a 15 day ultimatum to the hospital to remove the illegal bridge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-tells-hospital-to-dismantle-illegal-bridge-117660
25-07-2020||---||Now, Amritsar residents wake up to cleanliness songs||Amritsar, July 24The Municipal Corporation adopted a novel way to sensitise residents to maintaining hygiene in their surroundings. Now, the garbage collection trolley started playing motivational songs, besides the announcement to let residents know about the arrival of garbage collection vehicle in their respective localities. Earlier, the garbage collection mini trucks used to blow siren. Initially, they used to play a Hindi song to call residents out. The health officials claimed that they would use the announcement system, installed on the mini trucks of garbage collection vehicles, to make the public aware of the hygiene.“We will make the public aware of the spread of pandemic. Apart from this, the penalties will be imposed on the violators. MC will impose fine from Rs 200 to Rs 2,000 for dumping garbage in the streets. The sanitary inspectors will collect the penalty amount on the spot,” said a MC official.Dr Ajay Kanwar, Municipal Health officer stated that the residents should segregate the dry and wet garbage at home. The garbage collection company would also collect the garbage separately.”The residents are happy with the move of MC.“The sound of siren was irritating. It is good that they are now playing songs. But they should be instructed to keep the volume low,” said Simranjeet Kaur, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-amritsar-residents-wake-up-to-cleanliness-songs-117661
25-07-2020||---||GNDU students seek fee concession||Amritsar, July 24A group of students led by the Punjab Students’ Union (Lalkaar) submitted a demand charter to the administration of the Guru Nanak Dev University. Students said the university had issued a notice to students of intermediate classes to deposit fee, which was not justified, considering the present situation.“Educational institutions of Punjab are closed due to Covid-19 and orders are being issued to bring on track the derailed education system without giving scant regard to the problems faced by the students. Guru Nanak Dev University has issued a notice to collect fees from the students of intermediate classes who have been promoted lately, while there is no information either on the beginning of the new session or the structure of the new academic calendar. But, the fee for the full semester is being demanded in the name of online teaching. Online teaching is itself a farce as many students do not own smart phones nor do they possess the resources to buy data packs with 3-4 GB daily data. Internet network availability is another problem in the villages,” said Gagan, a student of the GNDU and member of the Punjab Students Union (Lalkaar).She said their demands included fee waiver or concession keeping in mind the economic stress on families due to Covid-19 lockdown. They also want the GNDU to follow a blueprint of the Punjabi University, Patiala, and withdraw notice to deposit the fees until the reopening of the university. “Our demands further include the need to adopt necessary measures to open up the university for the research scholars to continue their research work, attendance and assignments should not be made mandatory for new online sessions as due to lack of economic resources, many students do not have smart phones and internet connections,” she said. Registrar Karanjeet Singh Kahlon received the letter from the students and assured them of timely action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-students-seek-fee-concession-117662
25-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Health staff sit on fast to push for demands||On the first day of the 14-day state-level chain fast, held under the banner of the Sehat Mulazam Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, five workers of the organisation sat on a day-long fast at the Civil Surgeon’s office today. Employees included Sukhbir Kaur Dhillon, Parabhdeep Kaur Kairon, Jaswinder Kaur Ghariala, Gurbir Singh Pandori and Jaswinder Singh Amritsar.  Sukhbir Kaur, leader of the organisation, said they were protesting against the new recruitment carried out by the organisation. They said this would push the future of the employees into the dark. The leader said the services of these working employees should be regularised first. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-staff-sit-on-fast-to-push-for-demands-117663
25-07-2020|| ---||Preservation work on Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Qila moves at snail’s pace||Amritsar, July 24 The Covid-19 pandemic coupled with illegal encroachments by political people has badly affected the preservation of heritage structure of Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Qila located near Golden Temple here.  Famous Sikh general Jassa Singh Ahluwalia also known as “Sultan-ul-Quam” was the fourth Jathedar of Baba Budha Dal and fifth Jathedar of Akal Takht. The Sultan-ul-Quam Bab Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia Memorial Society in a statement issued here on Friday said the Punjab Government, the Punjab Heritage and Tourism Promotion Board and Asian Development Bank sanctioned Rs 2.22 crore for preservation work of the qila in January 2019.  Pardeep Singh Walia, president of the society, said, “The tenure for preservation is being expired this year while its work is still pending and currently going on at snail’s pace”. He said local and political people had encroached upon the land of the heritage building. He urged the government to get these encroachments removed from the site so that pending work could be completed.  The society urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to direct Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to get a heritage structure constructed at the vacant land of qila which would help in inspiring the generations to come. He also appealed to highlight the history of the qila at its entrance gate.  The society also urged the Chief Minister to get a statue of great Sikh leader installed at the Heritage Street near Maharaja Ranjit Singh statue. Walia said the previous Congress government had approved construction of Jassa Singh Ahluwalia gate at Ghee Mandi in January 2003. The design for the same was already approved by the government. He also demanded to declare a holiday to mark the birth anniversary of great Sikh warrior on May 3 like other Sikh generals.  The great Sikh warrior was also called “Bandi Chhor” (the redeemer) for rescuing around 2,200 women imprisoned by Ahmad Shah Abdali for his harem. He was awarded the title of “Padshah” (king) or “Sultan-ul-Quam” (Emperor of the Sikh community) after the conquest of Lahore by Sikhs in November 1761, and the death of Nawab Kapur Singh Faizullapuria. Sardar Ahluwalia successfully led the Sikh warriors against frequent foreign invasions of the Afghans and the tyrannical rule of Mughal administrators during the 18th century.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/preservation-work-on-jassa-singh-ahluwalia-qila-moves-at-snails-pace-117664
25-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Water contamination major issue as complaints are free-flowing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 24The network of water supply lines spans around 1,800km in the city. Striking a similarity are the multitude of complaints the operation and maintenance wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) receives every other day about the water contamination in various localities. It is a nagging issue the residents are facing.According to the MC officials, the supply system in the city needs to be restructured. The water supply lines are installed alongside the sewerage lines across the city. It crosses through sewer manholes too. In case of any leakage, potable water supply gets mixed with sewer ones which leads to the contamination.“The water contamination can be addressed by replacing all the underground water supply pipes with over ground supply lines. The water is getting contaminated in sewer manholes,” says an MC offical. To further complicate the matters, a research based on the findings of the Punjab Water Supply and Sanitation Department reveals that even the groundwater here is vitiated. The report, which had collected samples from more than 500 habitations in the region, shows how 504 habitations (where source of groundwater is through tubewells) in Amritsar have high arsenic content. “There are high levels of heavy metals in groundwater. It has reached alarming proportions. Almost whole of the Majha region has high arsenic contamination,” says physicist Hardev Singh Virk, the face behind the research.Meanwhile, the MC has been spending a huge amount of money on installing tube wells to meet the requirement of the public — the corporation installs 40 new tube wells in various localities every year. But, the same number gets defunct due to water depletion. Experts have also advocated the usage of Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC), generally known as Sultanwind Canal or Beas river, instead of groundwater.“Instead of wasting money on installation of tube wells, the state government should make efforts in the right direction. As per previous estimates, it requires Rs 600 crore for extracting water from canal and its treatment,” says Kuljit Singh, a resident.Hopefully, the water contamination issue would be addressed as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh recently announced canal-based potable water supply system to address the crisis. “The state government gave approval to the World Bank-aided project to provide canal-based drinking water supply in the city. It’s a good move,” Kuljit adds.The MC official is also full of hope: “Now that the government has given nod to the World Bank funded project. The issue shall be addressed soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/water-contamination-major-issue-as-complaints-are-free-flowing-117665
25-07-2020||---||Youth dies, two hurt in mishap||Amritsar, July 24A 19-year-old youth, identified as Harmanpreet Singh, died in a road mishap on Thursday when a speedy car hit the bike he was travelling on. Harmanpreet’s friend Akashdeep Singh and cousin Balwinder Singh, who were riding pillion to him, suffered injuries in the mishap. The car driver, Amritpal Singh of Gandiwind village in Tarn Taran district, fled from the spot.Harpal Singh, a resident of Manawala Kalan village, in a complaint to the police, stated that his son Harmanpreet and the two others were going on a motorcycle and when they reached near Rampura village, a speedy white-colored car came from the behind and hit their bike.The three occupants fell onto the road while the car driver fled away. He said Harmanpreet was admitted to a private hospital in Tarn Taran where he succumbed to his injuries. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-dies-two-hurt-in-mishap-117666
25-07-2020||GS Paul||Jallianwala trust members not taken into confidence||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 24The Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust members were never taken into confidence while putting up a portrait of semi-nude women in a gallery of the monument.The issue had triggered a row on July 19, when Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik chaired a review meeting with officials, unmindful of the controversial portrait that was captured in the background while clicking pictures. Following criticism, the portrait was removed the same evening.In an endeavour to denote ancient artwork of sculptures that were discovered during excavations done in 1968 and 1985 at Sanghol, a small village in the Fatehgarh Sahib district, a printout of two semi-naked sculptures was placed alongside the image of Guru Nanak Dev and Maharaja Ranjit Singh in the gallery.The Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust, headed by the Prime Minister, has Shwait Malik, former MP Tarlochan Singh, and former CM Parkash Singh Badal as members.Tarlochan Singh said members were seldom taken into confidence while finalising the designing or renovation work. “I don’t think it was necessary to associate it with Jallianwala Bagh, which has a totally different essence. Except for the civil work provisions, the trust members were never discussed while sprucing up the galleries and the museum,” he said.No entry ticketWith automated e-ticketing machines arriving at the site and a structure at the entrance gate, speculations are rife that entry into the Jallianwala Bagh would be levied once it re-opens. However, Tarlochan Singh said: “No entry fee will be charged at this historical site. The structure at the entrance could be utilised for security purpose”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jallianwala-trust-members-not-taken-into-confidence-117574
25-07-2020||Amritsar||My constituency being ignored, Navjot Sidhu tells Capt Amarinder||In the first-ever communication with the Chief Minister after quitting the Cabinet, Navjot Singh Sidhu wrote a letter complaining about the serious lapses in development works of Amritsar East, the constituency he represents.In the letter dated July 16, Sidhu pointed out that the five bridge projects that the Chief Minister had inaugurated in October 2018 were progressing at a snail’s pace. He had taken approval for these from the Railways ministry and funds were released, yet nothing had fructified so far, Sidhu alleged. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/my-constituency-being-ignored-navjot-sidhu-tells-capt-amarinder-117569
