26-04-2020||Amritsar||Business allowed in Amritsar, but electronics shop owners find no customers||The government has allowed electronics shops, fan and AC sellers and repair shops to resume their business in view of the summer season, but shopkeepers are finding no customers owing to strict curfew restrictions.Rakesh Kumar, an electrician in the Kot Khalsa area, said, “The government has allowed the resumption of such services, but it is of no use till the curfew is in place. Our customers are calling us for repair work, but we can’t step out without curfew pass. To avoid any inconvenience, we have decided to wait till the curfew was lifted.”Rajan, an AC seller, said, “ There is no point opening the shop and waiting for customers, when there is curfew. We have to send someone to install the equipment and address the complaints. Who will procure curfew passes for workers?” Meanwhile, small-time workers are repairing the devices and running their business. Kala, an electrician on Majitha Road said, “We are getting calls from our old customers to repair their fans. We have to go outside to address the complaints. The government should also consider it one of the essential services as no one can stay home without these in summer.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/business-allowed-in-amritsar-but-electronics-shop-owners-find-no-customers-76285
26-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Going beyond the call of duty, he works 12 hours a day||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 25The banking sector has been severely hit during the lockdown. The social distancing norm is also difficult to abide by inside banks. However, cash dispensing Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) have proved to be a boon for people.The company has provided me a sanitiser, mask and gloves for protection from infection. I ask each visitor to apply sanitiser on their hands before every transaction. Besides, I also sanitise the ATM. Vipan Kumar, a security guard who works at an ATM near Hussainpura ChowkPrivate security guards guarding ATMs have been discharging duty despite the nationwide lockdown imposed to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic. These guards have been discharging their duties so that people can get money.Vipan Kumar (52), who is a security guard at a SBI ATM near Hussainpura Chowk, has been performing his duty for 12 hours daily. The father of three children, he takes all precautions before heading to the ATM. His wife packs lunch for him daily."The company has provided sanitiser, mask and gloves for protection. I ask each visitor to apply sanitiser on their hands before every transaction. Besides, I also sanitise the ATM," he said. He said around 50 to 60 persons visit the ATM daily. Before the lockdown, the number was double. The cash van for replenishing the ATM with paper money comes after two to three days. Earlier, it used to come daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/going-beyond-the-call-of-duty-he-works-12-hours-a-day-76284
26-04-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Former international cricketer focuses on achieving his fitness goals||Tribune news ServiceAmritsar, April 25Amid lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, former international cricketer Harvinder Singh has been spending his free time to achieve his fitness goals.Earlier, owing to his busy schedule, Harvinder could spare only 30 minutes for his fitness. Nowadays, he has been devoting two to three hours daily to gymnasium and other physical activities.I have a gym facility at my home and have been making the most of it during the lockdown. Now, I have been devoting more time in the gym. Though I was fit even earlier, I was not satisfied. Now, I will achieve fitness goals set by me. Earlier, there were always some engagements, appointments and commitments every day. Now, there is no such hurry in life. Harvinder Singh, International cricketer"I have the gym facility at my home and I have been making most of it during the lockdown. Now, I have been devoting more time in the gym. Though I was fit even earlier, I was not satisfied. Now, I will achieve fitness goals set by me," he added."Earlier, there were always some engagements, appointments and commitments every day. Now, there is no such hurry in life. I am sleeping more and doing several tings which were on my mind. Earlier, I could not do these due to a shortage of time," he said.He has been doing gardening along with his children. "I have a kitchen garden and gardeners are on leave due to the curfew. So, I do some gardening and guide my children about plantation. Besides, I engage in pruning of plants and irrigation. I like to take care of plants," said Harvinder, who is also fond of parallel cinema.He said, "Besides sports-based movies, I like to watch art movies. Now, I have time and I watch one movie every day. No doubt, Bhaag Milkha Bhaag and Mary Kom are my favorite movies."Harvinder, who was a medium pacer, has represented the country in 16 ODIs and three Test matches. His best bowling figures in ODIs was 42-3 against Pakistan in Toronto. He has played 109 first-class Ranji matches for Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/former-international-cricketer-focuses-on-achieving-his-fitness-goals-76283
26-04-2020||Industry & Lockdown||‘Relief package must for speedy revival of small-scale industries’||Naavniit Miterr, the Chairperson of CII, Amritsar, and the managing director of Syska Miterr Pvt Ltd, says the Covid-19 crisis and lockdown will hit hard the small and medium scale manufacturing units in Amritsar.“I personally feel that many will perish as they will not be able to bear the financial burden even after the lockdown ends,” he said. With lots of automobile parts manufacturing units based in Pune, Uttarakhand and Amritsar, Miterr, whose company has a turnover of 200 crore and employs 500 persons, spells out challenges that MSMEs face in Amritsar due to the lockdown. Here are the excerpts of his interview with Neha Saini.How has lockdown impacted auto parts manufacturing industry?Most units are already shut down after the MHA notification and the global crisis has hit the production by at least 30 per cent. Demand and supply chain disruptions are being experienced. We, too, have shut down operations in our three units temporarily. Recently, we have got the permission to open our Uttarakhand unit on the condition that all the required arrangements must be made under the Covid-19 safety protocol guidelines. We have 125 employees working in our Uttarakhand unit, but at this time we will run the facility with only 30-40 employees.The industry will see a very painstakingly slow pace for the next few months after the lockdown is lifted. The local wagers might find their life back on track once industries open but we do not have reserves to support sustainability of small and medium enterprises. Unless relief packages are given by the government, the road to recovery will be very slow. Naavniit Miterr, Chairperson of CII, Amritsar, and MD of Syska Miterr Pvt LtdWhat is the biggest challenge you face in operating the unit?The biggest hurdle is the MHA directive that states criminal action will be taken against the management of any industrial unit if any Covid-19 patient is found in its premises. How can the state expect industrial units to start operations after this warning? Many industrial units are ready to open, but only if the clause is defined with practical relaxations. The interpretation of the law is not business-friendly. Also, with only 20-30 per cent staff is working, the social distancing norm will automatically apply.How are you bearing costs and wages of your workers?We have been giving them financial as well as other support for now. As per the guidelines, we are already paying them ESI and paying the monthly premium that they can access if required. But in the longer run, it will be difficult for MSMEs to bear such costs as there is hope of no revenue generation at least for two months ahead.What would be the situation like after the lockdown?I think that Amritsar's small-scale cottage industry, including weaving and knitting units, will be forced to shut shop. Also, after the lockdown, the biggest challenge will be to arrange for labourers, most of whom have returned to their native villages in UP and Bihar. The labour cost will be high and production slow, which will have an impact on the demand supply chain.What, according to you, should be the roadmap for revival?The industry will see a very painstakingly slow pace for the next few months after the lockdown is lifted. The local wagers might find their life back on track once industries open but we do not have reserves to support sustainability of small and medium enterprises. Unless relief packages are given by the government, the road to recovery will be very slow.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/relief-package-must-for-speedy-revival-of-small-scale-industries-76282
26-04-2020||Amritsar||Two nabbed with 100-gm heroin in Amritsar||Domestic violence helpline launchedAmritsar: With a significant increase in the number of domestic violence cases being reported since the imposition of the curfew, the Amritsar rural police have launched a helpline number for the victims of domestic violence. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the victims could now call at 9780033748 or sent message 24X7 and they would get immediate help. In a statement, the curfew restrictions have led to an increase in such instances and a need was felt to provide legal help to the victims. He said any woman who faced domestic violence or any other similar problems, they could approach the police at the given helpline number. They could also contact emergency helpline number 112 for police help. Though the helpline started only yesterday (on Friday), around 27 complaints — 14 on Friday and 13 on Saturday — had been received by it. TNSGurvinder Singh is SSA presidentAmritsar: Orthopaedic surgeon Dr Gurvinder Singh was unanimously elected president of the Surgeon’s Society of Amritsar (SSA). SSA officials said a meeting of the executive committee was held here as the general body meeting could not be held due to Covid-19 situation. At the meeting, Dr Parveen Devgan was elected senior vice-president and Dr Jaspreet Grover as honorary secretary. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-nabbed-with-100-gm-heroin-in-amritsar-76281
26-04-2020||Tarn Taran||6,000 packets of essentials given to needy||Dr Dharmbeer Agnihotri, MLA from Tarn Taran, dispatched 6,000 packets of essential items to be distributed among needy families of the town here on Saturday.The MLA said the needy families had been served cooked meal since March 23 since the inception of the lockdown. Around 4,000 families were being served meal daily. The MLA said to avoid any risk to the persons serving meal to families the scheme had been replaced with the new scheme of giving packets of essential commodities, including flour, pulses, sugar, etc.Dr Agnihotri said the scheme had been launched with the association of donors. Around 8,000 packets, sent by the state government, had already been distributed among needy families in rural areas, the MLA added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-000-packets-of-essentials-given-to-needy-76279
26-04-2020||---||‘Domestic abuse cases need attention during lockdown’||Amritsar, April 25Three women poets — Jhilmil Breckenridge, Nabina Das and Nitoo Das — from London, Hyderabad and New Delhi, respectively, in conversation with Preeti Gill, founder, Majha House, made sure that literary discourse continues even during the lockdown. Talking about the current situation of the lockdown globally, the poets discussed how they were dealing with this unprecedented situation. “We try to face each day with hope and optimism although it is difficult to maintain the same spirit day after day. But of course, the best thing is to write a lot,” said Nabina.We try to face each day with hope and optimism although it is difficult to maintain the same spirit day after day. But of course, the best thing is to write a lot. Nabina DasJhilmil is the founder of the Bhor Foundation, an organisation active in mental health advocacy, while Nabina Das is a gender activist. They said mental health and gender-based issues always increased in such situations. “Domestic violence has seen a sharp rise during the lockdown across the world,” said Nabina, adding that “and it has to be attended to. Just because there is a lockdown does not mean that one can resort to violence or dominance.” Jhilmil also said mental health became more precarious in isolation. “If you do not have your family with you or are living alone, such phases can wreak havoc on your mental health. We need to be more vigilant and have a compassionate outreach so that these people have someone they can talk to if nothing else,” said Jhilmil.Discussing their literary works, Preeti Gill pointed out that angst was a common element in all of their poetry. Asked about it, they replied that there was a lot to be angry about in society and our world. “There is injustice; there is violence; there is exploitation,” lamented Nitoo Das. “One has to write about it. How can one not?”Talking about their creative process and how it varies from short stories to novels to poetry they replied that poetry is more elusive as it is the most nebulous form. “One has to wait for poems to come to you,” said Nabina, adding that “while one can move towards, approach stories or novels.” The poets were also asked to recite a few of their poems. “We are determined to make the most of this lockdown to prove that intellectual debate cannot be paused in any situation,” said Preeti Gill. Gurpratap Khairah, an educator and writer, also participated in the conversation who raised queries regarding the literary works of the three writers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/domestic-abuse-cases-need-attention-during-lockdown-76278
26-04-2020||---||Gardeners get curfew passes to take care of nurseries in Amritsar||Amritsar, April 25The district administration has issued curfew passes to gardeners so that they can take care of the nurseries.The office-bearers of Missionaries Khudai Khidmatgaran thanked the district administration for allowing workers to maintain the nurseries.Parkash Singh Bhatti, from Missionaries Khudai Khidmatgaran, said: “What we planned to do this year has been disrupted by various reasons but thanks to the Deputy Commissioner, we are now in a position to save maximum plants from destruction.”“Our gardeners work day and night in nurseries to protect plants. We produce 15,000 to 20,000 plants yearly for free plantation, but this year, we are trying to save at least half of them,” Bhatti said.There are hundreds of nurseries in the city. Gardeners are not able to reach nurseries due to curfew. With the approval of the administration, gardeners can now work in nurseries by adopting safety measures and social distancing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gardeners-get-curfew-passes-to-take-care-of-nurseries-in-amritsar-76277
26-04-2020||PKJaiswar||Amritsar cops donate cloth for stitching masks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 25The Ramdass police procured around 400m cloth worth Rs 30,000 for distribution among mask-making volunteers who are stitching these masks.The masks are being prepared at St Francis Convent School’s complex which has become mini factory of masks. The Ramdass police station cops contributed from their own pockets for procuring cloth for stitching masks. These double layered masks are approved by the medical officer.The volunteers involved in mask stitching are provided with essentials including food, beverages and sanitisers by the police.Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said these masks would be distributed among the people. He said around 8,000 masks would be prepared by the volunteers attached with the Ramdass police station in first two days in the first phase.While stitching masks social distancing and all guidelines issued by the government are dully followed, he said. These masks would be distributed among the people and the cops on duty in the coming days.He said the village police officers have announced in their villages seeking help from the women who know stitching and could make masks. A number of women came forward and volunteered in this. As many as 220 women volunteers are now working with the police for preparing masks and more women are joining the police as volunteers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-cops-donate-cloth-for-stitching-masks-76276
26-04-2020||---||Arnab booked for remarks against Cong president||Amritsar, April 25The local police have booked Republic TV channel editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami under different sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act for allegedly using derogatory words against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi.The case was registered on the complaint of youth Congress leader Aditya Datti, son of MLA Sunil Dutti.Neeraj Kumar, SHO Rambagh police station, said in the complaint against the Republic TV editor in chief he alleged that the anchor not only used objectionable remarks against Sonia Gandhi but also tried to disrupt communal harmony by provoking people. A case under Sections 153-A, 153-B, 295-A, 504, 505 of the IPC and Sections 69 and 69-A of the IT Act was registered against him.A number of FIRs have been registered against Arnab throughout the country. The Supreme Court, however, has granted a relief of three weeks from any coercive action against him in connection with the FIRs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arnab-booked-for-remarks-against-cong-president-76275
26-04-2020||---||Amritsar civic body felicitates sewer men||Amritsar, April 25Sewer men, who are working hard to prevent the choking of sewer lines, were honoured by the Municipal Corporation here on Saturday.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said sewer men and safai karmacharis were discharging their duties round the clock without caring about their own health to protect the city residents from Covid-19 pandemic. “The MC is taking care of their health, ration and other essential needs. The government is providing assistance and necessary equipment to these frontline soldiers,” he said. Mayor said the unions of municipal employees have also stepped forward and were contributing for the sanitation workers.On Saturday, the sewer men union held an award function at Zone 3 office, where Mayor Karamjit Singh distributed ration to the sewer men. Mayor Karamjit Singh attended the function and honoured the union functionaries. He also paid floral tributes to Baba Sahib Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar.The Mayor said we were in this difficult time and every officer and employee of the Municipal Corporation was doing his duty with enthusiasm. The efforts being made by the MC workers to keep the public safe would be recognised. “The entire city has been sanitised, garbage is being collected from door to door on a daily basis. Sewer men are providing round the clock services to ensure smooth running of the sewerage,” he said. He congratulated all sewer men and sweepers for the commendable work being done by them and thanked the union office-bearers Deepak Gill, Goldie and Anil Bhatti for inviting them to the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-felicitates-sewer-men-76274
26-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Now, mass organisations in Amritsar warn of moving High Court||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 25The move of the Department of Medical Education and Research to issue show-cause notices to employees’ union leaders at Government Medical College, for issuing statements to the media highlighting shortcomings to deal with Covid-19 situation, seems to have backfired, as more and more organisations are expressing solidarity with the employee leaders and statements highlighting shortcomings have still not stopped.Now, the joint platform of mass organisations (JPMO), an organisation comprising serving and retired employees of various associations and political activists, has threatened to move the High Court if the department did not withdraw its notices.The administration had issued notices to the said employees on April 20. After that, while condemning the move aimed at gagging the employees, the members of different GMC employees’ association launched an attack against the administration citing poor quality of PPE kits.The fresh attack has also triggered initiation of an inquiry by the district administration. The employees alleged that gloves tear off when they try to wear these. They also alleged that the PPE kits were of poor quality.Jarmanjit Singh Bath, JPMO spokesperson, said: “The administration is trying to gag employees. It was after the issues were highlighted that the administration arranged PPE kits and masks and now, it has come out that the safety equipment provided is of poor quality.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-mass-organisations-in-amritsar-warn-of-moving-high-court-76273
26-04-2020||---||Confirmed on March 22, first positive case in Amritsar yet to recover||Amritsar, April 25Around five Covid-19 patients have been declared cured so far, but the first positive case reported from the district, a male patient from Guru ki Wadali, has not recovered yet. The man, who returned from the UK, was declared positive on March 22.The patient had returned to Amritsar from Delhi on a train and was picked by the authorities after his relatives here had reported his condition.Of the 14 Covid-19 confirmed cases, five patients have been declared cured in the district and two died of the virus — Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa and former MC superintending engineer Jaswinder Singh.The authorities said the condition of the remaining seven patients was stable and neither was serious. They are Ragi Darshan Singh, a 23-year-old man from Jandiala, 65-year-old woman from Krishna Nagar (wife of cured patient Balbir Singh), 70-year-old man from Krishna Nagar and his 37-year-old son, 30-year-old woman from Gate Hakima and the district’s first reported male patient from Guru ki Wadali.Except for Darshan Singh, who is admitted to a private hospital, all others are being treated at Government Medical College. Of the five admitted at the private hospital, four have recovered so far. At GMC, two had died while one had recovered completely and was later discharged.The Government Medical College authorities stated that all the six patients admitted here were stable and showing signs of recovery.“The test reports of the Guru Ki Wadali patient are still positive. But he is stable and recovering,” said an official, adding that in some cases the recovery period was much longer.Had returned from UK||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/confirmed-on-march-22-first-positive-case-in-amritsar-yet-to-recover-76272
