26-05-2020||---||Upset over harassment, woman commits suicide||Amritsar, May 25A married woman committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in Beas here on Sunday. The victim, identified as Manju (32), used to live with her two children and her father-in-law. She was living separately from her husband.The police found a suicide note from the spot and on the basis of it, a case under Section 306 of the IPC has been registered against her husband Mangal, his mother Gabbo, both residents of Moga, father-in-law Deba and sister Rekha, who lives in Batala.The victim’s father, Sewa Nath, a resident of Beas, said her in-laws used to harass Manju. Perturbed over harassment, she was living separately from her husband in Beas, he said. Sewa said her husband and in-laws used to threaten her. He said they used to tell him to marry another woman.In the suicide note, she asked her parents to look after her children. She also asked her children to stay away from their father. The police said Deba used to live with Manju here and he had gone to his work when the victim ended her life. The incident came to light when her relative came to meet her and found her hanging. The police said efforts were on to nab the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/upset-over-harassment-woman-commits-suicide-90059
26-05-2020||---||Probe begins into supply of inferior crates to Pungrain||Amritsar, May 25The Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department on Monday initiated investigation to verify the charges of substandard crates being supplied for storing wheat in warehouses here.The probe has been instituted after an inspector in the Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs dispatched a complaint against inferior quality of material being supplied to the government.Rajneesh Kumari, Lead Deputy Director of the Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Jalandhar, said on the directions of the head office, she deployed teams to verify the claims. She said two teams, comprising three inspectors and a District Food Supplies Officer, were deployed and one more team would be added on Tuesday to complete the probe. She said there was no timeframe for the probe.Vinod Khosla, Inspector in the Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, had raised an alarm over the supply of substandard crates to the godowns. Crates are used to store wheat in government-run storages.He communicated this anomaly to the Chief Secretary of the Punjab Government, the Chief Secretary, Food Civil Supply and Consumer Affairs, and Director, Vigilance Bureau, and the DGP, Punjab.In the complaint, he claimed that in connivance with officials of the department substandard crates were being supplied to godowns of Pungrain, which are situated in the district. He said while rates were charged for good quality crates, inferior ones were supplied. Thus, it caused financial losses to the government.He said 15,000 crates were supplied in this border district while the proposal was to procure 1 lakh crates for the godowns of the entire state.A crate should weigh at least 40 kg. However, he found the crates being supplied weighed below 40 kg, which amounted to cheating with the department and the firm concerned should be blacklisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/probe-begins-into-supply-of-inferior-crates-to-pungrain-90060
26-05-2020||Amritsar||Anil Joshi alleges ‘discrimination’ in ration distribution||Former Cabinet minister Anil Joshi on Monday accused the Punjab Government of discrimination in distributing ration under the public distribution system (PDS). He asked the Deputy Commissioner to look into the matter.In a statement, he said PM Narendra Modi under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana released relief material for around 1.42 crore people.He alleged the state government led by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh was discriminating while distributing the ration under the PDS. He alleged that the relief material was not being released to rightful people and people supporting other political parties were left out.He said he was receiving numerous complaints regarding depot holders working in a biased manner while district Food and Civil Supplies Department officials were turning a blind eye to this. He threatened that if the system did not improve in next coming days, they would be forced to launch an agitation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anil-joshi-alleges-discrimination-in-ration-distribution-90061
26-05-2020||---||Man held for burning three cars in Gole Bagh||Amritsar, May 25The city police have nabbed Jagir Singh of Baba Jeevan Singh Colony in Patti, for allegedly burning cars in the Gole Bagh area 10 days ago.The police said he was earlier nabbed in Jalandhar for allegedly trying to extort money from a shop owner. He was in jail for 50 days.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said he was a follower of a religious dera in Jalandhar and burnt three cars parked in the Gole Bagh area in a fit of frustration as the Dera people were not allowing him to visit the place where the body of their preacher was kept.He wrote objectionable language against the Dera and pasted it on the walls of the park near Durgiana Temple. Three cars were burnt in Gole Bagh in the wee hours on May 16. On the statement of car owners, the police had registered an FIR against unknown persons. An SIT was formed.Probe revealed that after his acquittal in the extortion case in February 2019, he started living in Amritsar. He had done engineering from Gurdaspur in 2002. Six days before burning car, he procured petrol in a bottle from a petrol pump in Guruwali village, the police said.He would be produced in the court tomorrow and brought on police remand for further investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-burning-three-cars-in-gole-bagh-90062
26-05-2020||---||With 8 new cases, dist count rises to 335||Amritsar, May 25With eight new Covid-19 cases being reported on Monday, the total count of positive cases in the district has increased to 335. The new patients include one person each from the Batala Road and Palm Garden areas who tested positive on Sunday night.District health officials stated that two family members of the Palm Garden patient, including his wife and son, also tested positive on Monday. Meanwhile, four family members of the Rani Ka Bagh patient, who had tested positive three days ago, also tested positive. These included his mother, father, son and nephew.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said reports of 91 samples were awaited from the laboratory at Government Medical College. He said at present, the district had 28 active cases, 301 recoveries and six deaths due to the disease so far.After reports of a number of cases from Rani Ka Bagh area, Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka said a door-to-door survey of the area was being conducted which would be completed by tomorrow evening. He said people in the area should stay home and cooperate with the visiting medical teams.Tarn Taran: One more Covid-19 positive case was reported in Tarn Taran district on Monday. Working in merchant navy, the patient is a resident of Kacha Pakka village. Civil Hospital Senior Medical Officer Dr Inder Mohan Gupta said the 32-year-old patient, along with his three colleagues, had returned to his home recently.He said all four were screened at the Harike check-point and their samples were collected. While three of the reports came out negative, one came positive. The patient has been admitted to Covid care centre at the Civil Hospital. At present, the district has two active cases.Earlier, a few days ago, a total of 161 Covid-19 patients were discharged from hospital in the district.8 foreign returnees quarantined at Khadoor Sahib hostel Tarn Taran: Eight more foreign returnees were kept under isolation at Sri Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib hostel, 25 km from here, on Monday. They had returned from Australia, Canada and Malaysia and gone on tourist visas. They were stranded due to coronavirus threat and the lockdown imposed in the country. Lovejit Singh of Mianwind village said they were stranded at Malaysia Airport for days together, but the Indian embassy didn’t come to their rescue. Social organisations served food and gave them shelter at the airport, he said. There were total 23 persons, including these eight persons, who were kept under isolation at the Khadoor Sahib hostel. The Health Department collected their Covid-19 samples and sent these for testing. OCResident doctors demand hike in stipendAmritsar: In a letter written to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, junior resident doctors-cum-post graduate students at Government Medical College have demanded a hike in stipend being paid to them. Members of the Resident Doctors Association (RDA) stated that while they were working for same hours and performing the same duties as junior residents in other states, they were being paid less. The junior resident doctors said they had paid around Rs2 lakh annual fee for around four years which is higher than that charged by Haryana, Delhi and PGI. They were being paid Rs49,000 as monthly stipend, they said, adding that members of the RDA said even senior resident doctors were being paid a stipend of Rs55,000 per month which in neighbouring states is Rs1 lakh. RDA president Jaspinder Partap Singh said junior residents and senior residents bear the maximum workload at hospitals and in the Covid-19 fight, they are at the forefront. He said an increase in stipend would motivate the doctors. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-8-new-cases-dist-count-rises-to-335-90063
26-05-2020||Amritsar||Arrested youth found Covid-positive, cops in a tizzy||The Division B police had arrested a youth, who was wanted in a firing incident reported in the Sultanwind area. He was nabbed by the police on Saturday and was medically examined before lodging into jail. However, his report came positive which sent the police department and health authorities in a tizzy.Police officials immediately kept the cops in a quarantine. These included those cops who had arrested and brought the accused to the police station, besides other cops who had questioned him, said Sushil Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police and nodal officer for the Covid-19 pandemic deputed by the police. The medical examination of those who were present in the judicial complex while presenting him in the court would also be conducted.He said every person being nabbed by the police in one case or other was medically examined at the local Civil Hospital. “Doctors also take samples for the corornavirus. When the reports come negative, he is then produced in court and shifted to jail as per the need,” he said.He said the accused was now sent to the isolation ward at Government Medical College for treatment and a police team would be deployed there so that he could not escape.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/arrested-youth-found-covid-positive-cops-in-a-tizzy-90064
26-05-2020||---||Wheat purchase: Over Rs 1,077 cr disbursed to farmers so far||Tarn Taran, May 25A total of Rs1,067.07 crore has been disbursed to farmers so far as payment for the procurement of wheat in the district.This was stated by Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal here on Monday.The Deputy Commissioner said the procurement agencies were asked to ensure that the payment for the wheat was released within 48 hours of the procurement.He said a total of 5,56,237 tonnes of procured wheat had already been lifted from the mandis of the district.Wheat Arrival in dist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-purchase-over-rs-1-077-cr-disbursed-to-farmers-so-far-90067
26-05-2020||---||NGO holds Thrive Drive for small business units||Amritsar, May 25Mobilising and pushing for ‘vocal for local’ call given by PM Modi recently, city-based NGO Phulkari carried out a week-long MSME Thrive Drive for small businesses in the city. This drive aimed at supporting Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises business owners, who need to get back on their feet after a month-long economic slowdown.The organisation opened up their social media space for free, exclusively for MSMEs to increase their brand visibility and help them reach out to a larger audience. The initiative was aimed at helping brands gain visibility beyond the boundaries of Amritsar through cross-branding.Over 72 brands from the country availed this opportunity. This project was led and coordinated by Phulkari founder Praneet Bubber, vice-president Sheetal Khanna and executive committee members Vrinda Sindhwani and Rahat Kapoor. Deepa Swani, president of Phulkari, said: “These enterprises are important wheels of our economy and supporting them can go a long way in boosting our economy. Phulkari is trying for a major boost for ‘vocal for our local’. Through this drive, we have expanded the outreach of our local brands to other cities and helped brands from other cities have a presence in our city.”The MSME Thrive Drive was given support by Member of Parliament Gurjeet Singh Aujla. Several women entrepreneurs, who are part of this drive, have come in support for such a move. Reena Kataria, who runs her label Reverie from Kolkata, dealing in hand-painted and handcrafted wearable art, said: “Amid tough times, we are having to experience, continuous innovation has helped to lift the spirits of a few MSMEs connected via their digital platform. As a small homegrown enterprise, I am grateful for their support.”Jyotika Vohra, who is a home chef running her label and others like her, too, have been vocal about forming a digital network of women entrepreneurs helping each other come out of the current market crisis.Deepa Swani said keeping in mind that entrepreneurs need to operate in a digital space and are operating on tight budgets, as a part of this drive, Phulkari has also organised a series of free online tutorials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-holds-thrive-drive-for-small-business-units-90068
26-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Hockey legend Balbir Senior remembered||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25The country lost a true hockey legend in Balbir Singh Senior (see pic) after Dhyan Chand, said city-based hockey Olympians.Olympian and Arjuna awardee Brig Harcharan Singh, who is a World Hockey Cup winner, said he was the coach and manager of the Indian team, when he had played it from 1969 to 1979.“Under his watch, I played the 1970 Asian Games at Bangkok, World Cup at Barcelona in 1971 and the World Hockey Cup at Kuala Lumpur in 1975, which India had won,” he said.He was declared the top icon of sports among 16 players of the World during the London Olympics in 2012.He was also Director of Sports, Punjab, so he touched the lives of all sportspersons directly or indirectly. He was an inspiring personality. So, his passing away was a huge loss.Balwinder Singh Shammi, who played the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, recalled that he had played with legend in India-Pakistan test series held in Lahore and Karachi in the late’90s. A triple-Olympics champ and World Cup winning Indian Hockey team Manager Balbir Singh Senior started his career in hockey while being a student at historic Khalsa College Amritsar, where he studied from 1942 to 1945, before Partition. Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC) on Monday condoled the demise of hockey legend Balbir Singh Senior, who passed away at Mohali after a brief illness. He was 95.Principal Dr Mehal Singh recalled his last visit to the campus to attend the Khalsa College Global Alumni Meet in 2016, when he visited his classrooms, hostel room and playgrounds, where he used to practise. He said Balbir Singh had studied arts here.KCGC honourary secretary Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina said the entire management of Khalsa College, Principal, staff and students expressed their deepest condolences over his death. “Some Olympics records are yet to be beaten and he will always remain the most decorated athlete of the country,” said Chhina, adding that they were proud of him.A forward player par excellence, Balbir Senior had gold in 1948, 1952 and 1956 Olympics. He coached the Indian team to its first and only World Cup win in 1975 in Malaysia.“His world record for most goals scored by an individual in the men’s hockey final of the Olympics still remains unbeaten,” said the Principal. He scored five goals in India’s 6-1 victory over the Netherlands in the gold medal match of the 1952 Helsinki Games.Under his captaincy, India scored 38 goals and conceded none on its way to the gold medal in 1956 Melbourne Olympics and he was awarded Padma Shri, in 1957.Khalsa College Global Alumni Association also paid tributes to the hockey star and expressed their deepest condolences. Khalsa College will install a portrait of this hockey champion at the Sikh Museum and Library on the campus and a suitable award for the hockey will be named after him,” Chhina said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hockey-legend-balbir-senior-remembered-90069
26-05-2020||---||Women take it upon themselves to clean Ward No.13||Amritsar, May 25A team of women volunteers from Ward No. 13 has been sanitising the area. On Monday, the women took rounds of all residential lanes in the ward and sprayed sodium hypochlorite as part of the sanitisation drive.Led by Loveleen Waraich, these women not only sanitise the area, but also spread awareness about Covid-19 by wearing placards with symptoms and general information about the disease.“As new cases are being reported every day after relaxations in the lockdown, the threat of Covid-19 is more now. A lot of women in the area felt that there is a need for an extensive sanitisation drive. So, we all chipped in and wanted to help each other in any possible way,” said Loveleen.Women volunteers from the Eknoor Seva Trust from the ward also joined them in cleaning the area.“Most of these women went door to door for sanitisation. They ask people to sanitise their surroundings and home in a proper way. We told them to wash vegetables and other items which they buy everyday from vendors. Small changes in the lifestyle will go a long way in ensuring that we avoid the infection and carry out our day-to-day activities,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/women-take-it-upon-themselves-to-clean-ward-no-13-90070
26-05-2020||---||Webinar discusses mental health of college youth||Amritsar, May 25The Sidana Institute of Education, Amritsar, recently organised an international webinar on a topic, ‘The Impact of Covid-19 on the Mental Health of College Youth’, in which eminent speakers from across the world took part.The webinar focused on analysing the mental health of students while dealing with the impact of Covid-19 on their academic as well as personal lives.Prof RB Solanki, VC, Ch. Ranbir Singh University, was the guest of honour while Dr Amit Kauts, dean, Faculty of Education, Guru Nanak Dev University, was the key speaker.Prof Jyotsna Pattnaik, California State University, Long Beach, USA; Mathew Swerdloff , Ed.D, Department of Educational Studies and Leadership, State University of New York at New Paltz, USA; Dr. Margaret Lobo, music therapist, FRSA, UK; Prof SP Malhotra, chief consultant, MHRD, Government of India; and Prof Gowri Parameswaran, head education, State University of New York, USA, were resource persons during the webinar.More than 500 participants, including experts and students, attended the webinar from around the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-discusses-mental-health-of-college-youth-90071
26-05-2020||GS Paul||Amid pandemic, take-away the new mantra at famous Giani tea stall||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25Giani tea stall, an iconic spot for “Chai pe charcha” on Cooper Road here has resumed functioning after almost two months of closure due to the lockdown. However, the hustle and bustle at the spot is missing.Long queues of vehicles along the road that leads to Bhandari Bridge have now disappeared. Those uncountable red plastic chairs spread across the market lane on the roadside now also remain empty. This would be one of the favourite spots of passersby, especially morning walkers, who would sit in groups and hold discussions ranging from politics to routine gossip over a cup of tea.Stall owner Gurmeet Singh said they had never ever dreamed about such a situation in life. Covid-19 had badly affected their business. “Jaan hai to jahaan hai... par jaan vi tahi hai je kamm kaar te hath per chalde rehan. (Health is wealth, yet life is fruitful only if you have work and your organs are working),” he said. Gurmeet makes sure that his workers follow social distancing and adopt hygiene and cooks wear gloves and mask.Since dine-in is prohibited under the norms, take away is the new mantra. A steel table has been placed at the entrance to stop anyone from entering the shop.During the normal course, the stall was visited by numerous politicians, including Parkash Singh Badal, Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu, and Bollywood actors Rishi and Ranbir Kapoor. “I am missing those morning get-togethers at my shop. Discussions over happenings in and around the city would also update my knowledge without reading any newspaper,” he said.About his changed schedule, he said, “Now we come at 8 am and wind up by afternoon. I am used to working for over 12 hours at a stretch. I could not sit idle at home. I come here just for a change, whereas there is nothing like business. Due to the lockdown, the sale has been badly affected,” he said.Gurmeet said his grandfather has opened a tea stall by the same name in Lahore before Partition. “ After Partition, the identical stall was started here”, he said while avoiding to reveal the secret of his unique tea recipe.Karan Pal Singh and his wife said, “It is the trademark of Amritsar. Tea and snacks served here have a unique taste,” he said. Vishal, a mobile trader, said they were addicted to this place. “ Kachoris you get here has no match in the entire city. The same is with tea,” he said.Advocate Manish, said he had specially come to have snacks and tea. “This is one place where you certainly come across your friends or others acquaintances.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-pandemic-take-away-the-new-mantra-at-famous-giani-tea-stall-90072
26-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Was planning her career in Canada, but lockdown stalled her visa process||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 25Shivani Saharia, who has done graduation in business management and wishes to study abroad, is one of the many youngsters who have been affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Shivani had initiated the process of study visa in December 2019 after getting the IELTS certificate. She also received an offer letter from a college in Montreal, Canada. Thereafter, she applied for the study permit, which is known as Certificate of Acceptance of Quebec (CAQ). She has spent Rs15 lakh, including the college fee. As she was about to initiate the process of applying for student visa of Canada, the nationwide lockdown was announced in India.I feel helpless as there is nothing to do at home. There is no other option at home as huge money has been paid. The only option is to wait for the situation to get back on track. Hopefully, I will get the visa for the September intake. Till then, there will be uncertaintyShivani Saharia“I got admission to the college in masters degree of International Commerce Import Export. I also paid the college fee for the May intake. Classes were supposed to start on May 9. Meanwhile, I received the CAQ. Everything was going well and I started thinking of my career in Canada. Suddenly, the lockdown was announced and international flights were suspended due to coronavirus,” she said.Admission advisers and agents are also clueless about the upcoming days. She said colleges in Canada have initiated online classes.“I had submitted an application with the college that I will join the September batch and it was accepted. Now, I don’t know that what will happen in the next four months. Hopefully, international flights will resume. But there is uncertainty about the future. After spending a huge amount, it is hard to stay at home with uncertainty,” she said.As her siblings Abhishek and Deepika are studying in Canada, it was tough for the family to arrange funds, she said.“I feel helpless as there is nothing to do at home. There is no other option at home as huge money has been paid. The only option is to wait for the situation to get back on track. Hopefully, I will get the visa for the September intake. Till then, there will be uncertainty,” said Shivani.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/was-planning-her-career-in-canada-but-lockdown-stalled-her-visa-process-90075
26-05-2020||---||5 flights land at Amritsar airport, as many take off||Amritsar, May 25Naman Kumar, a student of Lovely Professional University (LPU), was happy to fly back to his native place Patna as the domestic flights resumed on Monday after a gap of two months.A majority of the flyers at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport here were students, stranded here ever since the lockdown was imposed.Naman was among 39 passengers who boarded the flight to Patna. In another flight to Delhi, 31 passengers flew back. Three more flights took off from here.Two flights arrived from Jaipur and Delhi with 16 and 25 passengers, respectively. In the evening, three more flights landed — two from Delhi and one from Patna.Two flights from Mumbai were cancelled due to operational reasons.The airport authorities introduced touch-free procedure right from the arrival of passengers to boarding the flight. The passengers did not come in contact with any airport employee. There were required to web check-in and instal Aarogya Setu app.Manoj Chansoria, airport director, said: “Domestic flights resumed in calibrated manner. The touch-free approach has been adopted to mitigate the spread of Covid. Distance markers have been drawn at the entrance to the airport and inside.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/5-flights-land-at-amritsar-airport-as-many-take-off-89860
