26-06-2020||Dubai||Dubai gurdwara charters first-ever repatriation flight for 209 passengers to Amritsar||A gurdwara in Dubai has facilitated the first chartered flight to Punjab to repatriate 209 Indians stranded in the UAE, according to a media report.  The Guru Nanak Darbar Gurdwara arranged the flight with 209 passengers on board, which took off on Thursday from Dubai to Amritsar, the Gulf News reported.The gurdwara authorities in a statement said that they were in the process of arranging more such flights to Amritsar in the coming days to facilitate the return of Indians stranded in the country due to COVID-19 travel restrictions.“The second flight is scheduled for June 27, two are in the pipeline, and we are working on six more flights in the coming weeks making sure they (stranded compatriots) reach home safely and at the earliest,” the statement said.“We are thankful to the Indian Consulate in Dubai and the Indian Embassy, UAE for all their support to make this (the first charter flight) happen," it said.Surender Singh Kandhari, chairman of the gurdwara, said that the gurdwara had been distributing meals to around 1,500 people, including blue collar workers, every day since March with the help of the Indian Consulate and volunteers. “This is our commitment towards the society, as it also reminds us of our shared responsibility to treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves and the basic principles that bind people of different faiths together,” he was quoted as saying in the report. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dubai-gurdwara-charters-first-ever-repatriation-flight-for-209-passengers-to-amritsar-104811
26-06-2020||Amritsar||District reports 3 Covid deaths, 27 new cases in Amritsar||With three more Covid-19 casualties reported by the district health authorities, the toll reached 36 on Thursday. The district has also reported 27 new positive cases.The deceased include 55-year-old Sheela of Haripura area; 88-year-old Kisan Chand of Police Lines and 34-year-old Vicky of Ekta Nagar on Chamrang Road. The health officials said Sheela was a diabetes patient, while Kishan Chand had Chronic Pulmonary Obstructive Disease (COPD).Of the new cases reported on Thursday, 12 are ILI (influenza like illness) patients, while 15 are the contacts of positive patients. One ILI case each has been reported from Chogawan, Lawrence Road, Rampur, Civil hospital, Shariffpura, Sant Singh Nagar, Rayya, Bhushanpura, Jawahar Nagar, Basti Bhara (Verka), E-block Ranjit Avenue and Haripura.The authorities have reported one contact case from A-division police station, two cases from Vigilance Bureau, five from Police Lines Daburji, five from Gali Dai Wli (Katra Khazana), one from Sarai Sant Ram and one from Jamun Wali Sarak (Lawrence Road).With a large number of contacts of positive cases from the Police Department testing positive, the family members of cops are a worried lot. A Sub-Inspector said: “We do not feel comfortable going home in the evenings, as we do not want to risk our families.” He said employees in the department are worried as their colleagues are testing positive.With new positive cases reported on Thursday, the total count has increased to 871. With 571 patients discharged from hospitals after recovery, the district now has a total of 264 active cases. With a mortality rate of 4.13 per cent in the district, the district has reported 36 deaths of the total 120 reported in Punjab so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/district-reports-3-covid-deaths-27-new-cases-in-amritsar-104467
26-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Punjab's decision to allow dine-in services evokes mixed response||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar June 25The state government’s order to allow hotels, restaurants and resorts to operate at 50 per cent capacity has evoked a mixed response from the owners of various dine-in facilities.Navdeep Singh Grover, owner of Astoria Food Pavilion, welcomed the move with open arms but also pointed out that some issues need to be dealt with to ensure smooth functioning of restaurants. “The closing time (8 pm) is too early for diners. Moreover, we have to wind up operations half an hour in advance to abide by the norm,” Navdeep said.Restaurant owners have got a respite with the decision. But the strict guidelines and the 50 per cent occupancy rule will make it difficult to strike a balance between expenditure and revenue. Neighbouring states such as Himachal Pradesh have permitted eateries to open with restrictions but the latter have declined as it is not economically viable for them. —APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant AssociationNavdeep’s restaurant resumed services with take-away and home delivery options on June 8 when the state gave relaxations in lockdown.When asked how the business is going, he said: “It is slowly coming back on track. Despite rising costs, we are offering 15 per cent discount on home delivery to spur sales,” he said.Vishal Sareen, managing director of Festyn Era and Festyn Royale resorts, is glad that marriages have been allowed with limited guests and strict adherence to social distancing norms and other health protocols. “The hospitality sector was hit hard by the lockdown but the decision to allow marriages to take place shows that the government is working to revive the industry and also protect the health of the people,” an Sareen said.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said restaurant owners had got respite with the decision. But the strict guidelines and the 50 per cent occupancy rule would make it difficult to strike a balance between expenditure and revenues, he said.“Neighbouring states such as Himachal Pradesh had permitted its eateries to open with restrictions. However, the latter had declined as it is not economically viable for them,” he said, adding that social distancing was necessary but was not viable for hotels and restaurants as the profits would decline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjabs-decision-to-allow-dine-in-services-evokes-mixed-response-104468
26-06-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Punjab government to acquire land for ICAR’s horticulture institute||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25  Undue DelayThe site-selection committee of Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) had given the approval for 30-acre land in Chhiddan village on the Amritsar-Attari road long ago, the Capt Amarinder Singh government has failed to acquire the same. This chunk of land is to be used for the construction of administrative-cum-academic blocks and hostels of the Post Graduate Institute of Horticulture Research and Education in the city.It shows lack of interest towards the institution which has immense potential to offer expert guidance to farmers to diversify and extricate from vicious circle of wheat and paddy.The then Union Finance Minister late Arun Jaitley had sanctioned the institute in 2015 and soon 100 acres of land was transferred in the name of ICAR at Attari village near the Indo-Pak border for the establishment of the institute.On behalf of the state government, the district administration is to acquire the land. Sources in the administration stated that the piece of land, approved by the ICAR’s site-selection committee, belonged to a big landlord farmer. As per the collector rate, the cost of an acre of land is less than Rs 10 lakh but the owner is seeking Rs 65 lakh per acre.Kulwant Singh and Manmohan Singh Brar, both farmers, say the researchers and scientists of the institute would be instrumental in providing modern techniques, infrastructure and horticulture related knowledge to them. Crop diversification, drip irrigation, spray irrigation will be promoted among the farmers, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-government-to-acquire-land-for-icars-horticulture-institute-104469
26-06-2020||---||PWD served legal notice for not recarpeting street in walled city||Amritsar, June 25A social activist has sent a legal notice to the Public Works Department (PWD) for digging a street in Katra Ahluwalia six months back but not recarpeting it till date. A stretch from Cashdhara Street to Lalan Wali Gali was dug in January by a contractor of the PWD. After dismantling the street nobody turned up to repair it.Varun Khanna, a social activist, sent a legal notice to the PWD for recarpeting of the street. An online grievance with a complaint was filed before the Amritsar Municipal Commissioner and in reply the authorities informed that the work had been allocated to the PWD for execution.“The contractor has dismantled the road and dug the concrete in January but till date no recarpeting or tiling has been done. It is obviously very dangerous as potholes are in the middle of the lane and come to sight right at approaching over the spot, this makes a commuter to run over the pothole and uneven road which results in a total loss of control and hence may turn to life threatening accident. Many senior citizens and residents have hurt themselves while crossing this lane after getting stuck into one of the potholes on the road”, said Varun.The activist asked to recarpet the street maximum within five working days of receipt of this notice. “To save precious lives of residents, I will file the matter in the district courts for creating public nuisance and as a fit case for the purpose at your cost, risk and responsibility,” Khanna said.JS Sodhi, Executive Engineer, PWD, said, “The street was dismantled to recarpet. But due to Covid-19 pandemic, the work had delayed. It will be resumed within three days and completed soon”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pwd-served-legal-notice-for-not-recarpeting-street-in-walled-city-104470
26-06-2020||---||Civic body to take possession of 16 public toilets||Amritsar, June 25The Municipal Corporation will take the possession of 16 public toilet sites, being maintained by a private operator for the past two years. The MC had an agreement of two years for taking care of five modular container toilet blocks and 16 community/public toilets.These toilets were established at the Ranjit Avenue A-Block Market, Ranjit Avenue A-Block, Basant Avenue, Police Station B-Division, Gate Bhagta Wala, Chatiwind Gate, Tunda Talab Zone No-4, Beri Gate, Pink Plaza Market, Khajana Gate, while the community toilets were constructed at Gujarati Basti, Backside Chitra Cinema, Gate Hakimanwala, Yoga Ashram near Golbag, PBN School, Hal Gate and Hindustani Basti.It is said its agreement was from April 3, 2018, to April 2, 2020, the duration of which has now been completed. The Estate Wing of the MC started the process of taking over the sites.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-take-possession-of-16-public-toilets-104471
26-06-2020||---||Municipal Corporation identifies dengue-prone areas, prepares fogging schedule||Amritsar, June 25In wake of the upcoming monsoon and a surge in the Covid-19 cases, the health wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC) on Thursday prepared a fogging schedule to curb the breeding of mosquitoes in the city. However, fogging was initiated as early as April in a bid to curtail the spread of virus also.Dr Ajay Kuwar, Municipal Health Officer, said: “We have identified the dengue-prone areas and initiated fogging there. Slums are basically our prime priority. Separate teams have been tasked and they visit four municipal wards daily to conduct fogging.”The health officials also stated that two non-functioning fogging machines have been replaced with the new ones. As of now, a total of four jeeps equipped with the machines are functional. Also, two more machines are to be added in the coming days which will allow them to conduct fogging in six wards. Apart from this, the MC has also bought ten handy machines for fogging in congested areas of the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/municipal-corporation-identifies-dengue-prone-areas-prepares-fogging-schedule-104472
26-06-2020||GS Paul||Several fruit plants added to Guru Ka Bagh in Golden Temple||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25In its endeavour to increase the green cover on the Golden Temple complex, the SGPC on Thursday added fruit saplings in the dedicated belt christened as “Guru Ka Bagh” since October 2019.Spread over nearly two-acre plot between Guru Ram Dass Langar Hall and Gurdwara Manji Sahib, this green belt has over 400 varieties of flowers, herbs and fruits.These saplings were donated by SGPC chief secretary Dr Roop Singh.Dr Roop Singh told that the SGPC was constantly striving for the protection and cleanliness of the environment and Guru Ka Bagh was the only place in the Golden Temple complex that was developed for the purpose. “Thursday, we planted lemon, kinnow, litchi and chikoo”, he said.Special beds were created in the garden with planning to have high rise trees like mango, kachnaar, kasel, chaurasia and maulsari, another part having saplings like gulmohar, palumaria alba, palumaria rubra, haar shingaar, tikoma gori chori , followed by colourful flowers and shrubs of various varieties like rose, gardania dwarf, ficus, chandni, bottle brush, tekoma capensis and bougainvillae. Also, the Korean grass to cover the base complemented its appearance.Besides, just inside the entrance from the Brahm Buta bazaar side, a ‘vertical garden’ comprising around 24,000 plants of different varieties too has been developed with the flower pots fixed to the walls.Similarly, with several Sikh bodies including Akal Purakh Ki Fauj, plantation drive was carried on the rooftops of Teja Singh Samundri Hall, administrative buildings, to create a terrace garden in the shrine complex.Dr Roop Singh told that as per the executive committee’s decision, all gurdwara managements have been directed to erect a green belt in their respective premises. “ At least, one acre was to be spared for the purpose in every gurdwara where heritage, medicinal and ornamental saplings were to be planted. It has been started with plantation drive conducted in Gurdwara Bir Baba Budha Sahib (Amritsar) and Gurdwara Baba Bir Singh Rattoke (Tarn Taran). The devotees must take it as a lesson of Guru to preserve the environment and plant trees in their surroundings”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/several-fruit-plants-added-to-guru-ka-bagh-in-golden-temple-104473
26-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Fake Covid Reports: It was traumatic, worst time of our life: Victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25It was traumatic and the worst time of our life as it could have caused irreparable loss to us, says Raj Kumar Khullar, father-in-law of Dr Anum Khullar, who became a victim of the alleged nexus between Tuli Diagnostic Centre and EMC Hospital.The Vigilance on Wednesday had booked five doctors (including those from the laboratory) and owner of EMC Hospital on the charges of murder bid, criminal conspiracy and corruption for giving fabricated and false Covid test reports allegedly to fleece suspected patients.Dr Khullar was 9-month pregnant and her delivery was due on June 8, when two days before (on June 6) she was declared Covid positive by Tuli Lab. Her condition was deteriorating every minute while the family members were convincing different hospital authorities to get her admitted for the delivery.“Due to wrong Covid report by the doctors of the said lab, which was widely circulated in the social media and media channels, hospitals were reluctant to get her admitted for the delivery,” said Khullar. We ran from pillar to post for getting her admitted, he said. At a time when a woman needed her family most, my daughter-in-law (Dr Khullar) was ‘crying’ alone in the isolation ward, he said.Dr Khullar, went to a private hospital for admission on June 6, where she was asked to get her Covid test done. Her test was conducted in the evening by Tuli Lab doctors and her results were declared positive. Thereafter, the hospital authorities refused to admit her and she was shifted to the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) and no family member was allowed to meet her.While her condition was deteriorating as the due date was approaching, all family members were asked to quarantine themselves. This led to enormous trauma not only to her, but to the entire family. He said on their insistence, GNDH authorities got her re-tested on June 7 and she was declared negative. To be doubly sure, another test was conducted on June 8 and again she tested negative. They immediately took her to a private hospital for delivery, but they again refused to admit her.Vicky Dutta, another complainant, alleged that due to the greed of the hospital and private lab authorities, three members of his in-laws’ family got infected from the deadly virus. He said after his father-in-law was tested positive and admitted to the EMC Hospital, the hospital authorities got other family member tested from Tuli laboratory and their reports came positive on June 10. They were also admitted to the isolation ward of the hospital.He said when he insisted, another test was conducted on June 11 by GNDH doctors, but their reports were not shown to them. He said when another test was conducted on June 13, reports of three family members admitted to the isolation ward came positive. He said he later stumbled upon the test reports of June 11 issued by GNDH, in which they were declared negative. This report was not shown to them which clearly indicated that they got infected from the hospital.Five Vigilance sleuths, including a personal security officer of SSP Vigilance Parampal Singh, got infected during the investigations in the case. They sealed the Covid testing machine from Tuli Lab, whose licence was cancelled by the Civil Surgeon a day before the registration of case. The SSP confirmed this development. The cops have been put in quarantine.The Punjab Medical Council has taken suo moto notice of the news published in The Tribune and constituted a special committee for conducting a probe into the alleged unethical act on part of the doctors. The three-member committee includes Dr SPS Soch, Dr Sushil Sehgal and Dr Jasmine Dahiya, all members of the council.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-covid-reports-it-was-traumatic-worst-time-of-our-life-victims-104475
26-06-2020||---||Man arrested in Kot Khalsa murder case||Amritsar, June 25The Kot Khalsa police have nabbed the prime accused in the murder of Ajay Kumar (35), a resident of Qadian. He was identified as Vicky, alias Sagar, a resident of Rohni, Delhi.Ajay was found murdered in the Bohri Sahib Gurdwara area in Kot Khalsa on Monday night.Sanjeev Kumar, SHO, Kot Khalsa police station, said that Vicky was nabbed from Wadali road. He was sleeping under trees when he was caught by the police following a tip off.On his information, the police have also confiscated the heavy plastic sanitary pipe used to attack Ajay which led to his death, the SHO said.Before the Covid outbreak, Ajay had installed swings at an event in the Bohri Sahib area, the place where the incident occurred. Post lockdown, Ajay couldn’t shift these from the place, so he asked Sagar to look after the swings, said the SHO. They would often sit and consume liquor at the site. On the fateful day, an altercation over minor issue occurred when they were drinking together. Later, Ajay attack and killed him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-arrested-in-kot-khalsa-murder-case-104476
26-06-2020||Amritsar||3 mobile phones found from jail||18 regularised at khalsa collegeAmritsar: As the Covid-19 lockdown has tightened the job market and spelt uncertainty, the management of Khalsa College has decided to regularise the services of 18 assistant professors. The teachers, who were appointed in 2015 on three-year contract following an intense fight for regular recruitments in the colleges as per the DPI, Punjab guidelines, had been regularised from 2018 onwards. In a joint statement issued by the teachers, they thanked the Punjab Government and the KCGC for the approval of regularisation. Principal Mehal Singh informed that their new salaries and arrears had also been released. “These are difficult times when the jobs are being cut due to Covid-19 and we are happy to announce their confirmation of services, which will see huge rise in their salaries and allowances”, said RMS Chhina, sectretary, KCGC, adding that the college has also received partial release of grants from the state govt and DPI. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-mobile-phones-found-from-jail-104477
26-06-2020||---||Provide reports in 24 hours, Soni to officials||Amritsar, June 25Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni has asked the officials to ensure that test reports of Covid-19 samples are provided to patients within 24 hours of collecting the sample. Soni said: “Not only positive but even the negative patients need to know that they are not infected. Around 1,500 people from the district are being tested daily”.He said earlier the patients who tested negative had complained that they did not get reports in time and as such they live in anxiety. “From now onwards, the report of every sample will be provided to the respective patient within 24 hours,” he said.Earlier, Soni along with senior officials of the state reviewed the Covid-19 testing and treatment work at Government Medical College (GMC). He said in Punjab, the three medical colleges have so far tested 2.40 lakh people for coronavirus. He added that extensive testing was underway to identify all patients.The minister said that a large number of patients had been cured and discharged. “We are also reviewing all death reported due to Covid-19 and trying to improve the treatment process. We are also trying to identify the reason behind the high number of deaths,” he said.The minister said that at least six persons who were critically ill were referred to the GMC from other hospitals and the doctors could not save them despite best efforts. The district has reported a total of 33 deaths due to the disease till date. He said more beds would be added to the GMC to take in more patients. At present the hospital has a capacity to admit 300 patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/provide-reports-in-24-hours-soni-to-officials-104478
26-06-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Covid test before surgeries, thermal scanning of visitors must for hospitals||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25Prescribing a Covid test to patients undergoing surgeries seems to have become a new normal amid the ongoing pandemic as hospitals have put in place a number of safety measures.The testing for Covid has become a routine affair these days as a number of residents reported that they were asked to get tested for the infection.Even the waiting time at OPDs has decreased as people are not ready to visit one except in case of an emergency. The sources said even the surgeries which had been put off for a little while have been postponed for the time being.The preference for telephonic consultation in case of minor ailments has also increased as doctors as well as patients consider it to be more safe rather than attending patients physically or visiting clinics. “Sitting in the waiting area of a clinic is not what most people would like to do. Even doctors are giving appointments for a fixed time,” said Guneet Bhalla, a homemaker.While sanitisers, face masks and thermal scanning are ensured at the entrance of the hospitals, the medical staff in PPE kits can seen at the entrances of most hospitals.Though donning PPE kits in the OPD is not essential, some professionals have been taking extra precaution. With the Covid-19 threat looming large, treatment expenses too have increased as patients have to bear the cost of PPE kit for the doctors as well other medical professionals in the hospital.With temperature soaring, medical professionals have been dreading wearing the plastic PPE kits which makes body perspire profusely. “You cannot attend to a patient, especially an emergency case, without wearing a PPE kit,” said a health professional.An elderly woman who underwent an angiography test recently Gurinder Kaur said, “Apart from the tests, medicines and medical equipment, we also had to pay for PPE kits and masks for the medical staff. We had to spend around 3,500 more as the doctors and other professionals cannot use the same kit for two patients.”SPEAKING OUTWe will have to live with Covid for the rest of our lives. So, it will be better if we change our lifestyle, hygiene and habits. We need a collective effort in this battle against Covid. —Dr Balbir Singh Dhillon, Dhillon hospital, ChogawanWe are ensuring that patients are kept safe. The hospital is being sanitised regularly. Besides, we are also ensuring that social distancing norms are strictly adhered to. —Dr Ashok Uppal, Uppal neuro hospital, Rani ka baghWe have stopped using elevators as a precaution. Besides, the surgeries are performed only after Covid testing. Most important among all steps, the OPD is only with on-call appointments. —Dr Gurvinder Singh, Hargun hospital, Batala roadWe are screening all patients and medical staff for any symptoms of Covid. We also try to raise awareness among patients about the importance of hand hygiene and other precautions to deal with the situation. —Dr Avtar Singh, Amandeep Hospital||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-test-before-surgeries-thermal-scanning-of-visitors-must-for-hospitals-104480
26-06-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Brick-kiln industry might take years to recoup’||AFTER the state government allowed the manufacturing of bricks at kilns post lockdown, their expenditure remained the same, but the income has been stalled. The industry that is completely dependent on manual labour will find it difficult to get back on track post the lockdown. In an interview with The Tribune reporter, a former patron of the Brick Kiln Association of Amritsar Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, who is also the honorary secretary of the KCGC, discusses the effect of the lockdown on the brick-kilns industry. Excerpts:How has the Covid-19 lockdown affected the brick-kiln industry?The brick-kiln owners have lost all of their financial resources as a result of Covid-19 lockdown. With construction work stalled, there was no demand for bricks and the labour migration further added to the woes of the owners as the industry is completely dependent on manual labour and not machine tools.The brick-kiln industry might take at least two to three years to be back on track as the amount of financial losses incurred by the owners are huge. Banks are not supportive and restructuring of loans will further add to the debt of owners. People who have made huge investments in setting up kilns have already lost all their surplus resources and are looking to just survive post lockdown. —Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, former patron of the Brick Kiln Association of AmritsarHow has the manufacturing capacity been hit after the lockdown?If before the lockdown, we produced one crore bricks in a season, the capacity has sharply declined to just 10 lakh bricks today. Without the required number of labour, we have to make do with the local labour, which limits our output. Also, since most of the brick-kiln owners had to support their units during lockdown, the finances required for increased manufacturing is also not available. Another factor is that there is no demand in market which hits us beyond repair.What impact have the changed weather conditions had on the industry?The winter season this year had unpredicted rainfall and all through summers, the rains did not allow the industry to function to its capacity. Running the kilns without labour, with such unpredictable weather pattern and Covid 19 risk has been a very expensive deal for all.What do you have to say about the future of the industry?The brick-kiln industry might take at least two to three years to be back on track as the amount of financial losses incurred by the owners are huge. Banks are not supportive and restructuring of loans will further add to the debt of owners. People who have made huge investments in setting up kilns have already lost all their surplus resources and are looking to just survive post lockdown. The situation might only improve with the increase in liquidity among masses as it would boost the construction works that can bring in the demand for bricks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/brick-kiln-industry-might-take-years-to-recoup-104482
26-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Rainy season is here but desilting of  sewer lines still incomplete in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 25Though the Municipal Corporation (MC) made preparations to tackle the issue of waterlogging chaos during the upcoming rainy season, it seems that the multi-core project of desilting the sewer lines may not be completed before the monsoons. This year, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu took the decision of desilting of sewer lines on time and sanctioned funds for desilting of main lines with super sucker machines before the arrival of monsoon.The super sucker machines are now functioning round-the-clock but the internal roads and streets are yet to be cleaned. The residents of several low lying areas often complained about the choking of sewers as desilting was not conducted for years.The localities in Kot Khalsa, Putalighar, Ghanupur Kale, Tarn Taran Road, Jhabal Road and Indira Colony raised a concern over waterlogging during rain. The sewer line was choked at the Raj Avenue Ghanupur Kale area. Water can be seen accumulated on the streets and vacant plots.Santokh Singh, a resident of the Raj Avenue said, “The sewer line is lying choked and water is overflowing. We are worried about the upcoming rainy season when water would enter in our homes like previous years.”It was for the first time when the MC cleaned the 11 km Ganda Nullah from Maqboolpura to Jhabal Road before monsoon. The MC spent Rs 5.50 crore on the cleaning of the nullah. The residents and industrialists of Focal Point and several other areas would get relief in the upcoming session with the cleaning of this drain. Another drain at Dhapai road needs desilting as it blocks the sewer outlets from the walled city area, which led to waterlogging at the Heritage Street and surrounding of the Golden Temple. The covering of open drains led to water logging in several areas of the city.There is around 1,800 km sanitary sewer line in the city. The storm sewerage is only installed in some areas of the walled city and along with the BRTS lanes. The storm sewerage installed by BRTS authorities is lying defunct at most of the places. Two years back, the choked storm sewerage of BRTS lane led to major road cave-in at Mall Road.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said, “The desilting of the sewer line is being conducted in the entire city. We cleaned the Ganda Nullah and major sewer lines of the city. The choking of sewer is being addressed at the mohalla level. Funds have been released to the councillors for desilting before monsoon. Hopefully, the issue of water logging will be sorted out.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rainy-season-is-here-but-desilting-of-sewer-lines-still-incomplete-in-amritsar-104483
