26-08-2020||Amritsar||Hotel shuttered but golden ager’s grit unlocks new path of sustenance||He's nearing the twilight years of his life. Yet, Ramnik Kumar, put on his mettle by the pandemic-hit times, hasn't taken a toll on his lasting courage. The days has forced the 62-year-old to shut his 27-room hotel at the Shera Wala gate here, situated nearly 1 km from the Golden Temple, but Ramnik has found a way. The likes of him always do.Greener pastures ahead?After operating goods transport services for sometime, he gained the impression that grocery business also holds impressive scope. So, as of now, he has decided to turn a portion of the hotel into a departmental store. “The rest of the hotel staff will be adjusted into this,” Ramnik shares. He is used to facing such crunch of a time. Perhaps, the qualities have descended from his ancestors, who have also endured through the same thick of things in the past. His grandfather Sardar Beant Singh Kumar was a driver in Lahore and the family used to reside at Changa Manga village at the time. Om Prakash, his father, was a 12-year old, when they migrated here. Later, upon their arrival, the family had deposited the entire savings of Rs5,000 with a bank here only to find out afterwards that the same financial institution had gone bankrupt, giving rise to a number of obsatcles that the family had to overcome. “My earnest wish is to once again see thriving markets of the holy city abuzz with activities,” he fondly remarks.When the Home Ministry allowed the transportation of all essential and non-essential goods in the country on March 30, that's when the idea of coming up with the transporting business sprouted. This was a new beginning for the golden ager. He knew that switching over to an altogether new profession wasn't going to be a stroll in the park.Where there’s a will,there’s a wayIt was not long when he began going about the business. A little information about the transportation gathered from the neighbourhood of his hotel, where once it used to be the main vocation, came in aid of him.As time rolled by, he procured two trucks and hired more from the market, depending upon the orders received from the customers. "So far my goods carrier service is ferrying material like grocery, ration, spices, pesticides, pharmaceuticals, vegetables and other material to Gurdaspur, Batala, Qadian, Dhwariwal, Dera Baba Nanak and Pathankot," he says."The real challenge was to meet the expenses of the hotel which cost nearly Rs 50,000 per month, despite it being non-operational," he adds. Fixed expenses of a hotel like power tariff, taxes like property, conservancy and others, annual maintaining contracts for lift, CCTV cameras, computers, generator, telephone exchange and others remain unchanged, whether operational or not.Then, next challenge was to reemploy the hotel staff, laid off following the closure. Barring a couple of booking office staff, the rest of them did not have suitable skills for transport vocation where drivers and cleaners were required.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hotel-shuttered-but-golden-agers-grit-unlocks-new-path-of-sustenance-131514
26-08-2020||---||Virus claims 4 more lives, 95 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, August 25The district reported four deaths due to Covid-19 in the district, taking the toll to 135 on Tuesday. The health authorities also reported 95 new cases in the district.The deceased have been identified as Harsimran Singh, a 62-year-old resident of Monney Nagar (Sultanwind Road); Rajinder Kumar, a 66-year-old admitted to Medicaid hospital; Ranjit Kaur, a 66-year-old resident of Sultanwind Road; and Bachiter Singh of Punjab Singh Wali Gali (Chowk Baba Sahib).Details of +ve cases not given todayThe deceased have been identified as Harsimran Singh, a 62-year-old resident of Monney Nagar (Sultanwind Road); Rajinder Kumar, a 66-year-old admitted to Medicaid hospital; Ranjit Kaur, a 66-year-old resident of Sultanwind Road; and Bachiter Singh of Punjab Singh Wali Gali (Chowk Baba Sahib). The district Health Department has, however, not released the details of positive cases citing some technical reasons.With the 95 new cases, the total count of positive cases in the district has reached 3,464. The district Health Department has, however, not released the details of positive cases citing some technical issues.The health authorities stated that a total of 2,701 patients had recovered. At present, the district has a total of 628 active cases. A significant increase in the number of cases and coronavirus-related casualties was seen.In the month of August alone, the district has reported a total of 57 deaths due to the disease. In comparison with the first 25 days of August, the district had reported 35 deaths in the month of July.In the last 25 days, the count of positive cases has increased from 1,859 to 3,464. While a total of 1,605 new cases have been reported in the month of August (from August 1-25), the number of total cases reported in July (1-31) stood at 902.A source in the Health Department claimed that with the rising number of deaths and positive cases, it had become difficult for staff at the Civil Surgeon’s office to compile the daily data.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-claims-4-more-lives-95-new-cases-in-amritsar-131543
26-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Katra Ahluwalia, a glimpse of grand past, faces ravages & wrath of time||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 25Katra Ahluwalia, developed by Sardar Jassa Singh Ahluwalia (1718-1783), one of the prominent leaders of Sikh Misals in 1760, was a planned and secured residential locality near the Golden Temple, which has metamorphosed into a commercial market over the period of time. A number of illegal hotels and other commercial establishment tarnished its glory. A major portion of the historic Qila Ahluwalia, originally built as a military fortress to protect the Golden Temple and Katra, has faced demolition in the past. Only one of its gates and a small portion of the fort remain, which has been converted into a hotel.Fortunately, a few more than one and half a century old buildings along with the wooden façades and frescos are intact. The decorated wooden balconies attract the visitors. The Centre initiated the restoration of these buildings, Qila Ahluwalia and Katra Ahluwalia market under National Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana (HRIDAY).The Katra Ahluwalia has three separate phases of development during past two and half centuries. Initially, in 1760, Sardar Jasa Singh, leader of Ahluwalia Misal constructed the fortress and constructed a secured locality with four gates. Giani Giyan Singh (1822-1921) mentioned in his book “Tawarikh Sri Amritsar” that Misal Sardars gave the land to the settlers free of cost. They used to accept a Rori (Ball) of Gur (jiggery) from the person, who constructs house in the Katra (residential cluster). In 1762, when Abdali attacked on the Golden Temple and demolished the main building, the Misla Sardars recaptured the city soon and secured the shrines and residential areas. They constructed gates and military posts to secure the localities.Dr Balwinder Singh, former head of Guru Ramdas School of planning, GNDU said, “I conducted a study on the Katra Ahluwalia and its historic buildings years back. As far as the heritage buildings are concerned, the Katra Ahluwalia is the richest in the city. It is a sad state of affairs that we failed to preserve the historic buildings. Serious efforts are needed to preserve the great heritage of the city.”The second phase of development of Katra Ahluwalia started with the regime of Maharaja Ranjit Singh (1780-1839). He invited Marwari businessmen from Sikar district of Rajasthan, a move which changed the face of Amritsar forever. The Katra Ahluwalia was one of the most secured localities in the city, so it was allotted to the rich Marwari traders.Vipul Nevtia, a Marwari trader, who belongs to the sixth generation of Marwari traders, established in Katra Ahluwalia, said, “Our ancestors were invited by the Maharaja for the trade and facilitated them to set the business. We are now more Punjabi than Marwadi. Katra Ahluwalia has become our identity. We spent our childhood in the centuries old buildings. We have great memories here. Now people are demolishing the house for commercial use. The government should prevent the heritage of the city.”The traders in Katra Ahluwalia claimed that masons were used to come from Iran and Iraq to construct the buildings in Katra. “My grandparents told me that buildings were constructed by masons from Baghdad. That is why the architecture of old buildings is unique in the Katra,” said Nevtia.During the initial years of 20th century, the British Government auctioned the Qila of Jassa Singh Ahluwalia.The Marwari businessmen bought it and converted into houses and shops. A major portion of the old structure of fort was demolished and new buildings were constructed. These buildings of colonial architecture have decorated shades and balconies. The frescos on the ceiling are still visible. The government is restoring the frescos but residents claimed that art work is poor as compared to the original ones.“The restoration work is not up to the mark. The streets are being recarpeted with interlocking tiles. The restorers should keep the Sikh architecture in their mind,” said Dr Balwinder Singh.City residents are now worried about the mushrooming of illegal hotels in the localities around Golden Temple such as Katra Ahluwalia. “The hotel mafia demolished the heritage of the city during past a few decades. Government should take serious steps to preserve the heritage buildings.Our ancestors were invited by the Maharaja for trade and facilitated them to set up the business. We are now more Punjabi than Marwadi. Katra Ahluwalia has become our identity. We spent our childhood in the centuries-old buildings. We have great memories here. — Vipul Nevtia, a Marwari traderThe hotel mafia has demolished the heritage of the city over the decades. If the government does not take serious steps to preserve the heritage buildings and markets in the walled city, there would be only hotels in the next few years. — Michael Rahul, an activistAs far as the heritage buildings are concerned, the Katra Ahluwalia is the richest in the city. It is a sad state of affairs that we failed to preserve the historic buildings. — Dr Balwinder Singh, ex head, Guru Ramdas School of planning, GNDU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/katra-ahluwalia-a-glimpse-of-grand-past-faces-ravages-wrath-of-time-131544
26-08-2020||Amritsar||Passengers fail to board Amritsar-Dubai flight||Even as the Air India took the measures to inform the passengers of preponing of the scheduled Amritsar-Dubai flight, which took off from the Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport today, some of them missed it.According to Air India officials, they adjusted the passengers in the August 30 flight and had already informed them through text messages on August 23 The passengers complained of not being informed through a proper and reliable method. Due to some technical reasons, the schedule of the flight was preponed by two hours. Consequently, the passengers who did not receive prior intimation were left stranded at the Amritsar airport.In all, there were a total 178 passengers who had booked the flight but only 123 travelled today. The 16 passengers were offloaded either due to Covid-19 report or lack of approval from the UAE.Vipin Kant Seth, Airport Director, said 24 passengers did not show up at the airport. Of these, 12 passengers managed to enter into the terminal building but by the time counters were already closed.He added that despite taking all measures to inform them in advance regarding the change of schedule, these 24 passengers did not reach in time to board the flight. Even then the airline adjusted all of them on the next flight to take off on August 30.He said they had informed the local airport authorities regarding the change of schedule take off time on August 21 and to the passengers through call center on August 23 under which text messages were delivered to all the passengers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/passengers-fail-to-board-amritsar-dubai-flight-131545
26-08-2020||Amritsar||‘Amritsar MC carried out development works even during lockdown’||The civil wing of the Municipal Corporation floated a tender for the recarpeting of various roads in the city at a cost of Rs 11.56 crore in its first phase. The construction of a number of roads in all the constituencies has aslo been started. While in the second phase, tenders of Rs 8.44 crore are being floated to recarpet the remaining roads of the holy city.Rs15.35 cr spent in 1st phase: MC CommissionerAccording to the MC Commissioner, in the first phase, MC spent Rs15.35 crore on the development of various roads and streets of the city under the Punjab Environmental Improvement Program project. In the second phase, Rs48.26 crore would be spend on the development works.Disclosing this here today, Commissioner Municipal Corporation Komal Mittal said the Municipal Corporation had carried out rapid development works even during the lock down and no stagnation has been reported in the development works.She said the Civil Department of the MC had recently issued tenders worth Rs 30 crore for the development of various wards including construction of streets, drains, roads and development of parks. Mittal stated that more than 80 percent of these works have been completed and the rest are in progress.Komal Mittal said in the first phase, MC spent Rs 15.35 crore on the development of various roads and streets of the city under the Punjab Environmental Improvement Program project. In second phase Rs 48.26 crore would be spend on the development works. She said that similarly under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation the parks at Chheharta Sahib, Chamrang Road, Garden Colony, Gurnam Nagar and Katra Moti Ram would be developed at a cost of Rs 113.33 lakh.Mittal stated that the area around the Gurdwaras related to ninth Sikh Guru would be devolped on the occasion of the 400th birth anniversary of Shri Guru Tegh Bahadur Ji. She said for the development of two holy Gurdwaras of Amritsar including Guru Ka Mahal and Gurdwara Kotha Sahib Valla, a tender of Rs 2.55 crore has been floated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-carried-out-development-works-even-during-lockdown-131546
26-08-2020||Amritsar||45 power theft cases detected in Amritsar||In a surprise check of various areas early this morning, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited detected 45 cases of power theft. The PSPCL imposed a fine of Rs 14.41 lakh on the defaulters. Officials of PSPCL said 12 special teams consisting of 50 employees checked a total of 818 electricity connections of different categories.Bal Krishan, Deputy Chief Engineer, City Circle, said after detecting 45 theft cases, six meters which were suspected to have been tampered were taken along by the officials. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/45-power-theft-cases-detected-in-amritsar-131547
26-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Two held in ‘spurious liquor’ death case in Tarn Taran||The dharna by AAP activists entered sixth day here on Tuesday. The protesters are demanding registration of FIR under Section 302 against the culprits responsible for the death caused by spurious liquor in the district. Eleven persons died on the first week of this month.Meanwhile, the Sadar police recently arrested two persons, under Section 304 of the IPC, on the suspicion of selling spurious liquor that killed two persons of Pandori Gola village, Dilbag Singh and Heera Singh, on August 18.The arrested persons have been identified as Karamjit Singh and Joga Singh of Pandori Gola village. For determining the exact cause of death, the viscera of the deceased had been sent to the chemical examiner, Kharar, for analysis, the police said.Besides, the blood and urine samples of other persons had also been sent for chemical examination, who too consumed liquor with Dilbag Singh and Heera Singh. SSP Dhruman Nimbale said further action would be taken after receiving the chemical examination report. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-in-spurious-liquor-death-case-in-tarn-taran-131548
26-08-2020||---||Amritsar safai sewaks sans salary for 4 months||Amritsar, August 25Sanitation workers engaged by the local administration for Covid-19 quarantine center through the municipal corporation have failed to get their salaries even after four months of the appointment.The employees said they were working since May at the Meritorious School quarantine center and had not received their salaries since May.“The job at quarantine center where inmates could possibly be infected with coronavirus is not easy but as I have no other option. Working for months without salary is even more difficult,” said one of the workers. He said employees were in no position to raise their voice against this. Moreover, we are working continuously without weekly off, he said.Ravinder Sultanwind, an RTI activist and local Aam Aadmi Party leader said, “We demand from the local administration to release the salaries of workers at the earliest. As many as 31 employees are working at the quarantine center on DC rate wages. There is a need to hire more people as regular employees are reluctant to work at Covid-19 centers.”Om Parkash Anaria, patron, Ekta Service Provider Union, who was pursuing the matter with local authorities, said the employees had no fault in this and they should paid salaries at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-safai-sewaks-sans-salary-for-4-months-131549
26-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Health-conscious people turn to cycling for physical fitness||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 25The Covid-19 pandemic has drastically curtailed physical and recreational activities of health-conscious people who have now turned to cycling to remain fit.As various installations are being opened one after another during the unlocking of the lockdown, public gardens continue to remain out of bound for the public. Health-conscious people have found cycling as a safe way to exercise as cycling on roads or in public places does not violate the social distancing norm.Such people can be seen cycling on internal roads of posh colonies in general and the railway track around Trillium Mall in particular.Harjinder Singh, a shopkeeper, said, “People have turned to cycling as they consider it a safe bet to remain fit in these Covid-19 times. So, cycling gained prominence during the unlocking period. Following the Covid-19 norms, people are abstaining from going out, but cyclists are encouraged to move out.He observed that people from posh areas of the city were buying cycles for exercise and recreational purposes and for going out of houses to break the boredom. Apart from that, the sale of cycles has also increased.He said despite a cut in the income of people, rising lay-offs and fossil fuel prices, people were not turning to cycles in their daily routine. The volume of automobile vehicles had partially increased on all roads.Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a young travel enthusiast and writer, who loves cycling does not forget the sightseeing places he enjoyed in Chicago, Paris, New York and Vancouver while cycling.“I have been cycling for the past four to five years but only early in the morning when there is a very low volume of traffic on the roads. After all, during the peak hour, cycling becomes dangerous. We need safer tracks to encourage cycling in the city. Cycling is an eco-friendly transportation option, raising the fitness levels of local residents.”He felt until the safety of cyclists was ensured on roads, many would continue to avoid cycling. He questioned: “If several cities in the south can have dedicated cycling tracks, why can’t we have them in Amritsar?”Tourists and school and college-going youngsters must be encouraged to turn to cycling. The step will go a long way in reducing air pollution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/health-conscious-people-turn-to-cycling-for-physical-fitness-131550
26-08-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar woman ‘mistreated’ by son, takes shelter in gurdwaras||A 65-year-old baptised woman has been left in the lurch allegedly by her son, who is employed with the SGPC. Ranjit Kaur said, “With nowhere to go she has been taking shelter in Golden Temple, other gurudwaras and sometimes at relatives’ places”.She sought the intervention of Akal Takht officiating jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh as the SGPC officials failed to bring her justice. Today, she submitted an application with the city Police Commissioner.“It’s been over six months that I have been living the life of a vagabond. Sometimes I slept in the varandah of the Golden Temple, then moved to one gurudwara or the other or to relatives’ place”, she said. Her only son, Jarmanjit Singh, who is manager with a gurudwara in Verka run under the SGPC, denied all allegations.“She is into habitual altercation with my wife and has been forcing me to divorce her. When I didn’t agree, she locked her portion and left the home on her own. No relative came in her support as they all knew her temperament. I appeal her to come back home. I realise the hardships she faced to raise me and my sister,” he said.Ranjit Kaur had submitted a petition under the Senior Citizen Act with the Sub-Divisional Magistrate here. On February 3, the SDM had ordered the concerned police team to assist her in gaining entry to her son’s house and regularly monitor her well-being. “Rather, I went to the police station to receive her on my bike. She could not adjust with us as she carried on with her adamant attitude,” he said. On the other hand, Ranjit Kaur maintained that her son’s behaviour changed after his marriage. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-woman-mistreated-by-son-takes-shelter-in-gurdwaras-131551
26-08-2020||Amritsar||Case of missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib needs thorough probe, says AAP||AAP blamed SAD (Badal) for missing ‘saroops’ of Sri Guru Granth Sahib from the record of SGPC’s publishing house.Appealing thorough probe, AAP MLA Kultar Singh said instead of SGPC officials, Badals should be questioned in this regard. He said Jathedar Sri Akal Takht should register FIR in case of 328 saroops missing from the publishing house of SGPC so that investigation from the concerned employees can be started which would further throw light on the people having bigger role in this incidence.“It is an open secret that Badals control the SGPC and there could be a deep conspiracy behind this episode. Instead of SGPC officials, action should be taken against the Badals and they should be excommunicated from the Sikh Path.Expressing his concern over missing saroops, Kultar Singh said it was quite possible that these saroops might have been misused for political gains. It is quite shocking that a party during whose tenure most of the incidents of sacrilege took place was protesting against the missing historical saroop from village Kalyan in Patiala.Others present included Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Manjinder Singh Lalpura, Ashok Talwar, Manish Agarwal, Dalbir Singh, Ranjit Singh Cheema.Dal Khalsa blames SGPCAmritsar: Reacting on the missing of 328 ‘saroops’of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Dal Khalsa on Tuesday lashed out at the SGPC blaming the institution for committing sacrilege. The Dal Khalsa asserted that the need of the hour was to overhaul and rescue it from the wrong hands.Party head HS Cheema said once known as a premier institution of the Sikhs, the SGPC had been reduced to the level of a municipal committee infamous for corruption, nepotism and favouritism, courtesy Badals’ dictatorial attitude.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/case-of-missing-saroops-of-guru-granth-sahib-needs-thorough-probe-says-aap-131552
26-08-2020||Amritsar||GNDU in top-10 Public State Multidisciplinary universities||In "The Week-Hansa Research Survey-2020" released recently, Guru Nanak Dev University has bagged a position in the top-10 Public State Multidisciplinary universities with the ranking position of seven.As far as North India is concerned the total universities which were taken into consideration i.e. Central, State and Private Universities, Guru Nanak Dev University stands at 8th position. Among the State Public universities in North India, it stands at the top position immediately after Panjab University, Chandigarh, which is an inter-state corporate and funded by Government of India.Earlier, Guru Nanak Dev University,has bagged 11th Rank in the state universities of India in the "India Today Ranking-2020" released recently. It is also amongst the top 9% of the universities as per the Centre for World Universities Ranking.This is apart from it being the only Category-I university of the state and accredited with the A++, highest grade by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).Its H-Index now stands at 103, a quantum jump from 64, three years ago. As per the Research gate analysis, the per-teacher output of research is highest among all State Universities of region and stands at 7.71.Prof.Dr.Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor of university expressed his happiness and said that this is because of the continuous and untiring efforts of university faculty, non-teaching staff, research fellows andstudents."The elevation of ranking is a tribute to the hard work which they are doing. To keep the momentum of education on in the current difficult COVID times, the university is conducting online lectures through Google Suite and also engaged in admissions for new batch by following the online counselling method," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-in-top-10-public-state-multidisciplinary-universities-131553
26-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Farmers  protest ADC’s ‘misbehaviour’||A piquant situation arose here on Tuesday, when the Additional Deputy Commissioner (General) denied taking memorandum from a delegation of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), Punjab. Members of the KMSC protested over non-acceptance of the memorandum by the ADC.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the committee, said on Tuesday a delegation of the organisation went to the office of Jagwinderjit Singh Grewal, ADC, to hand over the memorandum mentioning that the organisation would launch “Jail Bharo” agitation from September 7 against the three ordinances and the Electricity Amendment Bill-2020 introduced by the Central government. He alleged the ADC ‘misbehaved’ with members of the deputation. The agitated raised slogans in front of the office of ADC and then organised a rally against indifferent behavior of the ADC and demanded action against the officer. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-adcs-misbehaviour-131554
26-08-2020||Amritsar||Installation of LED lights begins||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/installation-of-led-lights-begins-131587
