26-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||As protesters go bare-chested in Amritsar, scores of farmers join in||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 26Protesters continued to block the Amritsar-Delhi railway line at Devidyal Pura village on the city's outskirts for the third consecutive day on Saturday as more farmers and their farmers joined in.The protesters reached the protest site in tractor trailers, buses, four-wheelers and even on motorcycles.Called by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), the agitation got aggravated as the protesting farmers went bare-chested to express their resentment over the response their Friday's pan-India stir got from the Union Government.After taking off their shirts, they shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and their leaders lambasted his "anti-farmer" policies.Sarwan Singh Pandher, KMSC general secretary, said the Prime Minister continued to flay the Opposition for allegedly misguiding farmers on the farm ordinances. "This exhibits Modi's frame of mind who still thinks the farmers are dependent on political parties for charting out their future course of action. Soon, all-women protests will be held and their core committee members will meet on September 28 to decide next course of agitation," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-protesters-go-bare-chested-in-amritsar-scores-of-farmers-join-in-146903
26-09-2020||---||Six succumb, 171 new cases in  Amritsar district||Amritsar, September 25The number of recovered cases surpassed the infected cases in Amritsar district on Friday. The District Health Department reported 212 recoveries and 171 new Covid-19 cases.Today six more persons succumbed to Covid-19 virus, thus taking the toll to 347.The deceased include G Gupta (65), a resident of Preet Avenue on Fatehgarh Churian road; Iqbal Singh (55), of Inderjit colony; Satpal Sharma (74), of Gali kandhariyan in Namak Mandi area; Kulwant kaur (68), of Rasalpur village; Chaman Lal (69), of Chheharta; and Surjit Singh, (58), of Ajnala road.Out of the 171 fresh cases, 92 patients were suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) and 79 were contacts of positive cases.A total of 212 patients were discharged from the hospitals. Now, the figure of active cases stands at 1,580.Cabinet minister OP Soni held a meet with health officials and claimed that infrastructure in the hospitals has been revamped.He informed that 30,000 persons in the state, including 3,500 from the district, undergo Covid-19 tests daily.Now, plasma donors have been coming up voluntarily. Ashish Sharma donated plasma at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-succumb-171-new-cases-in-amritsar-district-146809
26-09-2020||---||Green transport: E-autos to replace diesel ones under Smart City Mission||Amritsar, September 25To improve the city’s public transport and reduce pollution, the Amritsar Smart City project envisions replacement of the old diesel autos plying in the city with e-autos under the Smart City Mission. The project is being funded by Amritsar Smart City Limited and the French Development Agency (AFD) under the supervision of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA).Giving more information about it, Amritsar Smart City Ltd CEO Komal Mittal said, “Amritsar will be the first city in the country where e-autos will be made part of the public transport system on such a large scale. Significant subsidy will be provided to auto drivers along with easy access to loans at favourable terms.”In the first phase, it is proposed for replacement of approximately 7,000 diesel autos. The replaced autorickshaws will be scrapped to prevent it from getting resold or reused. She said e-autos were more sustainable and futuristic in terms of technology in comparison to the CNG autos. E-autos will help in reducing the level of noise and air pollution in the city, at a significantly lower vehicle operation cost.According to officials, the operational cost of diesel and CNG autos is Rs 2.68 and Rs 1.48 per km whereas it is 0.68 paise in case of e-autos. The annual maintenance cost of diesel and CNG autos is Rs 16,000 and 12,000, respectively. For e-auto, it is only Rs 5,000.The Punjab government has also exempted permit fee, motor vehicle tax and vehicle passing fee for e-autos, whereas no such discount is provided to diesel and CNG auto owners.According to Mittal, 20 to 25 locations in the city have been identified for setting up charging stations for which expression of interest has already been floated. Electronic autos are also superior to the currently available e-rickshaws in terms of speed, engine power, battery life, passenger safety and comfort.“Work on this project has been going on for the last one year. Considering the economic situation of auto-rickshaw drivers after the Covid lockdown, the subsidy amount is being increased from the previously planned one. The scheme is scheduled for a grand launch in January next year,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/green-transport-e-autos-to-replace-diesel-ones-under-smart-city-mission-146810
26-09-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||BJP activists support bandh in Gurdaspur||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, September 25Bharatiya Janata Party MP Sunny Deol, who just a few days ago, had supported the farm Bills passed by Parliament and triggered off protests from the SAD, Aam Aadmi Party and Congress alike, today received a major jolt as saffron party’s activists supported Punjab bandh.Amid strong police presence, shops and commercial establishments remained closed throughout the day in Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Batala, Sujanpur, Bhoa, Dera Baba Nanak, Fatehgarh Churian, Dinanagar and Qadian.The consensus among intelligence agencies was that the trading community, including shopkeepers, which form the backbone of the BJP, would stay away from Punjab bandh. However, their assumptions were proved to be wrong when not even a single shop opened in any of the major cities.The talking point among farmers was that Deol “had not done the right thing” by tweeting in favour of the farm Bills following which protesters vented their ire against him today. “He is an MP from Punjab, the food basket of India. The Bills will destroy economy of the agrarian state, but Deol praised the farm Bills. Leave alone offering a solution, Deol is playing into the hands of forces out there to destabilise Punjab. He should resign,” said Satbir Singh Sultani, general secretary, Punjab Kirti Kisan Union.The BJP leaders claimed that they had not expected that the party cadre would go along with farmers. “We were thinking that shops would open, but they remained closed. Even die-hard BJP shopkeepers decided to stay indoors,” said a senior BJP leader. Even in Sujanpur, a known BJP stronghold, shops remained shut.“We had demarcated the district into eight zones. Each zone was headed by a DSP-rank officer. At some places, where there were reports that situation could go out of control, we deployed more security,” said Gurdaspur Senior Superintendent of Police Rajinder Singh Sohal.Political observers claimed that traders knew that their business depends upon agriculture. “If something drastic happens to agri-economy, we too will be hit. It is going to have a cascading effect. That is why we decided to back the farming community. We all know if the farmer is distressed, we too will suffer,” said, Tarsem Lal, a Pathankot-based businessman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjp-activists-support-bandh-in-gurdaspur-146811
26-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Mayor tells MC staff to keep tab on cleanliness||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25After getting ninth rank among the dirtiest cities in the cleanliness survey, the Municipal Corporation is focusing on sanitation infrastructure in the city. Several amendments were made on administrative level. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and Commissioner Municipal Corporation are visiting six to eight municipal wards daily to keep check on sanitation issues and know the problems being faced by public.The Mayor claimed that we were preparing to get first rank in the cleanliness survey of 2021. “While visiting residential localities of the city, we have observed that it can’t be achieved without public participation. We are making the public aware about the segregation of garbage and other components which matters to get good ranking.Now, we are following the Central government set rules to get the cleanest city award in the 2021 survey. In Punjab, I am the only Mayor, who is visiting public daily to make them aware of the cleanliness and address other issues to get good ranking in the survey. Apart from this, strict instructions have been given to officials of the health department not to compromise on cleanliness issue in the city. In case of any negligence, the responsibility should be fixed”, said Karamjit Singh Rintu.On Friday, the city Mayor along with MC Commissioner Komal Mittal, Municipal Health Officers Dr Ajay Kanwar and Dr Yogesh Arora, conducted a meeting with Manoj Gautam, officer of the garbage lifting company and reviewed the door-to-door collection work being done by it. The Mayor said that lifting of garbage should be done timely, without any negligence and there should be no trash along roadsides.The Mayor said earlier the Municipal Corporation had earned a bad name due to the ‘poor’ performance of the previous solid waste management company. We used to receive a lot of complaints about lifting of garbage. Now we will keep check on the functioning of company.He asked health officials to monitor cleanliness arrangements in their areas and keep regular check on the lifting of garbage.Zero tolerance for illegal buildings: rintu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-tells-mc-staff-to-keep-tab-on-cleanliness-146812
26-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Fall in demand of fashion fabric hits city’s warp-knitting industry||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25The price of FDY polyester, a yarn used in warp-knitting industry, has come down to Rs80 per kg from Rs 135.Once-thriving, the warp-knitting industry has lost its steam due to the coronavirus outbreak, which has forced people to re-plan or cancel their weddings and other functions.The city has between 400-600 manufacturing units using polyester yarn. Before Covid the industry was recording an annual turnover of around Rs2,000 crore. The warp-knit fabric is widely used in party dresses.Hit by PandemicKrishan Kumar Kukku, a leading industrialist, said the fashion fabric industry could be revived only after restrictions on gatherings in marriages and other parties would be lifted.Price of raw material used in warp knitting industry has fallen down considerably as the fabric widely used in fashion industry is no longer in demand.Wrap knitting fabric, a branch of the textile industry, is widely used in a range of items, including shoes, schoolbags, automobiles, curtains, bed sheets, briefcases, sportswear, helmets, travelling accessories, men and women wears, besides many others.Being a labour-intensive industry, these units provide employments to thousands. Before the lockdown the industry was looking for skilled artisans to run the businesses. The situation no longer exists. The services of labourers are no longer required as the factories are operating under capacity.Another major player in the warp knitting industry, Ajay Mehra, said the factories would start functioning to their full capacity once they get starting orders from dealers. The present warp knitting industry here is struggling to gain momentum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fall-in-demand-of-fashion-fabric-hits-citys-warp-knitting-industry-146814
26-09-2020||---||Webinar on career options in Canada by Amritsar Pharmacy College||Amritsar, September 25On the occasion of World Pharmacists Day, Amritsar Pharmacy College, Amritsar, conducted an international webinar on ‘Career Opportunities for Pharmacy Graduates in Canada’.Faculty and students of Amritsar Pharmacy College and other institutes attended the seminar. Eminent speaker Prof Harwinder Singh Rao from University of Winnipeg, Canada, highlighted the significance and relevance of pharmacy profession in present and future scenario and various opportunities associated with it.Dr Sachin Saggar, Principal, Amritsar Pharmacy College, emphasised on the role of the pharmacist in transforming global health by making safe, effective, quality and affordable medicine accessible to everyone. The world today appreciates and acknowledges the contribution of pharmacist in fight against pandemic by providing safe and timely supply of medicines to the community, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-on-career-options-in-canada-by-amritsar-pharmacy-college-146816
26-09-2020||PK Jaiswar||Hooch tragedy: Police yet to get viscera reports of  victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25Though the police have got the forensic examination reports of the victims, who died in the hooch tragedy that claimed over 120 lives in three districts of Majha including Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Batala, it was still awaiting the viscera reports before presenting challan against the accused in the court.According to police authorities, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the workload has increased in the forensic science laboratory at Kharar. “Further, only 50 per cent of staff could work at a time which has further delayed the viscera reports,” said SSP Tarn Taran, Dhruman Nimbale, while talking to The Tribune.“The viscera reports would confirm how much quantity of methanol was there in the body of the victims that led to their deaths,” said Nimbale.Tarn Taran alone witnessed the death of as many as 97 persons in the tragedy that shook the state government and Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh ordered a crackdown on bootlegging.The Tarn Tarn police, who registered four different cases related to the tragedy, arrested 44 persons in the case while Amritsar rural police have nabbed eight persons, including a Ludhiana-based paint trader Rajeev Joshi who had allegedly supplied methyl alcohol or denatured spirit that was used to manufacture spurious liquor that led to series of deaths in the Majha.The SSP said they had written to the forensic science laboratory in Kharar to provide viscera reports as soon as possible.Nimbale said the police had completed all paperwork and documented the statements of the victims who got recuperated, family members of the deceased and opinion of doctors during the probe.Amritsar rural police authorities said they had also written to the forensic lab authorities to take these cases on priority and provide viscera reports early, but they were yet to receive the same.Man booked for abductionTarn Taran: The Goindwal Sahib police have booked Harpreet Singh of Jaura village on the charge of abducting a teenage girl, while the incident reportedly took place 10 days ago.The police said the accused abducted her when she was on her way to attend stitching classes at Kot Mohammad Khan village. Moreover, the accused was a regular visitor to her house.The police said that the accused had been booked under Sections 363 and 366-A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hooch-tragedy-police-yet-to-get-viscera-reports-of-victims-146817
26-09-2020||---||Two illegal liquor vends busted, two arrested||Amritsar, September 25Acting on specific inputs, the rural police on Friday busted two illegal liquor vends at Mattewal and Jagdev Khurd village running right under the nose of the excise officials and the police.The police have arrested two persons while four others are still at large. Huge quantity of liquor was seized from the two vends. Police authorities said that those arrested were identified as Sahib Singh of Balara village and Manga of Bala Chak village.Sahib was running vend in a shop located on the main road Mattewal here. According to the police, following a tip off, the police team headed by Manjinder Singh, SHO, Mattewal police station, raided the shop and found 279 litres of English and country made liquor from there. The police said that 164 bottles of whisky of different brands, 188 half and 475 quarters were seized from the shop during the raid. Sahib’s interrogation revealed another name Satish Kumar who was partner in running the illegal vend.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-illegal-liquor-vends-busted-two-arrested-146818
26-09-2020||---||Woman accuses son of planning to eliminate her||Amritsar, September 25A woman has accused her son and daughter-in-law of allegedly conspiring to kill her. Acting on her assault complaint, the Ajnala police have booked around six people.Complainant Parkash Kaur informed the police that she was alone at her home at around 11.30 pm on September 12 when her son Hardev Singh, along with others, barged into her house and she had to run out of her house “to save herself”. She said she could not think even in her wildest dreams that her son would plan to kill her.Later, her younger son Manjinder Singh presented a conversation recording of Hardev and one Nikka Singh, who were planning to murder her, she said.Perturbed over this, she lodged a complaint with the police on Thursday.Those booked have been identified as Hardev Singh, his wife Balbir Kaur of Sarangdev village, Nikka Singh of Avan Vasau village and Puran Singh of Sarangdev besides four unknown persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-accuses-son-of-planning-to-eliminate-her-146819
26-09-2020||Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi||Philanthropist Oberoi is Seborga’s Consul General in India||Autorickshaws from outside can’t ply in PathankotNot long ago, illegal auto-rickshaws plying on the streets of Pathankot were considered its Achilles heel as these had destroyed the soul of the once scenic township lying in the foothills of Dhauladhar mountain range. Vehicles from as far as Gurdaspur, Sujanpur, Dinanagar, Kathua and even Jammu plied on narrow roads. This gave harrowing time to residents who often complained that the roads got so congested that it was difficult for them to travel without barging into another vehicle. Accidents had started occurring with monotonous regularity. Trade unions having support of politicians backed this illegal activity. A few months ago, the then SSP, Deepak Hilori, ordered that vehicle bearing Pathankot registration could only ply. A DSP rank officer was tasked with bringing normalcy back on the streets. Slowly but steadily, the exodus of these autos from other towns into the municipal limits of Pathankot stopped. Now, the situation is somewhat different. Things have come to such a pass that it is difficult to sight even a single auto on the road. Reason: Cops do not allow for more than three people to be seated in an auto as per health norms. Owners complain that there is no longer a profitable venture. “It has become difficult for us to pay our bank instalments. Instead of ferrying passengers, we now sell vegetables and fruits in different parts of the town,” said Jagir Singh, an auto-rickshaw owner. In a city where there was once a surplus of three-wheelers, now it is indeed difficult to spot, especially near the bus stand and railway station.Pandemic dents development worksRenowned surgeon and chairman of the Gurdaspur district planning board, Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar, is not a happy man. Not long ago, when he was appointed to the plum post, he had charted out elaborate plans on how to make the border district a better place. Normally, planning board chiefs are political appointees and hence do not get along well with bureaucrats. However, the doctor got his equation right and enjoyed a fairly good rapport with officials, including Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, who is the board’s member secretary. Right from day one, Nijjar had grandiose plans. He had brought out a vision document outlining the various activities they would do. However, then came the Covid-19 pandemic and all his plans got disrupted. He has now called a meeting of officials wherein the agenda is to push development projects. How far the doctor succeeds is anybody’s guess, but at least he is giving it a try.Congmen at loggerheads in BatalaBatala, which is the eighth largest city of Punjab in terms of population, is a perennial political hotbed. The city has also been accorded the status of a police district and is surrounded by the Assembly segments of Fatehgarh Churian, Qadian, Sri Hargobindpur, Dera Baba Nanak and Batala. Interference of legislators in functioning of civic body and the police is too well known to be documented. Here the police chiefs get their tenures cut short at the drop of a hat. A prime example is that of Harpreet Singh, who remained as Senior Superintendent of Police for just 49 days before politicians shunted him out into oblivion. These days, the city is hogging into the limelight for reasons, which are totally political in nature. Former three-time MLA Ashwani Sekhri has got a sore throat crying hoarse over the alleged intrusion into his political space by Cabinet minister and MLA of Fatehgarh Churian Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa. He has been claiming that the minister is needlessly meddling in the city’s affairs. Bajwa has denied the allegations and says he is ushering in the development works as he is the Rural Development Minister. Bajwa’s repeated presence in the city lends credence to the theory that he is eyeing seat, which not long ago was Sekhri’s domain and where his writ ran large, for either himself or for his son, Ravi Nandan Bajwa, who is also the Gurdaspur zila parishad chairman. Last week, while on one such tour, he was taken aback by the way some historical sites, including Sheranwala Gate were being defaced. He immediately ordered Sub-Divisional Magistrate Balwinder Singh to get the encroachments and posters removed. “People’s relationship to their heritage is the same as a mother’s relation to her child. We should preserve such projects. If we do not do, a time will come when we will be left with none. When we reject our origins, we become a product of whatever soil that we find ourselves planted. The colours of our leaves change when we consume borrowed nutrients. As a result, preservation of such sites is a must,” he said. Residents are indeed happy for the initiatives the minister has taken, but Sekhri is not. The MC polls will be a test of strength for both the leaders. The one who gets the maximum number of tickets for his respective supporters will be the winner. And in politics, it is the winner who takes it all “Jo Jeeta, Wohi Sikandar”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/philanthropist-oberoi-is-seborgas-consul-general-in-india-146820
26-09-2020||---||A rare unity among diverse professions||Amritsar, September 25The protests against the farm Bills exhibited a rare scene of unity in diversity as people from all walks of professions such as traders, industrialists, teachers, members of the SGPC, journalists, etc, supported the agitation of farmers.A business leader, Rajinder Singh Marwaha, held a protest, stating that the intervention of the Centre in farming will upset other businesses as these rest upon liquidity ensured by produce sold by farmers.The SAD (Taksali) flayed the Union Government for passing the Bills without holding discussions. Manmohan Singh Sathiala of the SAD (Taksali) said the laws would exacerbate the problem of unemployment which will ultimately cause havoc on allied businesses and trades.Research scholars of Guru Nank Dev University held a protest in front of the campus. National Student Union of India members took out a ‘mashal’ march from the Town Hall chowk to the Jallianwala Bagh.Tarksheel Society, Punjab, accused the Narendra Modi government of demolishing the spirit of parliamentary democracy by avoiding debate on the bills.Members of the Majlis-Ehrar-Islam-E-Hind protested against the passage of farm. On the call of the majlis, members of the Muslim community offered namaz while wearing black badges on their hands at Hamza mosque, situated in Katra Baghiyan.Teachers and government employees, including ASHA workers, extended support to the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-rare-unity-among-diverse-professions-146821
26-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Farmers block roads, rly tracks in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, September 25The ‘Punjab Band’ call evoked a massive response in the border district on Friday. The protest call by farmer organisations was supported by all sections of society, including government employees.Farmers organised dharnas, took out rallies and blocked railway tracks to protest against the Bills. The National Highway (NH) 54 was blocked at many places in the district.Most roads wore a deserted look. Shops and commercial establishments downed shutters. Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill, addressing a protest at Rasulpur village, said the Bills were anti-farmers and would break the backbone of the people of the state. “The Congress would not allow the nefarious designs of the anti-Punjab forces to succeed,” he said.Members of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, took out a march in the town and burnt an effigy of the Union Government. Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, state convener of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, led the protesters who blocked the NH-54 at Naushehra Pannun village. Workers of the Combine Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, too lodged their protest against the Bills.Activists of the Zamhoori Kisan Sabha, Punjab Kisan Sabha, Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, Kisan Sangharsh Committee blocked the railway tracks in protest against the laws. Pargat Singh Jamarai and other leaders of mass organisations addressed the protesters. A complete shutdown was observed in towns such as Patti, Bhikhiwind, Khemkaran, Chabal, Sarai Amanat Khan, Khalra, Valtoha, Rattoke, Varnala, Ghariala, Harike, Chohal Sahib, Sarhali, Naushehra Pannuan, Sheron and Dhotian villages, among others places.Members of radical Sikh organisations led by Harpal Singh Balehar of the SAD (Amritsar) took out a march in the town against the agrarian Bills.Heavy police force was deployed at sensitive places in the district. The district administration heaved a sigh of relief as the band went off peacefully.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-block-roads-rly-tracks-in-tarn-taran-146822
26-09-2020||---||Protests against farm Bills hit normal life||Amritsar, September 25The strike call given by 31 farmer organisations to protest on Friday against the passage of agriculture Bills without discussion in Parliament, evoked a huge response here.The protesting farmers requested President Ram Nath Kovind not to sign the contentious farm Bills into Acts. On Friday, they held protests in various areas of the city such Devidyal Pura where railway tracks were blocked, Bhandari railway overbridge, Putlighar, Chheharta and Bhagtanwala grain market.The demonstrations threw routine life out of gear as all commercial markets, establishments, including shops, put up the shutters. The strike went off peacefully with no untoward incident reported.Most city roads wore a deserted look and residents preferred to stay indoors. Commercial hubs of the city, including wholesale textile markets such as Katra Ahluwalia, Shastri Market, Tahli Wala Bazaar, Pratap Bazaar and nearby streets, were closed.Similarly, stationery-items market, Mai Sewa Wala Bazaar, gold and silver ornaments’ market Guru Bazar, Bhandiyan Wala Bazaar, Chaurasti Attari and Batti Hatta were closed.Grain markets such as Daal Mandi, Mishri Bazaar, Swank Mandi, Wadi Dhab, Dhab Wasti Ram, Lachchmansar Chowk and surrounding areas also wore a deserted look.Movement of buses at the Shaheed Madan Lal Dhingra Inter-state Bus Terminus (ISBT) was affected. As a precautionary measure, the Ferozepur Division of the Northern Railway had cancelled all trains originating from the Amritsar Railway station for three days, starting September 24. Besides, all incoming trains would halt at Ambala, Saharanpur, Moradabad and Chandigarh railway stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/protests-against-farm-bills-hit-normal-life-146823
26-09-2020||---||Farmers block major highways, essential supplies hit||Patiala/ Moga/Faridkot/Amritsar/Bathinda, Sept 25A bandh call given by farm organisations over the three contentious farm Bills brought life to a standstill in Bathinda, Jalandhar, Patiala, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, Bathinda and other districts across the state today.Ferozepur division suspends spl trainsThe supply of essential commodities was badly hit and fruit and vegetable markets remained closed in all cities and towns of the Malwa belt. The other markets also did not open throughout the day.Patiala and its surrounding towns observed a complete bandh following farmers protesting on roads and blocking all major state and national highways passing through it. Barring an untoward incident near the Shambhu barrier, where an Army convoy was stopped by some people, no major violence was reported.Farmers held protests on many roads and highways throughout the day. All markets wore a deserted look for the entire day and only shops of essential commodities opened late evening.In Bathinda and Mansa, shops in almost all areas remained closed. Farmers blocked the Bathinda-Zirakpur national highway at Rampura Phul, Bathinda-Amritsar national highway at the Kahniya chowk, and the Bathinda-Mansa road among others.Buta Singh Burjgill of the BKU (Dakonda) said: “People have given us full support by voluntarily closing shops. This is a historic movement as state’s people have extended support to farmers over the issue”.Punjabi singers Sidhu Moosewala, Amrit Mann, R Nait and Korala Mann joined farmers in Mansa.In Nabha, Punjabi folk singers led by Harbhajan Mann announced they would continue the fight until the farmers got their due. Besides Mann, Tarsem Jassar, Ranjit Bawa, Kulwinder Billa and Harjit Harman extended their support to the farmers and staged a sit-in for hours. The public transport remained off road.In Moga, farmers blocked the rail and road traffic on the national highway at Dagru village on the border of Moga and Ferozepur. All trains remained off the track. The Ferozepur Railway Division suspended all special trains in Punjab, J&K and HP till tomorrow as a precautionary measure.Railway officials said the “rail roko” agitation had badly affected the transportation of foodgrains and other essential goods. In total, at least, 25 trains had been affected in the Ferozepur railway division. At Badhni Kalan, activists of at least 15 trade unions staged a protest and blocked the highway.Almost all national and state highways in the Malwa belt were blocked by the protesters. The link roads were open.In Faridkot, a complete bandh was observed. Almost all shops and commercial establishments remained closed in Faridkot, Kotkapura, Jaito towns. Various farmer organisations and political parties blocked the National Highway on the Amritsar-Bathinda road and farmers sat on the Faridkot-Ferozepur road.In Amritsar, farmers under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee continued their 'rail roko' protest for the second day by blocking train tracks near Devidas Pura village.A complete shutdown was observed in the city which wore deserted looks and shops were closed. Showing solidarity with them, the SGPC shut down its offices and institutions for the day. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the Centre should review this move and revoke it keeping in view the farmers’ cause at the ground level. Kar Sewa Baba Kashmir Singh Bhurewale arranged food for the farmers.ExpertspeakCentre must allay fearsIt is the responsibility of the Centre to remove all apprehensions that farmers may have. In a democracy, you can’t steamroll and change policies. The Centre must realise that this can destabilise Punjab. Let the policy makers initiate a dialogue with farmers. - Sardara Singh Johl, Economist & Padma Bhushan AwardeeWill have adverse impactThe very fact that 31 farmer unions have launched a joint protest speaks volumes about angst in farmers. Even Khet Mazdoor Union and Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee, that have otherwise been hostile towards farmers, have lent support. Centre must intervene or it may have adverse consequences for the entire country. - Prof Gian Singh, Farm EconomistFarmers will uproot Modi govt, says YadavMansa: All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee coordinator Yogendra Yadav, while addressing farmers here, said if the farm Bills were not rolled back, farmers would “uproot Narendra Modi’s wicket”. “Punjab farmers have started a fight for second Independence. The first wicket fell in the shape of lone SAD minister quitting the Modi government. Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala will have follow suit soon.” TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-block-major-highways-essential-supplies-hit-146691
26-09-2020||---||Conduit of two drug smugglers arrested in Tarn Taran district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 25The Tarn Taran police have nabbed Gurdeep Singh, alias Gopi, an alleged conduit of the two smugglers — Jora Singh and Ranjit Singh, alias Rana — arrested along the India-Pakistan border yesterday.In 7-day custodyJora and Rana, arrested on Thursday with 13 kg heroin along the IB, were produced in a Tarn Taran court, which remanded them in 7-day police custody.Gopi, a resident of Sarai Amanat Khan village, used to supply heroin sneaked in from across the border by Jora and Rana to Pawandeep Singh. The latter is yet to be arrested.The police had confiscated 13 kg heroin near border outpost (BO) Rattoke in Khemkaran following information provided by the two.SSP Dhruman Nimbale said raids were on to arrest Pawandeep. Jora and Rana were produced in a local court, which remanded them in seven-day police custody, he said.The SSP said Jora came in contact with Rana when they were lodged in an Amritsar jail in 2014-15. They planned to join hands in smuggling drugs. After Jora got bail from the High Court in 2017 after four years of imprisonment, he stayed in regular touch with Rana once he too got out on bail. They told interrogators they were in contact with six Pakistan-based smugglers and had brought a number of cross-border consignments.They did not have any ancestral property but purchased expensive houses, cars, etc, over the past seven years through drug trade, investigations revealed.The SSP said Jora had some land on both sides of the fencing near his native Mehadipur village. He used to collect the contraband dropped by Pakistan smugglers between pillars or thrown into fields inside the fencing. They chose areas that were farther from the fencing gates and close to the border to evade BSF jawans.Details of Jora, his brother and labourers had been sought from theBSF for further investigation, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/conduit-of-two-drug-smugglers-arrested-in-tarn-taran-district-146712
