26-12-2020||Amritsar||One succumbs, 31 test positive||NGO announces winnersAmritsar: A local NGO, Just Sewa Society (JSS), organised an event to facilitate winners of online rangoli competition organised by it to motivate people during the days of lockdown. Harsimran Singh of the JSS said, “The competition was organised at a time when people were feeling a little low due to the lockdown. A large number of people had participated in the event and sent us pictures of rangolis they had made at their homes.” He said though they had announced the winners and appreciated their art. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-succumbs-31-test-positive-189590
26-12-2020||Amritsar||PSTSE exam on January 3||The Punjab State Talent Search Examination (PSTSE) will be conducted on January 3, 2021.District Education Officer (Secondary) Satinder Bir Singh said here on Friday that the exam is conducted for the selection of VIIIth and Xth class students of the district for the scholarship scheme. The examination was to be conducted by the Punjab State Council of Education Research and Training on December 19 , 2020 but was postponed due to the martyrdom anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur. It will now be conducted on January 3, 2021. As per the letter issued by the Director, State Council for Education Research and Training (SCERT), the timings, roll numbers of candidates, admit cards and examination centres would remain the same. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pstse-exam-on-january-3-189589
26-12-2020||Amritsar||Special children enjoy Xmas feast||On the occasion of Christmas and under their CSR initiative of Shanti Sewa, Hyatt Regency hosted special children from a city school for a celebratory lunch to spread joy and cheer. General Manager, Kamaljit Singh stated that to celebrate the occasion in a meaningful way this year, the hotel decided to take a small initiative to share happiness with the special kids. The hotel also had a tree lighting ceremony along with its guests. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/special-children-enjoy-xmas-feast-189588
26-12-2020||Amritsar||‘Essential to adapt according  to the needs of customers’||Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Amritsar, organised a six-day leadership development programme for the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL). The theme of the event was ‘Leading in the next normal.’Describing the overall objective of the programme, Prof Vartika Dutta, Chairperson, Executive Education (IIM, Amritsar), said, “The businesses today are undergoing tectonic shifts due to constant disruptions. The organisations not only need to adapt to changing needs of customers, but also transform to sustain competitive advantage in the rapidly changing environment.”This comprehensive training programme was developed after a thorough understanding of the leadership competency framework of Indian Oil Corporation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/essential-to-adapt-according-to-the-needs-of-customers-189587
26-12-2020||---||Cops distribute free helmets to two-wheeler riders on Xmas in Amritsar||Amritsar, December 25In order to mark Christmas and the martyrdom day of the Chhote Sahibzade, the traffic police on Friday adopted a novel way to encourage people to followtraffic norms.The traffic police, headed by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Parminder Singh Bhandal, distributed free helmets to two-wheeler riders who were commuting without helmets. Helmets are mandatory while driving two-wheelers for their own safety, but it was unfortunate that how conveniently they preferred to drive without the headgear.Bhandal said the city police along with NGO HopeNext foundation distributed free helmets to commuters. He said around 50 helmets were distributed among people and a drive would be held zone wise.“The major aim was to apprise the people and encourage them to follow traffic norms. We asked them wearing helmet was not a compulsion but it is necessary for their safety,” he said. He said most of the times, people lost their lives in road mishaps due to head injuries and by adopting the habit of wearing helmets, people could save many precious lives.Bhandal said besides distributing helmets, the traffic police were also pasting reflective stickers at the rear end of the vehicles so that road mishaps could be averted during this dense foggy season in the region.A spokesman for the foundation said the NGO had worked tirelessly during the pandemic by providing essentials to needy persons. He said they thought of providing helmets free of cost to people to apprise them of traffic rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-distribute-free-helmets-to-two-wheeler-riders-on-xmas-in-amritsar-189586
26-12-2020||---||Amritsar boy Kushagar wins PTC Voice of  Punjab Season 11||Amritsar, December 25City boy, Kushagar Kalia, has won the PTC Voice of Punjab (Season 11) music competition. The budding singer had earlier grabbed the runner-up title of `Little Champ 3’ organised by the same channel and has been making his mark in the folk and popular Punjabi singing.Kalia, who came back home to a rousing welcome after participating in the show, said, “My mother had a lifelong dream for becoming a professional singer. But due to her circumstances and social restrictions of her time, she was not allowed to pursue her dream. Since childhood she used to encourage me to sing and even supported me to train myself and I owe my success to her,” said the young music star.A student of Khalsa College International Public School, Kushagar, has won a five-year music contract with PTC and one lakh cash prize. An academic achiever as well, Kushagar had topped his school in arts stream in this year’s CBSE Class XII examination. But he wants to focus on pursuing a career in music. “I want to do playback singing and I really admire singer Kamal Khan. I want to hone my skill as I want to be known as a versatile singer,” he said.Apart from his family and his friends, his school celebrated his success by honouring him for achievement. KCIPS Principal Nirmaljit Kaur Gill and the whole management have extended congratulations. His mentor and music teacher, Mandeep Kaur, too shared her excitement over her student’s success.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-boy-kushagar-wins-ptc-voice-of-punjab-season-11-189585
26-12-2020||---||Students protest, raise hostel allotment issue||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25A delegation of students of GNDU held a demonstration outside the Dean of Student Welfare’s office, raising the issue of hostel allotment for outstation students.Protesting the university guidelines on hostel allotment, students, who were accompanied by their family members, said this criterion was forcing many students to opt for a PG accommodation causing them financial burden.“The university has announced offline conduct of examinations and a majority of students from outside Amritsar are now coming to give exams. The university is allotting hostel to a limited number of students only, giving preference to those coming from farthest places. This move is forcing other students to look for a PG or paid accommodation outside the campus, which is expensive and not many can afford it. A total of 4,000 students applied for the hostel. Due to Covid-19, only 600 applications were approved. The GNDU management has put a cut-off of 270 km for girls and 218 km for boys, for hostel allotment,” said Gurnam Singh, a student and a member of Punjab Student Union (Lalkar) that led the demonstration.Another student said the PG owners were asking them to sign a contract before lending rooms, which further makes them vulnerable for exploitation.“Many girl students are in a dilemma as their parents do not want them to stay outside the campus for safety reasons. With exams coming up, it’s a tough situation for us,” she said, not wanting to be identified.Taking note of their issues, registrar KS Ka hlon, assured students that a committee would be constituted under the Dean Academic and Dean Student Welfare to resolve the matter till Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-protest-raise-hostel-allotment-issue-189584
26-12-2020||Amritsar||Two held with country-made weapons||The Amritsar rural police nabbed two persons and confiscated two country-made weapons from their possession here on Friday. They accused have been identified as Karanbir Singh of Mahal village and Rajinder Singh of the Rattan Singh Chowk area.A case under the Arms Act was registered against them and they were produced in court and brought on police remand.According to the police, the accused were going from Mahal village to the Ashok Vihar side when they were intercepted by a police team on the basis of suspicion. During the search, the police found a .315 bore country-made weapon with a live bullet and a bullet shell from Karanbir while a .12 bore calibre country-made weapon and two live cartridges were seized from Rajinder.Yaadwinder Singh, SHO, Kamboh police station, said both were released on bail recently. They had several criminal cases, including under the NDPS Act, registered against them. He said a preliminary probe revealed that they had procured the weapons from Uttar Pradesh.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-held-with-country-made-weapons-189583
26-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Reduction in fare of Metro bus on the cards||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25After taking over the Bus Rapid Transit System from the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB) two months ago, the Local Government Department has devised a strategy to make the Metro bus service more efficient.The BRTS authorities would be able to make changes in routes and fare with permission of executive committee members.Inderjeet Singh Chawala, CEO, BRTS, said, “We have made a proposal to revise the bus fare to attract more passengers. The fare slabs will be revised. Now, we are charging Rs5 for a distance of 0 to 3 km. After the revision, passengers have to pay Rs5 for 0 to 6 km. The bus will become more economical for residents. No other mode of transport will be able to compete with the Metro bus after the revision of fare.”The BRTS authorities would submit the proposal to revise fare to the executive committee members. After the nod, fares would be implemented.Apart from this, the BRTS has been planning to amend routes of the Metro bus. There is no bus stop, which connects the BRTS lane with the old city and Golden Temple. The authorities observed huge potential in the old city and tourist circuits.The BRTS officials plan to connect the BRTS lane with the Hall Bazaar. The connectivity with tourist circuits would attract more passengers, especially devotees who visit the Golden Temple.However, one of the stations at Ram Bagh has been under construction. The officials claimed that the said station would be made operational soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reduction-in-fare-of-metro-bus-on-the-cards-189582
26-12-2020||---||Motla farmers sit on hunger strike in Delhi||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 25On the call given by Kisan Ekta Morcha, five farmers from Motla village in Ajnala sat on a hunger strike at Singhu border in Delhi. The farmers include village sarpanch Mangal Singh, Inderjit Singh, Sukhraj Singh, Gurmej Singh and Sukhdev Singh, who are protesting there for the past several days.Pipal Singh Randhawa, a farmer activist from the village, said it was a matter of pride for the entire village that farmers from our village got an opportunity to sit on hunger strike. The entire village is supporting the Kisan protests and youngsters in good number are participating in it in New Delhi and other protest sites. Moreover, youngsters from Motla village, who are abroad, are also supporting them for this noble cause.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motla-farmers-sit-on-hunger-strike-in-delhi-189581
26-12-2020||Tarn Taran||Electricity supply to 30 Jio mobile towers snapped||Farmers and residents of different villages on Friday shut the power supply to 30 towers of Jio mobile. The farmers protesting against the three agri laws have now started disconnecting the power supply to mobile towers thus disrupting the telecom services in several parts of the district. The power supply to more than 100 towers has been disconnected till date in the district.Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, district president of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, said power supply to the cellular company towers in Sabhra, Jaura, Boparai, Maniala Jai Singh and Algo Kala villages was cut today.Other farmer leaders Dhanna Singh Laluguman and Baljit Singh Bhghel Singh Wala said in Chabal area farmers cut the power supply of towers installed in Chabal (three towers), Thatha, Bir Baba Budha Sahib, Baghel Singh Wala, Baghiari, Sohal Thathi, Panjawar, Dhand and Kasel villages.The power supply to towers in Ratta Gudda, Marimegha, Sandhpura, Padhri Kalan, Rasulpur, Bhura Kona, Maluwal Santa and other villages was disconnected in the last two days.Dhanna Singh said the farmers had been regularly making announcements to the resident through the public address system of the gurdwaras to change your network operator by retaining your existing mobile number.According to information, the company has its 300 towers in the border district.Kashmir Singh, a resident of Kot Dharam Chand Kalan, said before cutting power supply to the tower, farmers and the other residents had organised a rally in the village and condemned the Central government for protecting the interests of big corporate houses at the cost of common man. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/electricity-supply-to-30-jio-mobile-towers-snapped-189580
26-12-2020||Precautionary moves like wearing a mask||‘Testing positive made me more cautious’||“After fully recovering from the contagious disease I decided not to lower guard for the safety of all. People in my circle tend to ask me not to be so touchy about this. However, my point is timely precautions could save me and other people from getting infected.”He recalled that it was persistent temperature and weakness which prompted his doctor to ask him to undergo testing. Despite taking medicines, the temperature and weakness lasted for nearly a week.His medico friend Dr Sunil Grover had advised him to get tested. So, he approached the Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory of the Sri Guru Ram Das Charitable Hospital which declared him positive a day later. Initially, temperature and weakness were immense. Yet, he was surprised that without moving out much he had tested positive.He took medicine for over a fortnight, inhaled steam and consumed lukewarm water to overcome the virus. Following the advice of medical experts he and his family took special care and precautions. He preferred soup and fruit which cured the prolong weakness.The MC officials disinfected his house and locality thoroughly. Inside the house, his family took special care in spraying disinfectants. He used to receive calls from the quarantine centre at Meritorious School to learn about his health and any help if required, which he politely declined.He remained in isolation for 20 days at home and avoided being admitted at a hospital. However, his major concern was to keep other members of his family safe from the contagion. “Living in a joint family, my concern was to keep all safe, especially children and the aged. Luckily, nobody else in the family got infected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/testing-positive-made-me-more-cautious-189579
26-12-2020||---||Amritsar Mayor deposits fine for Covid norm breach||Amritsar, December 25Municipal Corporation Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu on Friday set a precedent as he, along with Congress councillors, walked into Civil Lines police station to deposit the stipulated fine for violating Covid norms during hunger strike held to support the farmers’ stir here on Wednesday.‘Check sale and storage of plastic string’Amritsar: Officials of the Municipal Corporation have asked its field staff to keep a check on the sale of plastic string to make the city plastic string free. In a letter to the field staff, Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia stated that on the orders of National Green Tribunal, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) asked to implement the ban on the plastic string. The PPCB writes that manufacturing, sale storage, purchase and use of thread made of nylon, synthetic material or coated with synthetic substance being used for flying kites are prohibited. TNSTalking to mediapersons here on Friday, Rintu said, “The law is supreme and everyone, including politicians, officers and elite people, are equal before it. We are law-abiding citizens and represent over 15 lakh people of Amritsar. We wish to set a good precedent and assure people that no one can manipulate the law. So, I would appeal to everyone to follow the Covid norms as we are fighting the pandemic on a war footing and the municipal corporation will not hesitate from taking a stern action against anyone who violates the procedures laid down by the administration.”“Though everyone sitting on hunger strike in support of the farmers was wearing a mask for most of the times but some of us removed masks for some time in the afternoon because of suffocation. A photo-journalist clicked the image in that brief interval but we believe that there is no excuse for anyone as we are fighting a tough battle to check the spread of the virus. So, everyone must follow the guidelines,” he said.The Mayor spoke to the journalist on the phone thanking him for bringing the breach of norms to everyone’s notice. Describing the media as the fourth pillar of democracy, the Mayor asserted that the Congress had always respected the freedom of expression. He said the media must standby the oppressed and deprived sections of society and strengthen the voices of those who were fighting for their betterment.The Mayor said he could well understand the farmers’ agony against the three farm laws as he himself was an agriculturist. “I can understand the pain and agony the farmers are going through after the passage of the farm laws. But the BJP leadership of Amritsar has nothing to do with the farmers. They do not know anything about agriculture but are still pressing the propaganda at the Central leadership’s behest,” said Rintu appealing to the Union Government to call a winter session of Parliament and repeal these draconian laws immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-deposits-fine-for-covid-norm-breach-189578
26-12-2020||---||Revival of live theatre takes a back seat in Amritsar city||Amritsar, December 25While actors and audiences are eagerly awaiting live theatre experience, reopening of prominent culture spaces in the city might be put on hold in the wake of the new Covid- 19 threat emerging from the UK (mutated strain).Punjab Natshala, a hub of commercial theatre in the city, was supposed to reopen its stage for plays, but the move has been pushed to January due to the latest Covid-19 threat. Similarly, Virsa Vihar, too, would open its doors for audience around Lohri.“Theatre requires audience intimacy and for that to happen, in this situation, we need to weigh in all our options. We reopened our space for artistes and local theatre groups, who needed a space for rehearsals and script reading sessions post the lockdown. But we will only revive live plays with audience in the New Year,” said Jatinder Brar, playwright and founder of Punjab Natshala.Brar called a meeting of local theatre artistes and groups to discuss the way ahead. He said getting 50 per cent audience would not be good economically, but it would help revive the live theatre.Kewal Dhaliwal, chief, Virsa Vihar Society, said getting audience back for live plays would not be a problem. “People have been craving for theatre since Amritsar has an appetite for it. Also, getting the audience will be good morale booster for artistes who had missed out on their livelihood for nine months. Digital theatre experience lacks the audience connection.” He plans to reopen for Lohri celebrations with a cultural event and a short play.Punjab Natshala used to run weekend theatre, with back-to-back performances of its popular productions while it hosted two-three plays during the week. Virsa Vihar used to host around six plays in a month before the lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/revival-of-live-theatre-takes-a-back-seat-in-amritsar-city-189577
26-12-2020||Amritsar||Missing ‘saroops’: Activists to gherao ministers’ houses||Contesting the disappearance of 328 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, Sikh activists today announced they would gherao the residences of all state ministers and Speaker of the Vidhan Sabha as no criminal action was taken by the authorities against the accused, who were indicted by an Akal Takht-appointed probe panel.Activists of the Sikh Sadbhawna Dal and Gurdwara Akal Bunga have chalked out a schedule.The organisations released the next schedule of protests outside the residences of 12 ministers. The residence of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa will be gheraoed on December 28 and that of Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria on December 30. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-activists-to-gherao-ministers-houses-189541
