26-10-2020||Amritsar||Virus claims two lives, Amritsar dist toll 445||Beopar mandal writes to CentreAmritsar: After the Union Government sought suggestions for the Budget 2021-2022, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) shot off a communique in this regard. The PPBM cautioned that free import of textile readymade and made-ups from nations under SAARC in general and Bangladesh in particular crippled the domestic industry. So, amendments were required to stitch the gaps. It sought an end to discrimination in income tax slab between corporate sector, MSME and traders should be removed. The letter says that textile must be covered under Section 80 1(B) of IT Act-1961 in the Atamnirbhar Programme. It also demanded GST exemption on shawls which fall in handloom and the cottage industry. TNSThree booked for fraud, corruptionAmritsar: Three persons have been booked for allegedly duping a local resident Attarpreet Singh of Rs 4.85 lakh. Those booked are Amritpal Singh, Yashpreet Singh and Sarabjit Singh, all residents of Sultanwind road area here. Attarpreet, in his statement, alleged that the trio took the money from him for getting a bail for him and got an FIR registered against him and his father cancelled. However, none of the above promises were kept by them. A case under Sections 420, 120-B of the IPC and Section 7-A of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against them. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-claims-two-lives-amritsar-dist-toll-445-161327
26-10-2020||Wait & watch approach||Ensuring social distancing among students a big challenge||Odd-even formula can be applied to classesSchools have remained closed since late March. The online shift in education has come to the rescue of students in a virtual world amidst a plethora of issues and concerns. It has been seen that students without devices and adequate internet facilities cannot rely on e-learning. Those helpless and hapless are forced to drop out defeating the very purpose of online teaching and learning. Online education has turned out to be the worst one for special children who have been meted out a step-motherly treatment. Their needs have not been taken care of appropriately. Consequently, they lagged behind in their curriculum. Besides those who attend online classes also face acute strain on eyes and suffer headaches owing to protracted screen time. In such a grim scenario, the reopening of educational institutions is the only solution available. However, as the Covid cases have not stopped rising altogether, the parents of the school-going children are having some reservations. A majority of them don't support the move. According to a survey conducted, only 33% parents approve the state's decision by which the schools have reopened. They parents have their own valid reasons. They don't want to risk their child's health by exposing them outdoors. It is feared that that schools won't be able to maintain social distancing in classrooms and around the premises. It is being argued that the virus spread will increase manifold in the reopened schools. Also, the senior citizens' health is at stake in the family if a school-going child catches infection. This scepticism among the parents is due to how dozens of students and teachers had tested positive in the USA when the schools were reopened. Israel was the first country to reopen schools but within a few days their hundreds of students and teachers got infected. But then, schools can't be kept closed indefinitely. Since everything has been opened, there is no harm in the reopening of schools. But the schools ought to adhere to CDC hygiene guidelines. They can be run in two shifts to maintain distancing. The odd-even formula can be taken into consideration. Rotation system can be adopted where each class goes to school to clear their doubts. Already students have been advised not to share anything. They are to wear masks in and outside the classroom. The government cannot sustain online classes via radio, TV and financial support. Hence, the reopening of schools is the only viable solution.Tarsem S Bumrah QUESTIONPeople are developing complacency during the festival season. Experts have warned of another Covid wave in the winter season. What measures the Punjab Government should take to curb the second surge? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@ tribunemail.com by Thursday (October 29).Decision can do more harm than goodThis is not the right time to open schools as opposed to cinemas or marriage palaces. The primary reason is that most adolescents may not follow the Covid-19 guidelines as strictly as adults. They can be monitored inside the school premises but once they are outside, there may be no one to monitor them. Considering the age, they might just break rules for fun. The cases are decreasing and it is expected that the pandemic may be controlled by the start of the next year. With the festival season approaching, people need to be more aware. Even parents are reluctant to send their wards to schools till the pandemic is over. So, the schools must not open before 2021.Jatinderpal SinghSchools had to reopen someday anywayThe move is welcomed as children are getting snappy staying at home. Moreover, one or the other day this was supposed to happen. The school authorities need to be very cautious and should keep follow the norms. Students of senior classes are mature enough to understand the current scenario. How long the pandemic will stay, nobody knows this, so life has to be lived normally but with all precautions.Saahil HansDecision depends on multiple factorsReopening of schools is a controversial decision. It actually depends on multiple local factors, hence, it should be a local decision and not a general one applying everywhere. The local infection rate, the caseload and the ability of the schools to handle the situation etc, have to be taken into consideration. Reopening can be a good decision in one city but it may not be for another city. A period of one year is nothing in the whole life of a student. Many things are still vague. Who will be held responsible in case the students get infected eventually infecting their families and whole society in general. The youngsters are being held responsible for the fresh spike in cases in Canada and England. The second best option of online teaching is available. Wait and watch approach for some more time should be the need of the hour. The ball is in the court of the parents now. They should use their own acumen to make the final crucial decision.Anil SharmaTough but it's time for regular classesRemaining closed for more than six months due to the lockdown, schools and coaching institutes in Punjab started functioning in a graded manner from October 15. The State announced that it would allow the partial reopening of schools and coaching institutions with strict protocols. Teachers have done magnificently during the pandemic, because the sudden transition to online teaching, learning how to use software tools to prepare and present teaching materials is a difficult task. Tests are being conducted and the school management as well as the teachers are doing a remarkable job. If the schools throughout the world reopened a few months ago, our country can also follow suit. Reopening, even in a phased manner, poses a lot of challenges for school managements given that enforcing discipline among people like distancing and wearing of masks is still a difficult proposition. It is also difficult for teachers who would have to get used to wearing masks while teaching and keep a check on for the same during class hours. At the same time, they will have to continue with the rigors of online teaching like preparing material online, correcting homework and internal assessments. As of now, the SoP by the government clearly says that students from Classes XI-XII can go to school on a voluntary basis to clear doubts. However, most parents in urban area are planning to wait for another ten days for sending their wards to school. Physical presence of students in class enhances confidence of students as well as teachers. Online education was right, but it is not a long term solution. Too much exposure to screens of mobiles and laptops leads to a feeling of isolation and anxiety in the current scenario. This can have an adverse physical impact on children. Now, it is time to shift it to regular classes.Amarjit KalsiShut gates for at least 5 more monthsAttendance card on Day 1 was 2,000/61,000 of senior students. Considering the attendance of students of Classes XI to XII, I ponder that schools must remain closed for five more months ie another session. Parents are not willing to send their wards to school premises. Considering the safety, schools must remain closed. I, too, am a student and my parents are also not sure of sending me to school. Students are very prominent section of this society and are the future citizens and must be protected from the disease. Analysing, schools must remain closed considering the safety of students.IzleenWhy putting more lives at risk?The basic difference between imparting of education at school and college is that all students at a school come at a fixed time and leave the premises also at a fixed time, whereas in colleges, student's arrival and departure varies according to their periods. So, gathering at the beginning and finishing time at schools is unavoidable. Also, most of the school students make use of the school bus, where physical distancing is not possible. Moreover, formula of 50 per cent occupancy in classrooms is not possible. The choice of online study or physical attendance is out of question because it involves huge financial resources. Above all, when online studies are giving satisfactory results why state government is putting efforts to venture into this risky step. Both the stakeholders, school managements and parents are not favouring starting of schools at this stage. Although the cases are declining, but still, the disease has not disappeared. Many countries in the world are facing the second wave. Instead of putting efforts in this venture, the state government should make efforts to revive tourism in the holy city as whole of the economy depends heavily upon this single sector.Naresh Johar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ensuring-social-distancing-among-students-a-big-challenge-161326
26-10-2020||Amritsar||Farmers burn govt’s effigies||Farmers blocked the Amritsar-Tarn Taran road and burnt effigies of the Central Government as part of its protest against the three farm Acts.Farmer leaders said effigies of the Union Government would be burnt at the village level in the coming days. KMSC general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher said the protest against BJP leaders would further be intensified in all cities. The farmer activists said they were burning effigies of the BJP government and corporate houses on Dasehra as both were evil and working against the welfare of the general public.Meanwhile, the rail roko protest at the Buttari railway station near Beas, outside the residence of Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik, at toll plazas and petrol pumps of Reliance Industries also continued. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-burn-govts-effigies-161324
26-10-2020||---||This stretch in Amritsar is a mix of dust, potholes||Amritsar, October 25Even as the holy city was included under the Centre’s flagship programme, the Smart City Project four years ago, potholed roads still remain the bane of the residents, including those in posh localities of the city. The roads in many areas of Ranjit Avenue are no exception and commuters often complain of bad roads offering bumpy rides. A case in point being the stretch leading to Sardar Beant Singh Park from the link road connecting Kacheri chowk with Ranjit Avenue.The residents complained that the stretch of the road has been lying unattended for the past many days and needs immediate re-carpeting. “The situation is so bad that if a vehicle passes through the stretch, it dispels the dust in the air. If the road is carpeted properly, it would be less inconvenient for the commuters,” said Sahil Sharma, a resident. The commuters also complain that the dilapidated road is resulting in wear and tear of the vehicles. “Those riding on two-wheelers are more at risk as the tyres skid on pebbles scattered on the road while applying brakes,” said a commuter.Apart from the residents of the area, the stretch is also used by commuters trying to get to the bypass road towards Ranjit Avenue from the Civil Lines area. Further, it is used by hundreds of joggers in the morning and evenings to reach Sardar Beant Singh Park. “It becomes inconvenient when a speeding car leaves behind a cloud of dust and clouds your visibility,” complained another resident Bal Krishan.Amritsar Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi said a proposal for re-carpeting of the road is under way. He said the work would be started within next few weeks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-stretch-in-amritsar-is-a-mix-of-dust-potholes-161320
26-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Covid beats the soul out of dholis||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 25The pandemic has dented the dholis’ income during this Navratri festival. The comical sight of wallet buzzing with flies, only a couple of banknotes lying, is really not hard to imagine.Sonu, a dholi, castigated its management for issuing dictatorial edict which halved the income of his likes. “At any given time of the day during the Navratri, there were three queues of devotees with less than 1ft of distance,” he claimed, adding, “the management did not bother about implementing the social distancing then.”His comment comes after the Durgiana temple management committee did not allow them to accompany langoors inside the temple due to distancing norms.Shaila, another dholi, said that making matters worse police personnel standing outside the main gate of the temple did not allow them to let rip one on the instrument. And it really hit their earning opportunity. “It was almost a ritual with parents of langoors and their relatives to give money to dholis when they danced inside and in front of the main gate of temple,” he added.Despite repeated requests, he said the management’s office-bearers did not bat an eye to the income-depleting decision. “Ours is a seasonal profession. Earlier, marriage season was consumed during the lockdown and later due to the restrictions of not more than 50 persons and now this.” He added that hopes of improving their financial condition after the lifting of the lockdown were dashed by the stubborn and short sightedness of the temple’s management.The festive season offers them a good business which starts from Navratri and extends up to Diwali. Subsequently, it opens into marriage season, locally called ‘saye’, which lasts for some months. All these occasions together offer a soaring business to about 2,000 Dholis in this border district. Billa, another victim, said this season offered a regular income unlike the rest of the year when they remain unemployed.Apart from conventional sources of engagement, now they are also hired by schools as trainers to students in the art and are also in demand across different parts of the country and even abroad.Harish Taneja of Durgiana Committee said their decision was inspired to contain the spread of the virus. “The playing of dhol inside the temple would have only added to the congestion,” he told. He also stated that the committee had introduced several Covid safety regulations during the Navratri festivities in the temple complex. “But that many people still did not abide by the norm of wearing face masks,” he expressed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-beats-the-soul-out-of-dholis-161315
26-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||His passion for theatre failed to fade away||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 25Before the advent of cable TV, when Doordarshan was the only entertainment channel, there were few artistes who became memorable with their stellar performances in Punjabi plays telecast on DD Jalandhar or Jalandhar Doordarshan.Vijay Sharma is one of them. Some of his plays, such as ‘Mr Galad’, ‘Pehredar’, ‘Adjustment’, ‘Juttian Da Jora’, ‘Apna Apna Hissa’ etc still find space on the channel. He has also performed plays in Pakistan, UK and various other parts of the country.Sharma retired as general manager (sales) from a soft drink company here. He is still active in theatre and has also played some important roles in Punjabi movies.Sharma started theatre in 1977 and since then, he has not looked back. Initially, he took it as his hobby, but later it became a passion. “I gave 35 years to the soft drink industry but I continued with my passion also. My job never came in way of my passion,” he said with pride.Recently, he was seen in Punjabi movie Ikko Mikke in which Satinder Sartaj and Aditi Sharma played the lead. Unfortunately, two days after the release, the government imposed lockdown restrictions.The Covid induced lockdown hit everybody hard and artistes were no different. In fact, the artist community was completely and conveniently ignored by the government. Those who were fully dependent on theatre were the worst hit during the pandemic, Sharma pointed out.“As Virsa Vihar, Punjab Naatshala and Thakur Singh Art Gallary remained closed during the lockdown, I worked on several scripts of short films being made under the banner of GSK productions. I used to discuss the scripts with my team and other artistes through video conferences. After the relaxation in the Covid restrictions, we have started rehearsals for the same,” he said.“We have made some short movies, such as ‘Fathers’ Day’, ‘The Seeds’, ‘Shak’ etc which are slated for release soon while more such projects are in the pipeline,” Sharma maintained.Besides being a part of Punjabi movie Ikko Mikke, he also worked in ‘Ashke’, ‘Tara Mira’ and ‘Eh Janam Tumhare Lekhe’, based on the life of Bhagat Puran Singh. Bollywood actor Pawan Malhotra had played the role of Bhagat Puran Singh while he had played the role of his father in the movie. “I have a couple of Punjabi movies in my hand, but shooting is yet to start due to the pandemic,” Sharma added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/his-passion-for-theatre-failed-to-fade-away-161288
26-10-2020||---||Dasehra festivities a low-key affair||Amritsar, October 25 Amid the Covid threat, the Dasehra celebrations remained a low-key affair this year.  A 15-ft effigy of Ravana was put to flames. Sanjay Mehra, executive member of the Durgiana Committee, said no big function was organised in any part of the city today.  The Covid guidelines, including social distancing, were strictly followed.  He said as per the age-old tradition, ‘mannat’ (vows) of the langoor was considered complete after they bowed before the effigy of Ravana on Dasehra. Otherwise, they pay obeisance at the Bara Hanuman temple everyday during Navratras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dasehra-festivities-a-low-key-affair-161289
26-10-2020||---||Two booked for 32-yr-old woman’s murder||Amritsar, October 25A woman, identified as Harwinder Kaur (32), was killed and her body was set on fire allegedly by her sister-in-law at Maan village falling under the Kathunangal police station here on Saturday.On the statement of the victim’s husband Palwinder Singh, the police have booked the accused, Rajwinder Kaur, and an unidentified person for murdering Harwinder and destroying the evidence. However, no arrest has been made so far.Palwinder told the police that at around 12.30 pm, his wife Harwinder Kaur went to the residence of accused Rajwinder Kaur, who is his elder brother’s wife. He said when she did not return after two hours, he went to see her. He said when he reached Rajwinder’s house, he found a body was set on fire in a room of the house. He raised an alarm and the fire was doused and the police were informed about the incident.As the body was badly burnt, he identified the body as that of his wife Harwinder Kaur through some marks on the stomach.Kirandeep Singh, SHO, Kathunangal police station, said the motive behind the murder was not clear yet. He said Rajwinder’s husband lived in Malaysia. He said further investigation was underway and raids were on to nab the suspects. The victim’s body was handed over to the family after a postmortem. He said the police were working on different theories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-booked-for-32-yr-old-womans-murder-161290
26-10-2020||---||35-yr-old  found dead at Patti Mansoor Ki||Amritsar, October 25A youth, identified as Sarvan Singh (35), was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Patti Mansoor Ki in Sultanwind village here on Sunday. His family members alleged that he was tortured to death by the police and later dumped his body in the village.They said Sarvan Singh was picked up by two policemen on Saturday evening for quizzing in a mobile theft case. When the family members went to the police station, they said he would be released after the quizzing. However, he did not return home in the night. Sucha Singh, father of the victim, said when they again went to the police station, they claimed that he was released in the evening. Later, his body was found at a secluded place in the Patti Mansoor Ki area of Sultanwind village.Perneet Singh Dhillon, SHO, Sultanwind police station, reached the spot and started investigation.Sucha Singh said he used to work as a daily wager while his son was a labourer. He said a woman in the area had lodged a mobile theft complaint with the police against Sarvan suspecting that he had stolen it. Therefore, the police took him into their custody for questioning.However, his body was found in the village today.Woman among 4 booked for 24-yr-old’s ‘murder’Tarn Taran: The Valtoha police booked four persons, including a woman, in connection with the alleged murder of Gora Singh (24) of Algon Khurd here on Saturday.The police said the accused had been identified as Jinder Kaur of Algon Khurd village, Chanan Singh of Khalra, Joga Singh of Balehar and Mukhtiar Singh of Mari Kammoke village.The police said the accused woman, who had an illicit relationship with the victim, called him to her house on October 19. The woman with the help of other accused tortured him and later let him go to his house.Gursahib Singh, brother of the victim, said Gora was admitted to a private hospital in his serious condition on October 22 from where he was referred to the local Civil Hospital. He died here on October 24. The family of the deceased alleged that Gora was questioned by officials of the Algon Khurd police post and was given third-degree torture which was the reason of his death. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/35-yr-old-found-dead-at-patti-mansoor-ki-161291
26-10-2020||---||Counter ‘corporate culture’  with cooperatives: Navjot Sidhu||Amritsar, October 25Former minister and MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu today urged the state government to formulate a common minimum programme for farm produce and procurement.The lawmaker today visited his constituency and distributed food and blankets among the poor.Launching a scathing attack on the Centre over the new farm laws, the cricketer-turned-politician asked the state government to take counter steps. He said with the enactment of the “draconian” laws, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) could not be pressed to lift the produce, which would make the minmum support price (MSP) and mandis redundant.Akalis rake up 2018 Dasehra tragedyPointing out the scarcity of government food storage silos in Punjab, he recommended that the state government should establish cold storage units to cater to rural belts. The Congress’ firebrand leader said if the Centre failed to offer the MSP, the state government should come to the rescue of farmers.He recommended that the state government should form a ‘farm model’ based on the demand and supply in the state. “The state should adopt a ‘cooperative’ programme to counter the Centre’s ‘corporate’ culture. Of the 23 crops, the MSP is offered just on paddy and wheat. That’s the reason the farmers opt for these two crops only. Why not make farming of pulses, sugarcane, vegetables and fruits profitable. The state government can make it possible by constituting cooperatives by roping in farmers,” he said.He said if crop diversification was made lucrative, Punjab would not have to import vegetables, fruits and pulses from other states. He said this step would also help to prevent depletion of water table as the paddy and wheat require a lot of water for irrigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/counter-corporate-culture-with-cooperatives-navjot-sidhu-161105
26-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Personal enmity suspected behind Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh’s killing||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 25Even several days after Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh was gunned down by armed assailants on his school premises in Bhikhiwind, Tarn Taran, the police are yet to make any breakthrough in the case.Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had constituted a special investigating team headed by DIG HS Mann to probe the killing. The family had claimed it was a terror attack as they were on the hit list of various Sikh militant organisations for fending off attacks during the heyday of terrorism in Punjab.However, sources in the Tarn Taran police said the investigations so far did not support their claims. They added the possibility hadn’t been ruled out by the police at this juncture.“We have not ruled out the possibility of a ‘terror’ attack on Balwinder, though there is no credible information or evidence to support the claims so far,” said SSP Dhruman Nimbale, adding that further investigations were on to identify the armed assailants.The sources said the probe had hinted towards personal enmity as the motive behind the killing. Balwinder’s son Arshdeep Singh was among the 10 youths arrested by the Patti police on July 3 for possessing arms.The police claimed Balwinder’s security was withdrawn after he allegedly attacked a block development officer in 2013.Balwinder, his wife Jagdish Kaur, his elder brother Ranjit and his wife Balraj Kaur had received the Shaurya Chakra in 1993 for valour while fighting terrorism.Balwinder’s wife had claimed her husband was on the hit list of terrorists, but even after repeated requests, the police failed to restore their security.Intel lapse led to murder: BittaAnti-Terrorist Front (ATF) president Maninderjit Singh Bitta has expressed concern that even after 10 days of the murder of Balwinder Singh, no breakthrough had been made in the case. Bitta visited the family at Bhikhiwind on Sunday to express his sympathy. He said there was a crucial lapse on part of the intelligence agencies, both of the state and Centre, and that the ball was in the court of the police now. “Let us wait for the SIT report,” he said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/personal-enmity-suspected-behind-shaurya-chakra-awardee-balwinder-singhs-killing-161112
26-10-2020||Abohar||122 qtl polybags seized in Amritsar||As part of the “Chokho Abohar” project announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the municipal corporation here has launched a drive to curb the sale and use of polythene.Teams of the MC conducted raids today and seized 92 quintal polythene from three places. MC Commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said 30 quintal polythene was seized yesterday and prevented from entering the market.BAN IMPOSED IN FEB’16The state government had banned the use of plastic carry bags in Feb 2016 under the provisions of the Punjab Plastic Carry Bags (Manufacture, Usage and Disposal) Control Act, 2005The state government had banned the use of plastic carry bags in February 2016 under the provisions of the Punjab Plastic Carry Bags (Manufacture, Usage and Disposal) Control Act, 2005.The MC teams stopped vehicles transporting polythene to the market. Around 80 quintal belonged to wholesaler Pratap Kumar, 7 quintal to Raj Kumar and another 5 quintal to Bhup Ram. Earlier, 30 quintal polythene being transported by Sunil Kumar was intercepted on Saturday.This is the biggest operation in the history of the corporation where 122 quintals of polythene envelopes have been prevented from entering the market in two days.Kaplish said the purchase, sale and use of polythene was prohibited and action would be taken against those found buying, selling or using it. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/122-qtl-polybags-seized-in-amritsar-161121
