27-05-2020||---||Mercury nears 45°C, no respite in sight yet||Amritsar, May 26With the temperature hovering around 45° Celsius during the daytime, the heat has become unbearable for residents in the city. There has been a sudden rise in the temperature during the last few days, making people unable to come out of their homes. Even the days are getting longer and the sunlight can be seen till 7.30 in the evening.With the government already announcing a red alert due to heatwave, health experts have asked residents to take ample precautions and increase intake of liquids. Moreover, one should not step out of the homes in the afternoon (especially from 1 pm to 5 pm). As the intensity of heatwave is expected to increase further, residents are required to take care of small children who might not like to be confined inside the rooms.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said people should cover their heads while going out in the sun and keep them hydrated. He said lemon water and fruits as watermelon could also help.Residents say that unprecedented heat at this time of the year makes them wonder summer this year would be harsher. “Until a week ago, the temperature was below normal as pollution had decreased immensely with a limited number of vehicles plying and most industrial units lying closed due to the lockdown. But now it seems that the weather has taken a sudden turn for worse,” said Ranbir Singh, a farmer.For farmers, who have already started sowing paddy with direct seeding technique, performing their farm-related activities would become even more difficult.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mercury-nears-45%C2%B0c-no-respite-in-sight-yet-90530
27-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Water crisis set to deepen as tubewells lie defunct in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 26With a sharp rise in the temperatures, the potable water crisis has deepened in the city. Some of the tubewells are lying defunct while many other newly installed ones are not operational. Residents cite defunct tubewells as the reason behind low water pressure.In a recent meeting with Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, councillor of Ward No.56 Pramod Babla complained that tubewells in Ekta Nagar and Chotta Haripura were lying defunct.In February this year, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu had announced that 35 more tubewells would be installed in the city before summer to address the water shortage. Around 14 pumps were installed under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), but they are yet to be made functional.Sunita Sharma, councillor of Ward No.81, claimed that a new tubewell was installed in Sandhu Colony, but it could not be operated for want of power connection. She claimed that though a work order to install a tubewell in her area had been placed three months ago, it was yet to be installed.Sanjive Tangari, husband of Nitu Tangari, who is councillor of Ward No.53, stated that they got a new tubewell sanctioned at Rani Ka Bagh. He demanded that the work of installing it should start soon.The MC installs more than 80 tubewells every year and the same number of pumps gets defunct. Last year, the MC had installed 40 tubewells under the urban mission and 40 under other schemes. This year, the general house passed 24 tubewells and 38 were proposed under the AMRUT scheme. There is a total of 400 tubewells in the city and these are insufficient to fulfil the requirement of residents.Experts claim that groundwater is not a solution to the problem as the upper strata of water is contaminated in the city. Despite announcements of a canal-based water scheme by the government, the project is still hanging fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/water-crisis-set-to-deepen-as-tubewells-lie-defunct-in-amritsar-90531
27-05-2020||Tarn Taran||Despite admn orders, wine shop remains open||Despite the orders of the district administration, a wine shop in front of the Powercom office on the main road here was seen open the whole day on the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev on Tuesday. DC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal had issued orders to keep commercial establishments and wine shops closed on the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev.  The salesman had kept the shutter of the wine shop open to wait for people. This correspondent witnessed a person coming to the shop and buying a bottle of wine. SDM Rajnish Arora, when contacted, denied such thing. On being apprised of the wine shop, which was opened, the SDM said he would look into it. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-admn-orders-wine-shop-remains-open-90532
27-05-2020||---||4 nabbed for illegal sand mining||Amritsar, May 26  The Lopoke police on Monday nabbed four persons while five persons escaped in three separate cases. The police confiscated 1,100 cubic feet of sand from them. Those arrested have been identified as Labh Singh of Bhagupur Utar village, Manjit Singh of Bhilowal village and Harpreet Singh of Tareen village. Kulwinder Singh of Ajnala, along with four of their accomplices, escaped from the spot. The police also confiscated a tractor-trailer with sand, a JCB machine, a Bolero and a Canter-407. The police registered a case under Sections 188, 379 and 120-B of the IPC added with Section 21 of the Mining and Mineral Act.  In another incident, the police nabbed another person, identified as Inderjit Singh of Bhindi Aulakh village. The police had laid a naka at Lolian village and seized 300 cubic feet of sand from his possession. Meanwhile, another 300 cubic feet of sand laden in a tractor-trailer was confiscated at Mehmadpura village. The accused, identified as Gurmej Singh, fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind. The police registered two separate FIRs under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 (1) of the Mineral and Mining Act against them.  Two killed in road mishaps A youth, Karan Shergill, was killed while two pedestrians were seriously injured when a rashly driven car hit them near the Sultanwind canal here on Monday evening. The injured, identified as Surjan Singh of Jaspal Nagar and Jatinder Singh of Mahan Singh Gate, are under treatment at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. Gautam, brother of the victim, told the police that he, along with his brother Karan, was standing along the canal near Sultanwind area when a rashly driven car hit them. Then the car hit Surjan and Jatinder Singh leaving them seriously injured. They were rushed to the Civil Hospital from where they were rushed to GNDH. Karan  succumbed to injuries. Meanwhile, another youth, identified as Akashdeep Singh of Adliwal village (Gurdaspur), lost his life while a rashly driven tipper hit his car on the Mehta road. He was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Monday.  Youth beaten to death in Sursingh village Tarn Taran: A man was beaten to death in Sursingh village, 25 km from here, on Tuesday. The victim was identified as 27-year-old Mandeep Singh. Tarsem Singh, father of the deceased, and his relatives held a protest outside the police station with the victim’s body, seeking registration of a case. Later, the police booked four persons, three of them unidentified, under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code. SHO Gurcharan Singh said one of the suspects was identified as Kuldeep Singh Bhutto. The four persons suspected the victim of stealing their motorcycle and beat him severely, resulting in his death. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-nabbed-for-illegal-sand-mining-90533
27-05-2020||---||Guru Arjan Dev's martyrdom day remains a low-key affair||Amritsar, May 26Amid the lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev was observed on Tuesday.A few devotees paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and Gurdwara Ramsar. They took a dip in the holy sarovar of the Golden temple and listened to the Gurbani.Bhogs of akhand paths of Sri Guru Granth Sahib were performed at the historic Gurdwara Ramsar where the Sikh Guru had edited Guru Granth Sahib and wrote Sukhmani Sahib.Following the request of Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal to observe the day in their houses, a limited number of devotees turned up at gurdwaras.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-arjan-devs-martyrdom-day-remains-a-low-key-affair-90536
27-05-2020||---||2 Covid cases with no travel, contact history||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 26With the district reporting two fresh Covid 19 cases here on Tuesday, the total count of positive cases in the district has reached 337. Both the patients, who tested positive, are women in their mid-sixties. While one of them is from Chehharta, the other is from Islamabad area.The district has reported a total of 337 positive cases, 301 recoveries and six deaths so far. The number of active cases at present is 30.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore confirmed that two new cases of Covid-19 were reported. He said both the patients did not have any travel history or any contact with a Covid-19 positive patient.The district had reported at least two cases of community spread on Monday who had got themselves tested at a private diagnostic lab. Even on Saturday, of the total five positive cases reported, at least two had no travel history or contact with a positive patient. Earlier on Friday, a 60-year-old local resident, presumed to be a case of community spread, died of Covid-19 at a hospital.With more and more people with no travel history or contact with a positive patient in the last few days, the authorities believe that community spread of coronavirus in the district has begun. The authorities stated that people needed to be more careful now as the government has eased restrictions on movement and markets too were opening up.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon in a video message has warned the residents who do not wear masks while stepping out of their homes. He has said a maximum number of people are abiding by all the guidelines, but a few are still careless. The police have been instructed to take action against such miscreants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-covid-cases-with-no-travel-contact-history-90539
27-05-2020||---||9 rescued Nagaland girls among 23 leave for homes||Amritsar, May 26Nine Nagaland girls, who were rescued by the police around a week ago, were sent back to their homes in a bus here on Tuesday. They were locked inside their rented accommodation by the owner of the house after they failed to pay the rent amid the curfew restrictions imposed due to the Covid-10 pandemic.The incident came to light when the girls approached the authorities of a local church along with a leader of the Jalandhar-based Naga Students’ Union and narrated their ordeal who later sought the intervention of the district administration. The matter was later sorted out after the hotel management where they were working released their salaries and the rent was paid to the owner.Dr Pardeep Kumar Samantaroy, Bishop of Church of North India, said a total of 21 Nagaland girls, a boy and a girl from Arunanchal Pradesh left for their homes. He said a total of 11 Naga girls were rescued in the recent past while many others were working in the hotels in the holy city that took the number to 23. He said a total of 90 girls and boys from Punjab, including from Jalandhar and Phagwara, would be leaving for Nagaland.He said the district administration helped us in getting e-passes instantly while Church of North India and the Naga Students’ Union contributed and arranged for buses to ferry them to their native state. It would take around two days and three nights for them to reach there.He said the medical examination of all the passengers were done, buses sanitised and social distancing would be maintained in the buses also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/9-rescued-nagaland-girls-among-23-leave-for-homes-90540
27-05-2020||Neha Saini||Without getting distracted due to pandemic, she stays focused||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 26College is supposed be a new chapter with full of possibilities, excitement and fun. This time, for us, starting the college life is about anxiety and uncertainty,” shared Purva Dua (18), a student of Class XII at Springdales School.Purva, who is yet to appear for her sociology exam, said at present, she is trying hard to focus on her pending board examination instead of any Covid-related news.“I have spent a considerable amount of time in the lockdown thinking of the impact of Covid-19 on my life. I want to study psychology or political science. I had applied to some foreign universities, considering that my results for boards will be out by May-June. I had been invited by the University of Toronto on a scholarship, which is not going to happen now as it wanted my Class XII results. I will appear for the exam in July,” she added.She had also applied for some European universities but due to air travel restrictions and the impact of Covid-19, the admission process is in limbo.Not bogged down, Purva is now preparing for her board exam and then applying for bachelors in psychology in Delhi University (DU). “It is my long-term goal to pursue psychology as working in the field of mental health has always appealed to me. So, I will wait for my board exam results and apply at the DU as it offers one of best courses in the country,” she said.She beats the lockdown blues by reading a lot, painting and learning to play Ukulele. “It keeps me refreshed and relaxed, so I do not have to think about Covid-19, tests, college or anything else for a few hours,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/without-getting-distracted-due-to-pandemic-she-stays-focused-90541
27-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Amid minimal rush, salons reopen with new rules||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 26Although life is limping back to normalcy following relaxations in lockdown 4.0, traders feel that it is still a long way to go before business activities are back on track.The Covid-19 pandemic has created a sense of fear among people, who have become more cautious. They still think twice before visiting salons, feels Pankaj Sharma, who runs a prominent saloon and spa on the GT road in the Putlighar area.“We opened just three days ago and are following all guidelines and taking measures to ensure proper hygiene. Before opening the salon, the entire complex is sanitised repeatedly. We are working with a limited staff at present and maintaining social distancing by fixing prior appointments,” he said, adding that the rush was minimal as of now.He said all staff members and clients were given sanitisers before starting the job. Staff had been given PPE kits, besides masks and gloves. All equipment were sanitised after every use.Manu, a make-up artist at the salon, said, “We accept this to be a new normal at least for this year. As we all know that precaution is the only solution, therefore it becomes our responsibility to maintain proper hygiene so that no one contracts this contagious disease.”“We have asked our customers to take prior appointment so that social distancing could be followed. We also advise them to bring minimum accessories as a safety measure,” she said.Also the director of the Lakme academy franchise, she says, “Only 30 per cent of the staff is working in the academy and that too after taking proper care.”Rahul, a hairdresser, said, “This is a new experience for all of us. It is difficult to work in safety kits, but we will soon become habitual to this as public safety has become our prime responsibility. In the past three days, we have attended mostly women customers who came for haircut.”“After the two-month curfew, the first thing I wanted to have was haircut, though I was scared too. But after seeing the precautionary measures being taken by the salon staff, I am sure more customers will come soon,” said Tamnna, a client.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-minimal-rush-salons-reopen-with-new-rules-90542
27-05-2020||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 has affected the valve industry as well. In an interview with Aparna Banerji||‘Industries need to strengthen customer base amid pandemic’||How has the lockdown impacted the valve industry?There has been a severe impact of the lockdown on the industry. At present, we can't get the raw material from outside and we can't even send our own consignments. The business depends on the availability of raw material and our ability to transport our manufactured products. But all units at various places, including Mumbai, Pune, Chennai and Ahmedabad, where we ship our products have been lying shut. Our products are largely dependent on the demand from industry intensive cities and at present, there are none. Raw material has also been hit. For making a single valve, 40 to 50 items are required. We need teflon, rubber seals, hardware items and wheels. We have to do casting first, which has come to a halt.How has the manufacturing capacity been hit?Our manufacturing capacity has been reduced to 40 to 50 per cent. The industry is currently running at 50 per cent losses. Forget about profits in 2020 and 2021. We are incurring all regular costs, rentals and labour cost at a time when our activities and output have been drastically reduced. So, while we don't get dividends, there is no reduction in the regular expenditure. Additionally, the industries with less than 100 labourers are exempt from paying PF and we ask why not include those with more labour. This is giving some people a reason to fudge records or lay off employees.What is the scenario of labour in the industry?During the harvest season every year, 20 to 25 per cent labour leave for home. But due to panic this year, 30 to 35 per cent have left. Our industry runs with 50 to 55 per cent labour. Many of the skilled workers, who have expertise in one or other fields, have already left. This has broken the chain of processes involved in the making of valves.Does the lockdown offer any hope to the industry?I don't think so there is any hope due to the lockdown. However, some steps are necessary for industries to tide over the crisis. At this time, industries should not take any loan. They need to strengthen their customer base and cater to limited but reliable customers. Besides, they also need to reduce expenses as much as possible.How much time the industry will take to come out of the crisis?We hear that things will improve by September. It will take minimum six months after the lockdown for things to get back on track. We are not expecting normal functioning of the industry any sooner than March 2021. This will depend on the situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/industries-need-to-strengthen-customer-base-amid-pandemic-90545
