27-07-2020||Amritsar||Two lovers found hanging from tree in Amritsar||A young couple was found hanging from a tree in Chander village, nearly 25 kilometres from Amritsar, police said on Monday.The deceased were identified as Jagrup Singh (24) and Rajwinder Kaur (19), they said.During preliminary investigation, it was found that they were relatives and allegedly in a relationship for the last six months.The bodies will be handed over to their families after a post-mortem is conducted, said police. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-lovers-found-hanging-from-tree-in-amritsar-118676
27-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||An unsettling experience that taught us to find a way||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 26City residents underwent an unsettling experience during the national lockdown and the curfew imposed by the Central and state governments, respectively, to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic.Activities across all sectors, including leading ones such as tourism, industries, retail sector, milk production, educational institutes, sports, and others, came to a grinding halt. In its aftermath, an unprecedented impact was visible as thousands of people lost their jobs, migrants went back to their native places among other things.BusinessBarring grocery and medicine stores, all other categories of retail suffered huge losses on account of the curb on movement. Material at shops damaged due to shutters being closed for so long. Industrialists, wholesalers and dealers complained of people holding back payments of those products, which were sold before the lockdown.City leads in manufacturing warp knitting fabric, shawls, suiting-shirting, nut-bolt and packaging machines. All these trades suffer on account of the lockdown.Educational institutesA large number of educational institutes, whether government, private or religious societies run, are available in the city. These institutes such as the Guru Nanak Dev University, Government Medical College, Indian Institute of Management, SGPC run Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, Khalsa College and many more catapulted the city as a leading educational hub in the region. All of these along with hundreds of schools and scores of colleges switched over to online medium of instruction.TransportRide-hailing services such as diesel and battery-run autos, cycle rickshaws, remained off-roads all those months during the lockdown. Migrants were left dependent upon the langar. BRTS, the only mass public transport service, remained locked.SportsSportspersons could not carry out their routine exercises. They complained of losing valuable time in their sporting career and had to be satisfied with exercises at their houses. Swimming pool, badminton hall, gymnasium and wrestling stadium inside the Gol Bagh, Guru Nanak Stadium for hockey and athletic players besides Gandhi Ground for cricket and badminton hall remained out of bounds for players.LangarFeeding a large number of daily wagers, who were rendered unemployed with the introduction of the lockdown became a challenging task. However, it was soon over come by religious institutions and spirited residents. The SGPC arranged distribution of the langar in different parts of the city.TourismAfter the opening of the economy in the ’90s, tourism gradually became the mainstay of business here, taking over from the textile and woollen industry. Over the past two decades, a large number of hotels, including luxury properties were added in its skyline. Since most of the hotels were closed, so a majority of its employees were laid off. This was done to cut the costs and the sales had plummuted while the expenditure did not come down proportionally. Only those staff members were retained, who were essential to maintain the properties.This also happened with the tour and travel business, which also received a severe jolt. The city serves as a base for tourists coming from remote parts of the country including southern, eastern and western states, who wish to travel ahead to mountainous states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. So, taxi and bus operators and their staff remained out of jobs. Their grouse is that a majority of people are reluctant to travel and half of the hotels in the city are lying closed. Similarly, taxi operators were not finding work as people are avoiding non-essential travel.War against Covid-19 still on: Himanshu Aggarwal, ADCThis was a unique experience of enforcing a massive closure on all kinds of services. The scope in the pandemic closure kept changing. Firstly, it was to distribute food, then on migrants, gradually entire focus shifted on patients, reducing mortality, handling people coming from outer states, their sampling. Then focus shifted on the vulnerable, tracing primary and secondary contacts, providing essential gears such as PPE and other amenities to corona warriors, handling pilgrims returning from Nanded. Every day, we face a new challenge and the war against Covid-19 is still on. In all these, the cooperation of the public was supreme.Fab coordination between depts: SS Gill, CommissionerThe lockdown was unprecedented and the cops carried out various jobs. Inter-departmental coordination between different government departments was fabulous. The police not only ensured the implementation of Covid-19 norms to restrict the spread of the pandemic, but also cooperated with the Health Department in quarantine and isolation of positive patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/an-unsettling-experience-that-taught-us-to-find-a-way-118441
27-07-2020||
||City gets moderate rain||Amritsar, July 26 Moderate showers on Sunday brought the much-required respite from the heat to the city residents perturbed at the scorching summer. The showers washed down the dust from the sky and green on the trees appeared more vibrant.  However, it brought troubles for workers at the Bhagatawala grain market as the rain did not give them time to shift the maize lying in plots to a safer place. The workers had a hard time saving the grains from being washed away by rainwater. “The grains will now lose colour as they have got soaked in water. They need to be put up for drying in the sunlight for a few more days,” said a worker. However, for rice cultivators, the rain has come at a time when reports of pests feeding on the crop have started popping up. “The showers are always beneficial as they wash down the larvae and insects from the leaves and help in saving cost of pesticides,” said Balwant Singh, a farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-gets-moderate-rain-118443
27-07-2020||
||Deputy Commissioner revises fines for Covid violations||Amritsar, July 26 With the district witnessing a rise in number of Covid-19 cases, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon has issued fresh directions to impose heavy penalities to make people comply with the guidelines.  Though the police were guarding main roads and challaning the violators but there was hardly any impact visible on account of the weekend stricter lockdown on internal roads of the city.   The DC said as per strict directions of Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh violators of the home quarantine would now be fined Rs 5,000.  Similarly, those violating the social distancing norms at the public places and commercial establishments like restaurants and hotels would be fined Rs 5,000. He said those violating the 20-member restrictions on the number of participants in a gathering like marriage and cremation would be fined Rs 10,000.   He stated that a person without mask in bus and car would be fined Rs 3,000 and Rs 2,000, respectively.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/deputy-commissioner-revises-fines-for-covid-violations-118444
27-07-2020||---||21st Kargil Vijay Diwas observed||Amritsar, July 26Residents and NCC cadets on Sunday observed the 21st anniversary of Kargil Vijay Diwas. Held under Brig RK More, cadets of the NCC unit of Punjab Battalion — one each from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh — gathered to pay tributes online to the martyrs on the Vijay Diwas.He said, “The lockdown may have curtailed our physical presence but mentally we were more dedicated to the nation and guarding its borders.” A poetry competition was also held.Members of the International Human Right and Crime Control Organisation observed Vijay Diwas dedicated to the martyrs of the Kargil War. Its coordinator Satwant Singh said they gathered to pay tributes to the martyrs by lighting earthen lamps.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/21st-kargil-vijay-diwas-observed-118446
27-07-2020||Amritsar||Man held for raping minor||Man injured by stray bulletAmritsar: A person was injured after getting hit by a stray bullet here on Saturday. The victim was identified as Rama Nand, alias Rajan. At the time of the incident, Rajan was standing outside his shop at Rani Bazaar. Initially, he wasn’t aware that he had been hit by a bullet. After his left arm got soaked in blood, the victim was admitted to a hospital by his brother. The X-ray scan revealed he had suffered a gunshot injury. A case under Section 336 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against unknown persons. TNS13 booked for attacking copsTarn Taran: The police have booked 13 persons for allegedly attacking a police party in Shaheed village. Home Guards jawan Kulwinder Singh was injured in the attack. Five of the suspects have been identified as Vida, Jugraj Singh, Ranjit Singh, Balwinder Kaur of Shaheed village and Lovepreet Singh of Jodh Singh Wala village, while eight are yet to be identified. Kulwinder Singh, member of the police party, had gone to the village to investigate the complaint against Vida, who with the help of other suspects attacked him with a sharp weapon. oC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-held-for-raping-minor-118449
27-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Pandemic effect: Backpackers get nostalgic, find new ways to unwind||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 26As weekend getaways and international trips became a thing of past, city residents explored several other ways to stay connected to their wanderlust. From writing travel books to creating blogs, they have resorted to several innovative ways to stay refreshed.A large number of travel junkies, who would initially take no moment to hit the mountains, have now started responding to new realities. As foreign trips become a far-fetched dream, some of the travelers have been satiating their wanderlust by visiting the local sites and the historic monuments in Punjab.While travel to Jammu and Kashmir was suspended after August 5, 2019, Himachal Pradesh was the one of the nearest options for the local travelers, but now, it also stands suspended. McLeod Ganj, Dharmshala, Dalhousie, Chamba and Manali used to be the top destinations thronged by city residents. During summers, the youths from city would travel and camp at Leh and Ladakh, Sangla Valley, Lahaul Spiti and Srinagar.Apart from this, lockdown also hit the religious tourism. Thousands of travellers used to visit Amarnath in Jammu and Kashmir, Hemkund Sahib, Badrinath, Kedarnath in Uttarakhand every year.Travellers have been finding solace in sharing their old memories on the social media. Some of them have resorted to writing blogs or penning books, hoping travel restrictions to ease soon.Speaking outLike many ardent travellers, I am also missing the travel opportunities but I have started penning a book. The book will carry all my personal travel experiences. It is like rewinding all my travel memories again. It seems as if I am still travelling despite lockdown. Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a freelance writer“I have travelled India widely. I had numerous memories of travelling and trekking butnever thought of jotting down my experience. This year, I have decided to start blogging to share my travel experiences. …… Amandeep Singh Shera, a teacher…“I was unable to go Himachal Pradesh this summers. So I started cycling and travelled historic and religious places in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur. I met new people and also made new friends. Covid-19 failed to stop me but I changed my route plan……Gurbir Singh, a traveller“Last year, I had visited Sangla Valley and now I had planned to visit Kaza in Lahul Sapiti district of Himachal. The lockdown delayed the plan. Now, I have to wait for one more year. ……….Gurpreet Dhillon, a resident||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-effect-backpackers-get-nostalgic-find-new-ways-to-unwind-118450
27-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Illegal parking a common sight in city, traffic police ill-equipped to handle||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 26The experience of commuting on roads here is unspeakable. Already victim to rampant encroachments, the persisting problem in the holy city is further complexed by wrong and haphazard parking. The situation erupts in the worst ways possible in the walled city area.Forget the encroaching issue, the city police looks inapt of even tackling the problem of illegal parking. Since the contract with private companies involved in towing away the wrongly parked vehicles leading to traffic chaos having run out of date months ago, the police seem to have no facility of whatsover to get to grips with the issue.Anil Vinayak, a former banker and vigilant citizen, has procured information under the RTI Act which reveals that every crowded area in the city where wrongly parked vehicles, which facilitates traffic snarls are tow-away zones. And the traffic police is deprived of government tow-away vehicles.The problem has assumed an alarming proportion amidst others. Every road here is replete with haphazardly parked vehicles. “Being city of Golden Temple, thousands of tourists visit here to pay obeisance at the holy Sikh shrine besides visiting other world famous tourist places including Jallianwala Bagh, Durgiana Temple and other places. Nevertheless, the traffic remained a major problem which the authorities have failed to solve till now,” Anil points out.“It is also an irony, a bemusing one, that the people can’t park their vehicles sensibly so that it can save botheration to other commuters, says Parkash Singh, a local resident. Such parkings are a common sight at Nehru Shopping Complex. It becomes a herculean task for people to take their vehicles out of the parking lot. “The story is same in almost all parts of the city. It is worse in the walled city, Putlighar, Lawrence road chowk, Court road and Crystal chowk, he adds.Meanwhile, Ashwani Arora, another resident, has a piece of suggestion, which comes off more as a retort. “The administration should earmarke more tow-away zones besides reintroducing the system,” Arora says. He demands exemplary punishment for the offenders. He goes on: “The administration should also create parking spaces and implement the parking rules with iron hand.”Parminder Singh Bhandal, additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic), throws in the recent pandemic-induced lockdown restrictions . “Many works and plans were stalled,” he says. “At present, we are using wheel lock and chains for wrongly parked vehicles. The traffic cops are also issuing challan to the vehicle owners besides reprimanding them,” he assures.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-parking-a-common-sight-in-city-traffic-police-ill-equipped-to-handle-118452
27-07-2020||---||78-year-old is district’s 67th fatality||Amritsar, July 26The district reported the death of a septuagenarian from the walled city area due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 67. The deceased has been identified as 78-year-old Gobind Ram, a resident of Bazaar Bagghian in Katra Dullo locality. The health authorities stated that the patient had co-morbidities like hypertension and tuberculosis.The district also reported 42 new positive cases in the last 24 hours. With the new cases, the total count has reached 1,533 in the district. The new cases include 25 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases and 17 contacts of positive patients.The new cases include a Baba Bakala resident who had returned from Muscat (Oman) recently. One ILI case each was reported from Rambali Chowk, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Ranjit Avenue, Kaliwala, Katra Dullo, Milaap Avenue, Gopal Nagar, railway station, Guru Bazaar, Housing Board Colony, Khand Wala, DR Enclave (Airport Road), Ganda Singh Colony, Shareefpura, New Kot Atma Ram, Uttam Nagar (Tarn Taran Road), Kot Bhagat Singh, Mehadipur, Sangatpura, Ajaibwali Village and Chand Avenue. Two residents from Sundar Nagar (Kot Khalsa) and three from Verka also tested positive.Of the contact cases, one case each from the Central Jail, Chamrang Road, Kot Baba Deep Singh, New Amritsar and Chand Avenue; two cases each from Pawan Nagar, Shivala Colony and Baba Bakala; and three contact cases each from Mustafabad and the B-Division police station were reported.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said 31 more patients had been discharged after recovery. He said a total of 1,151 patients had recovered so far. At present, the district had a total of 315 active cases, he said.One death in Tarn TaranTarn Taran: The district reported the death of a person due to the Covid-19 in a hospital here on Sunday. The death toll has reached six in the district. The victim, identified as 75-year-old Gulzar Singh of Maniala Jai Singh village, was admitted to the local Civil Hospital on Saturday. The body was cremated following all protocols at his native village.Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar said 13 new cases had been reported in the district. The tally of positive cases had climbed to 53. A 37-year-old son of an SGPC member who had returned from the US recently and two policemen were among the new cases. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/78-year-old-is-districts-67th-fatality-118453
27-07-2020||What steps should be taken to tackle the water-logging menace in the city?||Provide storm water drainage facilities in all city areas||Clean sewer pipelines on a daily basisMillions of people from all over the world visit our country every year and a majority of them due to our religious importance leading to spirituality. The basic teaching of every religion is to clean your inner-self. If we follow the same formula and keep our roads and streets clean, the problem of water-logging will automatically disappear. If we employ workers to clean roads and streets on a daily basis, they should also be asked to clean sewer pipelines. They should also bear in mind what Martin Luther King Jr said years ago, “If a man is called to be street sweeper, he should sweep street as Michelangelo painted or Beethoven composed music or Shakespeare wrote novel.” Now, the second villain in this dirty movie is the local town planning department, which allows residences to be converted into hotels in narrow lanes of the city. Just imagine what will happen to underground sewerage pipeline connected to a residence meant for five persons converted into a hotel with a capacity of 30 persons. There is no dearth of such hotels in the city.Naresh Mohan JoharSegregate wet garbage from dry oneWater-logging becomes a nuisance for city residents and commuters during the monsoon season. Sometimes, there are big potholes in roads and lids of most sewerage systems also are missing which are an open invite to accidents. Commuters have to drive their vehicles in knee-deep water, resulting in mishaps. Some parts of our cities have drainage systems that are almost too old. They are not fit for handling high pressure of rainwater that flows through them, resulting in water-logging. Then, places such as underpasses have no slope for water to flow out, so it just accumulates there on both sides. The accumulated water starts stinking after a few days and becomes a breeding-ground for mosquitoes. Storm water is the technical town planning term for excess rainwater. In an environment where there were no buildings and pavements, for example in a forest, the excess rainwater merely seeps into the soil. But in a city, because of concrete surfaces, storm water cannot seep into the ground naturally. Hence, it needs an outlet to flow out. But many of these outlets in Indian cities are choked by garbage or silt. Therefore, the storm water finds no way to flow out and collects right there. A solution to the problem of water-logging lies in segregating wet garbage from dry one. If people start separating garbage, it will take care of the problem to a large extent. Start segregating waste in your respective homes before disposing it off. The dry waste such as empty cans and glass bottles can be sold. Whenever you dump garbage anywhere, it is bound to find its way into drains, choking them.Amarjit KalsiLack of political behind menaceThe city which was known "Sifti Da Ghar' has turned into "Gandgee Da Ghar". All development plans seem ill-conceived and with lack of inter-departmental coordination. In the past seven decades of my life in the city, the situation has not changed for the better as leaders do not appear to care for the well being of residents. The lack of political will is responsible for the plight of residents.Gursharan Singh KainthAuthorities must pump out excess waterThe perennial problem of waterlogging has been inconveniencing city residents for a long time. The malady is caused by a combination of excess rainfall, poor external and internal drainage and the inability of soil to absorb water. Whenever the city receives a spell of light or heavy rain, it witnesses waterlogging in almost all areas, especially the low-lying areas. The problem also poses a health hazard to residents. It further results in loss of business, spreading of waterborne diseases, besides making several facilities and services topsy-turvy. The civic body must pay heed to the bad state of drainage system. It should pump out surplus water with manpower and machinery. Enough funds should be earmarked to clean the drainage and sewerage system before the monsoon season sets in. Provision should be made for rainwater harvesting. Areas prone to waterlogging should be taken care of well in advance rather than rushing at the eleventh hour. The civic body should provide toll free numbers to residents on which they can update the situation regarding waterlogging in their respective areas. Residents should be made aware that they must not throw garbage, waste and other food particles into the sewerage and drainage system as it leads to choking of the drains. De-silting must be carried out regularly. Encroachments in pathways of natural drainage channels of the city must be removed. Creation of more green spaces is the crying need of the hour as it would soak water naturally. The dysfunctional stormwater drainage system heaps misery on residents. It should be repaired and made functional. Surface drainage, which is useful for removing excess water, must be given a serious thought. In addition to these, effective monitoring, emergency response, meticulous planning, proper warning and timely response operations in waterlogged areas like Putlighar, Mall Road, Lawrence Road, GT road stretch near Khalsa College and other such places are required. Moreover, technically trained and qualified workforce ought to be engaged to deal with the perennial.Tarsem S BumrahScientific disposal of waste must be doneThe following steps can help tackle the water-logging menace. Absolute ban on plastic would go a long way. Plastic waste leads to choking in drainage. There should be world-class mechanism for garbage disposal. Urban solid waste has become a real problem in almost every city. Collection and scientific disposal should be done on a priority basis. A single authority must be given the responsibility for drainage. Trees must be planted on mounds. The authorities must create awareness on harms of throwing garbage in the open. The road infrastructure must be improved and potholes eliminated.Rohit Kumar SehdevEnforce ban on use of plastic bagsTo address the problem of water-logging during the monsoon, garbage disposal system, which is the root cause of the problem, must be streamlined. The storm water drains must to be cleaned before the onset of the rainy season. The ban on the use of plastic bags, which lead to choking of drains, should be strictly enforced by the administration. All low-lying areas should be identified for immediate remedial measures to prevent accumulation of rainwater. New buildings in the city must be approved only if they have facilities for rainwater harvesting. It can both prevent blockage of drains and water shortage.Shashi KiranUse latest technology to solve menaceIt is no more a hidden fact that water-logging of our roads has taken a toll on residents. Since decades, it has been testing the nerves of the locals during the monsoon season. The tall claims of the authorities to boasting the infrastructure get drawn deeply in the water-logged streets and roads on the onset of the monsoon. I remember when I was a kid, I would wade through a long water-logged street with friends to reach the school. After a period of thirty years, situation remains the same. The authorities concerned must rise to the occasion and show grit to sort out the perennial issue which toppled the life of all those families whose bread and butter winner have fallen prey to the potholes and opens manholes, thanks to the flooded streets and roads. The need of the hour is to make use of latest technology to solve the menace. The basic amenities need to be provided to residents to make them feel inclusive, safe and secure. It is my belief that with young leaders making their mark in politics and bureaucracy, our next generation will definitely rise to a new dawn and such issues would have become things of the years gone by.Simranjeet Singh SainiQUESTIONEven as residents are increasingly taking to cycling, there is a demand from the residents to create lanes for the non-motorised vehicles or special cycling zones. What do you think is the best way out for the MC to encourage cycling?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.comby Thursday (July 30).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/provide-storm-water-drainage-facilities-in-all-city-areas-118455
