27-04-2020||---||He never forgets to feed pigeons, stray cattle||Amritsar, April 26Going beyond the call of duty, some officials of the Municipal Corporation are providing essential commodities to the poor and helping others in need.Among them is Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, MC, who has been serving at the store room of the corporation from where they give ration to the needy. Apart from the government aid, Sushant collects foodgrain and other essential things and further provides ration to 1,800 persons.“While visiting streets and slums, I found seven orphan children at an industrial unit, who needed extra care. We provided them ration, medicines and several other things from our resources,” said Bhatia.“Some of my friends also came forward and now we are donating from our own sources. When the curfew was imposed, several people approached us to arrange vehicles to get back their children stranded in other cities. We arranged transportation and ensured the return of a girl from Mohali and that of two girls from Ludhiana,” he said.In his official capacity, Sushant Bhatia keeps a check on public parks and does not allow anyone to enter inside and defy social distancing norm. He feeds dogs, pigeons and stray cattle. “I keep hot milk in my car to provide it to the children of slum dwellers”, he added. Bhatia said some traders recently approached him and told him that they were skeptical of visiting the government office for GST return.“I have discussed the matter with Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal and arranged sanitisation of government offices, so that employees work there without any fear,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-never-forgets-to-feed-pigeons-stray-cattle-76970
27-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Covid pandemic keeps him busier than earlier days||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 26The schedule of Gurdaspur SSP Swarandeep Singh has become busier during the lockdown as compared to earlier days. In the pre-lockdown period, he used to find time to read fiction in the form of George Orwell’s 1984, Vladimir Nabokov’s Lolita and Jonathan Swift’s Gulliver’s Travels after day’s hard work. He had partly read Swift’s classic during his young days and decided to finish it when the lockdown was imposed.Now, reading has been back-burnered and whatever volleyball he played in the evening, too, is passé. “The ball has fallen in Covid’s court. It will take time to retrieve it,” he says with a smile.He said earlier, life was easier as compared to what it is now. “I used to be in my camp office at 8 am checking messages from police headquarters and sister agencies. I had to ensure their compliance because being a border district with infiltration from Pakistan being a perennial threat, I could not afford to be complacent. Then I would go to my office and remain there till 5 pm. After that, I managed to squeeze in time to pursue my passion for books,” he said.Now during the, everything has changed, he added.“Even 24 hours seem to be less as my men and I battle the scourge of Covid. I leave my house in the wee hours and visit a couple of checkposts to keep an eye on people entering our district where just one case has surfaced till date. I have instructed my officers not to let anybody enter without getting them screened,” he said.“These are really trying times as humanity fights its most important battle in centuries. I often motivate my constabulary by telling them that tough times do not last, tough men do,” he added.As he talks, he receives a call from an SHO on ways to tackle farmers in the grain market where social distancing norms went for a toss. He tells his subordinate, “Do not take any decision which may infuriate the farmers. Try to hold the fort till I reach there at the earliest.”He says his force had a fairly decent stock of masks and sanitisers during the first lockdown. However, as things got prolonged, he was forced to think of ways and means to get more equipment when he received a call from SPS Oberoi. The Dubai-based businessman was asking him where to send boxes of sanitisers and also added that he would get the stock within 24 hours.As he was preparing to go to the grain market, the SSP again received a call from a DSP. He wanted instructions on how to deal with persons who were roaming streets sans curfew passes. “Do not enter into an altercation with them. Take them to the city police station and register an FIR under Section 188 of the IPC (disobeying government orders). Leave the rest to me,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-pandemic-keeps-him-busier-than-earlier-days-76969
27-04-2020||Amritsar||Man robbed of cell phone||30 booked for violating curfewAmritsar: Around 30 persons were booked for violating curfew restrictions in the holy city. According to the police, they were roaming on roads without any genuine reason. They have been under different sections of the IPC. They, however, were released on bail later. Police officials warned them of strict action in future if they come out on roads without any proper reason. The police said the district administration has issued guidelines for applying curfew passes. TNSGang of robbers busted, five heldTarn Taran: A team of the local CIA staff on Saturday arrested five persons of a six-member gang of robbers from Booh Vangan village near Harike. The police seized two rifles, two revolvers, two country-made pistols and 10 live cartridges from their possession. The gang members have been booked under Sections 399, 402, 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and 51-B of the Disaster Management Act. Preliminary probe revealed that the robbers had committed robberies and extortions across the state, the police said. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-robbed-of-cell-phone-76966
27-04-2020||  ||Cell phone, iron pieces seized from prisoners||Tribune News Service   Amritsar, April 26   Days after foiling a jailbreak bid, the authorities on Saturday confiscated three pieces of iron grill from a prisoner, identified as Ghaniya Lal of Kehra Kalan in Gurdaspur.  Assistant Superintendent of Jail Sukhdev Singh said during a routine checking in room no. 6, the staff recovered the three pieces of iron, which were broken on the jail premises.   The Assistant Superintendent of Jail said it was yet to ascertain the motive behind keeping the iron pieces. He said the jail authorities have strengthened the security system. A case under Section 427 of the IPC and Section 52 of the Prisons Act has been registered against him.   Meanwhile, the jail staff also seized a mobile phone from Amritpal Singh of Mohalla Sheikhupura in Jandiala Guru. According to the staff, he was lodged in the isolation barrack no. 5. The staff recovered a VIVO smartphone with a JIO SIM.   A case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act has been registered against him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cell-phone-iron-pieces-seized-from-prisoners-76965
27-04-2020||Amritsar April 26||1.8L computerised calls made by Covid-19 control room in 7 days||The Covid-19 control room established by the Municipal Corporation Amritsar ( MCA) made 1.80 lakh calls in the past one week and has reconfirmed the calls of thousands of respondents so far.The Covid control room’s target was to make automated computerised calls to 5 lakh persons of 2.5 lakh households in the city and get information about the health status of residents. The MC identified a woman through this tele-screening, who had symptoms of coronavirus and later her Covid-19 test was confirmed.Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, said: “We can make all calls in a day as it is a computerised operation, but we are focusing on the response. Our team members call respondents to confirm about their claims, which they had made on automated calls. It takes some time, but we are getting the results.”However, most of the respondents, who submitted their feedback about any health issues, were not found infected. The MC officials claimed that residents were appreciating the MC’s initiative of establishing this tele-screening control room. MCA is the first body in the state, which adopted this technique.“We have constituted 20 rapid response teams to verify the claims of respondents. The team members make verification calls and then visit the home if someone confirms sickness. After medical examination, if we don’t find symptoms, we keep a regular tab on them even then. The patients say they were being monitored on a regular basis,” said Singla. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-8l-computerised-calls-made-by-covid-19-control-room-in-7-days-76964
27-04-2020||Our Correspondent
||Cop lends helping hand to the needy||Tarn Taran, April 26 Working as a head constable with the district police,  Sarabjit Singh has been distributing packets of ration (atta, dal, oil and sugar) among needy families from his own pocket, besides performing his duties during the Covid-19 pandemic.  As part of this initiative, the cop has distributed 130 packets of ration among needy families in the last 20 days. Sarabjit said he was not interested in releasing photos of the beneficiaries as it would dent their image in the society. He delivered ration to the needy families own his own. Sarabjit said he wanted to serve more but his salary was limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-lends-helping-hand-to-the-needy-76962
27-04-2020||
||GoGs assist officials in procurement process||Amritsar April 26 To ensure smooth and safe procurement of wheat during the lockdown and to prevent the spread of Covid-19, ex-servicemen have been assisting Mandi Board officials in the procurement process at grain markets.  DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon said at present, 288 Guardians of Governance (GoGs) have been overseeing the ongoing procurement process at 55 grain markets of the district. He said ex-servicemen have been given the responsibility to ensure that health safety measures are followed during the procurement process. Apart from following social distancing at the procurement centers, they have been working together with employees of the Mandi Board to deal with the difficult task of traffic monitoring. In addition, the GoGs were asked to report about the status of cleanliness in mandis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gogs-assist-officials-in-procurement-process-76961
27-04-2020||---||Rural pharmacists to boycott Covid-related duties from today||Amritsar, April 26Pharmacists working in rural areas under the Panchayat Department wore black badges on duty here on Sunday, as a mark of protest against the state government and said they would boycott all Covid-related duties from Monday. They said the decision had been taken to express their resentment over not getting regular jobs.Members of the Rural Health Pharmacy Officers Association said the rural pharmacists have been working for the past 14 years on Rs 10,000 per month. After the outbreak of Covid-19, the rural pharmacists had been assigned duties at ICP Attari, Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport, Golden Temple, Durgiana temple and with rapid response teams, they said.Gurdeep Singh, the district president of the association, said: “As the government has failed to give us regular jobs, we have decided to return to dispensaries in rural areas and boycott all Covid-related duties assigned to us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-to-boycott-covid-related-duties-from-today-76960
27-04-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||6th patient recovers, sent home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26Another Covid patient, Paramjit Kaur, a resident of Krishna Nagar, was discharged from Government Medical College here on Sunday after complete recovery.With this, the count of fully recovered patients in the district has increased to six.Paramjit Kaur is the wife of Balbir Singh, also a positive case who was discharged after recovery on April 20. The district health authorities said two consecutive test reports of Kaur were negative, after which she was discharged.Health officials, including district epidemiologist Dr Madan Mohan and others, presented flowers to Kaur and lauded her for keeping a positive attitude. The district has reported 14 cases so far, of which six have recovered and two have died. The health officials said the condition of the remaining six patients was stable and they were also recovering.Meanwhile, the Department of Industry in association with local Singh Industries has devised a remote-operated trolley to provide food and medicines to Covid positive patients without the health employees having to go near them. The trolley named ‘CARE BOT’ is capable of carrying a weight of 40 kg and can be operated from a distance of 100 feet. DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the trial of the machine was conducted at Meritorious School, which has been converted into a 1,000 bed Covid-Care Centre.Dhillon said patients who were positive but asymptomatic would be admitted to the centre. He said the administration was making requisite arrangements to deal with a situation, in which the number of patients increases exponentially.He said apart from wards for patients, the Covid Care Centre also has rooms for doctors, nurses, waiting hall, laundry, pharmacy and special room for removing PPE kits. Regarding rumours of permission to open shops, the Deputy Commissioner said only stand-alone shops have been permitted to open and market places would remain closed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6th-patient-recovers-sent-home-76959
27-04-2020||Bathinda/Amritsar||Stranded pilgrims return from Hazur Sahib||A group of pilgrims from Hazur Sahib, Nanded, reached Punjab today. The pilgrims had gone to Hazur Sahib in March and were stuck there due to the lockdown.Eight buses reached the state of which seven came to Bathinda and one through Abohar in Fazilka. The administration conducted the medical check-up of the pilgrims and they were given snacks, water, masks and sanitisers.Meanwhile, another bus with 41 pilgrims reached Amritsar today. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said after a medical check-up, all were found to be asymptomatic but were recommended to stay in 14-day home quarantine as a precautionary measure. Baljinder Singh and Tarsem Singh, who belong to Amritsar and Jandiala Guru, respectively, and came back in the bus, said, “We started the journey at 8.15 pm from the Nanded gurdwara yesterday. We had medical certificates issued by the Nanded medical authorities. Still, we were ready for a medical test here and were asked to go under home quarantine,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stranded-pilgrims-return-from-hazur-sahib-76715
27-04-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Expecting surge in demand, dealers hoard bricks||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, April 26Expecting a surge in demand and hike in prices of construction material post lockdown, dealers have started hoarding bricks.Lakhwinder Singh, District Food Civil Supplies Controller, said four construction material shops had been issued show-cause notices to submit documents for storing bricks.A firm was found storing 28,000 pieces, while three others had stocked 18,000, 6,000 and 2,500 bricks. He added that these bricks were supplied from Fazilka and Ferozepur.The Punjab Control of Brick Supplies, Price and Distribution Control Order, 1998, prohibits resale of bricks out of kilns, which can sell these to customers only.Mukesh Nanda, general secretary of the Punjab Brick Kilns Owners’ Association said transportation of bricks could spread the virus.After the state government allowed the manufacturing of bricks at kilns, their expenditure was the same, but income had stalled.If bricks are bought from outside, it will damage the business prospects of local brick manufacturers.He said: “It takes about Rs70,000 to operate a brick kiln a day. There are about 2,800 brick kilns in the state and between five lakh and eight lakh workers are employed in these.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/expecting-surge-in-demand-dealers-hoard-bricks-76708
