27-06-2020||Death anniversary today||Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s memorials face neglect both in India & Pak||The monuments associated with the Maharaja were taken care of in India but sans conservationists. The walled city, which houses the Golden temple, has its gates restored, but new buildings are coming up where the wall used to exist initially. For instance, many modern structures have come up at the exit point of Sikandri gate and its adjoining part as well and in place of the wall. Most areas of the walled city are a picture of neglect and need special care from the conservation perspective. They are of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s time. Pakistan has most important landmarks associated with him and the Khalsa Raj.Neeraj BaggaTribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 26Like every year, the death anniversary of the legendary Sikh king Maharaja Ranjit Singh will be observed on Saturday, but memorials associated with him are facing neglect both in India and Pakistan.His rule for Punjab in general and Amritsar in particular was considered as the golden period. He brought various path-breaking and dynamic reforms during his rule. He is even known to introduce various art forms in decorating buildings and areas. But, it’s unfortunate that no serious efforts have been made to protect and conserve buildings and areas contributed by him.Prof Balvinder Singh, Conservation Spatial Planner and former head of Guru Ramdas School of Planning, Guru Nanak Dev University, said: “During research, I observed that the Maharaja had always named areas and buildings after the names of Gurus such as Rambagh on the name of Guru Ramdas and Gobind Garh Fort on the name of 10th Guru Gobind Singh. He never named any building or area after him.”Prof Singh has written ‘Splendid Artworks in Historic Sikh Shrines of India and Pakistan: Conservation Perspective’, for which he had visited Pakistan on numerous occasions. He found the monuments associated with the Maharaja in a dilapidated and neglected state there as well. He carried out photographic documentation of such memoirs and feels that no efforts have been made to preserve them both in India and Pakistan.Such monuments and areas are scattered in the East and West Punjab. He said Pakistan has most important landmarks associated with the Maharaja and the Khalsa Raj. The samadhi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in Lahore is a double storey structure and contains beautiful frescoes, but these, too, were in a complete neglect, he said, adding that many structures have been whitewashed and the remaining are decaying due to the neglect of the authorities.The portion of the fort in Lahore, where Maharani Jinda used to stay, also lies in a neglected state. He found that the archeology department of Pakistan had even added a modern brick structure to it, which is an eyesore.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/maharaja-ranjit-singhs-memorials-face-neglect-both-in-india-pak-104976
27-06-2020||---||60,000 students attend webinar on awareness against drug addiction||Amritsar, June 26 As many as 60,000 students studying in 130 schools of Akal Academies on Friday participated in a webinar to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.  The students logged in to participate in the webinar in an attempt to create a world record of most number of students attending a webinar. Organised by The Kalgidhar Trust, Baru Sahib, the webinar was on the subject of ‘Role of Children and Youth in Making India Drug-Free’. “This was the highest global participation in a webinar and has been noted as such in the ‘World Book of Records, UK’,” claimed Dr Davinder Singh, secretary, Kalgidhar Trust.  Renowned psychiatrists and counsellor, Dr (Col.) Rajinder Singh, director, Akal Drug De-Addiction Centers, Baru Sahib and Sangrur), Dr NL Gupta, senior psychologist at Akal Drug De-Addiction Center, Baru Sahib, were the key speakers at the event. They addressed 60,000 children and youth emphasising on the hazards of drug-addiction and illegal trafficking. The 45-minute webinar took place on Facebook Live.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/60-000-students-attend-webinar-on-awareness-against-drug-addiction-104978
27-06-2020|| ---||Amritsar city police hold online contest to highlight drug abuse problem||Amritsar, June 26 In order to mark International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, the city police on Friday launched an awareness campaign under which cops distributed pamphlets among the people here.  Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the department would hold online poem and short speech contest on the topic “Say no to drugs”. In the competition children in the age group of 5 to 16 years can participate. He said the parents could send the recordings of children on WhatsApp Number 98888-05935 and 87278-21001 by July 5. He said the winners of first, second and third position would be awarded. Speaking on the occasion, he said the main objective of celebrating International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking was to spread awareness against the rampant drug abuse in the society. He said in view of Covid-19 pandemic, an online campaign was launched to spread awareness. He said banners, posters, and hoardings depicting ill effects of drug abuse would be shared online. He said SHOs, Suwidha centres and traffic staff was also directed to spread awareness among the people while maintaining social distancing.  He said the people should come forward in the fight against drug abuse and help the police and district administration in eradicating the menace from its roots. He said they should become Drug Abuse Prevention Officers and motivate the drug addicts to get treatments from OOAT centres.  Among those present on the occasion including DCPs Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar and Jagmohan Singh, ADCPs Dr Simrat Kaur, Sartaj Singh Chahal, Harpal Singh, Jugraj Singh, Harjit Singh Dhaliwal and Parminder Singh Bhandal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-city-police-hold-online-contest-to-highlight-drug-abuse-problem-104979
27-06-2020||---||Amritsar district Congress unit observes ‘Salam Diwas’ ; takes jibe at Modi||Amritsar, June 26  The local unit of Congress on Friday paid tribute to the 20 soldiers martyred in the recent standoff with China in Galwan Valley in Eastern Ladakh as part of the nationwide campaign titled ‘Shaheedon Ko Salam Diwas’.  The leaders and workers of the district Congress urban unit led by Jatinder Sonia, president of district Congress committee, Amritsar (Urban), staged a demonstration against Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his recent statement about the Chinese invasion in the Indian territory.  District president Sonia said, “Soldiers are being martyred but PM Modi says no one crossed the border. We hoped that army would avenge the killing of our unarmed soldiers and take back our land, but it’s hard to digest that the government seems to have reached a compromise with the enemy.”  “The government has surrendered to China. Our country is facing betrayal on the border but BJP is conducting political rallies. Who will avenge the killing of soldiers? The public is suffering from the pandemic, the economy is ruined, millions of people have become unemployed due to lockdown but the government hasn’t shown any concern”, added Sonia.  AIT Chairman Dinesh Bassi, block presidents Jagvinder Judge, Rampal Singh, Haridev Sharma, Lakhanpal Kahaid, Rana Pawan Kumar, Abdul Noor, Vishal Kumar, Surinder Kivalani, Naresh Kumar, Balraj Mehra, paid tributes to the martyrs on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-district-congress-unit-observes-salam-diwas-takes-jibe-at-modi-104980
27-06-2020||---||Tolanangal brought on production warrant by Amritsar rural police||Amritsar, June 26The Amritsar rural police on Friday brought a notorious criminal, Sukhjinder Singh Tolanangal, on production warrant in connection with the arrest of two Khalistani operatives. Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh were nabbed by the rural police and a German-made MP5 sub machine gun, a 9mm calibre pistol with four magazines and two mobile phones were seized from their possession on June 19.According to information, Tolanangal had introduced Gurmeet Singh to Rajasthan-based smugglers following which he started drug trafficking. It is learnt that Gurmeet and Tolanangal had met in jail.Tolanangal had over a dozen cases of drug trafficking and attempt to murder registered against him. He was lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail. On Friday, he was produced in court and brought on eight-day police remand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tolanangal-brought-on-production-warrant-by-amritsar-rural-police-104981
27-06-2020||---||Covid frontline heroes felicitated by NGO in Qadian||Amritsar, June 26 Corona warriors, who served during the lockdown period, were honoured by presenting a letter of honour and a momento by a social service organisation, Rahat Foundation, at a temple in Qadian in Gurdaspur district on Friday. On the occasion, Batala SDM Balwinder Singh said, “For the past three months, the country has been going through difficult times. In such a situation, we are thankful to these great souls, who reached people to provide them every facility. The role, played by the country’s doctors, nurses, policemen, NGOs and volunteers, is commendable.” The SDM further said he was feeling proud today by honouring such warriors. He also thanked Rahat Foundation for organising the function to honour the corona warriors. Ram Lal, president of the organisation, said, “In this hour of pandemic, we can sail through the crisis by supporting each other. One should always be positive.” General secretary Mukesh Kumar said, “The event is being organised under the patronage of Jagdev Singh Bajwa, head of the organisation, who is in abroad.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-frontline-heroes-felicitated-by-ngo-in-qadian-104982
27-06-2020||---||215 Indians return home from Pakistan||Amritsar, June 26The second batch of over 215 Indian nationals, who were stranded in Pakistan due to Covid-19 lockdown, returned through Attari-Wagah border on Friday.According to information, 124 belonged to Jammu and Kashmir, 55 to Gujarat and 36 to Maharashtra.While the J&K residents were ferried back to their destination through special buses arranged by the J&K Transport Corporation from Attari, whereas 60 were quarantined in a hotel and 31 in a government quarantine centre.They were part of the 748 Indian nationals hailing from various states, who were being repatriated in three phases. Yesterday, 204 J&K residents, mostly the medical students, had arrived through same channel.The remaining ones would come tomorrow which included five persons from Gujarat, 25 from Maharashtra, 46 from Uttar Pradesh, 38 from Rajasthan, 36 from Punjab, 26 from Delhi, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 14 from Haryana, 11 from Telangana, six each from Karnataka and Chandigarh, five from Chhattisgarh, four from Tamil Nadu, three from West Bengal, two each from Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and one from Bihar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/215-indians-return-home-from-pakistan-104984
27-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Dysfunctional traffic lights causing inconvenience to commuters in city||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 26Even as the curfew and lockdown restrictions have been relaxed and traffic is back on the roads, traffic lights in various parts of the city are still lying dysfunctional.Most lights not workingA visit to various chowks and main roads reveals that a majority of traffic lights are still not working. Traffic is back on roads as markets and offices are open now, so chaos prevails at traffic intersections.The Punjab Government imposed curfew on March 23 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. All the markets and offices were shut down and people were not allowed to come on roads, therefore skeletal traffic was seen on the roads.A visit to various chowks and main roads reveals that a majority of traffic lights are still not operational. Traffic is back on roads as markets and offices are open now, so there is chaos on chowks.There is also confusion about which authorities are responsible for maintaining traffic lights as MC officials say a majority of traffic lights are under the jurisdiction of the PWD and Improvement Trust.“The irony is that the police were focusing more on challaning people for not wearing the face mask. Though barricades were still present on the chowks and roads, the problem is being faced more on chowk where vehicular traffic is allowed from all the sides. The situation is going to be grimmer in the future once traffic volume increases on roads,” said Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Loharaka Road here.Raminderbir Singh, another resident, pointed out that at present the regulation of traffic was the least concern of the police department officials of which were working as frontline warriors in the current difficult times. However, chaotic conditions at the chowks could be dangerous for commuters and cops should at least get the traffic lights repaired.Dr Rakesh Sharma, a retired professor from Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, said, “We should not forget the road safety measures and obey traffic signals. The police should at least get the traffic signal lights repaired so that no life is lost in a road accident.”Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said though the department was busy tackling other major issues, he would look into this. He said traffic lights were the responsibility of the Municipal Corporation. “I have to see whether they were off due to the lockdown or due to some snag. If there is snag, he would ask the MC authorities to get it rectified soon,” said the Police Commissioner.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said a majority of traffic lights were currently under the purview of the PWD (BRTS project) and Improvement Trust. There were only a few traffic lights which were under the ambit of the MC and these were around the walled city. He said the MC had written many times to the authorities concerned for handing their charge to the MC and they were ready to maintain them. But nothing happened on the ground till now, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dysfunctional-traffic-lights-causing-inconvenience-to-commuters-in-city-104985
27-06-2020||Amritsar||4 mobiles seized from jail, 2 booked||Power plant staff protestAmritsar: Members of the Punjab Raj Bijli Board Technical Services Union held a protest rally and burnt an effigy of the Capt Amarinder Singh government here on Friday. The protesting members were protesting against the government for its alleged move to sell off land of the thermal power plant in Bathinda. They raised slogans against the government for its alleged anti-employee policies. They particularly attacked Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal for the move. They stated that these steps would eventually devoid the state and its major departments of assets. They said the government was selling the plant's 1,768 acres of land for peanuts and that, too, after investing crores of rupees on it. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-mobiles-seized-from-jail-2-booked-104986
27-06-2020||---||Covid claims another life, Amritsar district toll 37||Amritsar, June 26The district reported one more Covid-19 casualty, taking the death toll to 37 on Friday. Besides, 25 fresh cases were confirmed by the health authorities. The deceased was identified as Harinder Singh, a resident of Maqboolpura. He was 73-year-old. He was admitted to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon (Haryana).Of the new cases, 12 are ILI (influenza-like illness) patients from Kartar Nagar, Chheharta, Karampuras, Shariffpura, Chavinda Devi, Majitha Road, Kathunangal village, Gurdwara Tut Sahib and Ranjit Avenue while two each from Sultanwind and Haripura areas.As many as 13 positive cases have a contact history. Of these, two are from Baba Deep Singh Avenue, three of Jawahar Nagar, two are of Indra Colony on the Majitha road, three are from Azad Nagar in the Chheharta area and one each from Medical Enclave, Batala Road and Gate Hakima.The count of positive cases has climbed to 896 in the district. With 644 patients discharged from hospitals after recovery, the district now has 215 patients admitted in hospitals. With a mortality rate of 4.13 per cent in the district, the district has reported 37 deaths.Meanwhile, DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon has announced relaxation in curfew on every Saturday till 5 pm. He said the latest change in rules would come in force from tomorrow. He added that people must follow the Covid-19 norms. He called upon the shopkeepers to ensure that customers follow the social distancing norm to prevent the spread of the virus.50-year-old crematedTarn Taran: The body of Gurmeet Singh (50), who died of Covid-19 in Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, was cremated at the local Mohalla Nanaksar cremation ground here on Friday. He was a resident of the local Deep Avenue.Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar said Gurmeet Singh, who was a heart patient, was admitted to GND Hospital in Amritsar on Wednesday night. Hospital staff had taken his samples to test for Covid-19 and the report came out positive on Thursday.The Civil Surgeon said the body was cremated under the supervision of two employees of the Health Department. He said it was the third death due to the coronavirus in the district. All the three victims died in Amritsar hospitals and were cremated at their respective villages. 23 persons quarantined in Khadoor Sahib Tarn Taran: Twenty-three persons, who returned from Dubai and Bahrain, were quarantined in a hostel of Sri Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here, on Friday. The hostel and the college are run by Baba Sewa Singh of the Kar Sewa sect (Khadoor Sahib). Bhai Nirmal Singh of the sect said the returnees were brought here from Amritsar. It was pertinent to mention here that food and other essential items required for the quarantined persons were providing by the sect. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-claims-another-life-amritsar-district-toll-37-104987
27-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||VB: Hospital did not accept insurance policy of victims||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 26While Tuli Diagnostic Centre fleeced the victims by charging more than the stipulated rates, the hospital did not entertain the health insurance cover of the victim and asked them to pay in cash.This came to light during the investigations being carried out in the fake Covid-19 report racket that was busted by the Vigilance and booked five doctors and owner of a private hospital here two days ago.A Vigilance officer, privy to the investigations preferring anonymity, said during scrutiny of records, it was found Sunil Passi, a resident of Jandiala, paid Rs 6,500 for the test but he was handed over a receipt of Rs 4,500.Though many victims paid cash, Sunil Passi did RTGS of Rs 6,500 to the Tuli Diagnostic on Majitha Road.Similarly, the EMC hospital located in Green Avenue refused to entertain the insurance cover of the victim and asked them to pay in cash. Several victims, who appeared before the Vigilance, said the hospital authorities told them that their health insurance cards were not valid in their hospital and therefore they had to pay in cash.The Vigilance official said after the wrongdoings of Tuli Lab and EMC hospital came to the fore, health official said that four victims who were tested positive from Tuli Lab on June 4 were came negative when Health Department examined them.Former Congress leader Mandeep Singh Manna pointed out that the hospital authorities knew ‘what’ they were doing and was aware that health insurance would raise objections on the treatment as there was no vaccine for the treatment of the disease till now.He urged Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh that this was very serious issue which could have serious implications on the health of the people. Many of them could have lost their lives if they got positive after contracting the virus from the hospital’s isolation ward the same way one of the complainants Vicky Dutta’s relatives got positive. He requested him to get the probe reach the conclusion and the accused were put behind bars for unethical practices.The Vigilance has booked EMC hospital owner Pawan Arora, besides five doctors Dr Pankaj Soni of EMC hospital, Dr Mohinder Singh, Dr Ridhum Tuli, Dr Sanjay Piplani and Dr Robin Tuli of Tuli Diagnostic Centre. They were booked on charges of murder bid, cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy, prevention of corruption act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vb-hospital-did-not-accept-insurance-policy-of-victims-104989
27-06-2020||Neha Saini||Silver lining: Covid pandemic pushes theatre artistes in Punjab to explore digital space||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, June 26It is not for the first time that the theatre has been faced with an existential crisis. As the Covid-19 lockdown wreaks havoc, the theatre fraternity is hopeful that this too will pass.Taking the pandemic in their stride, senior theatre professionals from the city are now switching to digital platforms to keep the theatre and performing arts discourse alive and kicking. Online performances, live streaming of plays and group enactment through various digital media are becoming the new normal.“Though it was difficult to sustain these times, yet theatre has managed to combat this phase. Most artistes are now conducting online sessions and performances. The artistes have come out of their conventional roles as live performances became a thing of past. All this might be new for us, but it is not necessarily bad,” shares Arvinder Chamak, a senior painter and performing artist.Chamak, who is also the general secretary of the Indian Academy of Fine Arts has been conducting online sessions on arts and theatrical culture, featuring Indian and Pakistani artistes and audience throughout lockdown.Taking the storytelling through drama and arts to digital space, many city-based artistes have already live-streamed their performances online. These include Gurinder Makana, a senior actor and director. Makana staged the acclaimed story Ram Gau, picked up from anthology that was once directed by Kewal Dhaliwal for the stage.“The only difference is that you have to improvise a lot and make use of lesser props and also use yourself more expressively, to give an engaging performance. Even the audience understands the constraints of digital performance, so, it is not an impossible task to achieve,” says Makana. He adds that the pandemic has somehow pushed artistes to explore the digital medium that has a larger reach,” he says.Suvidha Duggal is another young artiste who has been busy with online theatre. “As a creative person, I have found my own ways to turn this into an opportunity. I have been performing solo plays online. Scripts need to undergo changes to adapt to digital space.”Speaking out The pandemic has opened new horizons by giving more of a virtual space for showcasing talent and feel the pain of the humanity. This new normal has opened gates for artistes from different nations. — Arvinder Chamak, painter and performing artisteDigital space for theatre arts has to be explored for creative and commercial aspects. I have been developing a digital space where we can support artistes to give solo live performances. — Gurinder Makana, actor and directorI have been uploading short videos of my performances on social media platforms and digital space. Artistes and audiences both need to shift to digital space to keep the theatre experience alive. — Suvidha Duggal, theatre artisteWe need to create a digital platform for audio-video performances, live streaming and online discussions where experts like Bansi Kaul, Surjit Patar interact with audience. — Kewal Dhaliwal, president, Punjab Sangeet Natak Akademi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/silver-lining-covid-pandemic-pushes-theatre-artistes-in-punjab-to-explore-digital-space-104990
