27-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Essentials in short supply, say Tarn Taran residents||Tarn Taran, March 26Though the district administration has assured residents that essential commodities will be provided on their doorsteps, they are complaining of acute shortage of essentials.  On Wednesday the administration fixed timings of LPG gas agencies, petrol pumps, fodder stalls etc. but their numbers were yet to be made public. SDM Rajnish Arora claimed that milk, milk products and other eatable items were being provided to residents. But on the contrary, residents of Mohindra Enclave, Deep Avenue, Sachkhand Road and  many others localities were complaining that they were yet to get the supply of items.  Ajaib Singh, a resident of Fatehchak locality, Jagtar Singh, watchman of Deep Avenue and others said the vehicle supplying essential commodities was not seen in their localities.  They expressed their ignorance about the cell number of the helplines. Same was the position of Tonkkashtrya Mohalla, Baba Basta Colony and Sarhali Road residents. Gurpreet Singh of Noordi, Mangal Singh of Kot Dharam Chand Kalan villages, said the residents were getting the supply of milk only. They said a police team came to their villages to check the opening of the shops but did not spoke on the supply of essential items. They said LPG cylinders were delivered on Wednesday. We were yet to get animal feed, they said. Private health services shut down shutters today.  Police personnel are facing tough time as during relaxation period people assemble in large numbers at pharmacy stores.  The cell numbers of doctors and chemists have not been displayed. Kar Sewa sect Dera Baba Jeewan Singh volunteers distributed food to the needy in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/essentials-in-short-supply-say-tarn-taran-residents-61738
27-03-2020||  ||Shortage of personal safety kits for resident docs flayed||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, March 26  Members of the Resident Doctors’ Association at Government Medical College have criticised health officials for a scarcity of masks and personal safety kits for the medical staff.   They said junior resident and senior resident doctors come in direct contact with patients and their chances of getting infected are more.  The association members said like many medical institutions across the country, resident doctors at Government Medical College have been working without any safety kits to protect themselves from Covid that knows no boundaries.   “There are no masks, gloves or sanitisers available, let alone Personal Protective Equipment kits for those working in emergency. It is lack of concern and the callous attitude of the administration that is appalling in this situation,” reads a release issued by the association.  It stated that resident doctors have been ordered to work, disregarding their own safety.  The association said the principal has yet to declare OPDs and OTs shut, which is encouraging the public to break curfew and look for doctors for common ailments.  The association said the WHO, Prime Minister and senior officials encourage the safety of healthcare providers, which will simultaneously reduce the spread drastically.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-personal-safety-kits-for-resident-docs-flayed-61734
27-03-2020||---||Civic body launches spray drive in Amritsar||Amritsar, March 26The Municipal Corporation (MC) has started the process of disinfecting residential localities. Today, the fire wing employees conducted door-to-door disinfecting spray with hand machines in the localities of ward number 36 and 37.Heritage Street leading to the Golden Temple is also being sanitised.Raj Anthony, sub-fire officer, said, “We are conducting spray in all offices, public places and residential localities. The Heritage Street and surroundings of Golden Temple were sanitised today”.Dr Ajay Kawar, Muncipal Health Officer, said, “Other than the work of sanitation, which is being done regularly in all wards of the city. The health wing sprayed sodium hypochlorite in different wards of the city”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-launches-spray-drive-in-amritsar-61733
27-03-2020|| Jaiswar
||Cops do it again: Fireman on way  to job ‘beaten up’ by ASI||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 26  A day after a man was thrashed by the police after chasing him to his residence, who had gone outside with his 8-month-old pregnant wife to get medicines for her, a fireman, who was going to his office, was allegedly beaten up an ASI, identified as Tarsem Singh, at a checkpoint here on Thursday. According to information, the incident took place despite the fact that the victim had a curfew pass.  Agitated over the incident, fire brigade officials took fire tenders to the Gate Hakima police station and lodged a protest. The victim has been identified as Naresh Sharma, who stays at his aunt’s house. The victim’s father Pawan Sharma, who had also served in the Fire Brigade Department, said the police initially tried to hush up the case. He said after sanitising some areas, including Roop Nagar, Anngarh and Bharariwal, at night, Naresh was told join the duty for assisting in fumigation.  He said after receiving a call from his office in the morning, he left his house. He was stopped near the Gate Hakim naka by cops and when he told that he was going to his office, the policemen said he was not allowed to move on roads.  The victim’s father said Naresh was thrashed with sticks by ASI Tarsem Singh. Naresh suffered an injury on his wrist and there was a whipping mark on his back. Fire brigade officials demanded immediate suspension of the ASI and registration of a case against him.   The Gate Hakima police have written to the Police Commissioner recommending immediate suspension of the ASI. In their report, they said a number of complaints of misbehaviour were received against the ASI. On Wednesday, a woman, identified as Renu Bala, had accused two policemen of thrashing her husband Sukhdev Singh when they went outside to get medicine for her. The cops even chased her husband to his house in the Sultanwind Road area here. The incident was captured in CCTV cameras. Sukhdev suffered an injury in his nose and was admitted to hospital. Cops are facing flak from residents who said they were using their powers in this hour of crisis. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said the incident was brought to his notice and action had been initiated against the accused cops. He said they were looking into the second incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-do-it-again-fireman-on-way-to-job-beaten-up-by-asi-61731
27-03-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja
||Milk supply hit||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 26 The imposition of curfew to prevent the spread of Covid-19 led to disruption in milk supply in the city. Despite the fact that the administration has given three hours (from 5 am to 8 am) for the purpose, milkmen are not able to reach all houses within the given time. Raja Kotala, a milkman, said: “I collect milk from villages in the evening and I leave my home around 2.30 am daily and distributing at 5 am, but I cannot cover all households by 8 am. I have to go back with huge quantity of unsold milk.” For three days until Thursday, collection of milk wasn’t allowed. On Thursday, Verka and some other private firms started collection but it they could do it only once a day. Simarjit Singh, in-charge at a milk collection centre, said: “I collect 3,000-litre milk from villages every day. But the police did not allow me to open the centre for three days. After intervention by the Deputy Commissioner, milkmen were allowed to resume work today (Thursday).” But the collection centers and private milkmen were able to collect the milk only once a day, he said. Generally, farmers milk their cattle twice a day and give the fresh milk to milkmen or collection points of Verka, he added. Davinder Singh, a farmer, said: “I have three buffaloes and used to sell 15-kg milk twice a day. Now, the milkman has suspended the morning collection and we have to use 6-kg milk at home. We are making khoya, cheese or desi ghee with it.” Deputy Commissioner Shivdullar Singh Dhillon said Verka was delivering milk on the doorstep. There were some issues being faced at present, but the supply would be streamlined soon, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/milk-supply-hit-61730
27-03-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill
||Tall claims, but Amritsar residents fail to get crucial items on doorstep||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 26 Despite tall claims of the district administration to provide all essential items on the doorstep, residents in most of the areas failed to get milk, medicines, grocery items and vegetables here on Thursday. Many residents complained that when they called up shopkeepers who have been given permit to sell grocery items or vegetables, they said they did not have stock. The residents said phone numbers of some shopkeepers remained busy or switched off. Even some shopkeepers indulged in profiteering as cauliflowers and gourds were sold at Rs100 per kg. “After requesting hard, a shopkeeper at Galamala Chownk was ready to sell vegetables. Astonishingly, one person came with a policeman and took away a large number of items,” said a resident, who did not wish to be named. Even most of the chemists whose numbers were provided to residents for home delivery of medicines did not supply the same. Officials of the drug wing of the Health Department said they had provided phone numbers of only 35 chemists who were overburdened with orders.  Department officials said they were adding more chemists to the list so that all residents could get medicines. The situation was more difficult for people living in not so posh areas or semi slums where no permit holder was allowed to visit by the administration.  Pawan, a resident of Gurnanakpura, said, “Only one person who was selling bread came to our street. But, he did not have any permit.” However shopkeepers in some localities came to the help of residents as they secretively sold items due to the fear of the police. Residents said the system of issuing permits to selected traders gives them power to manipulate the masses. Meanwhile, there was a huge rush of traders seeking permit at the Deputy Commissioner’s office. However, most of the banks opened their ATMs on Thursday afternoon. District administration officials said one branch of each bank would remain open from 11 am to 2 pm. The ATMs would remain open throughout the day. 72 booked for defying prohibitory orders Four days have passed since the curfew was imposed by the government to check the spread of Covid, but people continue to defy prohibitory orders by coming on roads. In the past 24 hours, the police booked 72 persons and registered 39 cases in the district. According to information, the rural police arrested 61 persons and registered 31 cases. A shopkeeper left his shop when a police team reached the spot. Similarly, the city police arrested 10 persons and registered eight cases. All of them were later released on bail. Police officials said several people were not abiding the orders of social distancing and are coming on roads despite the fact that the curfew is imposed in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tall-claims-but-amritsar-residents-fail-to-get-crucial-items-on-doorstep-61729
