27-10-2020||Blurb||Cross-case against SGPC task force||Tribune ReportersAmritsar/Fatehgarh Sahib, October 26The city police today registered a cross-case against SGPC employees in connection with the clash between its task force and Sikh activists protesting over the missing “saroops”.The police had registered two cases, booking around 60 activists of Sikh organisations, in connection with the clash.DCP Jagmohan Singh said the cross-case was registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC on the complaint of Sikh organisations. Further investigations were on.Around 30 persons from both sides were injured following an altercation outside the Teja Singh Samundri Hall where Sikh organisations were holding an agitation over missing “saroops”.Earlier in the day, the Satkar Committee accused the SGPC task force of picking up its members from the dharna site and assaulting them before getting false FIRs registered against them at the behest of its president.Committee spokesperson Sukhjit Singh Khosa, along with members of the committee and other Sikh organisations, in Fatehgarh Sahib said they had sought an appointment with the DGP to apprise him of the incident and highlight the high-handedness of the SGPC task force in getting false cases registered against them.He said they would continue to hold protest and seek answers to the missing “saroops”.Answering a query about a clip being circulated in the social media terming committee members drug addicts, he accused the SGPC of trying to tarnish their image. Khosa offered to undergo a dope test alongside SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and SGPC members and said in case he tested positive, he would self-immolate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cross-case-against-sgpc-task-force-161502
27-10-2020||---||Takht forms probe panel amid Chief Khalsa Diwan membership row||Amritsar, October 26Akal Takht has constituted a four-member inquiry committee to investigate the complaint of ‘patit Sikhs’ (non-baptised) getting membership of century-old Sikh body Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD).The Takht also called upon the CKD management to submit the requisite declaration forms, mandatory to be furnished by the candidate before seeking a membership.The CKD’s fresh membership drive had come under the scanner when a number of complaints were received at the Akal Takht secretariat about Sikhs with shorn hair and trimmed beard being included.Following this, Takht’s Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh had put a blanket ban on fresh appointments in the body since July 1. Before the directions could deliver, the CKD inducted around 60 new members against the vacant positions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/takht-forms-probe-panel-amid-chief-khalsa-diwan-membership-row-161514
27-10-2020||Tarn Taran||Man booked for attempt to rape||One nabbed with pistol, cartridgesAmritsar: The Beas police arrested Satnam Singh of Danial village for allegedly possessing a country-made weapon here on Sunday. He was arrested from a checkpoint near Sathaiala College bus stop. He was travelling on a Bullet motorcycle. Charan Singh, Investigating Officer, said he was stopped at the checkpoint and after some suspicion he was searched. The police found a .315 bore country-made pistol along with four live cartridges from his possession. A case under the Arms Act has been registered and further investigations are under progress. TNS‘Release degrees of SC students’Amritsar: Prof Sarbjot Singh Behl, Dean Academic Affairs, GNDU, said in compliance of the orders of the government, the heads of the departments of GNDU, Amritsar, regional campuses and OSDs of the constituent colleges are directed to issue the withheld degrees of students belonging to the SC category after taking affidavit as per the attached formats. The issue had been a bone of contention between SC/ST candidates and varsity as the former alleged degrees withheld by GNDU would damage job prospects of the candidates. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-attempt-to-rape-161732
27-10-2020||Amritsar||1 death, 8 new Covid cases in Amritsar district||A 78-year-old man from Preet Nagar (Chogawan) succumbed to Covid while eight fresh cases were reported on Monday. The death toll in the district has reached 446.Six patients suffered from influenza-like illness while two others were the contacts of positive patients. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-death-8-new-covid-cases-in-amritsar-district-161731
27-10-2020||Tarn Taran||DC gives aid  to woman||‘Sakhi One Step Centre’, established by the Social Security Women and Children Development Department, is proving to be a blessing for the violence victim women.DC Kulwant Singh gave a financial help of Rs 6,000 and ration for six month to a victim woman here on Monday. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-gives-aid-to-woman-161730
27-10-2020||---||Case against UP firm for fraud||Amritsar, October 26Days after around 30 trucks laden with paddy that arrived from Uttar Pradesh were intercepted by agitating farmers at a toll plaza here, the local police on Monday booked a UP-based firm for fraud and criminal conspiracy.During verification of the documents of these trucks, it was found that a truck carrying PR variety of paddy seized at the toll plaza was not ordered by the firm whose name was given in the documents.As per the documents of the truck, the paddy was to be delivered to SK Trading Company in Tarn Taran. Following this a report was sought from Tarn Taran Market Committee secretary. When the market committee asked the SK firm authorities, they feigned ignorance about any such order. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/case-against-up-firm-for-fraud-161729
27-10-2020||---||Tributes paid to Comrade Bhikhiwind||Our CorrespondentTarn Taran, October 26People from all walks of life paid tributes to Comrade Balwinder Singh Bhikhiwind (61), a Shaurya Chakra awardee, during a congregation organised at Bhikhiwind, 35 km from here, on Monday.Balwinder Singh, who had fought against terrorism, was shot dead by assailants at his residence-cum- school on October 16.The bhog of Akhand Path was performed for the peace of the departed soul. Sukhpal Singh Bhullar, MLA (Khemkaran), Comrade Mangat Ram Palsa, national general secretary of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) and Virsa Singh Valtoha, SAD leader and former MLA, were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tributes-paid-to-comrade-bhikhiwind-161728
27-10-2020||---||AAP demands Akal Takht’s intervention||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26Condemning the clash occurred on the Golden Temple premises recently, the AAP has sought the intervention of the Akal Takht.AAP MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan said that the reckless attitude and violent behaviour of the SGPC officials towards the protesters and the media fraternity was an insult to the entire Sikh community.“Attack on members of Satkar Committee by the SGPC employees is highly deplorable and Jathedar Akal Takht must take strict action against the culprits”, he said.Kultar Singh Sandhwan said earlier also, in Bargarhi case, protesting Sikh activists were targeted while the people responsible for sacrilege had gone scot-free.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-demands-akal-takhts-intervention-161727
27-10-2020||---||SGPC flays attack on staff members||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26The SGPC held its executive body meeting chaired by president Gobind Singh Longowal at its office here on Monday.The executive passed a resolution to condemn the attack by the members from various Sikh outfits, including Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee recently in which 15 persons from both sides received injuries.Longowal said that at the instance of ruling anti-panthic political forces, these so-called Sikh outfit members were bent on vitiating the peace and serene in the Golden Temple complex. “That is the reason that a ban has been imposed against holding any contest inside the shrine premises”, he said.The executive also chalked out programmes for upcoming centennial celebrations of the apex body on November 15.He told that special programmes would be held to grace the occasion which included seminars, gurmat programmes, an exhibition of paintings, besides a special souvenir, brief literature pertaining to Sikh struggle that led to formation of a Sikh apex body, articles pertaining to Sikh history and culture by renowned Sikh scholars will be available.Meanwhile, a condolence motion was moved on the demise of Giani Sukhjinder Singh, a granthi of Golden Temple. Other issues pertaining to historic gurdwaras and trusts were also discussed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-flays-attack-on-staff-members-161726
27-10-2020||---||Gangster, aides linked to drug trade nabbed||Amritsar, October 26A team of Gurdaspur police has neutralised a drug nexus by arresting gangster Sukhdeep Singh along with two of his accomplices.The three were involved in the smuggling of 22 kg heroin from the Pakistan border nine months ago, besides other crimes. Besides Sukhdeep, who belongs to Rudiana village, the others arrested include Harvinder Singh Dhodi and Harjeet Singh. Three pistols, 27 live cartridges, two cars and around Rs 40,000 in cash have been seized.IG Border Range SPS Parmar said a special investigation team, led by Gurdaspur SP Harvinder Singh Sandhu, got a tip off about the movement of Sukhdeep and Dhodi on October 25. They were caught at Chaura Chowk. Sukhdeep revealed the involvement of Harjeet Singh in the crime and he too was arrested. The IG said the suspects were wanted in a number of robbery and loot cases registered in Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Tarn Taran.They were involved in a bank dacoity committed on July 29 at Rudiana village in which Rs 5.5 lakh were looted. “The process is on to seal their bank accounts too,” the IG added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gangster-aides-linked-to-drug-trade-nabbed-161493
27-10-2020||---||Rs3.25 lakh snatched from iron trader||Amritsar, October 26Robbers snatched Rs 3.25 lakh from an iron trader, identified as Inderjit Singh, when he was going to bank for depositing the cash this afternoon. The police have started investigations and initiated process for registering an FIR.According to information, Inderjit Singh runs his business on the Majitha road and was on his way to deposit cash in Bank of Maharashtra when the incident tookplace.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs3-25-lakh-snatched-from-iron-trader-161725
27-10-2020||---||Woman, paramour held for killing sister-in-law||Amritsar, October 26The police today arrested a woman and her paramour for the murder of Harwinder Kaur (32) at Maan village here on Saturday. The accused have been identified as Rajwinder Kaur and her paramour Mandeep Singh.Superintendent of Police (SP) Gaurav Toora said Harwinder Kaur used to object to Rajwinder’s illicit relations with Mandeep Singh. Rajwinder’s husband, who is the elder brother of the deceased, has been living in Malaysia for the last one year.On the basis of a statement given by the deceased’s husband Palwinder Singh, the police on Sunday booked Rajwinder Kaur and an unidentified person for murder and destruction of evidence.Palwinder told the police that his wife Harwinder Kaur had gone to the residence of Rajwinder Kaur at 12.30 pm on Saturday. When she did not return for two hours, he went to see her. Upon reaching Rajwinder’s house, he found a body in a room that was recently set afire. He raised the alarm and the fire was doused. The police were informed about the incident.As the body was burnt beyond recognition, he identified it that of his wife Harwinder Kaur on the basis of some marks in her abdomen region. SHO, Kathunangal police station, Kirandeep Singh said a suicide note was recovered from the spot following which they got suspicious.During interrogation, it came to light that Rajwinder Kaur wanted to elope with Mandeep Singh. However, Harwinder came to know about their plans and objected to this. The accused hatched a conspiracy to kill her and set the body afire to fake the death of Rajwinder as suicide.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-paramour-held-for-killing-sister-in-law-161724
27-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||This environmentalist goes beyond just growing trees||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26An environmentalist in true sense, Brig Parkash Singh Bhatti (retd) surely does have a green thumb as is evident from lakhs of saplings his organisation has planted in the state. Bhatti, who runs an organisation named ‘Khudai Khidmatgar’ is busy these days getting a nursery of plant saplings prepared to be used in next plantation season besides taking care of the grown up trees.Bhatti not only gets these saplings planted but also takes due care that these survive and branch out to their fuller self. Apart from getting the nursery prepared, Bhatti these days is also busy getting the bases of tree trunks painted with a white solution. While most people who have often seen the tree trunks painted in white and mistake it to be a simple lime solution, Bhatti reveals, “It actually is a solution of lime, Neela Thotha (copper sulphate) and salt. It is anti-fungal and helps against pests.”Photo: Vishal KumarBhatti reveals that during the onset of cold season, many pests find shelter in cavities in the bark of trees. Besides, fungus also grows in these cavities after the rainy season. The coating of tree trunks helps in guarding these trees against the damage caused by fungus and pests. “We would be able to cover at least 80,000 during the season. It is very important.” he said.The noted environmentalist has been behind creating green covers alongside many highways and roads in entire state. As Bhatti manages most of the expenses from his own resources besides help from a very close circle of friends and families, he feels that government is not doing enough.At his nurseries, where lakhs of plant samplings are prepared every year, Bhatti uses empty milk pouches instead of fresh plastic bags. Bhatti also prefers native species instead of the exotic varieties, which are more conducive to the local weather conditions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-environmentalist-goes-beyond-just-growing-trees-161723
27-10-2020||---||Farmers’ protest enters 28th  day at Buttari railway station||Amritsar, October 26Continuing their protest at the Buttari railway station, near Beas, which entered the 26th day on Monday, farmers burnt the effigies of the Centre and corporate houses.The protesters flayed the Union Government for not allowing goods trains in the state despite farmer unions giving the relaxation in this regard. The farmers said instead of adopting confrontational politics, the Centre should address the issues of the farmers and withdraw the three farm laws.Meanwhile, farm activists sitting on rail tracks at Devisdas village have shifted the protest to Jandiala Guru in view of ensuing winter months. Farmer activists have also launched a protest against Rajiv Kumar Mana, BJP’s state executive member from Jandiala, who had reportedly stated that farmers were protesting as they had no other work. However, in a statement issued to the media, Mana denied having said this.The BJP leader said though he was in support of the three laws, he had not said anything wrong against the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-enters-28th-day-at-buttari-railway-station-161722
27-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Shortage of laptops and PCs takes away sheen from electronic market||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, October 26The shortage, and limited period discount on sale of laptops and personal computers (PCs) offered by online trading platforms, have taken away the sheen from the electronic market. It is generally believed that the prolonged India-China border imbroglio had slowed, if not dried up, the arrival of these gadgets in the market.Amid the unlocking phase, the demand of desktops and laptops had risen significantly due to online version of education being adopted by the educational institutions and upsurge in work from home concept among office-goers.Vikas Narang, president of Punjab Association of Computer Traders, said all expectations of impressive sales to continue till the festival season were smashed by the online companies offering discounts up to Rs5,000 on a piece of laptop and desktop.“Showroom and shopkeepers cannot match the rates being offered by online trading giants,” he said. Vikas has been wondering that the units, which they were unable to procure from the market, were being conveniently sold by these online trading behemoths.Consequently, a big slice of their day is spent idling and brooding if the demand will surface again – which doesn’t seem likely in the coming days to them. He also recalled that there had been over 20 per cent rise in the demand of these units in the market in comparison to previous year after easing of restrictions.Meanwhile, Sahil Mehra, proprietor of a computer showroom, stated that prices of desktops and laptops, irrespective of their being branded or assembled, had increased between Rs3,000 and Rs4,000 per piece, immediately after opening of the lockdown. Escalated price continues to remain the same. “They had not suffered the sale pangs and slowdown as was seen in sectors like hospitality and gold ornaments after the lifting of curfew,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shortage-of-laptops-and-pcs-takes-away-sheen-from-electronic-market-161721
27-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||A week after resumption, schools continue to witness scarce numbers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26A week after the reopening of schools for Classes VIII to XII, the response of students has been mediocre. To be precise, not up to the mark. At a time when even the private schools of the city are lodging in scarce numbers, one can easily imagine the scenes on the premises of a government school.A teacher of mathematics at a government school here said two or three students come daily in each class and those who do not attend; they join in online or clear their doubts on call during late evening. Perhaps a large section of students are under the impression that they may be promoted to the next class without examination – as was witnessed during the last academic year with Classes X and XII.However, many parents are still scared for their wards’ safety. Meanwhile, another section of parents is grappling with the fear of dwindling income. So for them, children have become a source of income as they help in running the house by working different kinds of jobs. And not to forget the marked shift to online version of education, it has also catapulted many students to got employed to bear the cost of smartphones; another challenge posed by the Covid.Ashwani Awasthi, who teaches English and social studies to students of Classes VI to X at Government Senior Secondary School, Khalchian, said that many students approached him and requested to let them complete at least this month in their jobs. “The response of students was not impressive. Strength of each class is between 50 and 65. Out of which half of the students are called on alternate days. However, no more than 15 students join in on any given day,” he said.Moreover, the entire staff of the school contributed from their pockets and pooled in Rs15,000 to buy notebooks and other stationery items for them. During the lockdown period, amount of Rs5,100 to three toppers of Class X and XII was also given away. “But such efforts haven’t sufficed, would always remain limited. There is a need to do more,” the teacher added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-week-after-resumption-schools-continue-to-witness-scarce-numbers-161720
27-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Prime suspect in fraud case nabbed||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26A day after the registration of fraud case, the Division B police have arrested prime suspect Sarabjit Singh, who had allegedly duped a local resident, Attarpreet Singh, of Rs 4.85 lakh on the pretext of cancelling an FIR registered against his father and bailing him out of the jail. His two accomplices, Amritpal Singh and Jaspreet, both residents of the Sultanwind road area here were yet to be arrested.They were booked following a probe conducted by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Bureau of Investigations) Kirpal Singh.Complainant Attarpreet alleged that the accused had duped in the name of several police officials and judges. He said that his family had wholesale business of desi ghee. He said last year a false case was registered against his father Bakshish under the Trade Marks Act. His father was later arrested by the police.He said Amritpal Singh and Jaspreet Singh were his friends while Sarabjit was known to them. He said when their family was passing through difficult times following the arrest of their father, Amritpal and Jaspreet came to him and said that Sarabjit Singh was an influential person of the area and had links with several politicians. They said he (Sarabjit) would help them in getting the FIR cancelled and release of Bakshish Singh.“As the two were my friends, we never thought that they would cheat him and his family,” Attarpreet said. The duo took money from them in the name of bribing policemen and Sessions Judge who they claimed was a relative of Sarabjit. Attarpreet said they told him that they had met the judge and the cops and all the matter was settled now that Bakshish Singh would be released on bail. However, after taking the money they got disappeared from court and did not responded to their calls while their father was also not released.He said he started demanding their money back, but the accused kept dilly-dallying the matter and did not return the amount. Following they lodged a complaint with Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill who marked a probe to ADCP Kirpal Singh. In his report, the ADCP found the allegations true and recommended registration of FIR against the three.After taking opinion of the district attorney, the city police registered a case under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act against the three accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prime-suspect-in-fraud-case-nabbed-161719
27-10-2020||---||The problem is on the inside||Amritsar, October 26The residents of the inner lanes of Khandwala have had a long list of complaints and no one to provide solutions. Often sidelined as far as civic development is concerned, Khandwala is a major commercial hub for locals and nearby residents from Cherherta and GT road. But the internal roads connecting cluster of small colonies in Khandwala to GT road and Chheharta are every commuter’s nightmare.The damaged patches on several internal roads, including the one leading from Khandwala, connecting the main market to Chheharta are the most vulnerable. For several years, the road has been ‘kutcha’ — the only carpeting was done years ago when the entire stretch of GT road was being paved for the BRTS project.“The road has remained the same for many years, with no development or patch work done to fill potholes. There are shops on both sides of the road on the entire stretch and it is mostly taken by residents going towards Cheherta,” said Rajkumar, a shopkeeper in the main Khandwala market. He also alleged that the portion of road has been dug up for two years now. This shows the casual approach of the authorities towards the area, despite it being on GT Road stretch. “They had dug up internal roads for sewerage pipes but after laying the line, they did not return to take stock of the area,” he added.The situation turns bad to worse whenever the showers hit the area. Many a time, these pits get filled with water and turn into puddles. At times, commuters fall into these puddles following accidents.Other residents of the area, Gurpreet Singh and Bhajan Singh, said that most dwellers have learned to live with damaged roads as no action was being taken. “There was a time when everyday one of the residents used to go to the MC office to file a complaint and lack of civic development in the area,” said Bhajan.The area falls under Ward No. 9 and 10.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-problem-is-on-the-inside-161718
27-10-2020||---||22 Amritsar city junctions to don new look to ease traffic congestion||Amritsar, October 26As many as 22 junctions (chowks) have been identified in the city that will be designed to ease traffic congestion. The Rs 25-crore junction redevelopment project, which will be carried out under the Smart City Mission,was inaugurated by Cabinet Minister Om Parkash Soni here on Saturday.One-year deadline setThe new design will have pop-up zebra crossing, underground electric wires and cables, pick-up and drop points, vending zones, parking areas, street furniture, area landscaping, signage boards, traffic police booths, bus stops and passenger shelters. The project would be completed within one year.MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, MLA Inderbir Singh Bularia, Sunil Datti, Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu, Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira, MC Commissioner and CEO, Smart City, Komal Mittal and Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi were also present.Launching the Urban Environment Improvement Programme Phase II, Soni said all development works initiated by the government would be completed within two years and in the stipulated time schedule.Mayor Karmjit Singh Rintu said several development projects were already underway. A Rs 2,200-crore project had been initiated to ensure round-the-clock drinking water supply in the city. Land measuring 40 acre had been acquired for the purpose and tenders had also been floated.CEO, Smart City, Komal Mittal said the previous design of the 22 identified junctions had several technical flaws. All these junctions had been re-designed as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Urban Development.These junctions included Makhan Chowk, Ghala-Mala Chowk, Bhagat Kabir Marg Chowk, Gurdwara Sandhu Wala Chowk, Ratan Singh Chowk, Hussainpura Chowk, Sangam Cinema Chowk, Ram Talai Mandir Chowk, Makbulpura Chowk (GT Road), Islamabad Chowk, Raghunath Mandir Chowk, Naiyan Wala Chowk, Amritsar Cantt Chowk (Manekshaw Avenue), Albert Road Crossing (GT Road), RamatirthaRoad Chowk (GT Road), Gurdwara Pipli Sahib Chowk (GT Road), Khalsa College Chowk, Bhandari Bridge Chowk and Batala Road Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/22-amritsar-city-junctions-to-don-new-look-to-ease-traffic-congestion-161717
27-10-2020||---||Youth shot at, bike snatched||Amritsar, October 26A youth was shot at by two unknown persons who snatched his bike and fled away. The incident occurred near Sarhale drain falling under the Mattewal police station area on Sunday. The police have registered a case against unidentified persons.Pardeep Singh (28), a resident of Bal Bawa village, told the police that on Sunday he was going to Jalandhar on his bike (PB-02-DZ-6154). He said when he reached Sarhale Wali drain, two unknown persons suddenly came out of the paddy fields and stopped him. They were equipped with pistols.He said one of the youth entered into a scuffle with him when he resisted their attempt for snatching his bike. In the scuffle they fell in the paddy fields. He said the other youth fired a shot at him in which he narrowly escaped. However, another shot pierced left side of his chest following which he fell down. The accused snatched his bike and fled away. Some persons rushed him to a private hospital in Amritsar.The Mattewal police have registered a case under Sections 394, 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against unidentified persons.Meanwhile, the Majitha police have arrested a snatcher while his accomplice is still on run after they snatched gold earrings of a woman on Bhai Salo road in Majitha on Sunday.Pushpa Devi, the victim, said on Sunday evening when she along with her husband was having walk at Bhai Salo road, two youth came from behind and caught hold of her. They snatched her earrings and fled after throwing her on ground due to which she was injured. She said on her shouts two local youths, Amanpreet Singh and Harpal Singh, chased the unidentified robbers but they managed to flee. However, they identified the two accused as Manpreet Singh of Nangal Pannua and Nishan Singh of Majitha vegetable market.The police later arrested Manpreet Singh and recovered a gold earring from his possession.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-at-bike-snatched-161716
27-10-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC dreams of topping Swachhta Survey, but UBDC is a nightmare||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 26The Municipal Corporation’s (MC) efforts of getting atop cleanliness survey are all but in vain for the Upper Bari Doab Canal (UBDC) at Sultanwind is inundated with garbage and filth. The pathetic condition exposes the tall claims of the government and MC when it comes to Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and solid waste management project of the civic body.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal said they are regularly visiting various wards of the city to make the public aware about the cleanliness. The Mayor claimed that the MC has targeted top spot in the Swachhta Survey 2021 but the canal’s woeful sight is completely burning up what’s left of the fair chances and efforts. Even the penalty for disposing off of garbage at the site hasn’t been able to restrict residents for the act.During the festival season the residents flung puja samagri, garlands and grains into the canal. Heaps of plastic bags and sacks can be seen on the bridge. However, polluting water body is a punishable offence that comes with a hefty fine, but the authorities concerned never make concerted efforts to refrain the public from doing so.Water from the Upper Bari Doab Canal is mainly used for irrigation in the region on the city’s outskirts. Five holy lakes, including Darbar Sahib sarovar, is connected to the canal to ensure year-round water supply. A special tunnel (hansali) is designed to supply water to Golden Temple complex. Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale has taken to the beautifying of the pathways of canal and cleanliness, unlike residents.“Though, the Dera Bhuri Wale is developing the canal as a picnic spot. The pathways and cycle tracks are being constructed but there is no check on the residents who are soiling the site. The garbage stinks out the place and people avoid walking along canal,” said KS Bhangu, a resident of Sultanwind road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-dreams-of-topping-swachhta-survey-but-ubdc-is-a-nightmare-161715
