27-12-2020||---||Residents take out march in support of farmers||Amritsar, December 26 A large number of people on Saturday took out a march in the city to protest against the Centre’s indifferent attitude towards the farmers who had been sitting in the bitter cold on borders of Delhi for the last one month. The participants riding on tractors and cars raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led NDA government in the Centre. The vehicles carrying banners depicting peasant struggle were seen in the march. Farmer activists, including Rajan Mann, Gurdev Singh Mahal, Tejpal Singh Cheema, Harjeet Singh Jhite and Angrej Singh Randhawa criticised the Central Government for its indifferent attitude. They said the Union Government was spreading propaganda to discredit the struggle. Mann said the Centre had done disservice to the country by forcibly implementing various policies, including demonetisation, GST, abrogation of Article 370 and enacting agri laws.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-take-out-march-in-support-of-farmers-189893
27-12-2020||---||No stopping snatchers in city||Amritsar, December 26The city police have miserably failed to curb snatching instances in the holy city as four new cases were reported with the local police on Friday and except one, there was no breakthrough in the remaining three cases.Two women, who were on foot, were intercepted and looted by two motorcycle-borne persons in Mandir Wali Gali in the Putlighar area here on Friday.According to the police, the victims did not lodge any complaint with the police, but the incident came to light when a video clip of the incident went viral on social media.Taking cognizance of this, the police have registered a case in this connection, while further investigations were on, said ASI Raj Kumar, the Investigating Officer.He said the incident occurred on Thursday. The police received the video clip on Friday. In the clip, two women were going to the main GT Road in the Putlighar area and when they reached near Deep tailor, two bike-borne persons arrived. The youth riding pillion attacked the victims and snatched their purse. We have no information about the victims so far.In another incident, a local resident identified as Harjit Singh was looted by three armed motorcycle-borne persons at Mudhal village. He told the police that he was going home through Mudhal Pandori village and when he reached the underground railway bridge at Mudhal village, three persons armed with sharp weapons stopped him and snatched his purse and two mobile phones.In the third incident, an SBI Bank employee, identified as Ranjit Kaur, fell victim to snatchers, who robbed her when she was returning home from the bank on Wednesday. She said as she reached near Parvati Devi Hospital in Ranjit Avenue, two bike-borne persons snatched her purse containing some cash and mobile phone.In the fourth such case, the police have arrested two snatchers identified as Lovepreet Singh, alias Bobby, and Harkirat Singh of Machhi Nangal village in Ajnala.According to victim Rishipal Singh, he was going home on his bike around 5 pm on Friday and when he reached Pandori Lubhana village, on the Majitha-Verka bypass road, two youth riding a bike (PB-02-DM-1594), stopped him and snatched his mobile. During investigations, the police arrested the duo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-stopping-snatchers-in-city-189894
27-12-2020||Amritsar||Drug peddler gets 12-yr jail||The Court of Additional Sessions Judge here has sentenced a drug peddler to 12-year rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs1 lakh.Gurnam Singh, a drug peddler, was nabbed by counter intelligence wing on December 15, 2016, with 5 kg of heroin and Rs50,000 of drug proceeds, informed Inderdeep Singh, Investigating Officer.A case under Sections 21, 25, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act was registered against him. In case he failed to pay the fine, he would have to serve another year in the jail, Investigating Officer said.Gurnam Singh, a resident of border village Muhawa falling under the Gharinda police station here. His residence was located just 1 km from the international border. The police had also recovered a Pakistani SIM card from his possession through which he used to contact his Pakistani accomplices.Inderdeep said the police got a tip-off that he was involved in cross border drug peddling. He was nabbed by the police near India Gate at Chheharta. During search the police had found the contraband and drug money from his possession. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-gets-12-yr-jail-189895
27-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Chemists told to install CCTV cameras at shops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 26Devising a new way to nail perpetrators involved in the illegal sale of sedative pills, the Tarn Taran police, along with district administration, has asked all medical store owners not to sell medicines or syringes to minors without valid prescription from qualified doctors.SSP, Tarn Taran, Dhruman H Nimbale also directed the chemists to install good quality CCTV cameras in their establishments, which would help in nabbing the chemist store owners indulging in the illegal activity.“We have written to the Deputy Commissioner in this connection, so that necessary instructions from the district administration’s side could be issued,” he said.Besides consumption of heroin, misuse of medicinal drugs or sedative pills as a substitute for drug abuse was another major reason behind rampant drug abuse. Its easy availability has also compounded the problem.Recently, the Amritsar rural police had confiscated a huge haul of habit-forming drugs, which was being transported from Delhi in a video coach bus. A number of seizures of huge quantity of intoxicants was reported in the Malwa region as well, the SSP said. The Tarn Taran police have also made significant recoveries of intoxicants in the past. Therefore, it is understood that there is easy availability of sedative pills in the market and urgent steps were needed to curtail this, he said.“We are not saying that all medical store owners are involved in the illegal sale of intoxicants, but there are black sheep in the market and we want to nail them,” Nimbale said, adding that if any chemist shop was found involved in the illegal trade, appropriate action would be taken and their licences would be cancelled.CCTV cameras would help in checking whether a consumer had procured syringes or sedative pills from a particular medical store or not.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chemists-told-to-install-cctv-cameras-at-shops-189896
27-12-2020||Amritsar||Dense fog throws life out of gear||The cold wave and dense fog threw life out of gear in the city as the maximum temperatures dropped by three notches to settle at 14 degrees Celsius in the Majha region on Saturday. The minimum temperature was recorded at 5 degrees Celsius. A thick blanket of fog enveloped the city on Saturday. Weather experts claimed that chilly winds and fog would continue for some more days. Vehicles were seen moving at a snail’s pace due to low visibility.  Hawkers, vegetable sellers, food delivery workers and milkmen faced difficulty in carrying out their work.  Raja, a milkman from Kotla Gjjran village, said, “The dense fog had increased my woes. I left my village early in the morning. It is really hard to commute in the foggy weather conditions.” Gurpreet Singh, a painter from Shapa Ram Singh village on the outskirts of the city, said, “I have whitewashed walls at a house. In the absence of the sun I am unable to work.” However, braving the chill, a large number of residents were seen going to attend the Shaheedi Jor Mela at Fatehgarh Sahib and the farmers’ protest in Delhi. While the chilly weather may have impacted normal life, it has certainly brought cheer to farmers in the district. Jatinder Singh Gill, a farmer from Verka village, said: “The foggy and chilly weather is good for the wheat, potato and mustard crops. Fog and dew are particularly good for the wheat crop.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dense-fog-throws-life-out-of-gear-189897
27-12-2020||Amritsar||Changes in GST will promote red tape: Traders||Recent changes introduced in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on December 22 were in contravention to the ease of doing business of the Centre, claimed industrialists and the GST dealers.Vinamar Gupta, legal adviser, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said now, officials can cancel the GST numbers without assigning any reason or giving any time for appeal to traders.As per the changes, traders will receive input tax credit (ITC) only on those items, details of which were uploaded on portal by the seller one month in advance. Consequently, a large number of traders would remain entangled with the government and the former would be forced to pay more in terms of taxes. The process of getting the GST number has been made more cumbersome as officials would carry out physical verification and biometric inspection.Piara Lal Seth, chief, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said changes in the GSTwould encourage red-tapism in the government. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/changes-in-gst-will-promote-red-tape-traders-189898
27-12-2020||Our Correspondent||‘Work on Central Jail to be completed in four months’||Tarn Taran, December 26The construction work of the Central Jail, Goindwal Sahib, which had been in limbo for the last 10 years would be completed in the next four months. This was stated by Jail and Cooperation Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa during his visit to the spot here on Saturday.The project was inaugurated about 10 years ago on the premises of the country’s first Industrial Nucleus Complex which was converted into a Focal Point later.The minister said Rs 144 crore had been spent on the project from the total sanctioned amount of Rs 194.15 crore. He claimed that 90 per cent of the work had been done and the remaining work was on in full swing. Officials of the departments concerned had been instructed to make sure the work was completed in the next four months positively.Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the state government was increasing the capacity of inmates in the jails, besides security and other facilities for the inmates. He said the officials of the department had visited Telangana to study the facilities being provided there in the jails.The minister was accompanied by Dr Dharambir Agnihotri, MLA from Tarn Taran, besides officials of other departments. Deputy Commissioner Kulwant Singh and SSP Dhruman H Nimbale too were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/work-on-central-jail-to-be-completed-in-four-months-189899
27-12-2020||---||Anti-hijack mock drill conducted||Amritsar, December 26In an effort to test the efficacy of contingency plans and procedures to deal with hijacking threats, an anti-hijack mock drill was conducted at Sri Guru Ram Dass Jee International Airport recently.In the course of the exercise, a mock situation was created, which involved actions by various agencies like the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and other state government agencies. Upon completion of the exercise, a de-briefing was held and the standard operating procedures were revalidated.VK Seth, Director of the airport, said: “The anti-hijack mock drill is conducted at every Indian airport annually as mandated by the national civil aviation security programme to test the efficiency of the airport’s contingency plan and to familiarise all agencies about their respective responsibilities in a hijack situation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/anti-hijack-mock-drill-conducted-189900
27-12-2020||Amritsar||Four deaths, 31 new cases in district||1 held with 10K litres of lahanTarn Taran: The Patti police conducted a raid at the residence of a policeman on the Sarhali road here and seized 10,000 litres of lahan and apparatus used for the distillation of liquids. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale in a press release said that a police party led by DSP Kuljnder Singh seized two working stills, 10,000 litres of lahan , 50 bottles of illicit liquor, four LPG cylinders, four drums and other apparatus used for the distillation of illicit liquor. The SSP said the arrested accused had been identified as Jasbir Singh Jassa of Dubli. The accused was doing the illegal act at the resident of Balbir Singh Beera of the Dubli village, who is working in the police department at Amritsar. Accused Jasbir Singh too had retired from the Police Department. He is a close relative of a senior Congress leader. The police have registered a case under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act. ocWoman held with 130 gm of heroinTarn Taran: A team of the anti-narcotics cell, led by Sub-Inspector Charanjit Singh, arrested Sukhwinder Kaur Sukh of Cheecha village (Amritsar) with 130 gm of heroin from Bhuse village . The Sarai Amanat Khan police have booked Sukhwinder Kaur and her husband Devinder Singh under Sections 21-B, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act. The police said the accused came to dispatch the consignment to her customer when she was nabbed by the police on a tip-off. Meanwhile, the Sarhali police arrested Malkiat Singh of Sarhali village and seized 25 gm of heroin from his possession. He was booked under the NDPS Act. OCCinemas bank on Wonder WomanAmritsar: Hoping for normalcy and substantial push towards reviving cinemas, multiplexes have pinned high hopes from Gal Gadot starrer Wonder Woman 1984. Cinépolis cinemas running at Mall of Amritsar and Celebration Mall have rolled out lucrative offers to attract audience. Offering to showcase Wonder Woman 1984 only at Re 1, the intent seems to reinstate the cinema going experience. Cinépolis will be dedicating one auditorium every day where all shows will be run with this exclusive offer. Devang Sampat, CEO, Cinépolis India, said, “This year has been very challenging for the entire movie industry and for the exhibition industry in particular. We are now ready to move on and this offer is a win-win for our patrons, wherein they get to experience Wonder Woman 1984 the way it was originally intended in a theater.” Gurvinder Singh, duty manager, PVR cinemas at Suraj Chanda Tara said, “The business has been average, but better than ‘no show’. We are running 17 shows in a day including that of Wonder Woman 1984 and Punjabi films. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-deaths-31-new-cases-in-district-189901
