27-11-2020||
||Fear of another lockdown worries traders, residents||Amritsar, November 26 The announcement of night curfew from December 1 by the state government has worried people, especially the business community, as they fear that more restrictions must be imposed if Covid-19 cases continue to rise. At the same time, a section of the public feels that the night curfew would not be a great help as movement during winter nights is generally low and it would not have much impact on businesses and life. The business community, however, feels that if the duration of curfew is extended due to further increase in the number of infections it would not be a welcome step. “Businesses have just started to return to normalcy. The night curfew is fine as most of the businesses are already close by the time but any further restrictions would spill trouble for shopkeepers,” said Vikram Sharma, a shopkeeper in the Hall Bazaar area. Jaswant Singh, another shopkeeper, said, “Businesses were allowed to operate around two months ago. The sales are still down due to the virus and if another lockdown is announced, it would create problems for them. The business community hopes that the situation will not turn so bad that the government have to announce a lockdown during the day.” The government has announced to impose night curfew from 10pm to 5am from December 1 onwards. At the same time, it has increased the fine to Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks. With a dip in the number of new cases and casualties, people have started ignoring the mandatory precautions. The district has started witnessing a slight increase in the number of cases in the last few days. However, a visit to market places and offices in the district reveals that a majority of the people have stopped using even masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fear-of-another-lockdown-worries-traders-residents-176518
27-11-2020||PK Jaiswar||15 yrs of neglect, locals here are in disbelief||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 26The residents of Guru Ki Wadali area are peeved over the continuous neglect of woeful roads in their area especially the Guru Ki Wadali-Gurdwara Bordi Sahib road. For past 15 years, the road has never been re-carpeted. It is overrun with gravels and potholes have grown bigger over the years. And this is the tale of a main road connecting various localities and leads to historic Sikh shrine gurdwara Bordi Sahib. It further stretches to Bakar Mandi and Dhapai.“Commuting on the 4-km stretch is a nightmarish experience,” said Chhaju Ram, a resident. Another one pointed out that though the road caters to the areas that fall in three Municipal Corporation wards, the authorities seem to shrug their shoulders to the problems being faced by the inhabitants. “The condition is worse than the roads seen in the villages,” said Surinder Singh, a farmer whose agricultural land adjoins the 11-ft wide road. It is one of the major roads and witness high traffic. Many accidents have also been reported in past. Moreover, the conditions worsen during the monsoons.The area falls in the Assembly constituency of Amritsar West represented by MLA Raj Kumar Verka. “From different councillors to the MLA, we have approached everyone but only disappointment has been the end result, no one heeded to our pleas,” the people of the area lamented.Skattar Singh Babbu, councillor of ward No. 80, said the tenders have been floated for the construction of the road. “Tenders were also floated earlier but were cancelled due to some technical issues. The construction of the road would start soon,” he told.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/15-yrs-of-neglect-locals-here-are-in-disbelief-176519
27-11-2020||---||7 Covid deaths, 87 new cases||Amritsar, November 26The district reported seven deaths due to the Covid-19 contagion pushing the toll to 488 on Thursday. Besides, the district witnessed a spurt of 87 new cases. The victims have been identified as Nazar Singh (93) and Gurpal Singh (53) of Wadala Bhittewadh village; Paramjit Kaur (53) of Antaryami colony; Balbir Kaur (65) of Baba Deep Singh colony; Jasbir Singh (71) of Gilwali; Sunita Soni (58) of Katra Khazana; and Jarnail Singh (55) of Ghanupur Kale village.With the new positive cases, the total count of infections has reached 12,895. The new cases include 57 persons having influenza-like illness cases and 30 contacts of positive patients. As per the Health Department, 42 patients recovered taking the count of cured patients to 11,750. At present, the district has a total of 657 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-covid-deaths-87-new-cases-176551
27-11-2020||---||Farmers still on tracks, Rlys reluctant to run more trains||Amritsar, November 26Though the Centre resumed railway services in the state, only two pairs of passenger trains were operational at Amritsar railway station.The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) reportedly has not cleared railway track in Jandiala.Ashok Salaria, project in-charge, Railway Station Amritsar, said, “Only two pairs of trains are operational and routed via Tarn Taran. We didn’t resume other trains as the track is not clear. The movement of goods trains is through Tarn Taran. The Indian Railways will not resume passenger trains as long as farmers do not clear the rail track.” According to information, Golden Temple Express and Saheed Express are only trains which were operational.The train services remained suspended for the last two months in the state.A couple of days ago, agitating farmers cleared the tracks after meeting with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh. However, the KMSC remained adamant and had been blocking the rail track. The authorities had been diverting passengers and goods trains to Tarn Taran to bypass the blockage.Officials claimed track in Tarn Taran was not suitable for heavy railway traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-still-on-tracks-rlys-reluctant-to-run-more-trains-176552
27-11-2020||Amritsar||3-member team records statements of  gynaecologists||A three-member committee constituted by the Health Department on Thursday recorded the statements of the gynaecologists at the Civil Hospital and other employees in the photo op incident inside the operation theatre.The team visited the hospital and recorded the statements of the gynecologists to ascertain the facts about a video in which Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh and others were seen performing a C-section surgery on a pregnant woman on November 17.The team later also recorded the statement of district mass media officer at the civil surgeon’s office who had released the video along with a press release to highlight the efforts of Dr Navdeep for performing his clinical duties.However, the video landed Dr Navdeep in a soup as the Punjab State Commission for Women issued a show-cause notice to him and others alleging it as a case of violation of privacy of a woman patient. Dr Navdeep has since been transferred out.Sources in the department stated that the investigation team would submit the inquiry reported to the Director, Health Department, after which an action could be taken against the employees involved in the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-member-team-records-statements-of-gynaecologists-176553
27-11-2020||---||Migrant killed in brawl, 1 held||Amritsar, November 26A 44-year-old migrant, identified as Kali, was killed as he was attacked by two other migrants during a quarrel that took place between them here on Wednesday night. The victim originally hailed from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. The incident occurred in Gali Badrao near Katra Moti Ram area where they were living in a rented accommodation.The police have arrested one of the suspects, identified as Vinod, who works as a mason, while his accomplice, Guru, is still absconding. The police have registered a case in this connection and raids are on to nab him.Gurmeet Singh, SHO, Division E police station, said during interrogation Vinod told that they had a quarrel with Kali over some issue while having alcohol. They used some tool, which is used in construction work, for killing him.The SHO said they were yet to recover the weapon. He said action was likely to be taken against the owner of the house as he failed to inform the police about the people living in his residential complex. He said it was mandatory for the people to inform the police about their tenants and get their credentials verified before renting out accommodation.Youth shot at in ChhehartaSunny, who is a taxi driver, was shot at by several persons in Chheharta on Wednesday evening. He sustained two bullet injuries and was rushed to the Civil Hospital. The accused have been identified as Abhi, Nanu, Bikka, Sajan and Gori Shankar, besides their unknown accomplices. Sunny said he was sitting in a car when the accused asked him to come out of the vehicle. He said as soon as he stepped out, the accused fired at him. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrant-killed-in-brawl-1-held-176554
27-11-2020||The historic military fort situated in the heart of Amritsar was also regarded as the heart of Maharaja Ranjit Singh’s kingdom. It was popularly known as Bhangian da Killa (fort of the Bhangis); after its 18th century founder Gujjar Singh Bhangi||Braving the  ravages of time||Shoot to thrill The replica of Bhangia-di-Toap or the gun belonging to the Bhangi Misl, also known as Zamzama, is a heavyweight launcher weighing 80 pounds and measuring 14-ft. It was one of the largest-ever once made in the subcontinent; which was cast in Lahore. The cannon has two Persian inscriptions. The longer one conveys “a destroyer even of the strongholds of the heaven.” In 1762, the Bhangi chief, Hari Singh, attacked Lahore and took possession of it.Pagdi Museum At Gobindgarh Art Gallery, the tourists can witness various styles of turbans of Punjab. Info boards give amazing insights about the headgear from its evolution to modern times.The heritage structures also include wells, giving a glimpse of the water dispersal system, adopted during this period. Here, an old well with the cast iron structure for fetching water can be seen. Mighty gate to glory The fort made of bricks and lime is laid out in a square, has a glorious history of its own, spanning across 257 years. Each of its corners has a parapet and two doors. It had 25 cannons mounted on its ramparts and four bastions. The main entrance, Nalwa Gate, is named after Hari Singh Nalwa. It is believed that an underground tunnel runs beneath and connects it with Lahore.The British period structures within the fort include the Darbar Hall. It was originally built during Ranjit Singh’s time but was remodelled by the British in 1850.The old wells inside the fort were being used till early 20th century. The wells are made of Nanakshahi bricks and are among the heritage structures untouched over the years.A view of Michael Francis O’Dwyer’s bungalow at the fort. He was Punjab’s Lieutenant Governor.The ‘Fansi Ghar’ at the fort. It was the capital punishment site.Among the heritage items inside the fort is a massive iron bell from the Misl period that was once used as an alarm during attacks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/braving-the-ravages-of-time-176557
27-11-2020||Tarn Taran||Nihangs attack cops, three hurt||Kar Sewa sect plants saplingsTarn Taran: Followers of the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, under the patronship of environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, planted saplings on the land of Gurdwara Birh Baba Budha Sahib, Rattoke. Bhai Satnam Singh Chabal, manager of the gurdwara, inaugurated the plantation drive. Bhai Davinder Singh, a sect follower, said 1,500 saplings of 50 species had been planted on one acres of gurdwara land. The SGPC in its understanding with the sect is committed to forest-like plantation on the land of 80 historic gurdwaras under its control. The sect has planned to grow 550 mini forests in memory of 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev. It was the 74th mini forest in a row. OC4-yr-old sexually abused by minorsTarn Taran: A four-year-old girl, daughter of a migrant labourer, was sexually abused by two teenage boys of the nearby Pandori Gola village. The incident occurred about three weeks back while the local Sadar police registered the case on Wednesday. The police said the suspects aged 11 and 12 years of age. They lured the girl child by giving her some eatables and took her from the local Bath road to the nearby godown on November 7. The accused abused her sexually and the mother of the victim came to the spot searching for her. The accused who managed to escape from the spot have been booked under Sections 376-D, 34 of the IPC, 6-POCSO Act by the local sadar police. OCYouth held with ‘illegal’ weaponAmritsar: The Majitha police have nabbed a person, identified as Lovepreet Singh, a resident of Kallomahal village falling under the Ramdas police station here, allegedly for possession of a pistol. As he could not produce any documents regarding the weapon, a case under the Arms Act has been registered against him. ASI Surjit Singh said Lovepreet was produced in court which remanded him in one-day police custody. He said as per a preliminary probe, it was a licensed pistol which belonged to his friend Karamjit Singh, alias Kamma, a resident of Chheharta. He ran a readymade garment shop in Ajnala. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nihangs-attack-cops-three-hurt-176564
