28-03-2020||Amritsar||Firing incident leaves 2 hurt||Two persons were injured when several youths opened fire on a shopkeeper when he refused to open his shop amid curfew here on Friday. The incident occurred in Kale village falling under the Chheharta police station.Among the accused included son of a cop, it is alleged.The injured identified as Gurdev Singh and Davinder Singh were rushed to a private hospital. Davinder sustained a bullet injury while Gurdev received injury from a sharp weapon.ACP (West) Dev Dutt said a case would be registered against the accused after taking statement of the shopkeeper.Rajwinder Kaur, SHO, Chheharta police station, said a couple of youths identified as Lovepreet Singh and Sarabjit Singh Saba went to the shop. They reportedly asked its owner to open the shop as they needed some grocery items. Mandeep Singh, shop owner, refused to open. The accused entered into a brawl with them. Meanwhile, neighbourer Gurdev came and tried to intervene but the accused attacked and injured him. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/firing-incident-leaves-2-hurt-62240
28-03-2020||Amritsar||Administration sets up relief fund||The district administration has set up a relief fund under the Red Cross Society to provide relief to daily wagers during the curfew period.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said an account in the name of Red Cross Society, Amritsar Covid-19 Relief Fund had been opened in HDFC Bank. The account number is 50100348358119 and IFC code HDFC 0001359, swift code HDFCCINBB. The Deputy Commissioner appealed to rich residents to donate towards this cause to help needy persons in the society.Inderbir Bolaria, MLA, on Friday donated Rs 10 lakh towards the relief fund. He urged all political parties to sink their differences to work in unison to alleviate the sufferings of needy people.Mayor asks councillors to lead relief op in wardsMayor Karamjit Singh Rintu has asked councillors to get curfew passes from the police and lead relief operations in their respective wards. He said the councillors were aware of the issues and problems of their wards and residents would give them feedback about the services of the government.The Mayor said, “Despite the efforts of the administration, we are receiving messages from the public that they are not getting food, milk and grocery items. I have asked the councillors to get curfew passes. They have to take all precautions and listen to the public.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/administration-sets-up-relief-fund-62239
28-03-2020||PK Jaiswar||Wholesale drug market to function partly in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 27The district administration has allowed the wholesale drug market to open for a specified time for sale of medicines.Three lists of drug wholesalers in Katra Sher Singh Market have been prepared. Chemists in the first list will open their shops from 7 pm to 12 midnight while those having their shops outside Katra Sher Singh Market, who fall in second list and third lists, are allowed to open their shops from 5 am to 10 am on coming Saturday and Sunday, respectively.Members of the Punjab Chemist Association (PCA), however, said the mechanism has created confusion among owners of the medical stores. They said those who had huge quantity of medicines stored with them have been left out of the list.Surinder Duggal, the president of the PCA, said: “We had given a list of at least 375 drug wholesalers to the local drug authorities, but many of them have been kept out.”Ever since the curfew was announced in the state four days ago, the wholesale medicine market has been shut. This has led to a shortage of medicines, including lifesaving drugs, at the retail shops and the people are having a difficult time. Though the administration has released contact number of chemists for doorstep delivery of medicine, most of them have expressed their inability to service customers due to a shortage of medicines and also the lack of staff for home delivery.The administration had authorised several wholesale drug shops which do not have a sufficient supply of medicines, said a resident of the Posh Rani Ka Bagh area. Survival of those suffering from ailments is at risk due to failures of the district administration to streamline the system.Karan Sachdeva from the Zonal Drug Authority said a blanket curfew pass has been given to wholesale dealers and it was their responsibility to provide medicines to retailers. The wholesale dealers could also issue passes to their employees, he said. Sachdeva said the district administration was formulating a plan to allow chemists to open their shops.Assn demands insurance cover for chemists, staffThe Punjab Chemists’ Association on Friday sought insurance cover for the chemists and staff working in these shops after the Central Government announced insurance for the health staff, including doctors, nurses and paramedics treating patients in the government hospitals.Surinder Duggal, president of the association, said there were around 8.5 lakh chemists, who along with their staff, were serving the nation in this hour of crisis by supplying medicines to people on the doorstep. He said medicines were being provided on the doorstep and at retail counters. He said they also faced a greater risk of contracting the deadly Covid-19 virus.The association urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the insurance cover to registered chemists all over the country. Duggal said it was the duty of the government to protect the interests of the chemists as they came forward to help needy people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wholesale-drug-market-to-function-partly-in-amritsar-62238
28-03-2020||---||NGOs, volunteers lend helping hand||Amritsar, March 27Several nonprofit organisations in the city have volunteered to be a part of distribution drive initiated to provide essential items to needy families in slums dwellings and rural belt.Leading by example, Manpreet Singh Uppal (26), sarpanch of Daddian village, Majitha, distributed ration, sanitisers and masks to around 100 families in his village. “Most of these families rely on daily wages and are lacking access to essentials since the lockdown was announced. We are providing them with items such as food, sanitisers and masks. The need of the hour is that everyone who has resources and is capable of helping the needy should come forward for this cause,” said Manpreet. “It’s important for village panchayats too to come forward and help them in the times when people are facing shortage of resources,” he added.An NGO, Voice of Amritsar, too carried out a distribution drive at Majitha Road and Batala Road. “We identified slum dwellings with at least 400-500 families of rag pickers and daily wagers. Our team went out there and provided them with 50 bags of ration, including 5 kg rice, 2 kg pulses, a bottle of refined oil, a packet each of salt and sugar and four packets of biscuits. We have ordered 100 more bags in which we will replace rice with flour as a staple food,” said NGO president Seenu Arora. Despite rain, the volunteers continued with the noble drive.A free food service drive was initiated by Khanna Paper Mill too. Sharing details, Managing Director of mill and Madad Charitable foundation managing trustee Suneet Kochar said, “We will be providing lunch and dinner service to 350 police personnel who have been tirelessly working on ground to ensure success of lock down. First batch of police personnel will be served food this evening.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngos-volunteers-lend-helping-hand-62237
28-03-2020||Amritsar||MC distributes ration to needy families||The Municipal Corporation has initiated a separate point for stock and distribution of ration at night shelter home, Gol Bagh, here. Komal Mittal, Commissioner, Municipal Corporation, has claimed to make all the necessary arrangements regarding the stock of ration. A six-member team has been deployed to keep the stock of ration at night shelter home.The MC has appealed to all NGOs, social workers and individuals to distribute the ration to needy persons for their help till the curfew period lasts.“The ration would be packed in small packets as per the need of a family unit and distributed on the doorstep. We have initiated the drive and started distributing food packets, fresh vegetables and other things of daily use. The people should donate the ration and food items at the night shelter from where the MC will distribute in localities,” said an officer.Commissioner Komal Mittal said, “We have constituted separate teams to distribute the relief material. The MC staff will keep a proper record of the collected and distributed food and goods. The staff will report to higher officials.”Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu urged the residents to stay inside the house and call on the helpline and mobile numbers issued by the administration to get anything on the doorstep. Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia on Friday distributed fresh vegetables and groceries at the residences of members of weaker sections of society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-distributes-ration-to-needy-families-62236
28-03-2020||---||Curfew effect: Tonnes of  fruit not lifted, perished||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 27Wholesale fruit traders have claimed that their tonnes of fruit have perished due to non-lifting with the curfew restrictions being imposed suddenly in the state.Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, a fruit trader, said wholesale traders had procured more stocks of fruit keeping in mind their increased demand during the Navratras.However, they could not sell fruit since Sunday after the enforcement of the ‘Janata Curfew’. “Moreover, papaya, banana, grapes, kinnow, apple and other varieties of fruit have a shorter shelf life. So, the wholesalers do not have any other alternative but to throw them away as these were rotting,” they said.Arvinder Singh, president, Fruit Merchants’ Association, said fruit sellers had to incur losses worth crores of rupees. He demanded that the government must waive 4 per cent market fee and the rural development fund of fruit sellers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/curfew-effect-tonnes-of-fruit-not-lifted-perished-62235
28-03-2020||Tarn Taran||We are being exploited, claim milk producers||Milk producers of this border belt have expressed resentment over quoting very less rate for milk as compared to the rate which was being given to them before the lockdown by private dairy owners.Milk producers, including Kulwinder Singh, Gurpreet Singh, Dial Singh, of Dadehar Sahib; Harbhajan Singh of Sarhali; Hardev Singh of Thatha among others, said dairy owners of private sector, who have been giving them Rs47 to Rs50 per kg were giving them just Rs28 to Rs29 per kilogram under the garb of non-consumption of milk in the market during the lockdown.These dairy owners were supplying milk in urban areas and charging much higher rates from consumers.Before the arrival of private companies in the milk sector, only Verka and Nestle were there in the market.Producers said private milk dairies in the area settled in Gaggo Bua, Harike and in Amritsar, running business on a very large scale, have nominated their representatives in each village of the border belt. Their representatives started quoting much higher rates as compared to the cooperative sector companies to compete with Verka and Nestle.Milk producers said dairy owners of the private sector under the garb of lockdown have denied purchasing milk, as they claimed that there was no consumption. They pay just Rs28 to Rs29 per kilogram on the purchased milk, said producers. They said they had to purchase feed for their cattle at higher rates after the lockdown, but were taking less rate on produced milk, which in a way was their exploitation.Parnam Singh, dairy inspector of the office of the local Deputy Director Dairy, said: “They can lodge their complaint to the district administration and only then can the department initiate action against the erring persons paying less to milk producers.”— OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/we-are-being-exploited-claim-milk-producers-62234
28-03-2020||PK Jaiswar||Authorities seek temporary plan for new prison inmates||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 27Even as the Amritsar Central Jail authorities are keeping new prisoners coming to jail in separate barracks for at least 10 days, but they sought that the government should allot separate buildings with heavy police security to keep them separate for 14 days before sending them to jails.The Covid-19 symptoms develops after six or seven days and if any infected person is lodged in jail, it would prove costly putting many lives at stake, said highly placed sources in the central jail here. They said daily around 20-30 new prisoners were coming to jail.The high security jail housed around 3,400 prisoners and out of them 1,200 were drug addicts taking medicines from OAAT centres. Besides, around 300 inmates were suffering from hepatitis C and 20 are patients of tuberculosis. A large number of them are suffering from skin and other diseases.Though the jail inmates were already in isolation, but their immunity level is very weak. The Covid can spread in jail at very high rate and could create havoc in the jail premises.Meanwhile, the jail authorities have initiated the process of extension (of parole) to prisoners who are already out on parole. Besides, they are also preparing lists of jail inmates lodged in the premises on petty offences, will be released on bail.The government decided to decongest the prisons in wake of Covid outbreak in the world. Under this programme, around 6,000 inmates lodged for petty crimes would be released on bail or parole. A high-powered committed under the chairmanship of Punjab Legal Services Authority, Principal Secretary Jails and ADGP prisons was made following the directions of apex court. It circulated the criteria for releasing them.Arshdeep Singh, Superintendent, Amritsar Central Jail, said convicts would be released on parole while undertrials would be released on interim bail of six weeks.“A meeting was held with the Deputy Commissioner and the District and Sessions Judge in this connection. We are preparing list of undertrials and convicts who could be released on bail after filling personal surety bonds,” said Arshdeep, while adding that those who were convicted for heinous crimes would not be considered for this.No outsider is allowed to enter the premises, he said. Only one cop was allowed near the entrance gate of jail and they were sanitised before entering the complex. He said jail premises were also sanitised at regular intervals. The jail authorities also checked for fever and other symptoms before allowing them, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/authorities-seek-temporary-plan-for-new-prison-inmates-62233
