28-07-2020||Mnameet Singh Gill||Swachh abuse! Garbage tippers travel without covers, commuters cry foul||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27Imagine riding behind a garbage tipper without any cover, spewing all the litter on the road! Garbage flying off these trucks is a common sight for residents of the walled city. Municipal Corporation’s garbage collection vehicles have become a nuisance for the commuters on city roads as the filth from these trolleys is often scattered on roads.As per norms, the trolleys transporting garbage are required to be covered with a tarpaulin sheet. However, as the workers seldom adhere to the norms, the vehicles are often left uncovered. Residents complained that as these vehicles move, the filth, especially plastic bags, fly off and scatter on the road.“Driving behind an open garbage truck or a trolley is troublesome as one is neither able to get past nor drive behind it,” said a resident Sumit Mahajan. He added that sometimes the vehicles had more garbage than what it can hold.A few of these garbage trolleys even do not have lids to cover the garbage. Another resident Satwinder Singh said, “Ours is a heritage city and it is being designated as a Smart City. The open garbage trolleys are not only an eyesore, but also unhygienic.”The MC had engaged a private firm for door-to-door collection of waste in residential areas. In walled city areas where MC collects the garbage, open vehicles are a frequent sight.A resident Kewal Kumar said, “Sometimes the wet waste keeps leaking from the truck.” He added that the water discharge from these garbage vehicles raises a stink.The garbage collection carried out by the private firm is comparatively better than that of the MC.With the public also paying scant regard to cleanliness, heaps of garbage alongside roads and footpaths are a common sight. However, during the monsoon season, the situation becomes grimmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/swachh-abuse-garbage-tippers-travel-without-covers-commuters-cry-foul-118924
28-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Elections to AGA Heritage Club not held for 7 years; auditor writes, secy refutes charge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27Seven long years and still waiting. The elections to the prestigious Amritsar Games Association (AGA) Heritage Club, which runs historic Gandhi ground for cricket, besides a canteen and a liquor bar for its members, has not been held for the past seven years.The matter has raised a few eyebrows. Making it more intense, is the letter of its auditor Rajan Kumar, a Chartered Accountant. He has raised an alarm by writing a communiqué to the president of the Club, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon.In the letter, he has pointed out a mismatch in figures and expenditures under various heads during the audit of accounts for period between April 1, 2019 and March 31, 2020. For instance, there were Rs 883 available in cash whereas cashbook showed about Rs 5.39 lakh. Canteen did not provide bills as per the agreement with the Club, thereby causing losses to the club. He stated cold drinks were provided by the Club to the caterers at cost and the profit being earned by the caterers.Also, around Rs 70-80 lakh were invested on the renovation of the Club without an approval from the executive committee, he mentioned. Similarly, the amount to the tune of about Rs 8.60 lakh deducted on account of paying provident fund and ESI to the staff was not deposited with the treasury.When asked why the matter wasn’t taken up to the administrative officials of the Club, he said no Annual General Meeting (AGM) was held in the past seven years, leaving him with no option other than to write to the DC to draw his attention. As per the constitution of the Club, AGM is mandatory to be held after every two years and before the conduct of the election.Rohit Lakhanpal, secretary of the Club, said: “There was no bungling and only miscommunication which led the auditor to write.” He added that MM Nanda, administrative officer of the Club, being aged, was not coming to the office due to the prevailing Covid-19 situations. “All documents were collected with the help of Nanda and entire accounts were found up to the mark and point by point rebuttal of the allegations were forwarded to the concerned official to avoid misunderstandings, he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/elections-to-aga-heritage-club-not-held-for-7-years-auditor-writes-secy-refutes-charge-118922
28-07-2020||Neha Saini||Stressful, but expectant mothers navigate resolutely||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27Pregnancy might be a soulful experience for mothers, but it proved to be a nerve-wrecking one for many expectant mothers as tackling Covid-19 became the priority of the healthcare system. With grim situation on the ground, pandemic left many of them in lurch.Word of cautionSeveral studies conducted across the globe reported women wanting to delay pregnancy due to pandemic, high rates of anxiety and depression reported among expectant mothers, in general. Adding to their woes were the health service disruptions during the lockdown. Antenatal services, including routine checkups, scans, institutional deliveries and follow ups were also affected during the pandemic. There was an increase in the cases of anxiety, intrauterine deaths (IUDs) and even miscarriage among women in city.“The Covid-19 pandemic took a huge toll on the ante-natal health in city as we witnessed a surge in cases of anaemia, growth retardation, IUDs, preterm deliveries and unwanted pregnancies during the time. It was a challenge to cope with such high cases of maternal health related issues as the lockdown disrupted visitations, supply of medicines, nutritional care and increased psychological stress among women,” said Dr Meenakshi, a medical officer and senior gynecologist, Civil Hospital. Civil Hospital has been conducting mandatory Covid-19 tests on pregnant women and also providing them with counselling on how to deal with Covid-19 related stress.‘On an average, we are conducting 40-50 tests every day, all of them are expectant mothers. Since there are a lot of misconceptions regarding Covid-19 infection risk among pregnant women, we have been counseling and educating women about its do’s and don’t’s,” said Dr Charanjit Singh, SMO, Civil Hospital.While the ICMR research revealed that pregnant women do not appear more likely to contract the infection than the general population, Covid testing in pregnant women is being conducted as per the ICMR guidelines. But more than the risk of infection, it’s the stress and anxiety related to the fear psychosis that has done the maximum damage, say doctors.“A majority of women, who conceived during the lockdown, reported feeling isolated and worried about baby’s health. What concerned us more were the unrelated and unreported factors regarding Covid-19 on baby’s health. There was and still is, a fear that prevails among expectant and new mothers about the risks of Covid-19,” said Dr Meenakshi. “While we can assess the immediate effects of Covid-19 related stress, the long term consequences on mother and child’s health can be much more devastating, including stunted physical and intellectual growth,” she added.A scary road to motherhoodDr Raveenpal Kaur, 31, a dentist, was among the many frontline warriors working during Covid-19 lockdown. She was approaching her last trimester when the lockdown was announced. “It was a scary experience as suddenly everything got changed. Every day, I would go to bed worried sick how the next day was going to pass,” she shared. She delivered her baby 15 days back and is more worried now that the cases are on a rise.Gurvinder Kaur, another expectant mother, who had come to Amritsar to her parents’ house in Patiala for her delivery, said she suffered a tragedy when she lost her baby preterm. “The stress induced by Covid 19 took a toll on me,” said her husband Gurvinder Singh, a Punjab Police personnel.Shaina Khanna, 27, a teacher at a private school in city and a new mother, delivered her baby girl a week after lockdown was first announced on March 22. “No one had any clue or information regarding Covid at the time and the sudden lockdown scared me as I did not know what was going to happen if I delivered immediately. I was scared of anyone touching me or my new born and infecting us,” she shared.The silver liningWhile the Covid concerns loom large, a few young mothers share that they have experienced some benefits of the pandemic as well. Puneet Kaur, 36, a makeup artist, who had her second child in the month of April, said she got the full support of her husband. “During my first pregnancy, it was different, but this time, my husband and the entire family was with me, helping me take care of the baby during the initial difficult days. It was really good and relieving.”Another mother said during the crucial 40-day period after birth, she got to spent quality time with her husband, courtesy lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stressful-but-expectant-mothers-navigate-resolutely-118893
28-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||After staff catch virus, DC office asks people to register complaints online||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27After nearly a dozen employees of the Deputy Commissioner’s office were found infected with the Covid-19 disease, a majority of its public oriented services have been shifted online or being operated through mobile and telephones.The sole objective is to curtail the footfall as much as possible. The district court complex, which houses the DC office and other key administrative offices, used to be buzz with activities before the Covid-19 pandemic so much that the parking of even a two-wheeler was not possible.These days, one comes across a fewer number of people and vehicles in the compound. As rumours of the DC office gripped by the pandemic doing the rounds on social media, people from the city are avoiding visiting it.It prompted the officials to take precautionary steps to avoid the spread of the virus. So, special steps are being taken while dealing with public. People are being dissuaded from visiting the offices and asked to report their complaints telephonically or mail them.The ADC, who also holds the magisterial portfolio, got his table fixed with a glass wall from all around so that distance could be maintained while speaking with visitors.ADC Himanshu Aggarwal said all those employees of the district administration, who tested positive, did not have any travel history. It suggested that they had come in contact with a positive person in the office.Subsequently, a number of steps were taken to contain the virus at the District Court Complex. All 200 employees of the administration were tested and their reports came out negative. All those officials who came in contact with Covid-19 positive officials were asked to remain in home quarantine. Now, all employees have been asked to come to office on a rotation basis so that social distancing can be maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-staff-catch-virus-dc-office-asks-people-to-register-complaints-online-118894
28-07-2020||---||Virus claims 42-yr-old’s life, 41 new cases in district||Amritsar, July 27With the death of a 42-year-old person due to Covid-19 on Monday, the toll has increased to 68 in the district. The deceased, identified as Ravinderjit Singh, a resident of Akaash Avenue, was admitted to Government Medical College here.The district also reported 41 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. With these new cases, the total count of positive cases has reached 1,574 in the district. The new cases include 19 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) while 22 are contact cases. Of the 22 contact cases, 11 are police officials — three contact cases were reported from the Central Jail, two from CIA staff, three from the Police Lines, two from Police Control Room and one from the Commissioner of Police office.Five contact cases from Kaawan village (Ajnala), two from NRI Colony (Loharka Road), two from Guru Amardas Avenue and one each from Tandon Nagar and Takarian Wala Bazaar were also reported. Civil Surgeon Navdeep Singh said at present the district had 332 active cases. He said 23 patients were discharged after complete recovery today. The total count of cured patients from the district has reached 1,174.Pregnant woman diesTarn Taran: The district reported the death of a seven months pregnant woman due to the Covid-19 at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) in Amritsar on Monday. With this death, the toll has reached seven. Besides, 19 new positive cases were reported in the district. One suspected Covid-19 positive died on Sunday.The victim has been identified as Prabhjit Kaur (27) of Bhaini Massa Singh (Bhikhiwind) in Tarn Taran district. She was admitted to the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital (Tarn Taran), but due to her serious condition she was referred to GNDH on July 24. The district authorities had dispatched a vehicle to bring the body from Amritsar to be cremated under the Covid-19 protocols. The tally of active patients has reached 71 in the district. Eight patients were discharged after recovery today||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/virus-claims-42-yr-olds-life-41-new-cases-in-district-118895
28-07-2020||
||Farmers protest outside Malik’s house||Amritsar, July 27 Activists of various farmers’ associations staged a dharna outside the residence of Rajya Sabha member and BJP leader Shwait Malik here on Monday to protest against the Union Government for promulgating three agriculture-related Ordinances. The stir was held on the call of a statewide protest by the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The farmers earlier gathered at Company Bagh and took out a tractor march to draw attention of the public and the government towards their issues. The farmer leaders unanimously stated that the three ordinances — The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance — are against the interests of the agrarian community. The protesters criticised the Centre over high diesel prices. Rattan Singh Randhawa of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha said: “The diesel prices are being hiked frequently. This is being done at a time when the diesel requirement of farmers is high because of the need to irrigate the rice crop.” He alleged that the Union Government was working against the interests of farmers and the poor. It was working to help big corporate houses only, said Randhawa. Jatinder Singh Chinna, a leader of the Kirti Kisan Union, said farmers were demanding implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report that recommended 50 per cent price over the input cost to farmers. “But the government is trying to end the MSP regime which is against the interests of farmers,” he said. The farmer leader said the Union Government must roll back the three Ordinances for the welfare of farmers. The protests raised slogans against the Centre and said all Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha members from the state, irrespective of political affiliations, must come in support of the farmers protesting against the Ordinances.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-protest-outside-maliks-house-118896
28-07-2020||Our Correspondent
||‘Agri Ordinances would deprive farmers of assured procurement’||Tarn Taran, July 27 The district witnessed a string of protests as farmers, employees of various departments and other sections of society hit the streets and condemned the “anti-people” policies of the Union and the state governments. Workers of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, Kul Hind Kisan Sabha, Kisan Sangharsh Committee (Kot Budha) and Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee held a protest and took out a tractor march to the residence of senior SAD leader Adesh Partap Singh Kairon at Kairon village, 20 km from here. The farmers criticised the Centre for promulgating three agriculture-related Ordinances. Farm leaders, Pargat Singh Jamarai, Inderjit Singh Kot Budha, Harjinder Singh Tanda and Prithipal Singh Marimegha, among others, criticised Ordinances, calling these as anti-farmers. The Ordinances would deprive farmers of assured procurement of their crop, they said. The leaders said it would deprive farmers of the free-power for agriculture activities. Workers of the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, led by its state convener Kanwalpreet Singh Pannu, submitted a memorandum addressed to the Union Government to the Tarn Taran SDM. Meanwhile, the chain hunger strike by a five-member group of Sehat Mulazam Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, outside the Civil Surgeon’s office entered its fourth day on Monday. The groups is demanding regularisation of services of employees working under the National Health Mission (NHM), the 2211 scheme and on a contract basis. The agitation by the Rural Health Pharmacy Officers, Punjab, entered its 38th day here on Monday. The officers have been demanding regularisation of their jobs at the office of the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agri-ordinances-would-deprive-farmers-of-assured-procurement-118897
28-07-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal
||Cured of Covid, Gurdaspur admn officials resume duty||Tribune News Service Gurdaspur, July 27 Officials of the Gurdaspur administration, who have recovered from the Covid-19 disease, are slowly reporting back for work. Several projects and probes, including the one pertaining to alleged wrongdoings in getting registries done for shops in Sukhda enclave on the Hardochanni road, were put on hold after ADC (General) Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu was sent home to Amritsar for the 14-day mandatory isolation period. Sandhu had caught the virus after he came in contact with a group of migrant labourers early this month. The officer joined duty at his office in the District Administrative Complex (DAC) this morning. “Even during my isolation period, I continued with my work through E-Office. I did not let work suffer in any manner. The only thing that suffered was my interaction with the general public. I did some constructive things during my battle with the virus. This included reading Shiv Khera’s masterpiece -‘You Can Win’. I have also started reading - ‘You Can Achieve More-Live By Design, Not By Default’ of the same author. My advice to my fellow officers is that do not let the corona contagion define you. On the contrary, let it refine you. Difficult roads often lead to beautiful destinations,” said Sandhu as he attended to his work. A few days ago, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh surprised the officer by calling him up personally and inquiring about his health. “He spoke to me for several minutes and inquired about me and my family’s well being. He is indeed a true general and always takes care of his foot soldiers working in the field,” added Sandhu. SDM Sakattar Singh Bal, often seen as an officer vital to the scheme of things in the district, too is back after fighting the infection. Like Sandhu, he too joined duty today. Balwinder Singh, SDM, Batala, will be back on duty soon. He too is undergoing isolation. SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said the police were having fewer infections as compared to the civil administration. “So far, only one police officer, an SHO, has caught the virus. He is in isolation and will be joining duty soon,” he added. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said the software prepared by the IIT, Chennai — ITIHAS — was proving to be a boon for the administration in tackling Covid-19. “It is on the basis of this programme that we declared Dera Baba Nanak and several other areas as containment zones,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cured-of-covid-gurdaspur-admn-officials-resume-duty-118898
28-07-2020|| 
||ASI among 6 booked for fraud||Amritsar, July 27  An ASI was booked among six persons for allegedly cheating another cop on the pretext of sending his son and brother-in-law’s daughter abroad.  Those booked were identified as ASI Balwinder Singh, a resident of Sandhu Colony, Sachin Sharma, his brother Sachu, their father Chander Kant Sharma and Sachin Sharma’s wife and mother.  The complainant, ASI Pargat Singh of the Punjab Armed Police, alleged that the accused duped him of him of Rs 38.65 lakh on the pretext of sending his son Gurpreet Singh and brother-in-law’s daughter Manpreet Kaur. Pargat Singh, a resident of Faridkot had lodged a complaint with the city police in February this year while a case was registered only yesterday after a probe was conducted by ADCP Harjit Singh. Pargat Singh was deputed in the security of IG Jatinder Singh Aulakh.  Pargat said he came in contact with Balwinder when Jatinder Singh Aulakh was police commissioner at Amritsar. Sachin Sharma had his office in the building allegedly owned by Balwinder Singh. He said his son was in New Zealand in 2018 but due to some medical emergency he returned to India. As his treatment got prolonged, his Visa was cancelled. He said Balwinder introduced him to Sachin Sharma, who runs a travel agency. They assured him to help his son and Manpreet Kaur visit Canada. However, the documents provided by them turned out to be fake. A case has been registered.  Man robbed of car at gunpoint; 4 snatching incidents reported  Several armed persons robbed a man, identified as Satnam Singh of Jhabal Kalan in Tarn Taran, of his car near Cheema Bath village on Sunday evening. The miscreants, who were armed with firearms, snatched his car when he was returning home after leaving his brother-in-law Rashpal Singh at the Baba Bakala turn in his car. The victim, Satnam, told the police that at around 8.50 pm he dropped his brother-in-law Rashpal Singh near the Baba Bakala Sahib turn and was returning to his village. He said when he reached near Cheema Bath village, a car intercepted him and five occupants came out of it and entered into arguments. He said another car came from the rear and three youths came out of it and pointed a pistol at him and snatched his white colour Maruti Suzuki Swift car and fled towards the Amritsar side. The police said a case has been registered against eight unknown persons. They said investigation was under way to identify the suspects. Meanwhile, the city witnessed four snatching incidents in the past 24 hours. Among the victims included a couple who was returning home after paying obeisance at the Bibeksar gurdwara. Manpreet Singh, husband of the victim, said two unknown persons snatched the purse of his wife Davinder Kaur containing Rs 10,000 and a mobile phone, besides other important things. Dhian Chand, another victim, told the police that on Saturday night when he was returning home, six persons snatched his bag containing a camera stand, a mobile, his purse containing Rs 3,500 and other documents. In the third incident, a mobile was snatched from a  local resident, Ashish Arora, while in the fourth, Rs 8,700 was snatched from the shirt of Jaswant Singh. The police have registered separate cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-among-6-booked-for-fraud-118900
28-07-2020||
||GNDU hosts webinar to mark Kargil Vijay Diwas||Amritsar, July 27 The NCC wing of Guru Nanak Dev University hosted a webinar to commemorate the Kargil Vijay Diwas. The webinar was organised by 1 Punjab Battalion of the NCC, under the aegis of the NCC Group Headquarters, Amritsar, on behalf of the NCC Directorate (Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh & Chandigarh).  As many as 248 cadets, along with their ANOs, from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh participated in the webinar. Another 200 attended the webinar on YouTube. It began with the reading of the opening address by Maj Gen Beji Mathews, Additional Director General, NCC Directorate PH HP & C.  Cadets took a pledge to serve the nation and its people. A presentation-cum-videos on the Kargil War and Param Vir Chakra awardees was shown to the cadets. There was a poetry recitation competition for the cadets and all eight participants were given cash awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-hosts-webinar-to-mark-kargil-vijay-diwas-118901
28-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Vansh Punj wins Ambassadors of Hope contest||Tarn Taran, July 27Vansh Punj, a Class X student of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Public Senior Secondary School here was picked as winner of the Ambassadors of Hope (AoH) educational competition organised by the Education Department recently. Ajadwinder Singh, a Class XII student of Government Senior Secondary School, Varnala, stood second while Nimrat Bawa of Class II at Guru Amar Dass Adarsh Institute, Goindwal Sahib, bagged the third position in the competition. As many as 1,318 entries were received from the district.Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla congratulated the winners of the contest for their marvelous performance. Vansh will be awarded with an Apple iPad while Ajadwinder will get a laptop. Nimrat will be given an Android tablet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vansh-punj-wins-ambassadors-of-hope-contest-118902
28-07-2020||---||Specially abled youth, lover commit suicide||Amritsar, July 27 A specially abled youth along with his lover allegedly committed suicide by hanging themselves from a tree on the outskirts of Jhander village here on Monday.The incident came to light this morning when some residents found them hanging from a tree near a tubewell room on the outskirts of the village. After being informed of the incident, the police reached the spot and took both the bodies into custody.Avtar Singh Kahlon, SHO, Jhander police station, said the deceased were identified as Jagroop Singh (24) and Rajwinder Kaur (19). Jagroop was disabled in both legs and used to work with his maternal uncle.He said the families of both the victims were informed of the shocking incident. The girl’s family said she had been living separately from her parents for the past several months. They informed the police that they did not know about her whereabouts. The boy’s family feigned ignorance about any relationship between the two victims.The SHO said they committed suicide with the help of a single dupatta. He said the police had initiated action under Section 174 of the CrPC and further investigation was under way. He said the autopsy reports would reveal the exact cause of their deaths. He said the police were working on different theories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/specially-abled-youth-lover-commit-suicide-118905
28-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Jail officials, admn staff test positive||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27 With around 20 jail staff members found infected with the Covid-19 disease, this has set the alarm bells ringing among government machinery.A senior jail official wishing not to be named said around four DSPs (Jails), six Assistant Superintendents of jail and over a dozen members of administrative staff were found infected with the virus.Those who were asymptomatic were advised home isolation while the remaining were kept in quarantine and for treatment in isolation wards of the hospital depending on their physical condition.An Assistant Superintendent said as his test came out positive, he was immediately shifted to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital’s isolation ward for treatment.Though no prisoner was found infected with the virus so far, the Amritsar Central Jail would likely to become a big virus cluster, said an official, adding that it was very difficult to maintain social distancing among the jail inmates inside their barracks and cells.“Physical distancing and personal hygiene are necessary to prevent the spread of the virus. But when a majority of inmates are infected with other diseases, the situation could become very upsetting,” officials said.There are around 3,500 prisoners in the jail. However, with many inmates released on bail following the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, there are around 2,300 prisoners in the jail.While a majority of officials, including Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh, were in home isolation and in quarantine, the officials from Moga sub jail were shifted to the Amritsar Central Jail for handling the jail operations.Besides, a team of health officers has started mass sampling of prisoners to check the spread of the Covid-19 disease. “All the prisoners would be checked and further appropriate action would be taken if anyone is found infected with the deadly virus,” the officials said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jail-officials-admn-staff-test-positive-118906
28-07-2020||Amritsar||Akal Takht for probe into ‘false’ cases against Sikhs under UAPA||Akal Takht officiating Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh has demanded a judicial probe into the alleged misuse of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) by the police under which innocent Sikh youth “are being framed on frivolous grounds”. He directed the SGPC to fight a legal battle for their release.The reaction came after the family members of a Sikh youth, who had allegedly committed suicide in a Mohali gurdwara following his questioning by the NIA, today met the Jathedar.MLA Sukhpal Khaira led the delegation. He told the Jathedar that in the garb of tackling the SFJ-sponsored Referendum 2020, excesses were being perpetrated against Sikhs.He alleged that Lovepreet Singh (22) from Ratta Khera village ended his life after he was tortured by the NIA in Chandigarh on July 13. “There are scores of cases in which people have been arrested. We urged the intervention of Akal Takht and demand a monthly pension of Rs 5,000 for affected families,” he said.The Jathedar said: “Attempts are being made to disturb peace in the state. Cases against innocent Sikhs should be scrapped.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/akal-takht-for-probe-into-false-cases-against-sikhs-under-uapa-118689
28-07-2020||GS Paul||Amritsar civic body counters Navjot Singh Sidhu’s claim||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 27The Amritsar MC authorities have countered Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu’s claims of his constituency being ignored.Exactly a year after relinquishing the Punjab Cabinet, Sidhu wrote a letter to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh last week, in which he pointed out that work on five bridges, worth Rs 137 crore, in his constituency was hanging fire.He wrote: “Nothing has moved in my constituency since I resigned. Patiently waiting for over an year for these works to start, repeatedly enquiring from the DC and various departments, but these works exist only on paper.”He had complained that the Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) had sanctioned various developmental works in his constituency and allotted Rs 13 crore, but these were “stalled” without informing him.Defying the claim, AIT’s Dinesh Bassi said: “I think Sidhu saheb seldom visits his constituency personally and relies more on the erroneous feedback he receives. I have mailed his office the status of development works of his constituency.”Following Sidhu’s complaint letter, Bassi was called by the Secretary, Local Bodies, to inquire about the projects going on in the Amritsar East constituency. He said works worth Rs 13 crore were executed with endorsement from the area councillors concerned.“I submitted the details about the extension of Bhandari Bridge with a parallel additional bridge, which is under progress. Similarly, the 9.5-m Vallah road overbridge is 40 per cent complete and the deadline has been set for March 2021. For the road under bridge project on Joda Phatak, the total payment of Rs 25.44 crore has already been made to the Railway Department. I have scheduled a meeting with the Railway Ministry shortly. The work on 22-No phatak, worth Rs 255.83 crore, is also being done. The only hitch is for another flyover on SSSS chowk, as the Archeological Survey of India has denied permission due to its close proximity to the historic Company Bagh,” Bassi said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-civic-body-counters-navjot-singh-sidhus-claim-118698
