28-08-2020||Tarn Taran||One arrested with 4-kg opium||Army Officers visit Nishan-e-SikhiTarn Taran: Major General Balwinder Singh (VSM) of the 11 Corps Commander and Shaurya Chakra Awardee Brigadier Hardeep Singh visited the Nishan-e-Sikhi institute, Khadoor Sahib, on Thursday and interacted with Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Seva sect, who also runs the Nishen-E-Sikhi institution. The Army Officers lauded the socio-environmental work taken up by the institution. OCExtension of GNDU admission datesAmritsar: The GNDU has extended dates for admission in the MEd course in the Department of Education and its affiliated colleges till September 10. The second counselling will be held on September 11 in GNDU. The eligible candidates can apply online on university portal www.gnduadmissions.org. The dates for admission to MA (education) and diploma courses in ECCE and certificate course in ECCE have also been extended till October 5. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-arrested-with-4-kg-opium-132633
28-08-2020||---||10-day curfew in Amritsar's six micro-containment zones||Amritsar, August 27In view of the rising cases of Covid-19, the district administration has imposed a 10-day curfew in six newly notified micro-containment zones in the city. The areas where the new instructions would be applicable include Braham Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Gali Kakkian Wali, Katra Bagghian and Shimla Market.Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Himanshu Aggarwal said Covid-19 is spreading at an alarming rate. “To check the rise in cases, it is important for people to follow all instructions diligently,” he said.During the curfew, all activities, except supply of essential items, would remain suspended in the areas. The district administration has also instructed all scanning centres, including X-ray and MRI scanning centres, to forward data of patients with Covid symptoms visiting their facilities to the authorities. ADC Aggarwal, in a letter to the local chapter of the Indian Medical Association, has expressed concern that some people instead of getting prescribed tests for Covid-19 done were going for X-Ray and MRI scans.The ADC said that it was a serious lapse and such residents could be risking their and others’ health and life. He said the government had allowed home isolation of asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic Covid patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-day-curfew-in-amritsars-six-micro-containment-zones-132561
28-08-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill
||After man tests +ve posthumously, his 4 children struggle for survival||Tribune News Service Amritsar, August 27 Life turned upside down for 13-year-old Sujal Sharma after his father’s death due to Covid-19. The fateful incident forced him to abandon his studies to be able to manage his father’s tea stall in Lahori gate.  Now, Sujal, along with his 15-year-old brother, Piyush, manages the shop. Their father Ashok Sharma had died on June 10. Ashok had tested positive for Covid-19 in the test conducted posthumously.  The eldest of the four siblings, Munish Sharma, who drives a small pick-up truck, said, “Despite being a tea seller, my father managed to buy the vehicle for me. Now, I do not know if I would be able to do something like this for my siblings.” The brothers are also worried about their 18-year-old sister’s marriage.  Munish regretted that Sujal had to abandon his studies because Piyush could not manage tea stall on his own. “They are too small to comprehend anything. Hopefully, together they would be able to cope up with the new reality,” he adds.  The family still recalls the horrific experience when Ashok Sharma had fallen sick and had to be hospitalised in the late evening hours. “As he complained of chest pain, we took him to a nearby private hospital. The hospital refused to admit him due to the Covid fear. Then we called an ambulance which took some time to arrive after which we shifted him to the Civil Hospital. The doctors there too referred us to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital,” narrated Munish.  The family claimed that Ashok Sharma died as the hospital staff was still noting down his details. Suspecting it to be a Covid-19 death, the Government Medical College staff had later collected his swab sample.  “They (hospital staff) were still filling the forms. He did not die of coronavirus. He died as he could not get treatment in time. Had he got medical help he could have survived,” said Munish adding that they still doubt that their father was a Covid-19 positive.  The family’s trouble had just started with Ashok Sharma’s death as they had to wait for 56 hours more before his dead body was handed over for cremation.  “Initially, we were told that the dead body would be handed over after the reports of swab test were available. After the reports came out positive the next day, we were asked to bring the police party from our area. When we went to the police station, they asked us to bring the councilor. We called every official but it took time. Those days I felt extremely helpless as I could not get my father’s body for cremation for many days,” said Munish.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-man-tests-ve-posthumously-his-4-children-struggle-for-survival-132562
28-08-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Illegal sand mining goes unabated in Ravi riverbed||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, August 27 Incidents of illegal sand mining are rampant in the Ravi riverbed falling under Ajnala, Ramdass and Lopoke areas, if the recent seizures are anything to go by. On Wednesday, the Mining Department nabbed Major Singh of Sarangdev village and Malkeet Singh of Hashmpura village, while their third unknown accomplice managed to give the slip. The mining officials seized three vehicles used in illegal sand activities from their possession. On the statement of Rohit Prabhakar, Sub-Divisional Officer-cum-Assistant District Mining Officer, the police booked them under Section 379 of the IPC and Section 21 of the Mining Act. Rohit Prabhakar said he, along with a police party, was checking illegal mining and had set up a check point near Sarangdev village. They intercepted three Bolero vehicles being driven by the suspects. While the driver managed to flee, the other two were arrested. They could not produce any documents regarding transportation of sand. Similarly, on Tuesday, the police confiscated two tractor-trailers with 8.5 hundreds cubic feet sand at Kakkrawala village. Drivers of both vehicles fled on seeing the police. The Rajasansi police have registered a case in this connection. In yet another case, the Lopoke police booked Kanwaljit Singh of Kot Sidhu village on the charge of illegal mining. The police had seized tractor-trolley laden with 300 cubic feet of sand during a naka at Sodian village. Kanwaljit had slipped away leaving the vehicles behind.  On August 24, mining officials confiscated 1,200 cubic feet of sand from three tractor trailers. Manga Singh of Dalla Rajputa, Lovedeep Singh of Bal Labbe village and Lovepreet Singh of Ballarwal village were arrested at a checkpoint at Jagdev Khurd village. The same day, another seizure of 2,500 cubic feet of sand was reported at Jhanjhoti village. The driver of the tractor trailer fled the spot, leaving the vehicle behind.  Satnam Singh, a Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leader, said illegal sand mining had been going unabated in the Ravi riverbed areas because of the politician-police-mafia nexus. “Only the governments have changed in Punjab, the nexus continues to thrive without a dent,” he said. A police official said whenever the police received complaints of illegal sand mining, they took appropriate action.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illegal-sand-mining-goes-unabated-in-ravi-riverbed-132563
28-08-2020||Tarn Taran August 27||3 AAP MLAs, 60 party volunteers booked||Three AAP MLAs and as many as 60 party volunteers have been booked under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and 51-B of the Disaster management Act-2005 by the local Sadar police for staging a dharna in front of the local District Administrative Complex, caring two hoots for the Covid-19 precautionary guidelines.The week-long dharna was lifted on the appeal of SDM Rajnish Arora on Wednesday who had warned the protesters that two of the party MLA’s who participated in the dharna had contracted coronavirus.Booked MLAs were Kultar Singh Sandhwan (from Kotkapura), Kulwant Singh Pandori (Mehal Kalan) and Manjit Singh Bilaspur (Nihal Singh Wala) with other leader of the area and other parts of the state. MLA Manjit Singh and Kulwant Singh had been detected Covid-19. The three MLAs not only participated in the dharna but remained at the site along with the protesters.The party was protesting against the spurious liquor tragedy which claimed more than 100 lives. They were also demanding the registration of case under Section 302 of the IPC against the accused.The police alleged that the party MLAs and the other leaders did not care to follow the precautionary measures. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-aap-mlas-60-party-volunteers-booked-132564
28-08-2020||Mata Kaulan Ji Botanical Garden on the GNDU campus covers an area of 25 acres. There are 12 different sections in the garden||Mata Kaulan Ji Botanical Garden in full bloom||GNDU Botanical Garden was recently funded by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MOEF & CC), Government of India, to the tune of Rs72 lakh under the ABG scheme. The garden is now focussing on the conservation and propagation of rare, endangered and threatened (RET) plant species besides enriching its biodiversity. Providing a huge diversity of plants, the Botanical Garden has expanded significantly to include new structures such as conservatory, shade house, moss house for rescuing plant diversity and creating aesthetically pleasing refuge from modern life. The handbook on “Plant Diversity of GNDU Botanical Garden” was released by the varsity a few months ago to create awareness regarding the plant diversity. The Botanical Garden project is being looked after by Prof Satwinderjeet Kaur (Principal investigator) along with co-investigators Prof Avinash Kaur Nagpal, Prof Renu Bhardwaj, Prof Saroj Arora, Prof AP Vig of the department of the botanical and environmental sciences. The conservatory inside the garden was made especially with a purpose of conserving the green wealth of the region. It has 19 RET (rare and endangered trees) that were once native of Punjab. It has rare species including Gingko Biloba, known as the living fossil, and Khejri Tree or the Jandh that finds a special mention in the popular Punjabi folkore of Heer-Ranjha. The Moss House and Fern House are two spaces created for growing different species of Himalayan moss and ferns. The Fern House also has three species of Kashmiri ferns that are known for their high medicinal value in traditional Kashmiri medicines that have gained massive popularity in European markets. Apart from the flora, the Lotus Pond inside the garden has ducks that have now become a popular sight to behold. The restricted area of the garden has abundant peacocks and birds of rare species.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mata-kaulan-ji-botanical-garden-in-full-bloom-132565
28-08-2020||Amritsar||Complaint filed against PM Modi for hurting Sikh sentiments||“The PM had mentioned in his speech that Ramayan was authored by Guru Gobind Singh, which is factually wrong and has hurt the Sikh sentiments,” he said. Mand said the Sikh Sangat, including the preachers, organisations, local gurdwara managements and individuals from all over the globe had also been directed to lodge a similar complaint in their respective police stations. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/complaint-filed-against-pm-modi-for-hurting-sikh-sentiments-132567
28-08-2020||---||4 mobile phones found from Central Jail||Amritsar, August 27The Amritsar Central Jail authorities during a search operation found four mobile phones from high security complex on Wednesday.They were found abandoned in different parts of the premises. Balwinder Singh, assistant superintendent, said three mobile phones were recovered from a dustbin in room number 1 of barrack number 4 while one phone was found from bathroom of the same room. A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police where a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the IPC was registered against unknown jail inmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-mobile-phones-found-from-central-jail-132569
28-08-2020||With six more casualties||6 deaths take Amritsar District toll to 148||The deceased have been identified as Joginderpal Singh, a 78-year-old resident of Jawahar Nagar; Kaushalya, a 70-year-old woman from Guru Nanak Wara; Basant Kaur, a 85-year-old resident of Gali Punjab Singh (Baba Sahib Chowk); Darshan Singh, a 85-year-old resident of Sainsara village near Ajnala; Sita Rani, a 60-year-old resident of the Green Field area; and Gulshan Kumar, a 75-year-old resident of Azad Nagar.The new cases include 45 persons with influenza-like illness (ILI) and 28 contacts of positive patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/6-deaths-take-amritsar-district-toll-to-148-132602
28-08-2020||Dera Baba Nanak||Pak team visits Dera Baba Nanak for bridge talks||A four-member team from Pakistan on Thursday held a meeting with Indian officials over the construction of a part of a bridge under the Kartarpur corridor project in their territory. India had already constructed its 100-meter long portion of the bridge as part of the Kartarpur corridor project. Pakistan is yet to build the bridge on its side. The two bridges are an integral part of the Kartapur corridor.The team met officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The 260-metre bridge, to be built by the Pakistan Government over a low-lying area on its side, was put on hold at the time of inauguration of the corridor. However, the Pakistan Government has promised that it would build it soon. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pak-team-visits-dera-baba-nanak-for-bridge-talks-132485
28-08-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court imposes Rs1 lakh costs on Amritsar passport officer||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, August 27Rapping Amritsar Regional Passport Officer (RPO) for malice and complete neglect of the statutory provisions, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has imposed costs of Rs 1 lakh on it. The amount is to be paid to a woman, whose passport was impounded on the ground that she was declared a proclaimed offender even though the order had ceased to operate upon her being granted bail by the court concerned.Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill asserted the act of respondent-RPO in impounding the passport had a clear impact on the petitioner’s fundamental rights. She was granted bail upon appearing before Ludhiana Judicial Magistrate. As such, the proclamation order ceased to be operative. The fact was well within the knowledge of the respondent-Amritsar RPO.“The conduct of the proceedings at the end of respondent leading to the passing of the impugned orders stems from malice, giving a complete neglect to the statutory provisions and the settled law on the issue. The instant case is a clear example of the administrative overreach, thereby breaching the very fundamental rights of the petitioner. Hence, the impugned action is highly deprecated,” Justice Gill asserted.The petitioner had earlier told the court that she had shifted to her parental home at New Delhi in March 2013 following serious differences with her husband. She was not aware of his business activities. She was shown as one of the partners in a business firm run by her husband, whereas she had virtually no role to play. To her surprise, she received a letter from a bank at her New Delhi address that she had been declared a proclaimed offender in a cheque bounce matter.Her counsel added the bank had filed two complaints under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act before the Ludhiana Court mentioning her husband’s Amritsar address. But the bank informed the petitioner about proclamation order/proceedings at her Delhi address.Justice Gill asserted the RPO did not make efforts to enquire about the status of proclamation proceedings. Even otherwise the complaints were under the Negotiable Instruments Act, which was a bailable offence and condition to surrender the passport could not be imposed even by the court. As such, the principle of “audi alteram partem” stood violated as the petitioner was not granted notice or opportunity of hearing.Describing the RPO’s action as void, illegal and violative of the principles of natural justice, Justice Gill added the order stood vitiated in the absence of a prior notice. Quashing the impugned order dated April 23, 2019, Justice Gill directed the respondent to release the passport. For the purpose, he set a 15-day deadline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-imposes-rs1-lakh-costs-on-amritsar-passport-officer-132476
28-08-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: SGPC chief secy quits, 3 sacked||Amritsar, August 27Emphasising zero tolerance for malpractices resulting in misappropriation of ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib, a strict action has been taken against officials during whose tenure the incident happened.In compliance with the directions of the five High Priests, headed by Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on August 24, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal convened an executive body meeting at Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital at Vallah today. Takht panel report The Akal Takht-appointed panel, in its investigation, had held SGPC officials and employees responsible for misappropriation of records of not 267 but 328 ‘saroops’The Akal Takht-appointed panel had held SGPC officials and employees responsible for misappropriation of records of not 267 but 328 ‘saroops’. The panel had found embezzlement in additional 61 ‘saroops’ after scrutinising the ledgers of 2013-14 and 2014-15.In a surprise development, it was revealed during the meeting that Chief Secretary Dr Roop Singh had submitted his resignation, which had been accepted by the SGPC executive body. “Since the incident happened during my tenure, I have submitted my resignation on moral and ethical grounds,” Dr Roop Singh said.Longowal opened the sealed envelope containing the panel’s report during the meeting. After holding a discussion, the executive body unanimously decided the next course of action.The retirement dues of Kamaljit Singh were revoked. He was the assistant superviser of the publication department who retired on May 31 and had spilled the beans in the case.Besides, deputy secretary Gurbachan Singh, clerk Baaj Singh, assistant accountant Jujhar Singh and helper Dalbir Singh, have been dismissed from service with immediate effect.Longowal said a police complaint would be registered against them for allegedly tampering with the records in a fraudulent way to misappropriate the ‘saroops’.Secretary, Dharam Parchar Committee, Manjit Singh, superviser Gurmukh Singh, incharge Paramdeep Singh (publication department), and deputy secretaries Satinder Singh (finance) and Nishan Singh, have also been put under suspension. The SGPC will take disciplinary action against them.Former chief secretary Harcharan Singh was also held to be negligent in performing his duties. Longowal said in the probe report, it had come to the fore that he deliberately overlooked the tampering of records by lower-rank staffers. “Hence, it pointed towards his involvement. He will be liable to face legal action,” he said.The SGPC has terminated the services of SS Kohli and Associates as the audit was not being done on a regular basis. Similarly, the contract with binder Kulwant Singh and Jaspreet Singh has been annulled and they have been blacklisted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-sgpc-chief-secy-quits-3-sacked-132474
