28-10-2020||Tarn Taran||ASI held on graft charges||The Khalra police have arrested ASI Satnam Singh on the charge of taking bribe from a person. The office of SSP Dhruman H Nimbale released a press statement here today in this regard.The SSP office said though the issue was about five months old, but he preferred immediate action as he had launched a zero tolerance campaign against corruption in the force. The statement said the matter came to the notice of the officials from a video viraled on social media in which ASI Satnam Singh was seen taking bribe from a person of the area for the cancellation of the case registered against him six years ago. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/asi-held-on-graft-charges-162201
28-10-2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Two deaths, 26 new cases in Amritsar||With two more Covid deaths in the district, the toll mounted to 448 on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as a 60-year-old man from New Golden colony and a man from Partap Nagar.The district also reported 26 new cases, taking the tally of the infected persons to 11,735. The new cases include 20 patients with influenza-like illness. Seven more recoveries were also reported. The active case count stands at 293. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-two-deaths-26-new-cases-in-amritsar-162203
28-10-2020||---||Mayor reviews development works at Saktari Bagh, Amritsar||Amritsar, October 27Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MLA Amritsar (South) Inderbir Singh Bularia reviewed the ongoing development works at Raminder Singh Bularia Park (Saktari Bagh) here today. The Mayor claimed that the projects worth about Rs 14 crore would facelift the park. The construction of indoor sports infrastructure such as badminton, wrestling, football, gym has been undertaken in the garden. Apart from this, many other development works are also going on in the garden to beautify the parks.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said Saktari Bagh would be a developed differently from all other parks in the city. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the sewer line adjoining the Saktari Bagh would be covered under the ‘Smart City Project’ and a park would be developed over it. He assured that all development works would be completed on the time and it would be open for the public soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-reviews-development-works-at-saktari-bagh-amritsar-162195
28-10-2020||---||Road safety body concerned over fatal road accidents||Amritsar, October 27The International Road Federation, (IRF) a Geneva-based not-for-profit organisation promoting the cause of safe roads and smart mobility worldwide, has shared its concern over the growing incidences of fatal road accidents in the country, particularly with regard to Amritsar and Ludhiana in Punjab which account for maximum road accident deaths in the country, in terms of severity of fatalities and injuries.The IRF has written to Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh asking him to join hands in reducing deaths during road accidents in the state as despite small improvement in the year 2019, Amritsar and Ludhiana account for one of the highest road deaths in the country, according to IRF’s data. Punjab ranks 17th in number of fatal road accidents, among top 20 states, with 4,525 persons killed in road accidents during the year 2019 in 6,348 road accidents. About 264 persons died in 553 road accidents in Ludhiana and 95 people died in 133 road accidents in the holy city of Amritsar during the year 2019, the IRF data reports.According to latest data released by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, among all the million-plus cities in India, roads were among the deadliest in Ludhiana and Amritsar.“India accounts for more than 12 per cent of the total fatal road accidents worldwide. As per the road accidents data, during 2019, about 1.51 lakh people lost their lives and 4.51 lakh injured in 4.50 lakh road accidents. India is a signatory to the UN Decade of Action and is committed to bring down the road accident fatalities by 50 per cent by 2020,” said KK Kapila, president, Emeritus, International Road Federation.Kapila requested the state government to approach the issue through policy change and strict implementation. “The Punjab government needs to try to cut the road accident fatality through a new road safety policy that focuses on first response at the ‘’golden hour’’ (the first hour after the accident). The state government should announce a Road Safety policy in the state with quick rescue of injured and administration of first aid; have uniform design of all roads and ensure zero black spot policy for reduction in the road accidents,” added Kapila.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/road-safety-body-concerned-over-fatal-road-accidents-162200
28-10-2020||---||Introduce women’s rights as subject in school: Manisha Gulati||Amritsar, October 27Punjab State Women Commission’s Chairperson Manisha Gulati, while condemning the rape of a 6-year-old girl, said the government in the centre and state level should amend the education policy and make women rights education compulsory in schools in order to educate the girls about their rights early in life. She said they should also be trained in self-protection. “Unfortunately, even the educated women are not aware of their rights in the society,” she said, while stressing on organising more awareness camps in this regard.She said the rape convicts should be hanged and urged the political parties to join hands and make stringent laws to ensure the safety and security of girls and women. She added though there a number of laws for the safety of women, they are still not secure. She said different political parties make women safety a major poll issue, but once they come to power, conveniently forget the same.Gulati was here to hold a two-day Lok Adalat in which the women commission settled 21 cases with the mutual consent of two parties. While addressing the media, she said the pendency of cases in the women commission had increased to 30,000 during the Covid-19 pandemic. She said therefore, Lok Adalats were being organised all over Punjab to settle these cases.She said she would also meet DGP Punjab Police requesting him to meet the shortage of staff in women police stations. He said a data of women related cases would also be procured from the police department and appropriate action would be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/introduce-womens-rights-as-subject-in-school-manisha-gulati-162188
28-10-2020||---||Centre harming federal structure, say farmers in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 27The farmer organisations continued their demonstrations against the Centre’s contentious laws on Tuesday. The farmer activists are staging protests at Buttari and Gehri Mandi railway stations, besides outside the residence of BJP leader Shwait Malik, toll plazas and petrol pumps of Reliance group.The farmer leaders criticised the Union government for not operating goods trains in Punjab despite the agitators lifting their protest from rail tracks. They stated that the farmer unions had relaxed the ‘rail roko’ following an appeal from the Chief Minister. They stated that the Union government must take a sympathetic view of the problems faced by farming community.They stated that the Centre was trying to harm the federal structure of country with its policies aimed at centralisation of powers. They demanded from the Union government to address the farmers’ issues instead of terming their protest as political and unwarranted.While the agitators at Buttari had earlier shifted their protest from the railway tracks to the platforms, those sitting at tracks on Devidaspura too have shifted to nearby station at Gehri Mandi after change in weather conditions. As the farmers associations are staring at a long protest, the leaders stated that a protest at railway station is more sustainable instead of at rail tracks in open.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-harming-federal-structure-say-farmers-in-amritsar-162191
28-10-2020||---||Locals hail proposed bullet train between Delhi-Chandigarh-Amritsar||Amritsar, October 27The proposed bullet train between the Delhi-Chandigarh-Amritsar has been hailed by locals.The local tourism industry experts are of the view that there is a huge influx of tourists from the National Capital Region (NCR) to the Golden Temple. Availability of fast transportation would be an added advantage as it would curtail their travel time and they would spend more time here.Piyush Kapoor, manager of a hotel and general secretary of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said the city had become a major attraction for tourists in the Golden Triangle circuit — Delhi, Agra and Jaipur — as they find value in spending at least two nights in the city which offers added attractions in the Heritage Village, Gobindgarh Fort, Ram Tirath, War Museum and Sadda Pind.He stated that though slowdown in the economy following the lockdown and Covid-19 restrictions on travel had considerably brought down the occupancy, once the normalcy returns, tourism will certainly bounce back.A large number of locals, including students, office goers, visit the secretariat, Punjab and Haryana High Court and head offices of different government offices in Chandigarh. Besides, there is a tremendous scope of tourism in both Chandigarh and the holy city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/locals-hail-proposed-bullet-train-between-delhi-chandigarh-amritsar-162194
28-10-2020||Neha Saini||Covid induced a mental health pandemic as well||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, October 27As the world grapples with the crippling effects of the pandemic and the lockdowns, mental health had never before been the talk on the lips of people before. Many have not only been impacted economically and financially with loss of jobs and livelihoods, but emotionally as well. With growing levels of stress and depression and the loss of loved ones, this is a subject still being kept under wraps and in an attempt to start a conversation around the topic, Majha House’s online platform invited eminent authors, including Jerry Pinto, Jhilmil Breckenridge, Gayatri Gill and Amandeep Sandhu to share their end of tale and experiences.Award winning author Jerry Pinto, whose book, ‘Emm and the Big Hoom’ won the prestigious Windham-Campbell Prize as well as the Sahitya Akademi Award articulated how it is to love a person suffering from mental health problems and why the more you talk, the better. “The silence around this taboo subject needs to be broken by conversation and communication. We live in a society that is in denial about a lot of social ailments,” he said. Agreeing with Pinto, poet and writer Jhilmil Breckenridge, who joined the conversation from London, talked about the obsession we have with beauty and positivity that result in denial of mental health issues. “India is surrounded by this culture of toxic positivity fuelled by capitalism where everyone has to feel alright and deny the existence of illness, especially mental illness.”Author Amandeep Sandhu, said that the pandemic has been brutal to people who are diagnosed with mental illness. “The distancing, no contact, the difficulty in access to medicine and doctors has meant that it has been a catastrophic time. There have been reports that people suffering from mental disorders like dementia, bipolar etc have deteriorated amid the pandemic.”Veteran journalist Nirupama Dutt talked about how job cuts led to mental stress disorders. She confessed that she had faced an acute breakdown in communication after her younger and older colleagues lost their jobs and this was like a sword hanging over her head. “The isolation, the fear and stress was so great. At a time like that it was family support, friends and my work that came to my rescue,” she reminisced.Gayatri Gill, screenplay writer with her first book ‘The Day Before Today’, spoke about how she was depressed in the early days of the lockdown in Mumbai that these stories came tumbling out of her head. “What we have seen in these times has affected us all and will never forget what we have learnt now,” she said. For children and older people these last eight months have been particularly gruelling. Children, especially young kids, have no idea that life exists outside the computer screen where they have classes and also interact with friends — it has been so weird!” Gill added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-induced-a-mental-health-pandemic-as-well-162189
28-10-2020||---||7 acquitted under UAPA, but four of them held guilty under Arms Act||Amritsar, October 27Accused of running a terror module with links in Canada and Pakistan in 2017, Maan Singh Nihang and three others — Sher Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Simranjit have been convicted under the Arms Act by an Amritsar court. These four, along with other accused in the case, were, however, acquitted of charges under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and the Foreigners Act.Terror module caseAdvocate Navjit Singh Turna, legal counsel for the defence, said the court of Additional Sessions Judge Sarbjit Singh Dhaliwal held Maan Singh Nihang, Sher Singh, Simranjit and Gurpreet Singh guilty under the Arms Act.However, these four, along with Balwinder Singh, Balkar Singh and Satinder Rawat, were acquitted of charges under the UAPA and the Foreigners Act. Balwinder Singh, Balkar Singh and Satinder Rawat are already out on bail while the remaining four are lodged at different jails in the state.As per the FIR lodged at the Ramdas police station on May 21, 2017, Maan Singh Nihang, a resident of Samrai village, near Shri Hargobindpur (Gurdaspur), and Sher Singh, a resident of Kartarpur (Jalandhar), were nabbed by the BSF and huge quantities of arms and ammunition were recovered from them.It was alleged that the two had links with terrorists in Canada and Pakistan and were trying to recover an illegal consignment of weapons smuggled from Pakistan when they were arrested. Later, during the investigations, five more names surfaced. The accused were claimed to be in contact with Gurjivan Singh, an alleged hardliner based in Canada who had arranged the weapons from Pakistan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/7-acquitted-under-uapa-but-four-of-them-held-guilty-under-arms-act-162190
28-10-2020||Neha Saini||Connected 24x7 with students, she never runs out of steam||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27Five years into the profession of a teacher, Reicha A Kandhari had never thought that the shift towards online education would be so abrupt. Initially, she had a hard time to imbibe the shift just like many of her counterparts.“The initial shift toward digital classes was a bit challenging as no one had any clue as to how much of it would be possible on a short notice. But I would call it a blessing in disguise,” says Reicha. An English teacher and Head of Department (HoD) for English for Classes VI and X at Mount Litera Zee School, Reicha has settled quickly into a routine. Her day begins with sharing links of online classes and taking two-hour long sessions at a stretch. “The moment I wake up, the first thing I do is to generate links for our classes. I take two simultaneously sometimes, where I am teaching to one batch and just observing the other finish classwork or assignments.”Life for teachers, she says, has changed drastically but in a good way. “Earlier, we used have limited time window for our classes and then assigned other tasks as well. There were not many resources at our disposal and one had attention of only a student in a classroom. But with digital classes, you are available to every child’s needs and there are no distractions,” she adds. Her mornings are spent teaching and interacting with students and adopting audio-video tools of learning for the lessons.“As far as education is concerned, the digital classes have had a positive feedback from parents as well as children. There has been a surge in number of students actively attending classes and also workshops, even enjoying alternate learning methods,” she also designs training workshops for students now. Earlier, classes were taken at a stretch and administrative work was next. “Now, we can simultaneously do more tasks and focus on productivity,” she tells. The teacher also pursued an advanced placement course from an overseas university during the lockdown. “I don’t think it would have been possible with regular classes.”Her afternoons are reserved for a break from duties and spending time with her family and herself. As evening dawns, it is time to get feedback from parents, connecting with other teachers to manage and plan extra-curricular activities or assignments. “I am constantly in touch with all the parents. One of the changes post the peak of pandemic that has come into our profession is that earlier you only had to finish your working hours and come back home. Now, it’s like you are connected to students, teachers and parents 24/7,” Reicha says.But calling it a good thing, she feels that this gives her an opportunity to grow in her professional learning. “Otherwise, how would the teachers shun complacency and learn digital mode of teaching? Or learn global methods and develop skills through digital tools,” she muses.Deep into the evening, it is ‘my time’ for her as she enjoys a long walk and listens to music to rewind. She also devotes the hours to her husband, who is also a teacher in the same school. “Both of us understand the challenges of profession and take out time for each other,” she shares.Her day closes with preparation of time table for next day and lesson plans. “I doze off only after I have prepared all my resources for the next day’s classes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/connected-24x7-with-students-she-never-runs-out-of-steam-162196
28-10-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Pickle industry says no to food park proposal||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27The Amritsar Achar-Murabba Association has declined the state government’s proposal asking vegetable and fruit processors to set up a food park on 10 acres of land.In return, the government would give 35 per cent subsidy on the total investment to the processors.Rakesh Thukral, president of the association, said: “The Association had received a proposal in this regard from the state food processing ministry a few days back.”He stated that it was not possible for the processors to establish the park as it would require investment in crores. He added that there were 40 tiny food processing units in the holy city and they did not have enough liquidity to raise such a massive infrastructure.Setting up of a park would include raising infrastructure in the shape of road and sewerage network, street lights, securing NOCs from different departments, but not before identifying the land.He said all members of the association were ready to work in syndicate provided the government set up the infrastructure. He said this proposal had been forwarded to the government.The holy city is a hub for achar (pickles) and murabba (preserve) market due to its high quality water. Indirect export of achar, murabba and sharbat also take place while processors are of the view that there is immense scope of export from here as the city boasts off international airport with connectivity to various countries.Raja Sethi, a food processor, said, “Across the globe, food processing is considered a sunrise sector because of its huge potential for growth.”However, the industry falls under the 21 per cent tax (Central and state) category, while there is ‘no tax’ in Haryana and Delhi.Piara Lal Seth, president of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, said the state government should waive off nine per cent tax and the Union government should bring down the GST to five per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pickle-industry-says-no-to-food-park-proposal-162197
28-10-2020||Neha Saini||Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar declares results of exit classes in less than fortnight||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 27Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has declared the results of almost all final year (exit) classes, the examinations of which were conducted online this year from September 15 till October 15 amid the Covid threat. At least 43,000 students of undergraduate and postgraduate exit classes had taken the exams.Online portal opens for pvt candidatesThe university has also opened its online portal for private candidates, who couldn’t take the exams, to apply for a later date.Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, GNDU, said they had declared the results of exit classes in time as stated under the UGC guidelines, so that students could apply for jobs or higher courses.“We never wanted the pandemic to cast shadow on the future of our children, therefore the university decided to hold the first-ever online examinations for exit courses. The aim was to facilitate students to plan for their future and professional endeavors in time. Exit courses are quite important as they mark the final year of academic education for any particular field of study,” said Manoj Kumar.He said the results of a majority of technical and vocational courses had been announced, and by the end of this week, that of the remaining courses would also be declared.— Manoj Kumar, Controller of Examinations, GNDUWe never wanted the pandemic to cast shadow on the future of our children, therefore the university decided to hold the first-ever online examinations for exit courses. The aim was to facilitate students to plan for their future and professional endeavors in time. Exit courses are quite important as they mark the final year of academic education for any particular field of study.Earlier, the university had planned to conduct the examinations for the exit courses in July, but the decision had to be postponed twice due to the pandemic-related restrictions. The matter had also courted a controversy as various student bodies moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court urging it to direct the university to formulate a system of scoring and evaluation based on the past performance of the final year students.However, it was later decided to conduct the examinations online amid the rising Covid cases. “We planned and conducted the examinations keeping in mind every detail. Our teachers monitored the entire process online. An emergency response team was formed to tackle any technical snag,” said Manoj Kumar.The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Jaspal Sandhu, said the university would consider students who could not take the examinations on medical grounds or pandemic-related limitations. He said they had reserved dates for such students. “We have received requests from some students who could not take the exams on medical grounds. We will announce the dates for examinations soon,” said Manoj Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-declares-results-of-exit-classes-in-less-than-fortnight-162204
28-10-2020||Amritsar||Man kills self, two booked||Two held for stealing paddyAmritsar: The Amritsar rural police have arrested two persons on the charge of stealing 793 bags of paddy in a truck five days ago. The paddy was worth Rs 6 lakh. Those arrested were identified as Jagdev Singh and Vir Singh, both residents of the Jalalabad area in Fazilka. According to the police, on October 22 two unknown persons stole 793 bags of paddy from Hazara Trading Company located at Kukkrawala bus stop in a truck after putting up fake registration number plate PB-30-H-9684. The police had registered a case under Sections 379, 420, 473 and 120-B of the IPC in this regard. Following investigations, the police found the truck from the Jalalabad area in Fazilka district and nabbed the duo. Both were produced in the court and were remanded in police custody. TNS12 booked in firing incidentTarn Taran: The city police on Monday booked 12 persons in a firing incident that took place a week ago. Jugraj Singh of Nanaksar locality was seriously injured in the incident. Sub-Inspector Amreek Singh, Investigation Officer (IO), said that seven of the 12 accused had been identified as Jujhar Singh, Mandeep Singh Mannu, Navdeep Singh Nav, Satnam Singh Satta, Sehajpal Singh Sehaj, Raja Saraf and Rajbir Singh, while five others were yet to be identified. An old rivalry between the two sides may be a reason behind the incident, the police said. Jugraj Singh said that he had gone to fetch milk when the accused attacked fired at him. The IO said a case under Section 307 of the IPC and the Arms Act had been registered against the accused. OCTablets stolen from hospitalTarn Taran: Three thousand buprenorphine tablets were stolen from the oral substitution therapy (OST) centre of the Civil Hospital here on Monday morning. Dr Amandeep Singh, Medical Officer, in his complaint to the police, said that according to information collected from the CCTV cameras of the centre, an unidentified youth after breaking open the lock of the almirah took away 3,000 buprenorphine tablets. The accused broke iron grills of the hospital to enter the premises. The police have registered a case under Sections 380 and 454 of the IPC. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-kills-self-two-booked-162205
28-10-2020||---||Daburji link course is something you should avoid taking||Amritsar, October 27The link road between Sultanwind village and Daburji is left to the mercy of god. The government had installed sewerage lines around two years back. Then, a thin layer of gravel was laid to level it but during the last monsoons the flimsy side was exposed as it had caved in at various spots.The stretch from ‘Lakhe De Plot’ to GT road Daburji has a massive problem of potholes. It requires urgent care. Several mishaps involving two-wheelers and bicycles, especially during monsoons, have taken place as these fissures are not visible when the road gets waterlogged. Moreover, there is a pothole; which is no less than a crater, near Ajay International Palace which takes several weeks to dry up.“It makes driving very uncomfortable. Many times we brought these problems to the notice of local politicians, but to no avail. The dust further complicates it. The administration should mend the road,” said Davinder Singh, a resident of Sultanwind.The total stretch is around three and a half kilometers from Daburji bridge to old police chowki. The residents and nearby localities often take this route as a short cut to go to Jalandhar and Pathankot bypass. A large number of commercial establishments are also established here. All are partakers of the mess.Residents said they were hopeful that the government would listen to their demand. Narinder, a workshop owner, said, “Our business is suffering due to the poor condition of road. The government did not re-carpet the road for several years. After installation of sewerage lines the condition got more pathetic and the footfall of visitors is quite low.”Satnam Singh Satta, councilor Ward No. 34, said, “We were aware that the road would be damaged in the monsoon. So, it was covered with a thin layer of gravel. Now, we are trying to re-carpet it with appropriate material. MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria assured that it would be layered with standard material and estimate would be submitted soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/daburji-link-course-is-something-you-should-avoid-taking-162202
28-10-2020||Amritsar||SGPC schoolteachers, staff rue non-payment of salary||More than 500 teachers and allied staff of SGPC-run schools complained of not getting salaries since March. However, the SGPC claimed it was due to Covid lockdown.Malkeet Singh, a physical education teacher at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Public Senior Secondary School in Tarn Taran, said, “Covid lockdown has just been made as an excuse, whereas the irregularities prevailed for long in paying salaries, fixing grade and seniority. Teachers were forced to spare Rs 500 each as fund for the Tarn Taran elections. Teachers and non-teaching staff were made to contribute for whitewash and maintenance of school buildings. Due to such mental harassment, I chose to quit.”After the “Dharam Parchar”, it is education that finds prominence in the SGPC’s annual budget.In 2019-2020 budget worth Rs 1,205 crore, the SGPC had allocated Rs 238 crore for its 53 aided and non-aided schools and 37 colleges.Though the 2020-2021 budget was squeezed to 18 per cent, Rs 215 crore was proposed for education institutions. Of Rs 28.44 crore for raising the education graph in schools, Rs 11.34 crore was for salaries to teachers.A teacher with the SGPC-run school in Amritsar called it a “gimmick” to show the figures in papers only. “I am unable to meet the monthly expenses of my family of four. Since the lockdown a majority of teachers have not been getting salaries though we are taking online classes,” she said.This is not the lone case as teachers in at least half of SGPC-run schools are going through the same situation. They approached government school unions to raise their cause.Balkar Singh Valtoha, general secretary, Government School Teachers Union, Punjab, said teachers of half of the SGPC schools were struggling to get their dues. “We are contemplating to take up their issue with the state Labour Laws Department,” he said.SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal admitted that “some” school teachers were not paid dues. “SGPC’s major income source is through donations. Due to Covid lockdown, it has come down to 30 per cent. Despite that we never laid off our staff whether in schools, offices or gurdwaras. As the situation is getting back to normal, the SGPC executive body has taken it on priority to pay the salaries,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-schoolteachers-staff-rue-non-payment-of-salary-162099
