29-08-2020||Despite the district administration order to cancel celebrations of the marriage anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev||Sikh devotees flout Covid norms||Kavita Khanna eyes Assembly ticketKavita Khanna, the wife of former MP and film star Vinod Khanna, has set the cat among the pigeons by sending feelers that she might be the BJP candidate from Pathankot in the 2022 Assembly polls. Kavita, who is a graduate from the London School of Economics, has surely ruffled many a political feathers. State BJP president and former MLA Ashwani Sharma, who has become active in local politics, will be keenly watching Kavita's next move. He lost the 2017 polls to Congressman and former Reliance executive Amit Vij, but that has not deterred him from trying his luck again. Former Mayor Anil Vasudeva is also in the fray. Kavita, who had sought tickets in the 2017 and 2019 elections, is considered close to influential party leaders in New Delhi. When Vinod Khanna was appointed Minister of State for External Affairs in 2002 by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, it was Kavita who managed his affairs. These days, sitting in her Mumbai house, she takes an active interest in the political goings-on in the area. And this is what is making her in-house party opponents edgy. A wag commented that prospective ticket seekers are now acting like cats on a hot tin roof.Cabinet Minister Randhawa catches virusCabinet Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who represents Dera Baba Nanak in the state Assembly, may have been bitten by the Covid bug but the man has not lost his sense of humour. The other day his statement that “my political opponents can breathe easy because rats and snakes are immune to the virus” had even his detractors in splits. These days he is recuperating at his official residence in Chandigarh. The video conferencing technology has come in handy as he regularly holds virtual meetings with officials to ensure that developmental works do not suffer in his Assembly constituency. The virus, nevertheless, has made him a bit philosophical. “The pandemic has reminded me of how life was before vaccination. The world is on its way back to the 1800s when people were afraid of germs and viruses. Covid has left us like newborn people. After the dust is settled, none of us will ever be the same again. We will have deeper roots and we will have seen many more things,” he said.Baba Sewa Singh plants saplingsThe Kartarpur corridor wears a desolate look these days. The thoroughfare, which is a 4.5-km-long road to the shrine located across the border, has been closed by the Union Government due to Covid. However, last week, some activity was witnessed when social worker and environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh, accompanied by officials of the National Highways Authority of India, planted scores of saplings near the corridor. He also heads the Kar Sewa sect, Khadoor Sahib, and has offered Sri Guru Angad Dev College, run by his sect, to the administration for quarantining Covid patients. One thing is sure: The survival of everyone depends on the health of the environment. “A nation that destroys its soil destroys itself. Forests are the lungs of our land for they purify the air and give strength to the people,” remarked an official accompanying the Baba.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sikh-devotees-flout-covid-norms-133128
29-08-2020||Amritsar||Vegetable seller robbed of cash, mobile||Around six unidentified persons travelling in an SUV robbed Baljinder Singh of Dussehra ground here. He used to sell vegetables at Rayya and Tanda areas after bringing it from Firozpur. The victim said he brought vegetables from Firozpur and was going to Rayya in his goods carrier. He said when he reached near Haveli and was going towards Tangra, an SUV overtook him and halted before his vehicle. He said around six youth came out and started thrashing him. They were armed with sharp weapons and iron rods. He said they snatched his mobile and Rs 1,200 from him.The Tarsikka police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) of the IPC against unknown persons while further investigations were underway. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vegetable-seller-robbed-of-cash-mobile-133115
29-08-2020||Amritsar||Rs 2.13L snatched from employee||75-yr-old killed in road accidentTarn Taran: Surta Singh (75), a resident of Patti town, was killed in a road accident here on Thursday. The Patti police had registered a case under Sections 304-A and 279 of the IPC against two unidentified persons, who were riding a motorcycle, allegedly responsible for the accident. The police said the victim, who was on a bicycle, was going to the Civil Hospital, Patti, when the motorcyclist who was driving rashly hit him near the hospital. The victim died on way to hospital. The accused managed to flee the spot on their motorcycle. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rs-2-13l-snatched-from-employee-133116
29-08-2020||---||Turning mundane into magic: Artist does wonders with paper||Amritsar, August 28With an eye for detailing and an appetite for some mean machines, Atamjeet Singh Bawa turns his creativity into stunning art forms. A paper artist, who is popularly known as 'Paper Model Guru', Atamjeet creates highly detailed 3D paper models of machines, including some of the famous war machines used by the Armed forces.Born in Amritsar, Atamjeet is currently working as an IT professional in Bahrain. For those who know him well, he is a man of many crafts. “I graduated from the GNDU as B-Tech in Textile Chemistry in 2007. But making paper models is something I kept doing as a creative outlet since 2003. I used to make small miniature versions of machines and bikes, later my art graduated into creating 3D paper modals that got displayed in prominent exhibits and events,” he says.Using only paper and glue as his tools, Atamjeet’s biggest dream come true was creating a 6.5ft long paper modal of T-90 Bhisham Tank. A third generation Russia-made battle tank, Atamjeet was thrilled to have done the project for the Indian Army. “I made the model in 2016-17 after I was approached by the Indian Army officers. Creating the modal was a challenge as it took three and a half months for me to work round the clock and I call it my masterpiece. It is installed at one of the Army Headquarters of Indian Army’s armored brigade,” he informs.He chooses his designs with precision and caution. “The behind the scene efforts of making a paper model is what decides the fate of the art work. There is no room for mistakes in 3D paper modeling and every detail like what kind of paper to use, the knife to cut and carve and even printing of designs comes with lot of challenges. But its been a satisfying journey of 17 years and I want to keep exceeding my creative limits.”Atamjeet’s models have found their platform at Auto expo forum, several prestigious art exhibitions. He is also a TED talk mentor and conducts workshops regarding paper art. “I thrive to learn with every project, curiosity is what drives me and fascination for complex mechanical things keeps me on my toes. By mentoring students, who have an eye for detailing, I want to share my knowledge and talent with the world,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/turning-mundane-into-magic-artist-does-wonders-with-paper-133110
29-08-2020|| 
||BJP’s SC Morcha protests against Dharamsot||Amritsar, August 28  On the directions of state  BJP  president Ashwani Sharma, members of the BJP Scheduled Caste Morcha protested against the Minister for Social Justice Empowerment and Minority Department, Sadhu Singh Dharmasot, for Rs 63.91 crore scam of Post Matric Scholarship funds (PMS) for Dalit students.  BJP workers headed by Sanjeev Kumar, party’s Scheduled Caste Morcha president, shouted slogans against Dharamsot and burnt his effigy. Kumar demanded dismissal of the Cabinet Minister and a CBI inquiry into the scam.  He said contrary to the claims of welfare of Dalits, the ministers of the Congress are grabbing the funds meant for Dalits and CM Capt Amarinder Singh is fast asleep. He also said that before this, the grain and pulses sent by the Centre to the poor and needy of the state had not been delivered and the CM had been tight-lipped about the matter. He added: “Now the scholarships of Dalit students worth crores have been taken by Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharmasot.” Kumar said that if the CM will not suspend Dharmasot from his post, the backward castes in the state would block the rail lines and roads, as seen in the past.  Om Prakash, Manohar Singh, Tarsem wrestlers, Raj Kumar, Gursharan Singh, Arjun Malik, Manu Bhagat, Sagar, Sohan Lal, Uttam Singh Kairon were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjps-sc-morcha-protests-against-dharamsot-133111
29-08-2020||---||Opening of retreat ceremony, Kartarpur corridor sought||Amritsar, August 28People associated with tourism, tour and travel industry have demanded the opening of the retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah joint check-post and the Kartarpur corridor to bring back tourists.APS Chatha, president of the Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association, said it was a good sign that the number of tourists visiting the Golden Temple was increasing. However, these tourists returned to their hometowns the same day. The stay of these tourists could be increased to one or two nights by reopening the retreat ceremony, which is situated nearly 30 km from here, and the historic Kartarpur shrine, which is nearly 50 km from here.He said the hotels which were opened after the government’s announcement were incurring losses on account of low occupancy while their running costs were very high. Barring tourists within the state, nobody from the rest of the country and overseas is visiting the place.Hoteliers feel that its reason is that a majority of the trains are still cancelled, flights are suspended and travel restrictions on intra-state movement are discouraging visitors.Yogesh Kamra, a travel and aviation expert, said the states of Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Kerala and Goa had allowed domestic tourists to visit their respective states in a limited number. “Apart from the state guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs), tourists are required to have a Covid-19 negative report, along with the minimum number of days of stay supported,” he remarked.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/opening-of-retreat-ceremony-kartarpur-corridor-sought-133112
29-08-2020||
||Aged baptised woman returns home||Amritsar, August 28 The woman who was alleged to have been abandoned by his son on Friday returned to her family after the intervention of members of the Lok Insaaf Party and prominent residents of the locality. Apparently due to domestic altercation, the 65-year-old baptised woman, Ranjit Kaur, stayed in gurdwaras and at relatives’ homes after she alleged that her son Jarmanjit Singh, an SGPC employee, pushed her out of the house. She approached the office of the Police Commissioner for justice. Lok Insaaf Party (religious wing) head Jagjot Singh Khalsa, in-charge (Majha zone) Amrik Singh and general secretary (Majha zone) Parkash Singh Mahal, who came to her rescue, said she was brought back to her son’s house while protecting her social and personal rights after hearing both the sides. Her only son Jarmanjit Singh, who is manager with a SGPC-run gurdwara in Verka, said the issues between them were resolved. “I always wanted her to be with us. She had left the house on her own. I understand the hardships she faced to raise me and my sister. I am committed to taking care of her,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aged-baptised-woman-returns-home-133113
29-08-2020||Amritsar||Rural police get 15 patrol motorcycles||In order to strengthen the police control room (PCR) teams, the rural police handed over 15 new bikes to the wing. This took the total number of PCR teams to 26 in the rural belt.  Amritsar (rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya in a statement issued here on Thursday said these bikes would cover Majitha, Jandiala , Ajnala, Jaintipur and Rayya areas. He said four bikes would be operating in Majitha, six in Jandiala, three in Ajnala, while Jaintipur and Rayya would have one bike each.  He said the PCR teams along with nine highway patrolling teams would cover the entire rural belt, including national and state highways, and help in curbing the snatching and robbery instances which have seen a rise in the past.  He informed that the decision of strengthening the PCR wing was taken following reviewing the security during a meeting. He said these PCR wings would now cover the entire sensitive points in the rural areas. In the meanwhile, SSP informed that in the drive against bootlegging launched after hooch tragedy, the police on Wednesday confiscated 105 litres of illicit liquor besides 860 kg of ‘lahan’ and have arrested six persons. The police also seized 7500 ml of illicit liquor, 150-kg ‘lahan’ and nabbed two persons during cordon and search operation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-police-get-15-patrol-motorcycles-133114
29-08-2020||---||Prisoner thrashed by two fellow inmates in Amritsar Central Jail, injured||Amritsar, August 28A prisoner was injured when two fellow inmates thrashed him in the bathroom at the Amritsar Central Jail here on Thursday. The police have registered a case in this connection. The injured was identified as Gurparkash Singh of Tarn Taran. Jail authorities in their complaint to the Islamabad police station stated that Gurparkash and two accused Varinder Singh and Manjinder Singh, both residents of Goindwal Sahib in Tarn Taran, were lodged in barrack No.7. The authorities said both had an old enmity with the victim.The authorities said on Thursday when he went to bathroom for taking a bath, the accused followed and attacked him. He sustained a head injury and was under treatment. A case under Section 52 of the Prisons Act was registered against the two.Meanwhile, the jail authorities confiscated a mobile phone from an inmate while another cell phone was found abandoned on the premises. According to information, a mobile was recovered from prisoner Prempreet Singh of Guru Nanak Pura area near Tahliwala Chowk.The authorities said another mobile was found lying abandoned. A case was registered under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prisons Act in this regard. Further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prisoner-thrashed-by-two-fellow-inmates-in-amritsar-central-jail-injured-133121
29-08-2020||PK Jaiswar||Pandemic turns back the clock, but he isn’t giving in||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28Ramandeep’s struggles had begun way before the pandemic wreaked havoc. A year ago he had to leave his job due to lesser pay. He was in the marketing wing of a company manufacturing stabilisers and used to extensively tour the border belt and other neighbouring districts.Residing in Indira Colony on Majitha road, he joined his wife’s shop of cosmetics that was doing well. Seeing the competition in the market rise, he bethought of opening a stationary shop on rent to thin down the expenses. “It (stationary business) was a good option as my area had little number of stationary shops,” Ramandeep says. He also put up xerox machines for extra earning.Just when the business had picked up pace, the virus spread its tentacles and triggered the lockdown. As the educational institutions closed down, his stationary business was sabotaged.Ramandeep was on the ropes, yet again. The rent of the shop was piling up along with fees of his only son, who studies in class IX in a private school. “The school management was uncompromising regarding the monthly fee and I have not been able to pay the same due to back to back losses,” he rues.Students of nearby schools and colleges are the primary customers for stationary goods in the area. But as the opening date of instituions continues remains unknown, his losses are growing. “The losses are rising day by day and there is no hope of opening of educational institutes in near future,” he tells.He was on the brink of leaving the shop, however, his wife was of different mind and his pillar of strength. “I discussed with my wife Sheema Sharma and even proposed to leave the rented shop. However, she advised against it and encouraged me to not lose heart and continue to strive hard,” he adds. Recently, the owner of the shop also increased the rent. And Sheema stirred her spouse’s motivation by saying “hard times are here to pass.”Now, in order to remain afloat, he has ventured into selling wall clocks and wrist watches while keeping xerox machines in the shop. “It would take time to get response from the people. But I am hopeful that bad times would end sooner than later,” Ramandeep says. “These are tough times for many middle class people like me. Nevertheless, it is vital for us to keep going and hope for the best to come,” he opines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-turns-back-the-clock-but-he-isnt-giving-in-133106
29-08-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Inter-state gang involved in online frauds busted; 4 held||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, August 28The Gurdaspur police on Thursday arrested four members of an inter-state gang involved in fraudulently transferring funds from the accounts of gullible people to their accounts through the internet banking process. Senior officers claimed that the gang had so far conned a score of local residents and over 100 persons belonging to different states.SSP Rajinder Singh Sohal said the police had been working on the case for quite some time. “A team of Dinanagar police station nabbed four gang members from New Delhi on Thursday evening,” said the SSP.Pardeep Yadav, Jeetu, Neeraj Sharma and Jayparkash, all high-tech cyber professionals based in the national capital, were taken on police remand till August 30. The police said the modus operandi adopted by them was highly sophisticated and “it was indeed a difficult case to crack”. Local residents who had applied for jobs through an internet recruiting agency would be targeted.The modus operandiIn the first week of August, a school teacher, Preet Kiran, received one such call informing her that “she had been selected for a job based on her educational and professional qualifications.”Minutes later, she was sent a link on her WhatsApp number. She was asked to click it following which she received a form. She then proceeded to fill her personal details in the form. Later, she got another call asking her to give her bank account details “so that her monthly salary could be deposited in that account”.Moments later she got an OTP. A caller then asked her to share the same. The next day, Kiran Preet was shocked to see a message from her bank claiming that she had withdrawn Rs 5 lakh from her savings account which actually she did not. She approached the police.Zeroing in on culpritsSSP Rajinder Singh Sohal formed a team of young policemen who were trained in the specifics of cyber crimes. The team was led by SHO Kulwinder Singh.The team managed to zero in on a private bank in New Delhi where the gang members had opened an account to which the money of people like Kiran Preet would be transferred.On their part, after scrutiny, the bank found the account had been opened based on fake documents, including the conned Aadhaar and PAN cards. A woman banker, however, managed to identify the tricksters and told the police that they regularly visited the bank to withdraw money.For 72 hours, a team of four policemen stationed itself outside the bank. Finally, two of the fraudsters walked into the bank and were nabbed after they were identified by the woman banker. Two other members were arrested on information provided by the arrested ones.The SSP added that there were a total of eight members and the remaining ones had been identified and would be arrested soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/inter-state-gang-involved-in-online-frauds-busted-4-held-133107
29-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Residents high on nostalgia as colonial-era Khasa railway building set to be pulled down||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 28With the expansion and development of the Khasa railway station entering its final phase, the colonial-era building will soon be pulled down. Residents are apprehensive that it might bring to an end the old memories and charm associated with it.This will be turned into dry-port loading and unloading merchandise, to and fro Pakistan, as a part of the comprehensive scheme to decongest the Amritsar railway station. Under this plan, cargo handling operations from the Chheharta railway station would be shifted to the Khasa railway station.A state-of-the-art electronic interlocking system has been made operational at the Khasa railway station, which falls between the Amritsar and Attari railway stations.The railway station is the last stop for trains before the final border station of Attari. Not being a busy station, where only two passenger trains pass — one in the morning and one in the evening — from Amritsar to Attari, it has often featured in several films. The latest being the Salman Khan’s ‘Bharat’, which showcased the same station in its trailers. It was shown as one of the railway stations during the Partition.Two railway officials — an engine driver and a porter — had lost their lives. So, a memorial was built at the railway station.Now, with the heritage building of the same station going to be brought down soon to pave way for the new one, villagers wish it to be preserved, considering its heritage which has stood since colonial times.“The station’s building seems a landmark to us with which we share a special bond. Bringing it down would come as a jolt to us. Why can’t it be converted into a railway museum?” suggested former sarpanch of the village Raminderjit Singh, who resides near the same station and couldn’t hold back his memories associated with the place.“In the early ’70s, I daily boarded a train from here to attend my school in Amritsar and then returned the same evening. I vividly remember buying tickets from the same building and waiting for the train around it. Just looking at it always refreshes my memories.”Similarly, Rameshinder Singh Sandhu, a travel enthusiast from the same village, said: “Considering my love for trains, my elders often brought me here and I can never forget being taken to the station master’s office, the signal and track control room — where I kept scanning everything around. I often boarded trains too, especially to Attari — just to enjoy the rides with my elders. From the rooftop, I often used to catch a glimpse of the station.”Gurinder Singh, another native and a student of Guru Nanak Dev University said, “If the station building disappears, I will miss my vintage photo sessions and there may never be more film shootings since it’s only the vintage or say the colonial charm which enthralled the film makers.”Rajesh Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said, “As per the railway norms, heritage buildings are notified and preserved, accordingly. However, the Khasa railway station does not fall in the heritage category, so it is not notified. I respect the feelings of the residents but for the sake of development, we have no option but to move ahead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-high-on-nostalgia-as-colonial-era-khasa-railway-building-set-to-be-pulled-down-133108
29-08-2020||Amritsar||2 more succumb to virus, 81 fresh infections in Amritsar||The district witnessed two more Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll to 158 on Friday. The victims have been identified as Navdeep Bhatia, a senior pharmacist at TB Hospital, and Indra, a 55-year-old resident of Islamabad. Both of them were suffering from diabetes.Besides, the health authorities reported 81 new positive cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,691. Meanwhile, the test reports of 106 patients came out negative who went to their houses today.As many as 2,914 afflicted persons have recovered so far and 627 are still undergoing treatment. Of the new cases, 51 persons are persons with symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 30 are contacts of positive patients.Of the ILI cases, one case each was reported from Namdev colony, New Anteryami colony, GS colony, Lahori Gate, Sant Avenue, Noori Mohalla, Bal Labhe Darya village in Ajnala subdivision, Guru Nanak Pura, Budhatey, Cheel Mandi, ESI colony, Sharma colony, Daburji, Sudhar Sar village, Bhagupur, Namak Mandi, Babowal Tarsikka, New Amritsar, Airport Road, Indera colony, Putlighar, Gurbax Nagar, Guru Gobind Singh, Ganda Singh colony, Sehaj Enclave, Gilwali Gate, Kartar Nagar Chehharta, Ranjit Vihar, Kot Atma Ram, Chak Dogra village in Ajnala, from Raja Sansi village, Shant Nagar area in Rayya village, Rattan Singh Chowk, Barwala, Friends Avenue on the Majitha road, Ranjit Avenue Block C, Hussain Pura, Ram Nagar area in Kangra colony, Chowk Baba Bhuriwala, Partap Avenue, Kusht Ashram on the Chabhal road, Bhakna Khurd, Dr Enclave on the Ajnala road, Vijay Nagar area on the Batala road, Islamabad area, Kohala, Saido Ke and Vallah villages. Two cases each were traced from Avan village in Ajnala and Karampura village.Of the contacts cases, four cases were reported from Guru Harkrishan Nagar; three cases each from Green Avenue, New Tahsil Pura and Vijay Nagar. Two cases each were reported from Gate Khajana, Khooh Suniarian and Jhujhar Singh Avenue.One case each was from Haripura, Mustafabad, Tilak Nagar, Prem Nagar, Military Hospital, Old Cantonment, Beas cantonment, PS Mehta and Jandiala Guru. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-succumb-to-virus-81-fresh-infections-in-amritsar-133109
29-08-2020||Amritsar||3 killed in Amritsar building collapse||Three persons, including an eight-year-old girl, were killed and three others were injured after a three-storey building collapsed in the Guru Nanakpura area on the Sultanwind road after heavy rain.The deceased have been identified as Lal Singh (80), Raman Kumar (35), alias Sunny, and Guddu (8). Eyewitnesses claimed that the building collapsed around 2.15 am. The police said three families used to reside in the ill-fated building. Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said his team had commenced the rescue operation. Iron gates inside the building were broken by hydraulic cutters, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-killed-in-amritsar-building-collapse-132977
