29-05-2020||---||1 more loses Covid battle in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 28A 60-year-old Covid-19 patient, who was admitted to the Covid Care Centre at Government Medical College, died here on Thursday. It is the seventh death due to the coronavirus in the district.The victim, Jaspal Kaur, a resident of Bandala village in Baba Bakala tehsil, had tested positive at an authorised private diagnostic lab here on Wednesday. Health authorities said a known case of hypertension with CAD (coronary artery disease) with old cerebellar infarct was shifted to GMC from a private hospital in an unconscious state.The doctors said she was put on oxygen support. Her condition deteriorated around 12.30 pm on Thursday after which she was put on ventilator support.Meanwhile, the district reported nine fresh cases. With the new cases, the total count of positive patients has increased to 362. While eight patients have been admitted to a local hospital, one has been reported from DMC, Ludhiana. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said the district at present had 48 active cases. Apart from 306 recoveries, the district has reported seven deaths due to the infection till date.Dr Jugal said two positive patients were reported last night while six cases were contacts — family members and neighbours of a Covid-19 positive woman from the Chehharta area — were detected on Wednesday.2 fresh cases in Tarn TaranTwo fresh Covid-19 positive cases were admitted to the isolation ward on Wednesday night after they had tested positive. The district now had four active cases, said Civil Surgeon Dr Anoop Kumar. The new patients included a 20-year-old man, a resident of Bagrian village, who had returned from the US recently and a 26-year-old resident of Khadoor Sahib who had returned from Mumbai recently. Both the patients were kept in a quarantine centre on their return to the district from where they had now been shifted to the isolation ward.385 persons under home quarantine in distAs many as 385 persons are quarantined in 123 houses house nowadays. As the number of patients rising, without any travel history and contact with a Covid-19 patient, it has become more challenging for the administration to trace the contacts of the infected patients. According to information, most of the persons, who returned from other states and countries, have been home-quarantined.Nitish Singla, Joint Commissioner, Municipal Corporation (MC), along with 20 sector magistrates and rapid response teams, are taking care of all these persons.The teams keep a check on the migrated persons and anyone who is declared positive in hospitals. The sector magistrates immediately trace their contacts and quarantine them. The medical staff observe the health of persons quarantined in homes.21 more quarantined at Khadoor SahibTarn Taran: Twentyone persons, who had returned from Kuwait and Dubai, were quarantined in a hostel of Sri Guru Angad Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, 25 km from here. The hostel was being used as a quarantine centre by the Punjab Health Department where boarding and lodging facilities were being given by the Kara Sewa sect led by environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh.Bhai Nirmal Singh of the sect said seven of them reached here from Kuwait this morning and 14 came last night. “A total of 60 persons have been residing here at the moment,” said Bhai Nirmal Singh. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-more-loses-covid-battle-in-amritsar-91457
29-05-2020||---||Migrant workers beat thalis in protest, seek wages, ration||Amritsar, May 28Migrant workers protested by beating thalis demanding pending wages from factory owners at Focal Point industrial area here on Thursday. They also demanded that they be paid for the period for which the factories were closed due to the lockdown.Shiv Kumar, a migrant worker, claimed that he was not paid for the days he worked. He said he had spent all his savings and had no money now. He said he applied online for going home and even received a phone call, but when they went to the railway station, they were sent back stating that the train was not going.Another worker Rinku Rajbar, who, too, attended the protest, however, said he received all wages except for the period for which the factories were closed. He said the state government was providing ration only to local residents and migrant workers were not getting it. Rinku said he was stranded here along with two of his brothers.The migrant workers demanded that the state government should provide them ration till they were not sent back to their respective states. The workers shouted slogans against the state government and beat thalis to express their anguish.Mahesh Verma, a leader of the migrants who lead the protest, said: “Migrants have been contributing for the growth of the state but they are not being taken care of. Many migrant workers have already left due to the hardships. The Shiromani Akali Dal is with these workers during this time of crisis and we will gherao the Deputy Commissioner if these workers were not provided ration.”Meanwhile, a group of migrants blocked the Bypass Road in protest against the government here on Thursday. They said they were asked to reach Maharaja palace stating that they would be sent to Ludhiana by buses, from where they would board trains to their respective destinations. They said they were asked to sit in the buses and then get off. They said it happened twice and they were finally asked to go home as no train from Ludhiana was available.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrant-workers-beat-thalis-in-protest-seek-wages-ration-91458
29-05-2020||Amritsar||Victims were forced to make rape allegations, reveals probe||Adding a twist to the registration of a rape case against priests of Guru Gian Nath Ashram located in Ram Tirath temple complex, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has exposed a conspiracy to topple the current head of the ashram Girdari Nath.Video that exposed the conspiracyDuring the investigation, the SIT stumbled upon a video which was made around a month ago in which the women were found accusing Girdari Nath and others of raping them. This made the cops suspicious and they interrogated the women they disclosed the entire conspiracy.The SIT was headed by SP (Investigation) Amandeep Kaur. Two women were rescued from an alleged illegal detention from the temple complex on May 18 following the intervention of the Punjab SC/ST Commissioner member Tarsem Singh Sialka and in the presence of a magistrate. The duo had at that time accused priests Girdari Nath, Varinder Nath, Suraj Nath and Narchhatar Nath of raping them during the illegal confinement.A case of rape and illegal detention was registered against the four while Girdari Nath and Varinder Nath were nabbed by the police.A fresh FIR was registered against seven persons and two of them were arrested by the police on Thursday.Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP, Amritsar (rural), said during the investigation by the SIT, the ‘victims’ revealed the entire incident that they were lured and pressurised to give such statements against Girdari Nath and others. She alleged the accused kidnapped his son and forced them to accuse the priests of rape. They alleged the accused also promised to give them Rs 5 lakh and gave Rs 50,000 in advance. Her son was rescued from Mudal village where he was kept with relatives of Tirath Singh.Their statements were recorded before a Judicial Magistrate at Ajnala where they admitted that they were not raped while initial medical examination report also confirmed the same. A fresh case was registered against seven persons. Those booked were identified as Tirath Singh, Joga, Sandeep Singh Meghnath, Sukhwinder Singh, Tarsem Singh and Gopal Singh.Duggal said Tirath Singh and Joga Singh were arrested by the police while raids were on to nab the remaining suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/victims-were-forced-to-make-rape-allegations-reveals-probe-91461
29-05-2020||GurbaxpuriTarn Taran||Students wait for new dates of pending PSEB Class XII exams||Gursewakjit Singh, a Class XII student at Government Senior Secondary School, Tarn Taran, is among 52 students of the non-medical stream who are anxiously waiting for the new dates of their three pending PSEB exams. Gursewakjit said the exams of physics, mathematics and computer are yet to be conducted.He said, “Sometimes, waiting for the dates of the pending exams leaves us anxious. On a number of occasions, it becomes tough to concentrate on studies. But after some time, gathering all internal power, I get ready to study.”He said under the supervision of school principal Jagwinder Singh, physics lecturer Tejinder Singh has been guiding all 52 students of the class through the online platform regularly. He said they have also made a WhatsApp group to coordinate with each other.Gursewakjit’s brother Gursimranjit Singh, who is doing B.Sc (non medical), helps him in his studies.Ganagdeep Singh, a Class XII student of the same school, said it is the time to think of survival as Covid-19 is a deadly disease.Another student Jasmeet Singh said he was keeping himself upbeat as their teachers are regularly guiding them. The school principal said students, whose exams are pending, are in touch of their subject teachers and they have been preparing well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-wait-for-new-dates-of-pending-pseb-class-xii-exams-91465
29-05-2020||Amritsar||Shop reopens, but sale negligible||Even as the government has allowed shops to resume business on rotation basis, an electronic goods trader from the Putlighar area, Amanpreet Singh, has expressed unhappiness over negligible sales.“We are allowed to open shops on rotation. It means that if we are open today, we will remain closed for the next two days. So practically, we will be working only 10 days in a month,” he said.Amanpreet, who owns Advance City Electronics, said, “The middle class is dependent on finance services for making purchases. With the government earlier announcing moratorium for three months and then extending it for another three months, financers are not ready to get involved.”He added that these were uncertain times and as finance companies would not be getting a single penny for at least the next four months, they were not ready to invest in most cases.He said as public transport services had not resumed completely, customers from rural areas were not coming. “Till last summer, we did not have time for lunch during these months. We would open the shop at 8 am and worked till noon at a stretch. But now we are sitting idle,” he said, adding that even working class people were not ready to spend money.“The general mood is of saving and not spending. The salaries of private employees are stuck. There is uncertainly all around and people are not thinking of buying LEDs or music systems. There of course is some demand for ACs, but it is much less than the average,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shop-reopens-but-sale-negligible-91467
29-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Over 8-kg heroin seized near Pakistan border; 1 held||Tarn Taran, May 28During a search operation, the district police seized 8.20 kg of heroin and 30 grams of opium at Rattoke village 50, beyond the Zero Line on the Indo-Pak border near BSF Pillar No. 166 here on Thursday. The consignment was buried under the earth.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya informed mediapersons that Gurlal Singh of Rattoke village, along with his other associates, had brought the consignment from across the border from their Pakistan-based partners. While Gurlal Singh was arrested, his other associates absconded, said the SSP.The seized contraband is worth Rs 40 crore in the international market. The SSP said the operation was launched on a tip-off received by ASI Gurdial Singh of the anti-narcotic cell. DSP (Major Crime) Kanwaljit Singh and Inspector Prabhjit Singh, SHO, Tarn Taran (City) police station, headed the operation. The SSP said the heroin was packed in five bottles and the opium was wrapped in a plastic envelope.A case under Sections 21, 29, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered by the Khemkaran police. Police teams have been sent to nab the absconding associates of Gurlal Singh, said the SSP. Gurlal Singh, who once tried to cross over to the border, was earlier booked in two heinous criminal cases, added the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-8-kg-heroin-seized-near-pakistan-border-1-held-91470
29-05-2020||Rajiv Gupta||‘There is a chance for LED light producers to become exporters’||How has the lockdown impacted the industry?Like any other industry, the domestic lighting industry has also suffered huge losses in the past two months. Even though the industry has now resumed its operations, we are not able to manufacture lights as we are facing a shortage of electronic components, including chips from China, Japan and Korea. The demand supply equation is not working and seems like it will take at least six to eight months to get back on track.Workers are an asset of any industry. How are you dealing with them?We have a workforce of over 120-150 employees and without them, the industry cannot run. Moreover, a majority of the labourers working with me are skilled who have knowledge of electronic components. Thus, I cannot afford to lose them. I arranged a pass for myself from the administration during the curfew to reach to my employees to provide them ration. I have also paid full salaries to them. Now, I have also arranged auto-rickshaws to ferry them from their place to the factory.Will the current crisis increase the prices of LED lights?While manufacturing an LED light in India, over 60 per cent of the components, which are mechanical in nature, are sourced locally. Around 40 per cent, which are called electronic drivers, including chips, are imported from foreign countries, especially China. These are in short supply as of now. Thus, 8 to 10 per cent impact on the prices is expected as we are seeing supply constraints.What lessons have you learnt from the present scenario?Well, the lighting industry is completely dependent on China, Korea and Japan for raw material. Even if some dealers have these components at present, they are based in Delhi and Mumbai where Covid-19 cases are on the rise. Although we have started operations, we are not able to reach the final stage of manufacturing due to the supply constraints. Thus, we need to be self-reliant now in terms of manufacturing of components and other required raw material so that the industry does not suffer in future.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge as well an opportunity. The government's support to industries has always been negligible. I believe the industries are more determined to fight back. The current crisis is a chance for light manufacturers to become leading exporters. I have once again set new goals and analysed my strengths and weaknesses. This will help me in the longer run.What is the role of the government?We are not getting any revenue right now, but we still have to pay fixed expenditures such as electricity charges, loan instalments and salaries. If not debts, the government can at least defer loan instalments, waive bank interest and give relaxation in other compliance such as GST and custom duty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/there-is-a-chance-for-led-light-producers-to-become-exporters-91474
29-05-2020||---||Going beyond duty, doctor & his team cremate unclaimed bodies||Amritsar, May 28A team of doctors and healthcare workers at the Civil Hospital have been performing the last rites of unclaimed bodies during the Covid-19-induced lockdown.Deepak, who is a Senior Pharmacy Officer at the Civil Hospital, with help from his co-workers, has been taking care of the dead when even their families abandon them due to the Covid fear.“I consider it as part of my duty to give the dead their due respect. The pandemic has created so much fear in people’s mind that kin refuse to cremate bodies of even those who die of other reasons. We conduct Covid test of deceased as per the procedure, but families, fearing that the patient might have died of Covid, refuse to claim bodies,” said Deepak.Deepak and his team have cremated several bodies in the past few days. “Today also, I performed last rites of an unidentified man. It’s tragic that our dead are being rejected by their own families.”He said they also cremate bodies of destitute or unclaimed person. “I am doing my duty but I also want to request people to shed the fear and the misconception that every death is because of Covid,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/going-beyond-duty-doctor-his-team-cremate-unclaimed-bodies-91475
29-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Engineers, mechanic convert wheat drilling machine into paddy seeder||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 28Proving the age-old proverb — necessity is the mother of invention — correct, two agriculture engineers and a local mechanic have converted a happy seeder machine used for sowing wheat into a machine for direct seeding of rice and other crops.The trio includes Ranbir Singh Randhawa, an engineer with Agriculture Department; Manpreet Singh, a research engineer with Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana; and Joginder Singh of Kamboj Mechanical works.The successful trial of the machine was conducted in the fields of Jagjit Singh of Awan village in the presence of senior agriculture officials, including Chief Agriculture Officer (CAO) Dr Gurdial Singh Bal. As the shortage of labour due to lockdown is apparent this season, farmers and Agriculture Department are more inclined towards the mechanisation of paddy sowing and transplanting.Ranbir Singh Randhawa said by making certain modifications, the happy seeder machine which was earlier used only for sowing wheat can now be used for sowing paddy and other crops as maize, moongi, soyabean and peas.Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said: “Now, farmers won’t have to purchase different machines for different crops. A single machine could be used by different crops. He said farmers would save money this way.A spray attachment, a prerequisite for direct seeding of rice as the field requires spray of pre-emergence weedicide with 24 hours of sowing has also been attached. Additionally, an FCR (furrow covering roller) to cut the need for using a harrow after seeding has also been attached.The modified machine uses 8 kg paddy seed per acre, which is sown in parallel rows nine inches apart. Dr Bal said direct seeding of rice should be avoided in sandy and loamy soils apart from fields with higher germination of weeds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/engineers-mechanic-convert-wheat-drilling-machine-into-paddy-seeder-91477
29-05-2020||Amritsar||GST on educational services from current session at GNDU||GNDU will implement GST on educational services as defined under Centre’s guidelines with full effect from the new session. The varsity had till now only partially implemented the GST on specified services.Prof Balwinder Singh, in charge, finance and development, GNDU, said: “The decision will not harm students in any way. The GST is only being implemented on services that are additional to the recognised academic education by the UGC or the ministry concerned. No fee hike on degree education on all courses offered by the GNDU and also services such as hostel and food facilities will also be exempted.”The GST will cover additional services including using gymnasium facility, arranging workshops and seminars, getting transcripts and migration certificates from the varsity.“While the recognised degree courses have been exempted from GST, if the university offers any certificate course, it will come under GST. Also, it will include charges on food kiosks running on the campus,” he said.Meanwhile, student bodies lodged a protest against the inclusion of education services under GST. Obtaining duplicate merit certificate or detailed mark sheet, inter-college migration certificate, attestation of photostat copy per exam, degree in absentia, rechecking fee for answer sheets, reevaluation fee, membership fee for using gym, swimming pool, fitness centre, will be included under the GST.Students For Students (SFS) condemned the GNDU authorities for implementing the move so quickly. “The Centre has brought educational services under GST, which will certainly make education more costly and in turn making it out of reach of students especially from marginalised sections. It should also be noted that GNDU is the costliest government university in the state. The university has also not issued final mark sheets and certificates to students eligible for post-matric scholarships,” shared Shubhkaram Singh, a student and member of SFS. “The government is pushing for commercialisation of education under the garb of a global pandemic. This is vulgar opportunism as the university is shut due to Covid-19 and students are in no position to physically oppose this decision. When people are already grappling with necessary things for survival, this decision has added to their misery particularly for poor and marginalised students,” he said.“While other countries are trying to help students and provide free education, our government is burdening them by putting tax and decreasing the fellowship slots and cutting funds,” said Jatinder Vir Singh, research scholar, department of pharmaceutical sciences, GNDU. Harinder Singh, a social sciences research scholar, also said the Punjab Government should look into the matter, because this was the major reason why our educated people were moving abroad.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gst-on-educational-services-from-current-session-at-gndu-91478
29-05-2020||---||Two arrested for snatching purse||Amritsar, May 28Two persons looted Gurmej Singh of Fattubhila village when he along with his daughter was returning from Khazala village. Gurmej said when he reached near HP gas godown, two bike-borne persons came and snatched the purse of his daughter. They fled away and hid in the fields.Gurmej said he immediately raised the alarm following which people gathered there and searched for the accused. By the time the police also reached the spot and they held the accused with a toy gun.They were identified as Lovepreet Singh and Navdeep Singh, both residents of Rattangarh village. The police have recovered the purse.Meanwhile, in another incident three unknown armed persons robbed Natha Singh of Dhianpur village when he was going towards Rayya on his bike here on Wednesday.They snatched his wallet containing Rs 6,000 and a mobile phone from his possession and fled away. The police registered a case of snatching and under the Arms Act against unidentified persons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-arrested-for-snatching-purse-91480
29-05-2020||Tarn Taran||SAD submits memo to DC  on ‘seed scam’||A delegation of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by former MLA Virsa Singh Valtoha on Thursday submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal for forwarding to state Governor VP Singh Bandore and demanded a high-level probe into the ‘multi-crore seed scam’.Valtoha alleged the state government was not worried about the problems of farmers and other sections of the society. He also alleged that the accused sold seed of fake variety three times higher the market price. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-submits-memo-to-dc-on-seed-scam-91481
29-05-2020||Amritsar||GNDU VC attends online interaction with HRD Minister||Vice-Chancellor Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu and officials of Guru Nanak Dev University on Thursday attended an online interaction programme with Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal.The minister addressed 45,000 representatives from various education institutions on a theme, ‘Turning Challenges into Opportunities to Combat the Threat of Covid-19’. The online programme was organised by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), Bangalore.Pokhriyal said the HRD Ministry has instituted a task force under the UGC and NCERT, which is working on various guidelines with focus on the safety of the students. As per the guidelines, universities will conduct final examinations in July. In case, the situation in a particular zone is still not conducive for the examination, measures will be taken to find alternatives.He said new education policy will lay the foundation for the upliftment of the education scenario of the country. He added that the UGC is working on identifying top 100 universities in the country that will be allowed to offer online degree courses.“The emphasis is to ensure that the quality of the curriculum is not affected. Besides, evaluation for online degree courses will be different from regular courses. A new programme on promoting research in the country will start soon. Our NITs and IITs have worked on various technologies to help the country in a commendable manner,” said Pokhriyal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-vc-attends-online-interaction-with-hrd-minister-91482
29-05-2020||Amritsar||No salary, private bus staff, BRTS employees protest||Staff of private bus operators and contractual workers of the Bus Rapid Transport System (BRTS), along with employees of the Punjab Roadways, held a protest against the government over non-payment of salaries to drivers and conductors for the past two months.The workers of private transporters alleged that they had not been paid salary for the lockdown period. They had been working on minimal salaries, they said. “We don’t have any savings as we were being paid low salaries,” said a driver.Paramjit Singh Kohar, a member of the Punjab Roadways Contract Workers’ Union, said: “Private transporters aren’t paying salaries to drivers and conductors. It is a violation of the government directions. We are supporting their protest. If the operators don’t pay the salaries, we will intensify our struggle.” Narinder Pal Chaiari, another union member, said they would go on an indefinite strike if the salaries are not paid. Employees of metro-bus being run under the BRTS too joined the protest and demanded payment of their salaries.Varinder Singh, a BRTS employee, said: “We submitted various memorandums to the DC, urging him to instruct the company to pay our salaries but no avail. Now we have joined the demonstration by the staff of private bus operators.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-salary-private-bus-staff-brts-employees-protest-91483
29-05-2020||Amritsar||DC reviews flood preparedness||2 held with cash, 290-gm heroinAmritsar: The Chatiwind police have nabbed two persons for allegedly possessing drugs. They were identified as Shekhar Singh of Indira Colony, Jhabal road, and Sajan Singh of the Chhota Haripura area. The police claimed to have recovered 290-gm heroin and Rs 50,000 drug money from their possession. Rashap Singh, SHO, Chatiwind police station, said that following specific input a police team intercepted a car near Bohru checkpoint that was coming from Jhabal road side. During search the police found the contraband and the cash. The accused could not give satisfactory answer and a case under the NDPS Act was registered against them. The SHO said further investigations were underway to find the source of the contraband and upward and backward links of the drug peddlers. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-reviews-flood-preparedness-91484
