29-07-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Amritsar reports 3 deaths, 72 +ve cases||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 28The district has reported three deaths and 72 positive cases in the last 24-hours. With the single largest spike in the number of positive cases ever, since the return of pilgrims from Sri Hazur Sahib, Nanded, the total count of positive cases in the district has increased to 1,646.It could be termed as the most unlucky day ever since the Covid-19 pandemic started. The coronavirus toll has also reached 71. The deceased have been identified as Gurdial Singh, a 45-year-old resident of Khiala village, near Ram Tirath; Sukhchain Singh, a 59-year-old resident of New Partap Nagar; and Bhupinder Singh, a 75-year-old resident of Bakhna Kalan village. The health officials said Gurdial Singh admitted to Government Medical College was a patient of hypertension and coronary artery disease, while Sukhchain Singh admitted to Fortis Hospital was a case of diabetes. Bhupinder Singh, an asthamatic patient with hypertension was admitted to a hospital in Ludhiana.The Central Jail here is becoming a new hotspot of Covid-19 patients with it reporting 31 new contact cases, including prisoners and employees. Earlier, too, at least 20 employees, including a DSP working at the jail, had tested positive for the coronavirus. After many among the jail staff testing positive, the administration had also started collecting samples of inmates.Of the 72 new positive cases reported on Tuesday, 29 are influenza like illness cases and the remaining 43 are contacts of positive cases. In contact cases, the Central Jail alone has contributed 31 cases followed by BSF battalion posted at Attari, reporting seven positive cases. Additionally, three contact cases have been reported from Jandiala Guru and two from Pheruman village near Rayya.Further, besides two ILI cases from Bhalona Kalan village, one positive case each has been reported from Guru Nanak Pura, Pritam Nagar, Wadali Dogra, Friends Colony, Mattewal Village, Hasanpur Village (Baba Bakala), Majitha Road, Bhinder Village (Baba Bakala), Amarkot (Krishna Nagar), Mustafabad, Preet Nagar, Vikas Nagar (Chheharta), Bal Sarai Village (Baba Bakala), Baba Bakala town, Veeram Village, Sandhu Colony (Batala Road), Kabir Park, Shaheed Udham Singh Nagar, Kot Atma Ram, Chogawan Village, Aakash Avenue, Rajasansi Airport, Sawan Nagar, Jandiala Guru police station, Lashkari Nangal Village, Mallian Village and New Azad Nagar. The health authorities said the district have a total of 378 active cases, while 1,197 have recovered so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-3-deaths-72-ve-cases-119397
29-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Undertrial tries to escape from isolation ward, held||Two Covid-19 patients died on Tuesday taking the tally to nine in the district. As many as 13 new positive cases were also reported and five were discharged from hospitals. The Health Department officials said the deceased have been identified as Nirmal Singh of Cheema Kalan (Sarai Amanat Khan) and Mohinder Singh of Khadoor Sahib. They were cremated at their respective villages under Covid-19 protocol, said Dr Anoop Kumar, Civil Surgeon. There are total 69 active patients in the district.Meanwhile, a major lapse on security was witnessed at the local Civil Hospital, when a 30-year-old Covid-19 positive patient of Bhagwanpura (Patti), who is an undertrial, escaped from the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital late last evening. He escaped when other patients were being discharged from the hospital after recovery. Dr Anoop Kumar Civil Surgeon (CS), however, said timely action of the police helped in arrested the undertrial and he was readmitted to the ward on Tuesday. The police located the patient on the basis of his mobile location. The patient had come from Patti sub jail. The CS said 13 new positive patients have been reported in the district with which the tally of active patients had reached 84 in the district. Five patients were discharged on Tuesday, he said. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/undertrial-tries-to-escape-from-isolation-ward-held-119398
29-07-2020||---||Six booked for murder attempt||Amritsar, July 28Tension gripped the Amarkot area near Jora Phatak here when several armed persons barged into a shop and assaulted its owner identified as Jagdeep Singh. The assailants fired several gun shots and decamped with cash from the cash counter.On the statement of the victim and after scrutinising CCTV footage, the Mohkampura police have booked six persons on charges of murder bid and robbery. They were identified as Monu, Prince, both residents of New Golden Avenue, Chiri of Sharifpura, Shiva Dodhi and Honey both residents of Gujjapura and Goldy of the Sharifpura area.No arrest has been made till now as the suspects are absconding since the incident. An old enmity over lodging of police complaint was the reason behind the attack.Jagdeep Singh stated to the police that on Sunday late evening when he along with his wife and son Mehakdeep Singh, alias Joban, was present at the shop located outside the house. Three suspects came on three bikes. They were equipped with pistols and baseballs. He said the suspects fired at his son who ran on the rooftop.He said when they tried to follow him, he resisted. They pointed pistol at him and snatched cash from the cash counter and his pocket. They later fired at his son again. He said his son ran away from the house while the suspects also fled away. Further probe is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-booked-for-murder-attempt-119399
29-07-2020||---||62-yr-old temple priest murdered; miscreants decamp with Rs 60K||Amritsar, July 28A priest, Mohan Sham Bhardwaj (62), was beaten up and strangled to death by several persons who entered a temple and decamped with Rs 60,000 at Gopalpura village falling under the Kathunangal police station here on Tuesday night.According to the police, the priest apparently woke up in the middle of theft and had resisted the thieves who strangled him to death. Bhardwaj’s wife woke up and tried to save him. The police said she was in deep shock and her statement was yet to be recorded.Though the police have registered a murder and robbery case in this connection and launched further investigation, the incident has sent shock waves among residents of the area.Jogeshwar Singh Goraya, DSP, Majitha, said as per a preliminary probe, there were around 12 persons who entered the temple premises after jumping over the boundary walls. As they were trying to steal cash from the temple’s donation box, the priest woke up. He, along with his wife and members of the family, lived on the temple premises. His wife was also thrashed and her earrings and nosepin were snatched by the miscreants.His wife said the accused were armed with sticks and sharp-edged weapons. They stayed in the temple premises for around three hours. They searched the premises. They also took away a digital video recorder of the CCTV cameras, besides the temple’s golak.“After entering the temple, the accused asked for money from the priest, who along with his wife, was sleeping in a room of the temple complex. They thrashed them with sticks and fists before strangling Bhardwaj to death who had resisted them,” said Goraya. He said the body was sent for a postmortem. He said the autopsy report would reveal the exact cause of death whether Bhardwaj died of strangulation or due to some injury.He said investigation was under progress to identify the suspects and they would be nabbed soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/62-yr-old-temple-priest-murdered-miscreants-decamp-with-rs-60k-119400
29-07-2020||---||Amritsar railway station  gets 2 baggage scanners||Amritsar, July 28The Amritsar railway station has received two scanning machines to check any contraband and undesirable material.These two machines have been installed at both sides of the railway station, including one from the Gol Bagh and another from the railway link road.Costing around Rs60 lakh, these machines will be handled by personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF).RPF officials said they had a scanner in their possession, but it was insufficient to handle the rush.They hoped that these gadgets would help in the screening of the baggage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-railway-station-gets-2-baggage-scanners-119401
29-07-2020||PK Jaiswar---||Students of blind institute can breathe clean air now||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, July 28 After over a decade, students and staff of the Institute for the Blind can breathe clean air as a large garbage bin put up outside their building has been lifted by Municipal Corporation authorities.  “We had been struggling for years and making rounds of the civic authorities but in vain,” said Sushil Kumar, caretaker of the Andh Vidyalaya. “On Tuesday, civic body authorities lifted the garbage bin and we are feeling relieved as the spot had become a serious health hazard for the students and inhabitants of the institute,” he said.  During hot and humid conditions in summers, the situation aggravates. The foul smell emanating from the spot make life hell of the students. At present there are 15 blind students putting up in the institute while remaining were sent back to their homes during starting of Covid-19 lockdown.  Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said it was the primary duty of the authorities to address  grievances of the people. As the matter was brought to his knowledge, he took prompt action in this connection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/students-of-blind-institute-can-breathe-clean-air-now-119402
29-07-2020||PK Jaiswar||Hygiene crisis at old vegetable market||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 28Blame it on people, especially the commercial establishments, or the apathy of the civic authorities, the abandoned and vacant area of the old vegetable market near the Hall Gate area has become a bane of the holy city.Though there are plans in place for construction of multi-storey parking in the area, it is yet to see the light of the day. The land has become a perfect breeding ground for mosquitoes due to stagnant rainwater and dumping of garbage.A visit to the area depicts the sorry state of affairs. Piles of garbage and polythene bags presents an ugly look. Not only this while, even half -an-hour of downpour is enough to add to the miseries of people.“Hot and humid conditions during monsoon are a breeding ground for mosquitoes and the stagnant water at the land coupled with piles of garbage further aggravates the situation,” said Rakesh Kumar, a shopkeeper in the hall gate area. “People are scared of the pandemic but I feel dengue and malaria are other threats that loom large over the holy city,” he pointed out.Another resident who lived in the nearby residential area said the commercial establishments, including fruit venders dump the waste generated from the market at the spot, turning the old market into a garbage disposal site. Hundreds of tonnes of garbage are generated by the shopkeepers here. Instead of throwing this garbage at designated places, they find it convenient to throw in the open spaces here. The residents said the drains are not desilted with the help of super sucker machines leading to the blockage of drains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hygiene-crisis-at-old-vegetable-market-119403
29-07-2020||Amritsar||Pandemic casts shadow over ‘Teej’ celebrations at Khalsa College||The prevailing Covid-19 pandemic circumstances casted its shadow over the ‘Teej’ celebrations at Khalsa College for Women (KCW). The annual festivities, which otherwise are a grand affair, celebrated keeping in mind the safety measures this time. The staff wearing the masks and keeping to the social distancing, resorted to dance and music as the women folk, clad in colourful Punjabi costumes, kept the festive spirits high.Students danced to the tune of traditional Punjabi music as teachers joined hands and recited ‘Bolian’ (verses from folk music) and performed ‘Gidda’ to welcome ‘Savana’, the rainy month, with which the festival is associated. ‘The festival speaks of the good times in the lives and how the girls break into dance and sing to welcome the rain month’’, said principal Dr Manpreet Kaur.The female staff members took to Punjabi folk dance to the beat of the dhol. “It is unlike the last year when students and staff used to take part in the festival in large number. Due to the Covid-19, this year, the celebrations are limited but the spirits are as high as it could be”, said KCW principal Dr Manpreet Kaur, who herself performed Gidda and said the festivals reminded us of the good times in our lives.“This is the perhaps the only festival which are dedicated and celebrates by girls and women folk’’, said she. “We are happy that the staff organised such an extravaganza meticulously,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-casts-shadow-over-teej-celebrations-at-khalsa-college-119404
29-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Of 920 schools, only 189 furnish their details||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 28Only 189 schools out of a total of 920 submitted their details under the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institutions Act-2016, over a period of four years.In all, there are 920 schools falling in private, unaided and affiliated school categories in this border district. It means that 731 schools are yet to submit their forms. District Education Officer issued a communiqué to all private, unaided and affiliated schools on July 13, seeking submission of the forms at the earliest.As per the communiqué, these schools have to submit forms numbering A, B, C, and D at the office of Fee Regulatory Body before April 30. Now, the DEO asked these schools to submit their forms before July 31.Vishal Joshi, a social worker claimed that these 731 schools did not submit the forms since the introduction of the act in 2017. He stated that its prime reason was that entire internal detail of fee structure, expenditure incurred, staff strength and income of schools will come into the public domain.So, schools are reluctant to give detail in the forms. Parents will conveniently come to know of the fee taken by schools and shown to the government. Entire expenditure and the income of schools will come into public domain and scrutiny.As per performa number A, names of school, its address and names of students and their address besides detail of fee taken from them will be submitted, in the Performa B detail of emoluments given to school’s principal, teachers, clerks, class fourth and entire staff besides, expenditure borne on furniture, stationary and other commodities will be given. In the perform D, detail of entire property of the school, loan taken, deposits in banks and available cash in hand with schools will be mentioned.When contacted, officials of the Education Department stated that schools were contacted to submit their details.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-920-schools-only-189-furnish-their-details-119405
29-07-2020||---||38 take part in online course on Intellectual Property Rights||Amritsar, July 28  Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice-Chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, inaugurated the week-long UGC-approved online short term course on ‘Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) & Ethics’ being conducted by the UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC) of the university here on Tuesday.  The course comprises 38 participants from far off places such as Karnataka, Maharashtra, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir and from varied disciplines such as chemistry, education, electronics and communication, environmental sciences, laws, pharmaceutical sciences and planning among others. Prof Adarsh Pal Vig, director, HRDC, ensured full support to participants during the seven-day online short-term course. VC Prof Sandhu took participants through a virtual tour of the university. He deliberated on the importance of IPR related issues in research and emphasised that India had lesser number of patents filed primarily due to lack of knowledge about IPR. Sandhu said this course would help in raising awareness about the economic, social and cultural benefits of IPRs.  “In the current scenario, when personal contact is not possible, HRDC-GNDU had endeavoured to start the courses in online mode as per the recent guidelines by the UGC. Incidentally, this is the first short term course to be conducted online, the HRDC staff along with the department of computer science and technology had been working round the clock for the smooth functioning of this course. Since the lockdown was imposed and even afterwards, the university was imparting education online to its students,” said Prof Adarsh Pal Vig.  The first lecture was taken by Dr Aruna Tiwary, IPR agent at TIFAC, DST, New Delhi, who spoke about counterfeit and piracy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/38-take-part-in-online-course-on-intellectual-property-rights-119406
29-07-2020||Amritsar||Hepatitis is completely curable: Doctor||An event to mark World Hepatitis Day was organised at the Civil Surgeon’s office here on Tuesday.Civil Surgeon Dr Navdeep Singh said posters, pamphlets and handbills would be distributed in the district to raise awareness about hepatitis.He said; “Hepatitis is completely curable and early detection of the disease helps in fast recovery. People should not share needles, razors, and brushes besides getting tattoos made from unsafe places.” He asked the health employees that message of prevention against the disease should reach every home. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hepatitis-is-completely-curable-doctor-119407
29-07-2020||Amritsar||Civic body drivers’ union stages protest||The Municipal Corporation Drivers Union on Tuesday staged a protest against the transfer of truck supervisor Deepak Kumar at auto workshop here. The safai karamcharis associated with the driver union also suspended the lifting of the garbage in the walled city.  Employees and officials of the MC are at loggerheads on the auto workshop issue. The drivers claimed that the executive engineer misbehaved with one of the employees while officials claimed that the employees were opposing installation of the CCTV cameras. In the evening, employees met Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and MC Commissioner Komal Mittal. On the assurance of commissioner, the employees ended the demonstration. Ashu Nahar, leader of the union, said, “Commissioner Komal Mittal appointed a driver as truck supervisor and sorted out the issue. We will resume work tomorrow.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-drivers-union-stages-protest-119408
29-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga---||Despite high gold prices, buyers outnumber sellers||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 28 Despite high gold prices, buyers have outnumbered sellers in the local market.  Gold price on Tuesday touched Rs 54,200 per 10 gm.   Pankaj Khurana, a leading jeweller, says despite rise in gold prices customers are not coming out to sell their old gold.  He accepted that the sale of gold ornaments had drastically come down to a fraction in comparison to the last year. At the same time, they heaved a sigh of relief as they were not bothered by the sellers. In that case, they would have to arrange huge funds.  He said: “The Bank of America has predicted that the price of gold will reach $3,000 per ounce, which is 31 gm and 100 milligrams, in a couple of years. It means that the price of the yellow metal will be close to Rs 80,000 in the Indian market in coming months”. Anil Jain, another gold ornament merchant, said: “Traditionally in India, gold is considered a hedge against inflation and a safe refuge for bad times, besides being an integral part of weddings. This rule is gradually being adopted globally as the faith in the yellow metal is growing”. Charanjit Arora, a veteran gold jeweler, said, geo-political tension like belligerent relations between China and the USA and uncertainity induced by the Covid-19 prompted many governments, influential institutions and people to park their surplus money in gold. So it was fuelling gold prices”. Vinod Mehta, another jeweller, said, the demand for gold ornament was sluggish in the local market. He said the response of people towards the gold would be visible in the forthcoming winter marriage season.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/despite-high-gold-prices-buyers-outnumber-sellers-119409
29-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Chasing mobile thief costs 18-yr-old’s life in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, July 28 An 18-year-old boy of Gharka village, 40 km from here, was found murdered in the fields of the village here on Tuesday. The deceased has been identified as Jagroop Singh, son of Balkar Singh. The body was found from the paddy fields on the outskirts of the village this morning. Sub-Inspector Sonamdeep Kaur, SHO, Chohla Sahib, said a case under Section 302 of the IPC had been registered. The SHO said the body had been sent for a postmortem to the Civil Hospital, Tarn Taran. The SHO said the victim had come out of his house on Monday night while talking to someone on his mobile. His mobile was snatched by someone who ran away from the spot. Jagroop tried to catch him but never returned home in the night.  His parents tried to locate him but his body was found from the paddy fields in the morning. “Sharp-edged weapons were used to murder Jagroop,” said the SHO. The victim’s father said today (July 28) was Jagroop’s 18th birthday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chasing-mobile-thief-costs-18-yr-olds-life-in-tarn-taran-119410
29-07-2020||Our Correspondent---||Man booked for selling hooch||Tarn Taran, July 28 Vision of Ravinder Singh (52), a resident of Rataul village, was badly affected after consuming hooch.  Parkash Singh of the same village had been booked under Section 328 of the IPC for allegedly selling hooch to the victim. The victim had been admitted to  Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), Amritsar, where he was under treatment.  Ravinder informed the police that after taking hooch on July 16 his vision started deteriorating.   Earlier, three persons of the same village had died under mysterious circumstances and they did not report the matter to anyone. Rataul is not the only village where hooch is sold freely, but there are other villages also where the trade is in full swing. Sub-Inspector Amritpal Singh, SHO City, is investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-booked-for-selling-hooch-119411
29-07-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||In underdeveloped Gurdaspur, Covid commingles with bureaucratic delays||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, July 28The border district of Gurdaspur is a site of delays. And the outbreak has only allowed the authorities to thrust excuses which has culminated to putting on hold all major development initiatives in the area.Factor this in, three years ago, during the Independence Day celebrations held at the government college stadium here, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh had announced the construction of a medical college. But not even a single brick has been laid till date. The construction becomes more far-fetched when one comes to know that even the land has not been earmarked, for what residents say was to be one of most prestigious projects in recent times.Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq said the file was lying with the Union Government. “The final approval has to be given by the Medical Council of India (MCI). We have given them maps of two sites. A final decision is still awaited,” he said.However, an insider said that it will be a long time before things are finalised. “A clear picture will emerge only after Covid-19 is officially done away with,” he said.This is not the only project on which a ‘final decision’ is awaited. Verdicts are yet to be pronounced on shifting of the old bus stand to a new address on the outskirts of the city and the construction of an underpass on the Tibri road railway crossing.The bus stand has outlived its utility and direly needs to be shifted to the city’s periphery. The new one’s foundation stone was laid eight years ago by the then Deputy Chief Minister Sukhbir Singh Badal. And the decision to relocate it to a site where a religious structure has been in place for the last several years reeks of unregulated urban growth planning. Again, an official said the file was lying with the local bodies department and “a decision will be taken only after the virus is tamed.”Moreover, there were talks regarding the establishment of a multi-storied parking lot at the Nehru park, apparently to decongest the inner city. This venture, too, has been duly cremated and buried quietly. “For some reason, it did not suit the political class. Hence, it has died a natural death,” said an officer.The officials had hoped the Kartarpur corridor in Dera Baba Nanak would act as a catalyst for all-round development. However, the project never caught the fancy of people. “The mega-project was to usher in several minor ventures. However, the corridor, for an assortment of reasons, did not have many takers. And with it the proposed development schemes, too, withered away,” said an officer.Despite the stumbling blocks, pessimism has not overtaken optimism. Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is looking to spearhead the act. “I myself will approach the CM to ensure each and every project sees the light of day,” said the cabinet minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/in-underdeveloped-gurdaspur-covid-commingles-with-bureaucratic-delays-119412
29-07-2020||Amritsar||‘A little compassion is all we need’||Akshay Mahajan has gone through the worst period of his life. He has felt all the effects that the deadly virus brings with it – both within and without. The 27-year-old recovered earlier this month and is the only second person to donate plasma from the city. He shares his ordeal.“I contracted infection from a friend while transporting him to a hospital. My friend had some legal trouble at Jalandhar and we all were with him. His sample had been collected earlier and later his report came out positive. All of a sudden, everything changed and everyone fled from the place,” he says. But Akshay didn’t back off and took him to the hospital in my car.”“While I was on the way, the thought came to my mind that I too might have contracted the disease. As a precaution I isolated myself at a friend’s farmhouse which was then empty. During contact tracing my sample was taken and a few days later the result was positive. With the suggestion of doctors and permission from administration I was allowed home isolation,” he adds.Afterwards, he returned to his home and was sampled again after 14 days, testing positive. “It prolonged my isolation to 21 days. I did not step out from my room even once in these days. It helped as none other from my family got infected. I was worried about my parents as both of them are diabetics,” Akshay tells.Almost feeling like a prisoner, as food was handed to him on a table outside his door and in disposable utensils. After having it, he would dispose off the utensils in a plastic bag. “Every third or fourth day, I would keep the garbage bag outside and spray sanitiser on it which was then handed over to special garbage collection vehicle coming to houses of all positive patients.”The societal effects then started seeping through as days advanced. “There are good and there are bad people in society. A few neighbours were the pillars of strength for my aged parents during this hard time and a few others convinced our cook to stop working at our home. But our maid continued helping us despite being told repeatedly by some against it,” he shares, before adding, “I am indebted to the whole society.”“I think that people need to understand that a positive patient is a victim and not a criminal. Anybody can fall sick but would they like to be boycotted or would they be expecting some compassion and a little help from society?” he questions and summed up on the topic by saying, “If someone says that do not worry, we are with you, it means a lot to a patient and his family.”However, stars have begun to glitter in his life again as the black clouds of pandemic subsided. He had earlier donated plasma which had helped a woman patient recover and is planning to donate again. Resumption of work is back on and he's taking all the precautions. He says: “With no clear evidence that if I can get infected again or not, I am not taking any chances and wearing mask regularly.” His advice to all? “Prevention is better than cure,” he suggests.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-little-compassion-is-all-we-need-119413
29-07-2020||Amritsar||Gurpreet Singh Khaira next Amritsar DC||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurpreet-singh-khaira-next-amritsar-dc-119414
