29-04-2020||It has been a testing time for one and all. The public health scare||Open house||Please email it to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday, April 30||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-house-77966
29-04-2020||Amritsar||Reservation over operating ACs||Youth nabbed with firearmAmritsar: Residents of Mian Pandher village falling under the Kathunangal police nabbed a youth for allegedly possessing a firearm while his two accomplices managed to escape from the spot. He was later handed over to the police which confiscated the weapon and launched further probe. The accused has been identified as Tarlochan Singh and those who ran away have been identified as Baljit Singh and Harwinder Singh, all residents of Nibbarwind village. The police said the legality of the weapon was being ascertained. IO Lovepreet Singh said they got a tip-off that Mian Pandher village residents had held an outsider with a rifle. He said probe was on to ascertain why they were armed and what was their motive. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/reservation-over-operating-acs-77965
29-04-2020||Amritsar||UK engages Qatar Airways to ferry citizens back||As many as 271 British citizens of Punjab origin were ferried back to their country on Tuesday, as the British government today engaged Qatar Airways’ flight from Amritsar to Heathrow (London).Passengers said they came here on a vacation, but got stranded after all flights were grounded following the imposition of the curfew to prevent the spread of Covid. So, they contacted their High Commission online appealing to repatriate them so that they could resume their official and domestic work pending in the UK.Earlier, the British government utilised the services of British Airways by operating several flights between Heathrow and Amritsar. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uk-engages-qatar-airways-to-ferry-citizens-back-77964
29-04-2020||Amritsar||2 murders rock Amritsar||The holy city has witnessed two murders in the past two days amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the curfew.Nirankar Singh, a resident of Taragarh village, was stabbed to death by several unidentified person here late Monday evening, when he was returning home after taking medicines from a doctor in Begowal village. He was Congress sarpanch Manjit Kaur’s husband.According to information, around 11:30pm, his family got a call that he was lying seriously injured at Begowal village. They rushed to the spot and took him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital, where doctors declared him dead.The rural police have arrested two persons — Daler Singh and Gurkirat Singh of the same village, while two of their accomplices — Shamsher Singh and Gurpreet Singh were still at large. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said they had an old enmity with the deceased. They wanted to teach him a lesson and wanted to beat him badly. But Nirankar Singh suffered critical injuries which led to his death.Meanwhile, in another incident, Gurbinder Singh, a resident of Kammoke village, was found murdered here on Monday. Old enmity is stated to be the reason behind the murder.Following the complaint of his wife Rajwant Kaur, the police have booked Gurpreet Singh and his father Sucha Singh of Patti Palla in Butala village.Rajwant told the police that she along with her husband Gurbinder Singh and son Pavitar Singh had gone to see a doctor in Butala village. She said the accused Gurpreet Singh attacked Gurbinder with a sharp weapon. She said as she raised an alarm, the accused fled from the scene. She said she took her husband to Baba Bakala hospital, from where the doctors referred him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. She said when they reached GNDH, doctors declared him dead.The police authorities said Gurbinder had a dispute with the accused around four months ago which was the reason behind the incident. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-murders-rock-amritsar-77963
29-04-2020||---||Conduct Covid test of vendors, says activist||Amritsar, April 28The administration has no record of vegetable, fruit and milk vendors providing their services during the lockdown in the city, claimed a social activist. The activist has written to the Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh, on the need to keep a record of vendors and examine their health to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Advocate PC Sharma said: “The district administration has issued thousands of passes to vendors to provide services to residents. But till date, no list of such vendors has been prepared and have they have not been tested for Covid. Also, there is no record of the areas where the vendors are selling their products.”Sharma has also written to the district administration, asking it to conduct test of all vendors who have been issued passes. “The administration must specify areas where vendors can work,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/conduct-covid-test-of-vendors-says-activist-77962
29-04-2020||---||Teachers, officials urge low-income families to get their wards enrolled at govt schools||Amritsar, April 28In their effort to increase enrolment in government schools, officials of the district Education Department have been reaching out to low-income families amid the lockdown.Taking several online classes, organising summer workshops to keep students engaged and sharing study material through various social media tools, teachers as well as officials of the department have now been reaching out to parents for enrolment of their wards in government schools.“The lockdown has unemployed many people, especially daily wagers and those work in the unorganised sector, affecting their livelihoods. The situation may not improve even after lockdown is lifted. So, those parents who had got their kids admitted to private schools may find it difficult to pay fee and bear other expenses. We have been reaching out to them with information about the academic and extra-curricular programmes of our schools,” said Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan.She has also constituted a team of teachers that can be contacted for any information and queries regarding the online admission procedure.“We have given the option of online admissions and providing study material, including books, online to students. Besides, teachers give them home work with the help of internet. Moreover, if parents are not equipped with technology, we have given contact numbers of the teachers concerned for assistance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teachers-officials-urge-low-income-families-to-get-their-wards-enrolled-at-govt-schools-77961
29-04-2020||---||Courts take online route in Pathankot||Pathankot, April 28Following the instructions of the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court, Pathankot District and Sessions Judge, Kanwaljeet Singh Bajwa, has been instrumental in setting up a video-conferencing facility to ensure the ongoing lockdown does not hit judicial work.All 10 courts are now functioning on ‘virtual’ basis. Advocates are present in these courts while the judges, including the District and Sessions judge, sit at their camp offices, which are normally in their residences, and operate through video-conferencing. Lawyers have to wear masks and abide by social distancing norms while sitting in the rooms in the judicial complex. Lawyers also have the option to operate from their chambers itself.Bajwa said since lawyers from the neighbouring town of Gurdaspur also arrive for judicial work, social-distancing norms would have gone for a hit. Hence, he made it mandatory for judges to sit at home and operate through video-conferencing.A link is generated by the court’s system officer, which, in turn, is forwarded to both lawyers and judges.Investigating officers and public prosecutors also appear online. “In this way, the work of the court does not suffer at all. The judges and lawyers are comfortable with the new arrangement. So far 50 bail applications and 21 ‘sapurdari’ applications have been heard through the new mechanism. In this way, the general public does not have to come to the judicial complex to get their grievances addressed,” said Bajwa.“Anticipatory, regular and stay bail applications are heard and appropriate orders are passed,” he said.Members of the Pathankot District Bar Association have praised the efforts of the District and Sessions Judge of conducting judicial business through virtual platforms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/courts-take-online-route-in-pathankot-77960
29-04-2020||---||Harvesting picks up pace in Amritsar, courtesy dry weather||Amritsar, April 28Wheat harvesting in rural areas is slowly picking up the pace with the weather remaining mostly dry for the past few days. As of Tuesday, around 20 per cent of the crop has been harvested.An official of the District Mandi Board said: “The arrival of wheat will increase exponentially in the next two days as harvesting is expected to be at its peak. Around 50 percent of the crop is expected to be harvested by the end of this week.”Last year, 6, 82, 905 tonnes of wheat had arrived to the mandis. In the current season, however, around 1.46 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has arrived as of now. The mandi official said a majority of the crop was being purchased by government procurement agencies and the share of private buyers was negligible.Chief Agricultural Officer (CAO) Harinderjit Singh said hot and dry weather is crucial for ripening of wheat grains. “Dry weather in the past few days has resulted in decrease in moisture in grains and the harvesting has increased. But crop in some areas has not ripened fully. So the farmers should wait for a few more days and harvest the fields only when the crop has ripened completely,” the CAO said. He said the moisture level of grains was being checked at the entrance of markets, so the farmers might have to face trouble if they had harvested early.“Combine operators have also been asked to sanitise their machines frequently and observe other norms such as social distancing,” he said, adding that harvesting was being done mainly with machines and expect for operating machinery, no other work was being done by manual labour.He said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, farmers should consider it as their moral duty to refrain from burning stubble as it would increase pollution and lead to breathing-related problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harvesting-picks-up-pace-in-amritsar-courtesy-dry-weather-77959
29-04-2020||Amritsar||Entangled in Chinese string, barn owl rescued||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/entangled-in-chinese-string-barn-owl-rescued-77958
29-04-2020||---||Baal Sahitya Akademi Award winner busy penning new stories these days||Amritsar, April 28Writer Kulbir Singh Suri (74) has been completing his writing projects that he had kept aside for long.Kulbir, who is the recipient of the Baal Sahitya Akademi Award, said, "We keep certain work and projects aside for completing these in our leisure time that we never get and then these works are forgotten. I have used the lockdown period to dig up such works, including writings, which got sidelined because of some commitments and engagements. Now, I have also been penning some new stories."Kulbir, youngest son of eminent novelist Nanak Singh, has also been busy working to finish the press copy of his upcoming novel, 'Naankeyan Da Pind', which is scheduled for publication as soon as the lockdown is lifted."It is a compilation of my experience and stories from my childhood. I have also been recording a few stories for online storytelling sessions being hosted by the National Book Trust of India for children during the lockdown," he shared.The father of two daughters, Kulbir said his daughters and he was hopeful that things would improve for better. "One of my daughters is a doctor and working on the frontline in Melbourne and the other is stuck in the middle of one the most effected places, Boston. I talk to them every day and make sure that I end our conversation on a positive note," he added.Meanwhile, he treats himself to some music therapy by playing flute in the evenings. "Playing flute is my passion. I used to play it during my college days. Later, I got busy with writing," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baal-sahitya-akademi-award-winner-busy-penning-new-stories-these-days-77957
29-04-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur district epidemiologist — the cynosure of all eyes||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, April 28Setting an exampleIn her capacity as the nodal officer, Dr Vandana, district epidemiologist, has supervised the collection of a whopping 460 samples in a short span of time. This development has earned her accolades from Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, Civil Surgeon Dr Kishen Chand and her senior colleagues.Even as a fear psychosis has gripped doctors of the Civil Hospital following the Covid scare, Dr Vandana, district epidemiologist, has become the cynosure of all eyes by screening suspected patients, collecting their samples, packaging them and subsequently transporting them without even the slightest of trepidation or anxiety.“Actually fears are educated into us, and can, if we wish, be educated out,” she says.In her capacity as the nodal officer, she has supervised the collection of a whopping 460 samples in a short span of time. This development has earned her accolades from Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq, Civil Surgeon Dr Kishen Chand and her senior colleagues.Amid all fears unleashed by the fury of the virus, her family life had threatened to go haywire. However, like an astute trapeze artist, she manages to maintain a fine balance between her domestic chores and exigencies of work, a fact that is not being lost on her seniors.The mother of a dotting three-year-old daughter, the ‘doctor-is-in’ before dawn and starts preparing notes.“You never know which officer will call, and at what time, to ask for details. If I will not be prepared, In that way I will be setting a bad example which is the last thing that I want. I also have to stay tuned with the latest developments and hence I read a lot of scientific journals and newspapers to learn how different countries are trying to cope with the pandemic. Epidemiology is more than skin deep. It is actually the science on which public health decisions are based. It is also about the study about the spread of diseases, health problems or risk factors on the population and action taken to alleviate those problems,” she maintains.Before Covid broke out in all its intensity, life was a bit easy. Now with its spread, things have changed. She admits she has to be on her toes 24x7.Her team comprises ENT specialists, microbiologists, lab technicians and her Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) team members.“There is no lack of PPE kits. It is mandatory for all of us to wear them. This, in turn, takes the fear of catching the virus far away from our minds,” she says.She admits that this is the most difficult time she is passing through ever since she joined in 2016.“Hard times may hold you down, but they will not last forever,” she says.The most difficult part is to convince patients to stay at home after their samples have been collected. “Test reports arrive within 36 hours. However, despite telling them the dangers of not staying at home during this period, some people refuse to listen to us. They are not only compounding their problems, but ours too,” she said.What does she think about life after the lockdown? “I am an eternal optimist. Man never has made any material as resilient as the human spirit,” was her reply.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-district-epidemiologist-%E2%80%94-the-cynosure-of-all-eyes-77956
29-04-2020||MLA REFLECTS||‘Make sure I reach out to people in need’||Iam spending my days confined to my home as per the guidelines during the lockdown. But I also make sure that I reach out to people in need through my social media handles.The main focus of my relief efforts during the lockdown has been on the marginalised. We have 70 per cent blue card families in our constituency and we make sure each one of them gets ration and supplies so that they do not have to face any problem.I feel migrant labourers in the city are the worst affected. They have lost their livelihood and are stuck here as they cannot travel back home.I have been providing immediate relief material to migrant labourers. Another area of my concern is to bring back people who are stuck in other cities and I have been in touch with their families here, doing every bit to bring them back safe and get them tested.I have opposed the move to send power bills to several small business establishments on an average basis. When the business remained shut, how can they be asked to pay for power consumption? Also, I have shared a few suggestions with the CM on creating mini-sabzi mandis in designated areas, so that farmers can sell their produce directly to consumers, without any problem. Another suggestion is that the city should be divided into small segments or zones, depending on the number of cases being reported.If any zone that is safe or in green zone, small business and shops should be allowed to open with guidelines on social distancing and safety, so that a chain of supply begins and they can earn as well. The testing in city should also be increased.(As told to Neha Walia)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/make-sure-i-reach-out-to-people-in-need-77955
29-04-2020||Tarn Taran||Wheat procurement, lifting come to a halt as five test positive||Wheat procurement and lifting on Tuesday came to a halt at the grain market of Sursing village in Tarn Taran, causing mental harassment and a huge financial loss to farmers. As five residents of Sursing village were found positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the administration sealed the village forcing residents to confine themselves to the four walls of their houses. The farmers who had been coming to the market for the last three days for their wheat to be procured by agencies were left with no option but to remain in the market day and night with no facility as they have been banned from moving anywhere. Jasbir Singh, a resident of the village and senior leader of the Aam Aadmi Party, said thousand quintals of wheat was lying in the open and there was no hope that the stock would be procured soon. He said the farmers had to left on an empty stomach on Monday night. Farmers of nearby Chichhrewal and Dhunn villages too came to the market to sell their produce in the Sursing market. The village, which has a population of more than 10,000, had been converted into a police cantonment. Varinder Kumar, mandi supervisor, confirmed that there was more than 8,000 quintals of wheat to be procured and over 30,000 quintals of procured wheat stock, which is lying in the open, was yet to be lifted. He said the administration was thinking to shift the market to the outskirts of the village stadium so that farmers could come to the market without any hassle. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/wheat-procurement-lifting-come-to-a-halt-as-five-test-positive-77954
29-04-2020||---||2 more +ve cases in Tarn Taran||Amritsar/Tarn Taran, April 28With the Tarn Taran administration reporting two more Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, the total count in the district has increased to eight. The two had also returned from Nanded recently on a tempo traveller whose Maharashtra-based driver had later tested positive after returning home.Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “We have quarantined all 11 persons who returned on the vehicle and two of them from Khem Karan tested positive today.” He said the test reports of the remaining persons were awaited.Five of the six positive persons, who tested positive on Monday, too had returned from Nanded on April 25 on their private vehicles. The sixth patient, a woman from Lahuka village near Patti, had given birth to a child at the Sursing health centre. The health authorities had sent them to home quarantine after screening. However, their samples collected later came out positive. The health authorities have also sent the sample of the newborn baby for testing.The health authorities on Tuesday collected 181 new samples, which were sent to the Government Medical College lab for testing. The Deputy Commissioner said they had quarantined 167 passengers who returned from Hazoor Sahib today. The authorities have converted a private nursing college into a quarantine centre for the purpose.In Amritsar too, a total of 179 passengers, who had returned from Hazoor Sahib on Tuesday, had been kept at a quarantine centre. The administration has also dispatched teams to bring 42 passengers to keep them in the quarantine centre by evening. These passengers had returned on April 26 and were home quarantined after screening.An official of the administration said after five cases of Covid-19 reported in Sursing (Tarn Taran), the government has decided to quarantine all passengers returning from Maharashtra for a period of 14 days. The district has reported 14 positive cases so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-more-ve-cases-in-tarn-taran-77953
