29-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Two donate Rs 7.6L for supply of essentials||Tarn Taran, March 28Two residents of the city have donated Rs 7.6 lakh to the district administration to help the administration in supplying essential commodities to members of weaker sections of society.Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said Lakhwinder Singh Pagal and his son Amarinder Singh donated Rs 5.60 lakh and Rajiv Aggarwal of Punjab Rice Land Rs 2 lakh for the noble cause.The Deputy Commissioner has appealed to people to come forward to help needy people during this time of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-donate-rs-7-6l-for-supply-of-essentials-62482
29-03-2020||---||Schools announce results online||Amritsar, March 28Adapting to the ongoing situation of lockdown, various private schools in city are declaring results for senior classes through social media applications. Resorting to such measures, they say, is the most logical solution to avoid delay learning process in children.“While results for primary classes had already been out before the shutdown, the results for Class VI to IX are being released through WhatsApp. Parents are being informed about their child’s evaluation and the subjects that need to be paid more attention,” said Senior Study School Principal Upasana Mehra.DAV Public School Principal Neera Sharma said results of senior classes have been posted on the school’s website. “Though results of students were released online, we are also apprising parents about their child’s performance,” she said. Apart from the practice of online result announcement, several schools are ready to begin with new session through online classes.“We are preparing lessons for the new session and our teachers will be using alternate learning tools such as storytelling, PPTs, graphics and other applications to share lessons with children. We have also briefed parents to chip in with e-learning and engage with children at home,” said Upasana. Most private schools in the city are following same method to ensure that studies continue as usual when schools resume.“It is imperative, in the current scenario, to make sure that the students do not lag behind or miss out on their course and syllabus. Our teachers are working from home in a collaborative manner to design appropriate learning programmes to resume classes through online sessions,” said Neera Sharma.Government schools too are following the suit. Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan had shared that government middle and high schools were working towards sharing lessons through online applications such as WhatsApp.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/schools-announce-results-online-62481
29-03-2020||---||Rain leaves farmers worried||Amritsar, March 28Moderate showers on Friday morning left farmers and farm labourers worried. Reason: harvesting of the wheat crop, which is in the maturing stage.Farmers are now expecting that harvesting may be delayed due to weather conditions. The wheat crop has reportedly been flattened in some areas of the district. While vegetable growers are facing a tough time due to the rain. Plucking of several vegetable is likely to be delayed. The rain has become a hurdle in the harvesting of the potato crop. According to agriculture experts, wheat harvesting will likely to start only around April 12 in the state.Narinder Singh, a farmer, said, “More rain can damage the wheat crop. A dip in the temperature will delay the harvesting. We doubt whether the police will allow us to harvest the crop or not.”In the evening, the government instructed deputy commissioners to grant relevant permission or relaxation to farm labourers and farmers for harvesting and transporting horticulture produce, including vegetables and fruits, to the markets.It is expected that the government may issue detailed guidelines for wheat harvesting by March 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-leaves-farmers-worried-62480
29-03-2020||Amritsar||2 phones seized from prisoners||Two snatching incidents in cityAmritsar : A staff nurse, Manjinder Kaur, employed at Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital at Vallah was robbed by two bike-borne persons at Sultanwind link road. In a statement to the police, she said when she reached near Sultanwind link road on her scooter, two motorcycle-borne youth intercepted her. She said the accused snatched her scooter and fled the spot. She said she had her purse and mobile phone inside the scooter dickey. Sultanwind police have registered a case under Section 379 B of the IPC. In another incident around six unknown persons snatched a mobile phone and cash from a railway employee near Vallah canal. The victim, Balkar Singh, who works as a line man was going to his duty when the incident took place. The accused had also thrashed the victim. A case under Section 379 B (2) of the IPC. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-phones-seized-from-prisoners-62477
29-03-2020||Amritsar||People get relief as supply of essentials improves||Negligible movement of people and vehicles was seen on roads on the fifth day of the curfew here on Friday. A few residents came out of their houses to purchase essential items.Barricades were installed on roads to check movement of vehicles. The police personnel were seen carrying out their duty by keeping an eye on the movement of people. They were seen asking them reason out of their houses. Letting them go ahead only after finding the reason being convincing enough.However, people, who were earlier facing adversity in getting supply of life saving drugs, ration, vegetables, dairy and other products, received a little reprieve yesterday.As the district administration has fixed filling station timings between 6 am and 8 am, but some of them stopped refilling fuel much before 8 am yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/people-get-relief-as-supply-of-essentials-improves-62476
29-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Social activists, cops face starving people’s wrath||Tarn Taran, March 28As many as 35 persons were booked for throwing stones at social activists and the police, who had gone to distribute food among them, at Chabal village, 16 km from here, on Friday evening. The accused have been booked under Sections 353, 186, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC.The police said some social activists had gone to Pakka Quila locality of Chabal village on Friday evening. The starving people rushed to get food. The social activists had to face a tough situation, as they failed to distribute food to the needy properly. When the police party deployed on the spot intervened to pursue people to line up in queues, people started pelting them with stones. The situation remained tense for about half an hour and at one point the police became helpless and couldn’t handle the situation. None of the accused have been arrested so far as they absconded from the spot soon after.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-activists-cops-face-starving-peoples-wrath-62473
29-03-2020||---||Online enrolment for govt primary schools begins||Amritsar, March 28 The district education office has begun the process of online enrolment for primary classes under the directions issued by school education secretary Krishan Kumar. The Department of Education had issued instructions to chart out online  plan, on the same lines of private schools and ensure that maximum enrolments are done for elementary and primary classes across the district.  Deputy DEO Rekha Mahajan said the department had launched a web link to help parents resolve their queries about the process. “Interested parents can fill the admission form online in three easy steps. The move comes after the schools were shutdown due to Covid-19 outbreak. The admission process begins from today and we will plan online learning lessons to help children learn during this period," said Mahajan.  Teachers and department officials have also been asked to call up parents and make them aware about the new admission process. "Most schools are following the online admission process. We are also preparing to declare results online due to given situation," said the DEO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-enrolment-for-govt-primary-schools-begins-62472
29-03-2020||---||3 injured in firing, five booked for murder bid||Amritsar, March 28  Spilling water on the ground of a government school took an ugly turn when a group of persons attacked three persons at Sudhar Rajputa village falling under the Khalchian police station here on late Friday evening. The injured have been identified as Sikander Singh, Bachitar Singh and Nirmal Singh. They were admitted to the Baba Bakala Civil Hospital here. The police have booked five persons on the charge of attempt to murder. Those booked have been identified as Harkanwal Singh, Baljinder Singh, Manpreet Singh and Surinder Singh, all residents of Sudhar Rajputa village. No arrest has been made till now as the accused absconded after committing the crime. Sikander Singh of Sudhar Rajputa village told the police that they were returning home from their fields when they found the accused standing on their way. He said on seeing them, Baljinder Singh shouted to teach the victims a lesson for spilling water on the school ground. He said Harkanwal fired at them with a .12 bore rifle and a bullet each hit Bachitar Singh on one of his hands and the groin area. He said they also attacked them with sharp weapons. Harkanwal shot another fire which hit Sikander’s hand. He said when they shouted for help, the accused fled the scene. They were rushed to the Baba Bakal Civil Hospital for treatment. Sukhdev Singh, SHO, Khalchian police station, said a case under Sections 307, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against them. He said as per an initial probe groupism in the village was the main cause behind the incident. He said efforts were on to arrest the suspects. Drug peddler arrested The CIA staff of the local police have arrested a murder accused also involved in drug peddling with 100 gm of heroin. He was identified as Mukaddar, a resident of Godam Mohalla in the Katra Sher Singh area.  Following the probe, the police also booked a hotel manager for providing room to a local resident. Sukhwinder Singh Randhawa, in-charge, CIA staff, told he was nabbed from near a hotel located near Shivala temple railway crossing. Randhawa said he had a murder case and a drug peddling case registered against him. Investigations revealed that he was living in a room in a hotel and operating his network from there. Following this, the police booked the hotel manager, identified as Arwinder Singh, under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-injured-in-firing-five-booked-for-murder-bid-62471
29-03-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja---||Residents flout restrictions||Tribune News Service Amritsar, March 28 Despite the curfew has been imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid, city residents were seen stepping out of their house to buy essential items on Saturday morning. They were seen buying milk products and grocery items as shops of essential commodities were open from 6 am to 9 am in most of the areas.   However, the administration did not give relaxation in the curfew. Though other shops remained closed, some grocery store owners were seen selling items through the backdoor. Flour mills and medical stores were open after getting official orders of the Deputy Commissioner. The relaxation given by the administration to buy medicines brought some respite to residents.   Essential commodities such as milk, vegetables and poultry products are being provided to residents on their doorstop in most of the areas.  Vendors have been allowed to supply vegetable and fruits in residential areas. However, residents alleged that vendors were overcharging for the same. But they said they were not getting vegetables and fruits at the prices fixed by the administration. On Saturday, Deputy Commissioner Shivdullar Singh Dhillon announced relaxation for shopkeepers and traders involved in selling agriculture items, ration and food products. Petrol pumps were also opened. Movement of people on roads has increased as many have got curfew passes for volunteer services. Volunteers of the SGPC, Municipal Corporation and NGOs have been distributing food among people living in slums.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/residents-flout-restrictions-62470
29-03-2020||---||No breakthrough in Kale village firing incident||No breakthrough in Kale village firing incident Amritsar, March 28  More than 24 hours have passed, but the police have failed to make any breakthrough in a firing incident at Kale village here that left two persons injured. However, the police have booked Lovpreet Singh, Sarabjit Singh, alias Saba, and Janaka, and three unidentified persons for a murder bid.   Rajwinder Kaur, SHO, Chheharta police station, said police teams were raiding the hideouts of the suspects and they would be arrested soon. Two persons were injured on Friday when several persons fired at a shopkeeper when he refused to open his shop amid curfew. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-breakthrough-in-kale-village-firing-incident-62469
29-03-2020||---||Amritsar MC constitutes teams to supply ration||Amritsar, March 28CITY DIVIDED INTO FIVE ZONESMayor Karamjit Singh Rintu held a meeting with MC Commissioner Komal Mittal and Commissioner of Police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill to constitute joint teams and provide essential items to the needy on their doorstep at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama in Ram Bagh here on Saturday.The Mayor said the city was divided into five zones as per the Assembly constituency, under which each team will have one district administration officer, one police officer and three corporation officers. These teams will coordinate with the MLA of the constituency and area councillors to make a supply chain in their respective areas. The team members have to designate some of the shopkeepers to operate the supply of ration, fruits and vegetables in their areas. The teams would also approach the common man and provide them the contact numbers of the designated shopkeepers.To run the campaign more smoothly, MC Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi has been appointed as the nodal officer of the campaign. The teams would deliver ration and other materials to the needy and poor families. In addition, if any social organisation or volunteer wants to contribute to the cause, they should also contact them for assistance.Rintu said team members will issue a curfew pass for those who will provide door-to-door delivery. In addition, they will provide all possible assistance to the general public and these designated shopkeepers when needed to maintain the supply line.In his message to residents, the Mayor said: “In this difficult time, residents should follow instructions given by the administration and not worry about the distribution of ration and medicines. The administration is making every effort to facilitate residents in the city. The goods can be provided at their home as per their requirement. This terrible epidemic like Covid can only be encountered if people cooperate with the administration.”Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon appointed Patwaris and kanungo as nodal officers in rural areas to ensure that the common people get government aid. The DC directed that the employees should ensure that poor people in villages do not go to bed hungry and get food daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-constitutes-teams-to-supply-ration-62468
29-03-2020||---||Now, farmers can sell produce daily at vegetable market||Amritsar, March 28The district administration has increased the timings of the vegetable market. Now, farmers are allowed to sell their produce daily from 3 am to 8 am. Earlier, they were allowed to sell their produce twice a week — Monday and Thursday — from 5 am to 8 am.Officials said vendors had already been issued curfew passes and home delivery of vegetables would be ensured from Sunday. Amardeep Kaura, secretary, Market Committee, said traders and farmers are being provided with masks and safety tips. He said vegetable vendors wishing to get curfew passes could approach the Market Committee’s office near Gurwali gate.Vegetable growers had earlier complained that most of their vegetables were required to be plucked on alternate days and in the absence of any sale, these were being damaged.Lakhbir Singh Nizampura, a member of the Vegetable Growers’ Association, said it was good that farmers would be allowed to sell their produce daily. He added that it would bring down the prices which had increased due to a shortage in the local market.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/now-farmers-can-sell-produce-daily-at-vegetable-market-62467
29-03-2020||Amritsar||To ease supply of essentials, admn relaxes curfew norms||In view of the problems being faced by residents in getting supplies of essential items, the district administration has provided some relaxation to traders and shopkeepers.The administration has done away with the condition of getting a curfew pass for chemists and now their licences would be considered as passes. The retail medicine shops would also be allowed on a rotation basis as per a roaster by the drug wing. It has also allowed the petrol pumps to operate throughout the day.In view of the problems faced by farmers, the administration has allowed shopkeepers to start home delivery of pesticides and fertilisers after getting passes from the Chief Agriculture Officer. It has also allowed the Agriculture Department to issue passes for harvesting, marketing, processing or crops as potato and sugarcane. Mini flour mills will be opened from 9 am to 5 pm.The administration has allowed home delivery of eggs and chicken after obtaining passes from the Animal Husbandry Department. Patients of cancer, pregnant women and those requiring dialysis or other emergency treatment would also be able to get treatment by showing the prescription slip of the doctor. The administration has allowed the opening of clinics and clinical laboratories. The administration has also instructed that no transport vehicle would carry three persons travelling in it without masks. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/to-ease-supply-of-essentials-admn-relaxes-curfew-norms-62466
