29-06-2020||---||13 more catch the virus, cases hit 923 in Amritsar district||Amritsar, June 28With the district Health Department reporting 13 new positive cases, the total count has increased to 923 in the district on Sunday. Of the new patients, 10 are ILI (influenza-like illness) cases while three are contacts of positive patients.The health authorities stated that one ILI case each was reported from Jaura Fatak, Dasmesh Nagar, Lahori Gate, Chand Avenue, Khajoor Wali Gali, Lawrence Road, Gopal Nagar, Haripura, Hargobind Avenue and Gate Hakeema. Three contacts of a positive case from Shastri Nagar also tested positive.With 722 patients discharged after complete recovery, the district now has 124 patients admitted to hospitals and patients kept in home isolation. With 39 deaths due to the disease till date, the district has reported the highest number of deaths and positive cases in the state.Meanwhile, no new case has been reported from the Bombay Wala Khoo area in the last few days. The barricades installed here to restrict the movement of residents have been lifted. Residents say that they hope that normalcy would soon return to the area.Meanwhile, the district administration has roped in village panchayats to reach out to residents and make them aware of the precautions that are required to be taken. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, who flagged off vehicles for the purpose of audio publicity in rural areas, said sarpanches and panches would visit from door to door and meet residents. He said such visits would be done in all 860 panchayats of the district.Stricter lockdown amid tweaked rules||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-more-catch-the-virus-cases-hit-923-in-amritsar-district-105872
29-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||Row over civic body’s plan to conduct mass testing in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 28A controversy has erupted after the Municipal Corporation passed a resolution for carrying out the testing of people at mass level and calling tenders worth Rs2 crore from private laboratories.A question has been raised by former Congress leader Mandeep Singh Manna that when the government was doing it for free, then what was the need of spending so much money, which was meant for the city’s development?Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni during a meeting with MC authorities and district administration besides other MLAs has raised objection while pointing out that the Government Medical College (GMC) here had a capacity of conducting as many as 3,000 tests a day, while only around 1,000 samples were coming for testing.Nevertheless, when contacted, he said he had not raised objections, but asked the MC authorities to get the government’s approval and do it as per law.“If the MC authorities want to do it on their own, I have no objection. But I have advised them to take proper government nod for this,” he said.The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) during its meeting on June 5 had passed a resolution that as GMC here had a capacity of conducting 3,000 tests daily, there was a need for sample collection at a bigger level. In the view of spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the MC had the responsibility of conducting residents’ tests at a mass level. The MC would divide the city into five zones and call separate and open tenders of Rs40 lakh each through e-tendering, so that the testing could be done in a time-bound manner.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the resolution was passed with due discussion with all MLAs and MPs after inviting them as special guests to discuss this serious issue. He said it was decided to take prior permission from the Punjab Government. “We will proceed further only if we get a nod from the state government,” he said, adding that no tenders were floated so far. He said: “We are doing it out of concern for residents of the holy city in the times of unprecedented health crisis. Mass-level testing is the need of the hour to tackle the calamity in a better way.”VB raids on to nab docs, hospital ownerEven as the Vigilance Bureau booked five doctors and the hospital owner on charges of murder bid, fraud, criminal conspiracy and corrupt practices four days ago, the suspects are still at large. They had filed a petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court seeking bails, it has been learnt. SSP (Vigilance) Parampal Singh said police parties had been raiding at different places to nab the suspects who had been on the run since the registration of a case. On Saturday, Vigilance teams raided EMC Hospital to seize certain documents and arrest hospital owner Pawan Arora.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/row-over-civic-bodys-plan-to-conduct-mass-testing-in-amritsar-105873
29-06-2020||Our Correspondent||Transformer becomes bone of contention in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, June 28Installation of a 200 kVA power distribution transformer quite close to the main gate of Government Elementary School No.1, (Char Khamba chowk) in Tarn Taran town had become a bone of contention between the two government departments.In a letter written to the SDO, city subdivision, Powercom, the District Education Officer (Elementary) has raised objection over the installation of high voltage transformer near the school as it poses a serious threat to students. The transformer was installed during the lockdown period. He demanded shifting of the transformer to some the safe area. Narinder Singh, SDO, said all precautions had been taken while installing the transformer. Moreover, the transformer is being covered with brick walls.Gurbhej Singh, a social worker and former sarpanch of Palasaur village, said the civil administration should immediately intervene as it was a very sensitive issue. He said during rainy season water could enter the transformer as generally it were fixed at the height of minimum seven to eight feet from the earth to avoid human approach easily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/transformer-becomes-bone-of-contention-in-tarn-taran-105874
29-06-2020||Our Correspondent ||Police party attacked in Chabal village, 8 booked||Tarn Taran, June 28Police constable Sawinder Singh was seriously injured at Chabal village, when he and other police officials had gone to arrest a person under the NDPS Act, in which drugs were seized from the accused. The police party headed by ASI Sukhdev Singh had gone to the village to arrest one Kulwinder Singh. The accused was taken in the police custody, when he engaged in a verbal duel with the cops. He attacked the police party and damaged their official vehicle as well.His family, too, attacked the police party after they arrested him. They kept throwing stones at the cops and this continued for at least 10 minutes. Kulwinder managed to free himself from the custody when he was caught hold by constable Sawinder Singh. They injured the cop and managed to escape from the spot. Besides Kulwinder Singh, his mother Manjit Kaur, sister-in-law (brother’s wife) Manpreet Kaur and five other unidentified persons, including two women, have been booked under Sections 224, 225, 332 and 186 of the IPC, the police said..||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-party-attacked-in-chabal-village-8-booked-105879
29-06-2020||---||‘Mechanisation of paddy transplantation need of the hour’||Amritsar, June 28Even as the department of agriculture had been trying to encourage mechanisation of paddy transplantation, it failed to convince farmers as they felt no need for the same.However, this season, with the restrictions on movement of labour from other states for manual transplantation of paddy, the farmers are were more interested in mechanical transplantation or direct seeding techniques which do not require much labour.Also read: Why the Centre does not want Punjab to diversifyAgriculture engineer Ranbir Singh Randhawa said, “We have been creating awareness about mechanical transplantation and direct seeding as an alternative to manual transplantation.” He said they had received success in motivating only a few progressive farmers to change their agricultural practice.He added that this year, as the labour was in limited supply, the farmers too have felt the need for mechanisation. The agriculture experts stated that mechanisation and direct seeding techniques were the future of paddy cultivation in state.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said, “Many farmers wanted to shift to mechanisation in one go. So we advised them not to do it on over 25 per cent of land holding. We wanted them to have hands on practice before they shifted to mechanisation in entirety.” Dr Bal said the farmers were very encouraged with the direct seeding technique.Amid reports of certain farmers not feeling happy with the outcome of direct seeding technique, Randhawa said, “The farmers are required to sow seeds in the optimum moisture and spray the weedicides. There are other requirements as the soil should not be low nutrient or sandy. If anyone has not taken care of one or more points, the result might not be encouraging,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mechanisation-of-paddy-transplantation-need-of-the-hour-105880
29-06-2020||---||12 booked for firing at Amritsar NSUI chief Kanish Batra||Amritsar, June 28 Around 12 persons were booked for allegedly firing at and assaulting the local president of the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), Kanish Batra, here on Saturday.Among those booked included Makhan Singh and Adeshwar Singh Sandhu, both residents of Green Avenue here; Disnam of Beauty Avenue; Diveyam of Basant Avenue; Aryan Arora of Beauty Avenue; Salman of White Avenue; Vansh of Preet Vihar; and five unidentified persons.A case under Sections 307, 323, 341, 148, 149 and 379-B of the IPC and Sections 25, 54 and 59-A of the Arms Act has been registered in this regard.Batra told the police that he, along with his friend Katish of Lawrence Road, was going to Beauty Avenue to meet his uncle and when he reached near the Race Course Road-Basant Avenue turn, one of the accused, Adeshwar Singh Sandhu, fired at him from his revolver with an intention to kill him. He said he sat down to save himself and thereafter Dishnam hit him with a beer bottle leaving him seriously injured. He said he was bleeding profusely while the accused assaulted him with iron rods. He alleged the accused also snatched his wrist watch and Rayban goggles before fleeing.The police said investigation was under progress while the accused were on the run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/12-booked-for-firing-at-amritsar-nsui-chief-kanish-batra-105881
29-06-2020||---||‘No shortage of funds for development works’, Amritsar Mayor||Amritsar, June 28Mayor Karamjit Singh inaugurated the recarpeting work of the road leading to Gurdwara Baba Sri Chand and Mahankali Mandir from Majitha-Verka Bypass in ward no-13 here today.In his address, Mayor Karamjit Singh said the development work, which was pending due to Covid-19 had been started and today the construction work of road leading to the major religious places in the area had also been started. The Mayor said the construction of roads in different constituencies of the city had been planned at a cost of Rs 20 crore and these works were going on in almost every constituency. He said no ward of the city would be deprived of development and there would be no shortage of funds for development works. He appealed to the people to construct roads by the Municipal Corporation by spending crores of rupees He appealed to the people of the city to cooperate with the Municipal Corporation in making the city clean and green.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-shortage-of-funds-for-development-works-amritsar-mayor-105884
29-06-2020||---||Khalsa College ties up with Google for online classes||Amritsar, June 28In a major initiative, Khalsa College has tied up with the Google to adopt online classes programmes from the next academic session. The training sessions are on and Google has offered the college a G Suite search engine software programme at affordable costs to reach out to the students for e-classes due to the Covid-19 lockdown.College Principal Mehal Singh said on the directions of the Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC), they reached out to the Google headquarters who guided their staff to offer the latest programmes for e-learning.“The education scenario is changing dramatically, with the distinctive rise of e-learning, whereby teaching is all set to be adopted remotely through digital platforms”, said Mehal Singh.Their staff, led by HoD computer science Dr Harbhajan Singh and others, have already started training regarding the platform to all faculty members of the college, he said adding that after much deliberations G Suite was adopted as platform for online classes.The software facilitates students to adopt online learning, establish teacher-student collaboration live and teachers can keep track of students’ progress apart from attendance in classes. Harbhajan Singh emphasised that the platform was simple and secured.RMS Chhina, honorary secretary of the KCGC, congratulated the college principal and staff for adopting novel ways of reaching out to the students in present scenario.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/khalsa-college-ties-up-with-google-for-online-classes-105885
29-06-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Sewermen with gloves, shoes and masks a common sight after Covid||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 28Sewermen of the Municipal Corporation and Mohalla Sudhar Committees have witnessed several changes in their routine job after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The MC prohibited their entry into the sewer manholes last month.On May 12, a circular was sent to all the Mohalla Sudhar Committees and councillors that no person would enter sewers or septic tanks. The ban has brought major positive change for more than 300 sewermen working in the city. The decision was not taken after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the MC had decided it in February after the death of a sewerman on Fathegarh Churain Road. But it was implemented during the lockdown as everyone was concerned about the health of sanitation workers.The ban on manual scavenging would bring about a major change for sewermen. A large number of sewermen, who enter manholes, were suffering from serious diseases. As per the official data, more than 200 sewermen have died due to chronic diseases before the retirement age in the last five years. The ban on entering manholes would save the sewermen from inhaling toxic gases and keep them healthy.Moreover, the municipal corporation and the administration took several initiatives for the welfare of the sewermen. The MC is organizing regular medical check-up camps for sewermen. Tests for Covid-19 are also being conducted as two sewermen were infected with the virus a few weeks ago. Earlier, there was no insurance cover for the sewermen working with the MC. In case of death, the family had to struggle a lot to get compensation. Now, after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, each worker got an insurance cover of Rs 30 lakh. HDFC Bank is opening zero balance and savings account for each employee under which Rs 30 lakh would be insured in case of accidental death as well as Rs 3.25 lakh in case of natural death.However, this facility is not for the sewermen working with the Mohalla Sudhar Committees.Speaking outThe MC seems concerned about the health of the sewermen. Tests for Covid are being conducted randomly. Medical camps are being organised. We got masks, gloves, soaps and shoes too. — Deepak Gill, a sewermanThe MC extended an insurance cover to all its sanitation workers, who have been fighting the pandemic. It should be for every sanitation worker even if he is working with Mohalla Sudhar Committee. — Goldy, a sewermanNow no one is asked to enter sewer lines and manholes. A circular has been issued. The practice of manual scavenging has been stopped in the city. It would be better for the health of sanitation workers. — Vikram Matu, a sewermanIt was the first time when sewermen have got the gloves, masks, soaps and other safety equipment. Earlier, officials used to pose for a photograph while providing safety kits to sewermen. — Vishav Luthra, an activist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sewermen-with-gloves-shoes-and-masks-a-common-sight-after-covid-105886
29-06-2020||PK Jaiswar||CCTV cameras installed on Amritsar city roads lie defunct for want of funds||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, June 28Snatchings and robberies are the bane of the holy city. It witnesses a number of cases of lootings reported by women and traders. The CCTV cameras were installed at various inter-sections, including the Civil Lines area, with an aim to keep a track of criminal elements, besides checking traffic violations.However, for the past 10 months, they had been lying defunct and the authorities had failed to make it operational after the contract with the private company responsible for its maintenance lapsed. While the police authorities expressed their inability to maintain the CCTV cameras for want of funds, the Improvement Trust (IT) authorities also passed the buck saying that they have handed over the same to the Police Department.The CCTV cameras have aided the police in providing vital inputs to the department about many instances in the past, said an official. Though many localities and individuals have installed CCTV cameras in the streets and at doorsteps, they are of inferior quality and are hardly helpful in the investigation by the police, he added. Davinder Singh, a local resident said in November 2019, a jeweller was robbed of gold and diamond ornaments worth Rs 1 crore from Bhandari Bridge extension. However, the police failed to find any clue about the perpetrators. Had the CCTV cameras near Amritsar railway station or Bhandari Bridge been working, the police would have managed to find clues about the robbers. The notorious elements remained active in the holy city even during curfew and lockdown when there were restrictions on the movement of public.A number of such cases were reported with the police in this connection. The much-awaited safe city project announced in 2014 by the state government, under which CCTV cameras were to be installed, never saw the light of day.Another similar project was inaugurated in 2016 by the then Local Bodies Minister Anil Joshi after funds were issued in this regard. Around 220 cameras were installed at 40 locations in the city. These cameras can capture images from as far as 1 km with great clarity. Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said they had taken up the matter with Improvement Trust in this connection.“We are in coordination with them and they had assured to resolve the issue. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the work got lingered on,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cctv-cameras-installed-on-amritsar-city-roads-lie-defunct-for-want-of-funds-105887
29-06-2020||Open House||Not right time to conduct exams or entrance tests||Reaching exam centres won’t be safeAs infections are spreading at an alarming pace, it will not be prudent to ask students to reach the examination centres for taking board exams and other competitive or entrance tests. As public transport has not been allowed to function to its full capacity, how will students - who do not have access to private transport or have their own vehicles - travel to and from their examination centres? One wonders how will they stay safe and protect themselves from the invisible virus when they step out of their homes to reach the examination centres. Even the best efforts of the school authorities cannot ensure a safe environment for them. As it is being predicted that Covid cases will peak between July and August, it will not be wise to conduct the exams. Better they are given average marks on the basis of the papers conducted prior to the lockdown or previous performances or house exams. To ensure the safety of students, parents and their staff, universities and colleges have adopted a range of online virtual methodologies to facilitate the entire admission process.Amarjit KalsiNot appropriate time to appear in examsFirst of all, let us take a cursory glance at the gravity of the current situation. We are already witnessing a sharp rise in the number of positive cases throughout the country, so respite cannot be expected in the near future. No doubt, a long-term lockdown is not the solution to the pandemic, therefore the government has to announce unlocking in a phased manner due to economic compulsions. At the same time, such relaxations can lead to a sharp rise in the number of infections. So, it is not an appropriate time to conduct any exams or entrance tests.Surinder Paul WadhwaExams should be held on scheduleI feel the college and university exams or other entrance exams should be held on schedule. Students cannot afford to waste an entire academic year because their career is at stake. We can't afford to lose an entire batch of passing-out doctors, scientists and engineers. Staggered time-table of exams, following social distancing and wearing face shields can help ward off the threat of the infection effectively. Exams can be held in batches and an increase in the number of examination centres is the key to hold competitive exams. Moreover, young and healthy persons run the lower risk of contracting the disease. Schools would do well to bypass the annual examinations and promote students to higher classes based on their past performances. But the colleges must conduct the exams as soon as possible. If the IMA and the IAF can hold their passing-out parades on time, why should civilians lag behind?Rajiv SharmaWe can’t put their life in dangerWith Covid cases rising sharply throughout the country and even community transmission being assumed to have started, it is very dangerous for school and college students to go outside. If students get together for exams, then there are chances that they may contract the virus. On the one hand, we say that students are the future of the country, then how can we endanger their lives. If students don't study for one year, the heavens will not fall. But what is more important is that not even a single student should be infected with the virus. So, the government should come forward and take a bold step and order all schools and colleges to pass the students on the basis of house exams.Rohit Kumar SehdevMove may accelerate virus spreadPending examinations and entrance tests must not be held at this stage as the Covid curve has yet not flattened. The virus is spreading at an accelerated pace as compared with the initial weeks. The authorities must keep in mind that conducting exams involves multiple stages that include sorting out of question papers, distribution of question papers and answer sheets, collection and counting of answer sheets, taking signatures of the students on the attendance sheet, which circulates throughout the examination centre and recounting of answer sheets before packing them for onward transmission to the board/university. Given the nature of the processes where in many persons touch the same papers, the probability of transmission of the infection increases significantly, even if adequate safeguards are taken. So it would be in the fitness of things to postpone the exams. Those at the helm of affairs must sit together to devise a suitable coordinated policy to safeguard the interests of the students.Taman WaliaTie-ups between varsities can helpIndia's coronavirus infection graph is rising every day. Amidst this, some state examination boards and also the CBSE have announced schedules for Class X and Class XII examinations. Students from outside the states would need to travel long distances to reach examination centres. As most students are accompanied by their parents, the chances of spread of the infection would rise. Before going ahead with the idea of examinations, the system should be revamped. First, the examination pattern must be changed from subjective to objective. The focus of assessment must be on testing analytical ability of students rather than descriptive knowledge. This will speed up the process of conducting tests and declaring results. Second, the number of examination centres must be raised to minimise movement and avoid inconvenience to sutdents. There can be inter-state tie-ups between universities and colleges to enable students to take exams in their home state. As per an ICMR report, India may see the peak of Covid-19 in November, so exploring innovative ways to conduct exams, rather than cancelling these, is the only solution.Gulshakh KaurIt would be right to postpone examsSchool and college exams and entrance tests are important but not more than the safety of examinees. At present, as the number of Covid cases has crossed the five-lakh mark, it is neither advisable nor safe to conduct the pending examinations and entrance tests of students. Health experts assert that Covid cases would peak in July but the CBSE has decided to conduct pending examinations from July 1 to 15. As a result, some worried parents petitioned the SC, urging it to restrain the CBSE from going ahead with the plan. Parents suspect that the authorities might not be able to enforce strict precautionary measures at the examination centres. Students are, of course, concerned about their future as they had been preparing strenuously for their papers, but the present situation is just not fit to test them for admissions. Thus it would be right to postpone the exams.Tarsem S BumrahPrevent gatherings at exam centresAs the things have started coming back on track, it is safe to conduct pending examinations and entrance exams but necessary precautions must be followed. Examinations must be conducted in two or three shifts. Students must wear mask and get sanitised before entering the examination hall. Gatherings of pupils at exam centres must be strictly prohibited and after taking the examination, the students must directly head to home. This way, exams can be conducted safely.IzleenQUESTIONThere has been a sudden surge in Covid cases across the country over the past few weeks and the state government has allowed buses to run at full seating capacity. Do you think the decision is justified?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (July 2).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/not-right-time-to-conduct-exams-or-entrance-tests-105888
29-06-2020||Amritsar||SGPC withholds dues of ex-staffer over ‘missing birs’||The SGPC has blamed one of its former employees for 267 missing ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib. Consequently, his service benefits, including gratuity and provident fund, have been withheld.Kanwaljit Singh, who retired from the post of assistant supervisor (publication department), on May 31, alleged that of the 267 “saroops”, at least 80 were burnt in a fire incident of May 19, 2016, at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, the place designated by the SGPC to publish and store Sikh holy books.Rajinder Singh, SGPC Vice-President‘Bid to defame SGPC’The 2016 fire incident had damaged 14 ‘saroops’, not 80, as claimed by Kanwaljit Singh. When his negligence was exposed, he agreed to pay the damages. Now, he is defaming the SGPC.He alleged that the matter was hushed up to avoid its adverse political consequences. “Now, I am being harassed by some high-ranking officials. During my posting, I was made to issue ‘saroops’ to influential persons without putting it on record. The SGPC has withheld my monetary benefits and is asking for Rs 5.6 lakh as damages,” he alleged.The Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO), headed by Justice Ajit Singh Bains (retd), has come to his rescue and approached the Chief Secretary, Punjab, to conduct a probe.SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta claimed that Kanwaljit Singh was the record keeper and he had admitted to his negligence and even agreed to pay the damages out of his dues.“The fire incident had damaged around 14 ‘saroops’, not 80, as claimed by him. When his negligence was exposed, he had agreed to pay the damages. Now, he is backing out and defaming the SGPC,” he said.PHRO member Surjit Singh Verka said the fire incident was hushed up in view of the 2017 Assembly elections.“Neither the CCTV footage of the incident was procured, nor any forensic team was called up to ascertain the cause of fire. The partially burnt holy books were ferried in SGPC buses to Gurdwara Bawli Sahib in Goindwal Sahib without any inquiry into the matter,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-withholds-dues-of-ex-staffer-over-missing-birs-105851
