29-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||Chinese string makes inroads into market||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28As Lohri and Basant are approaching near, so does fear of banned Chinese string reaching the market loom large. These festivals cannot be celebrated without flying kites, which is one of the least expensive source of entertainment.Despite the ban imposed by the district administration, the synthetic kite string (Chinese dor) has reached local markets and people use code words to sell it.On December 25, the Rambagh police confiscated 20 rolls of plastic string at a check point near Shivala railway crossing. The person riding on a scooter, however, managed to flee from the spot, but Chinese string fell down. Similarly, the Maqboolpura police had seized eight rolls of Chinese string from Pawan Kumar, a resident of Mehta road, who was later released on bail.On December 24, the rural police had nabbed Paramjit Singh, a resident of Adliwal village, with five rolls of the banned thread. He was also released on bail. The district administration form teams during Lohri to ensure residents don’t use Chinese string.A number of birds, including owls, pigeons and eagles got entangled in the Chinese strings in the past. These strings proved deadly for human beings, especially commuters on two-wheelers.“We are aghast by the fact that people don’t understand the repercussions of using killer string. People know this thread is banned and that its use invites legal action, but they don’t bother at all,” said environmentalist PS Bhatty. He said he rescued a number of birds, including owls who were found entangled in Chinese string. “In the last 15 days, we have rescued an eagle and two owls from the Police Commissioner office,” said Dr Rohan Mehra, chief, Anti-crime and Animal Protection Association.Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “I have asked officials concerned to take stern action against those found using the banned string. No one will be allowed to use the same in a clandestine manner.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chinese-string-makes-inroads-into-market-190911
29-12-2020||---||Finding beauty in thorns||Amritsar, December 28Big on aesthetics and versatile in their being, cactus adds an interesting element to indoor and outdoor gardens. Sculpture artist Narinder Singh seems to be in love with these dessert dwellers and has created a mini cacti terrace garden with 250 varieties and counting.Known for creating masterful pieces of art carved from wood, Narinder has been creating a potted garden on for the last 20 years, picking up plants that not only exude aesthetic values but also come with natural homely benefits. “Cactuses are usually considered gloomy plants not suitable for home, thanks to some prevalent misconceptions about them. In fact, it is one of the most self-sustaining plants in nature and help in purifying the indoor and outdoor air,” he says.He has 450 of them, out of which 250 are varieties of several cactus species from mammillaria, including golden barrel cactus, moon cactus, dwarf snake cactus, fishhook cactus and more. “I have flowering ones as well as few others. Many of these species I had to source from friends as they are not native to this region.” His holidays and day off work are spent with his cacti friends. “Cactus are great mood elevators, they can infuse positive energycontinued on page 2||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/finding-beauty-in-thorns-190912
29-12-2020||
||Open mic event lends stage to young artistes||Amritsar, December 28 A number of budding poets, artistes and thinkers came together to share their views at the open mic event organised by Insaneiat.  A social group founded by students and young artistes Himanshu Khurana and Vaibhav Gupta, Insaneiat has been organising open mic events from the last one year of its conception. “In the wake of Covid-19 induced lockdown and post regulatory guidelines, we had kept the invite restricted and only 20 artistes performed. We had a lot of youngsters performing on several social themes and the purpose was to let them use this platform to come back to live stage performances,” said Sakshi Sharma, a member of Insaneiat.  A student of journalism at Khalsa College, Sakshi said such open mic events were important to nurture future thinkers. “We had been hosting one such event every month before the lockdown was imposed. There is a desperate need to revive such creative platforms and activities now as young artistes need to soothe their creative hunger and fulfil aspirations,” she said. The event saw poetry, rapping and stand up comedy, among others, from young participants.  Sakshi said their previous open mic sessions had even senior citizens performing. “Our platform is open for everyone, who has something to share with the world.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-mic-event-lends-stage-to-young-artistes-190913
29-12-2020||Amritsar||Naatshala to resume live performances in Feb||Prominent theatre artistes of city held a meeting at the Punjab Naatshala on Monday to discuss resumption of live performances post-lockdown. Known names of theatre from city, including Rajender Singh, Mandeep Ghai, Baljinder Kalsi, Jaswant Mintu, Manchpreet and Narinder Sanghi met with Jatinder Brar, who announced that performances will be held at the establishment in February. “There is a wholehearted effort from all fronts to check the Covid-19 spread further. It affected theatre performances badly. But from February next year onwards, we hope to begin with performance of theatre productions by Naatshala including prominent plays like ‘saka jallianwala bagh, ‘daughter of the bin’ and ‘mirch masala’. We had called directors and artistes to listen to their suggestions to implement safety guidelines and conduct of shows,” said Jatinder. Several theatre groups had stalled their productions and plays since the lockdown while awaiting resumption of activities as relaxations were announced by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/naatshala-to-resume-live-performances-in-feb-190914
29-12-2020||PK Jaiswar||‘Fake’ encounter: Victim’s family may record their statement tomorrow||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28Family members of Inderjit Singh, a resident of Hoshiarpur, who was gunned down by the police under mysterious circumstances is likely to record their statements on December 30.A magisterial probe was ordered in the incident in which Inderjit was shot dead in an encounter near Jandiala Guru toll plaza on December 8. Sub-Divisional Magistrate Vikas Heera had been entrusted with the investigations.Maninderpal Singh, brother of the deceased said the SDM has given them time for recording statement on December 30. However, we asked them to provide us with evidence, which the police had collected to date. We also asked for the autopsy report of Inderjit, he said.“Though the police have shown CCTV footage of the encounter, but we are unsatisfied as the video is blur. We have asked for some more angles of the incident,” said Maninderpal while adding that the family would also consult its lawyer before recording the statement.On December 8, the CIA staff was holding a naka at Jandiala Guru toll plaza following snatching of a car from a DSP rank officer in the Putlighar area when they received the information from the Ambala police that a person had snatched an SUV from there and was heading towards Amritsar via Ludhiana and Jalandhar. Fingers were raised over the police theory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fake-encounter-victims-family-may-record-their-statement-tomorrow-190915
29-12-2020||---||Of the people, by the people, for the people||Amritsar, December 28Bakshi Ram Arora, former Mayor of the city and chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) is serving two separate posts for BJP, at 77, but prefers to stay inside the house following the outbreak of Covid-19. He is keenly taking part in the political discussions being organised on the farmers’ issue. “I am sympathetic toward the demands of farmers and government should fulfill it,” advocates Arora.He was active in local politics till 2017 serving as a Mayor between 2012 and 2017. Now, he is district in-charge of Gurdaspur and executive member of state BJP. “The party gave responsibilities and I am doing the service. I have no expectations for any big post, save desire to serve the society. I never demanded for any post or ticket for elections. I am satisfied of my political life as I got opportunities to work for people''''s welfare.”Born in 1943, Arora joined the Jan Sangh (which later merged into BJP) in 1957 and started leading his block. “I didn’t have any political aspirations, only society-related goods. I joined the Officer Training Station (OTS) of RSS in 1960 and participated in all political and social movements,” he said.He was copped by then Indira Gandhi-led government for opposing the ‘Emergency’, imposed in 1975, and jailed for one year. In 2000, he was appointed as chairman of Amritsar Improvement Trust. From 1997 to 2017, Arora was a councillor for a period of 20 years.He is known for his peculiar clam and polite nature. “I took part in every movement or call of my party aggressively but never did any wrongs throughout my career. I don’t have any expectations for the future but ready to offer my services whenever party shall ask.”Graduate in Arts, Arora is fond of reading literature and newspapers but enthusiastic about attending religious gatherings and public meetings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/of-the-people-by-the-people-for-the-people-190916
29-12-2020||---||Eight booked for murder bid||Amritsar, December 28 The Division C police have booked eight persons for murder bid after they allegedly indulged in firing following which three persons were injured. The incident occurred in Chowk Chabutra.Those booked have been identified as Bimalpreet Singh alias, Cheema of New Partap Nagar, German Singh of Chabba village, Tejpreet Singh, Mani, Raja, Vishal, Deep Singh of Murabbe Wali Gali and Harpreet Singh.A case under Sections 307, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59A of the Arms Act has been registered on the complaint of Bhupinder Singh alias, Dollar, of Chowk Chabutra.The complainant stated that he worked with his father at a shop in the area. He said he along with his friend Gagandeep Singh, went to Jaura Pipal area, where they had gathered to sort out differences between Gagandeep and the accused.He said the accused who were armed with pistols and daggers started firing. He said as people gathered, the accused fled away from the spot.Assistant Sub-Inspector Sarabjit Singh said the investigations were underway and they were conducting raids to nab the accused. He said three persons received injuries who had been admitted to the hospital for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-booked-for-murder-bid-190917
29-12-2020||---||Doing their bit in solidarity with farmers||Amritsar, December 28The ongoing farmer agitation against the controversial agriculture laws in Delhi is receiving tremendous support from different quarters.A team of doctors sent by the Pingalwara Charitable society is continuously providing medical services to farmers in Delhi, said society’s president Dr Inderjit Kaur and vice-president Dr Jagdeepak Singh during an interaction with the media on Monday.The society has also distributed medicines, pinnis, woolen clothing among farmers in view of the prevailing cold weather conditions. Dr Inderjit Kaur said the society whole-heartedly supports the ongoing agitation and would continue to provide items as required by the farmers.Letter written in blood sent to PMA local organisation, Baba Deep Singh Lok Sewa Society, has sent a letter written in blood to the Prime Minister through postal service demanding that the government repeal the laws.Anil Vashisht of the society said a blood donation camp was also organised at Gurdwara Baba Deep Singh Shaheedan Sahib to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. Around a 100 units of blood were collected during the camp, which would help save lives at hospitals in the city, he said.Chain hunger strike by Verka residentsMeanwhile, residents of Verka area have initiated a chain hunger strike in support of farmers. At least five residents of the area observed hunger strike on Monday.'Jago' to wake up the govtResidents of the holy city locality also took out a ‘jago’ in the evening, where a large number of families, including the elderly and children, participated. Residents said it was time government woke up from its slumber and addressed farmers’ issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doing-their-bit-in-solidarity-with-farmers-190918
29-12-2020||Once the hectic day is over||Cultural pluralism at its best at four-day festival||Encroachments? Running out of burial spaceOnly place where one can find equality is at the cemetery. On Christmas, when the entire community was celebrating birth of Jesus Christ, its leaders were convinced that a time will soon come when the community will have no place to bury its dead because a majority of the existing burial grounds have been encroached upon. And to complicate the matters, the concept of having common cremation grounds has yet to catch up. At many places, farmers are actually cultivating land of burial grounds. The problem is all the more acute in Gurdaspur district, which houses more than four lakh Christians. Senior leader Kanwal Bakshi said even the pathways leading to a majority of these places had been encroached upon. In 2017, just ahead of the Assembly polls, the then Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal had announced a grant of Rs 100 crore for “maintenance of graveyards.” He had claimed that “The Christians will not have a problem in burying their loved ones. It is only the Congress, which is needlessly raking up the issue for political gains.” Minutes after the CM’s proclamation, Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had produced a photograph of a Christian man carrying a body to Ransike Mira burial ground in the legislator’s Assembly segment after making his way through a tract of agricultural land. “One solution is to have common cremation grounds. The time has come for villagers to break the shackles of primitive thought. So much so, the Rural Development and Panchayat Department has already issued orders to the Deputy Commissioners asking them to ensure there are no additional cremation grounds and only a common ground should exist in villages. Actually, separate entities create a communal divide and result in wastage of useful common land which otherwise can be put to productive societal use,” said Randhawa. Other leaders, too, have vouched that common grounds actually should be the order of the day rather than being an exception. It is high time since villages and villagers changed the rules of the game. He who rejects change is the architect of decay. Rural Punjab has proved that it does not want any change in its rigid social structure, but the time has come to effect radical ones and that includes changing the rules for cremating near and dear ones. Are panches and sarpanches listening?Police personnel on the tenterhooksA triple suicide followed by a murder the very next day in Dhariwal township, once famous for housing the 150- year-old Egerton Woolen Mills, had the police personnel on tenterhooks. Senior Superintendent of Police Rajinder Singh Sohal, who was leading a team of officials trying to find what the Pakistani drone had dropped in the fields of the border police station of Dorangla, assigned the responsibility to a senior officer and camped in Dhariwal, the site of the crimes, for two days. While the suicide of three of a family was a shut and open case, the tracking down of the accused in the murder turned out to be a tough task. Out of the eleven people named in the suicide note, cops managed to arrest six. The hideouts of the accused in the murder case too have been identified. Officers say it’s just a matter of time when the accused will be arrested. Without an iota of doubt a lot is happening in this border district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cultural-pluralism-at-its-best-at-four-day-festival-190924
29-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Tackling unforeseen situations along with technological advancements||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 28Bittu Kumar (50), an automobile mechanic at Ram Bagh, had a set routine for the past 35 years, but the lockdown has forced him to tackle unforeseen situations along with technological advancements in automobile sector.“I started training with a scooter mechanic at Ann Amm Cinema Market in 1985. That was the era of mopeds and two-stroke engines, especially scooters. Now the engines are four-stroke, technically advance, equipped with sensors. It is day-to-day challenge for us to keep ourselves updated.”Being a religious person, Bittu visits temple in the morning and then opens his shop at 9 am.Bittu said, “We get more customers in summer. The two-wheeler owners, who also have cars, stop using bikes in winter season. The engine faces snag with summer heat and winter season is not good for us.” He said, “The region witness extreme cold in December and January. I open shop in the morning and then burn bonfire outside the shop to keep ourselves warm. Then customers start visiting for repair job. I close my shop at 8 pm.”Bittu witnessed a major blow during the lockdown. “Three months of lockdown were scary for me. I had no other source of income. We earn daily and buy grocery in the evening. There were no major savings. The market is recovering slowly. A large number of workers lost their jobs. Educational institutes are still closed. It will take time for the situation to normalise.”“I have spent my life learning about the upgradation of automobile technology. Motorcycles are being replaced by four-stroke scooters and e-bikes are also in trend. Thus, it’s a challenging job,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tackling-unforeseen-situations-along-with-technological-advancements-190925
29-12-2020||Amritsar||27 fresh cases reported in Amritsar district||Jail inmate held with cellphoneAmritsar: The Amritsar Central Jail authorities have confiscated a smart phone from the possession of a jail inmate, identified as Arshdeep Singh of New Gurnam Nagar area. A murder accused, he was arrested by the city police in July 2018 and since then he is in jail. Gurbachan Singh, Assistant Superintendent, Jails, said during checking, the jail authorities got suspicious over his movements. He was searched and a mobile phone was recovered from him. A complaint was lodged with the police, which has registered a case under Section 42, 52-A of the Prisons Act against him. The police are investigating how he managed to sneak the mobile phone into the jail. The role of some jail staff cannot be ruled out, said the police authorities. TNS775 appear for English examAmritsar: As many as 775 candidates appeared for master cadre recruitment test held for English teacher on Monday. The test was held at three exam centres, including Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Mall road; Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Nawa Kot; and Government Senior Secondary School, Chheherta. On December 27, exam for Punjabi and Hindi subject teachers was held. While 1,951 candidates appeared for the post of Punjabi teachers, 861 appeared for recruitment of Hindi teachers. Elaborate arrangements were made to smoothly conduct exams and check the malpractice of impersonation. tns1 arrested with 65-gm heroinTarn Taran: A team of the Narcotic Cell led by Assistant Sub-Inspector Narinderpal Singh recovered 65 grams of heroin from the possession of Tejinderpal Singh Moni, a resident of Jandiala Guru, near Ekal Gadda village, on December 27. The accused had been booked under Sections 21-B, 61, 85 of the NDPS Act by Verowal police. OCDrug peddler’s property freezedTarn Taran: Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said the district police have freezed property worth Rs 66 lakh of drug peddler Bikramjit Singh, a resident of Muglani village. He said the police had freezed property worth Rs 115 crore of 90 drug smugglers in the last one-and-a-half years. The Union Government had given the permission to freeze the property of peddlers. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/27-fresh-cases-reported-in-amritsar-district-190926
