29-10-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||A ‘perfect’ stretch for mishaps to happen||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, October 28When Batala physician Dr Satnam Singh Nijjar drove from Gurdaspur to Sri Hargobindpur on Monday to supervise a project being undertaken by the Gurdaspur Planning Board, of which he is the Chairman, he was dumbfounded to see the deplorable condition of the 40.38km-long stretch of road. The doctor did not mince words when he termed the state highway as a “virtual minefield.”His claim is corroborated by hundreds of commuters. Many end up saying that they are lucky to reach their destination “with their lives and limbs intact.” The conditions here are ‘perfect’ for accidents to occur. In a majority of the cases, vehicles too are extensively damaged.Harinder Singh Verka, a regular commuter, said he often wonders whether he was actually driving in one big pothole or on the road itself.Dr Nijjar said he tried to count the number of points where re-carpeting needs to be done but lost the game after driving for just 500 metres. “A one-hour journey under normal circumstances from Gurdaspur till Sri Hargobindpur has been converted into a three-hour one. The passage has deteriorated to the level where it has become really dangerous to drive on. Potholes, uneven surfaces and cracks are common. The situation gets from bad to worse during the monsoons,” said the doctor.With the Gurdaspur Planning Board being responsible for monitoring funds, Dr Nijjar maintained that he had taken up the cause with officials concerned in his capacity as its Chairman.“Officials are seized of the matter. A sum of Rs 5 crore was earmarked by the state government as early as March. However, Covid struck and with it things got stuck. Punjab government has now redrawn its plans following which Rs 5 crore will be given to the department from the Central Road Fund (CRF) scheme,” he addedThe CRF is a non-lapsable fund created under the Central Road Fund act, 2000. It is collected from the tax imposed by the union government on the consumption of petrol and diesel and is used to develop and maintain national and state highways.PWD Executive Engineer (XEN) Manmohan Singh said that tenders had been floated and “things will be finalised soon.”Important landmarks, including the famed Baba Aya Singh Riarki College for Girls, are located on this throroughfare due to which its strategic importance increases manifold. The Chadha sugar mills branches off from Harchowal township. This is a sugarcane rich area and agriculturists use this particular stretch to transport their produce to the mills from nearby villages.The Chotta Ghallughara Martyrs Memorial, constructed in memory of 11,000 Sikhs killed by Mughal troops in 1746 and which attracts hundreds of devotees every day, is barely 3 km away from the highway.Truckers often take long detours while owners of passenger buses have suspended their operations several times in the past.“Murphy’s law, which states that when things get bad, they tend to get worse, is at play here. Things can improve only and only if this Murphy man is banished from the road,” said a senior PWD officer engaged in the tendering process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-perfect-stretch-for-mishaps-to-happen-162643
29-10-2020||---||Staff crunch ails Amritsar railway hospital; patients suffer||Amritsar, October 28Healthcare services at the Railway’s Sub-Divisional Hospital (SDH), situated in its residential locality B-block, have been severely hit due to the shortage of staff. After the expiry of the contract of four doctors, no effort has been made to renew their contract or appoint new doctors.Functioning with half of sanctioned staffBesides, a health unit, situated at the Amritsar railway station, has been lying closed for not recruiting a doctor. The contract of the solo doctor, posted at the railway station unit, has expired some time ago, no new doctor has been recruited to take care of patients since. Railway management has also failed to appoint a new doctor or renew the contract of the doctor working here as train services have been hampered for over the past month due to the farmers’ agitation.Against the sanctioned strength of eight medicos, there are only four doctors available at the SDH. The contract of four doctors had expired nearly three months ago. The hospital is already functioning with half of its sanctioned staff strength.The contract of an ophthalmologist had expired in September and that of a dentist years ago. The contracts of a surgeon and an orthopaedic expired in July.Retired employees stated that as no dental chair was available there, they were asked to avail of dental services at Government Dental Hospital where staff and infrastructure are also woefully short and a large number of patients visit daily.Dr Ashok Kumar Saini, Chief Medical Superintendent of SDH, said the delay in making fresh appointments at the hospital indicated that regular doctors might be filled up by regular doctors.He said efforts were being made to provide the best of facilities to patients, though there were limited logistics. Air-conditioners were installed in two general wards, separate for men and women patients, he said.He said, “There has never been created a post of dental doctor. Over three years ago, a part-time dental doctor was there.” He said railway staff was being offered the best of advanced testing facilities, besides cashless treatment in 20 private hospitals across the city.The state-of-the-art automated bio-chemistry analyser, which carries out 10,000 tests per month, is available here, though only one lab technician is available to handle it. The automatic cell counter machine tests blood cells, for example blood platelets, in only two minutes. The SDH is likely to soon receive an arterial blood gases machine and an automatic urine analyser pipeline.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/staff-crunch-ails-amritsar-railway-hospital-patients-suffer-162644
29-10-2020||---||Pind bachao, Punjab bachao campaign from November 1||Amritsar, October 28To create awareness among residents regarding their rights, mother tongue, conservation of natural resources and culture, a group of activists today declared to launch ‘Pind Bachao, Punjab Bachao’ campaign from November 1 in the state.The activists include former Jathedar Giani Kewal Singh, Pyare Lal Garg, Dr Sham Sunder, Advocate Jaswinder Singh and Prof Manjit Singh. They said after conducting ardas at the Golden Temple, they would pay tributes to martyrs at the Jallianwala Bagh.The activists would first visit villages in Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran. In the second phase, the group would visit Malwa region. The main objective of this 90-day programme is to interact with residents and create awareness among them to strengthen the federal structure.An open invitation has been given to all organisations, clubs and prominent personalities to join them and actively participate in this campaign and work tirelessly for Punjab. The activists said they would stay put for four days in every district and hold direct dialogue with the masses.Giani Kewal Singh said this initiative would bridge communal harmony, make residents aware of their rights and prevent them from moving away from each other.“People will be briefed about their rights, gram sabha, issues related to Punjab, agrarian model, minimum wage, education, health and social security, among others. Similar exercise will be conducted in other states as well. We are in talks with intellectuals in this regard,” he said.At a time when farming community has hit the roads against the newly enacted farm laws, Jaswinder Singh said their aim would be to transform the ‘Kisan Andolan’ into ‘Jan Andolan’ as people from every quarter had been standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers.“The Centre is hell-bent on incorporating corporate culture by depriving the states of their rights. It is necessary to sensitise every resident of the state,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pind-bachao-punjab-bachao-campaign-from-november-1-162645
29-10-2020||---||‘Centre punishing farmers by suspending goods trains’||Amritsar, October 28The farmer community here feels that the Central government is trying to punish the tillers for the ongoing protest against the three agriculture related laws by stopping the services of goods trains.The farmer leaders have stated that the ongoing protest is completely peaceful and the Central government by asking the state government to give assurance of the safety of trains and their crew members is trying to malign the image of farmer unions.Sarwan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee said that even the state government was trying to sabotage the peasants’ movement. He said the state government knew that the ongoing protest was peaceful and there was no threat to railways staff or property. He said that in such circumstances, the state government should have easily tackled the Central government’s designs by assuring them of safety.The farmer leaders stated that they were not against the economic interests of traders but the Centre by stopping goods trains had harmed traders’ interests. The protest against the three agriculture laws entered its 28th day here on Wednesday. The farmers are sitting in protest at Buttari railway station, Gehri Mandi railway station, outside the residence of BJP leader Shwait Malik, toll plazas and petrol pumps of Reliance Industries Limited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-punishing-farmers-by-suspending-goods-trains-162646
29-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri 
||Stubble-burning goes unabated||Tarn Taran, October 28 All the appeals to protect environment and warnings of the district administration to farmers regarding burning of crop residue have failed to get the desired results. Tarn Taran and Amritsar top the list, which includes stubble-burning data from the state. The District Administrative Complex (DAC) and District Judicial Courts were engulfed by smoke throughout the day due to farm fires. The DAC houses offices of the Deputy Commissioner, Senior Superintendent of Police and Chief Agriculture Officer, among others. According to information, farmers having land near the DAC burnt crop residue en masse. Shopkeepers said farm fires were witnessed throughout the day. As a result, dense smoke covered the entire area. The issue is being closely monitored by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal. The burning of crop residue had been banned by the state government, but the local administration has failed to keep a tab on errant farmers. Chief Agriculture Officer Kuljit Singh Saini expressed helplessness and said they were trying their best to convince farmers and stop them from burning paddy straw to keep the environment pollution-free. He said action must be taken against erring farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stubble-burning-goes-unabated-162647
29-10-2020||Amritsar||Government procures 4.18L MT paddy in Amritsar district||The grain markets in the district have seen an arrival of around 4.24 lakh metric tonne of paddy crop till date. Of the total, a maximum of the crop, around 4.18 lakh metric tonne has been purchased by government procurement agencies.Around 6,128 metric tonne of paddy produce has been purchased by private players. The district mandi officials stated that around 3.66 lakh metric tonne of procured grains have been lifted from the grain markets.Of the total procurement by government agencies, Pungrain has purchased a maximum with it procuring 1.70 lakh metric tonne of crop followed by Markfed with 94,928 metric tonne and Punsup with 86,234 metric tonne. Punjab Warehousing Corporation has purchased a total of 35,263 metric tonne while Central Government Agency, Food Corporation of India (FCI), has purchased around 28,408 metric tonne of crop.The Mandi Board officials stated that around 80 per cent of the harvesting in the district was complete. They stated that the farmers were yet to start harvesting of late maturing basmati varieties.Meanwhile, with the wheat sowing in the area is expected to begin from the next fortnight, the farmers have started preparing their fields for the next crop which would further hasten the harvesting. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-procures-4-18l-mt-paddy-in-amritsar-district-162648
29-10-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar MC to seal shops of erring tenants||The estate wing of the Municipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) is planning to seal shops of those tenants who had failed to deposit the rent.As per records, more than Rs 2 crore is pending towards the tenants. The estate wing has issued notices to 350 shopkeepers to either vacate the shops or pay the rent. The shopkeepers have been asked to respond within seven days.The MCA owns more than 1,100 shops in the city, which have been leased out. Most of these properties are at prime locations, including inner ring road, bus stand and IDH market.Around two years ago, the MCA had asked the tenets to buy the properties for which they had been paying the rent. Around 691 shopkeepers had shown the interest and filed the application to buy the properties. The House had passed a resolution to sell the shops, but the MC told them to clear dues before buying the properties.Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said, “We will seal properties of those tenants who do not reply to notices.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-to-seal-shops-of-erring-tenants-162649
29-10-2020||Amritsar||4 hurt religious sentiments, held||The rural police on Wednesday arrested four persons on charges of hurting religious sentiments after a video of burning effigy of lord Rama went viral on social networking sites.The accused have been identified as Angrej Singh, son of Chann Singh, Vicky, Angrej Singh son of Tarsem Singh and Ashok Masih, all residents of Manawala. Dhruv Dahia, Senior Superintendent of Police, said, "The accused had burnt the effigy of lord Rama on Dasehra and posted video on social networking sites. The key accused Angrej Singh has been nabbed and involvement of others is being investigated. No one would be allowed to disturb the peace and harmony in the state.” A case has been registered at the Lopoke police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-hurt-religious-sentiments-held-162650
29-10-2020||---||‘Quash FIR registered against our officials’||Amritsar, October 28The SGPC has approached the CM, Chief Secretary and DGP demanding quashing of the case registered against its officials and task force in connection with the clash that occurred in the Golden Temple complex on October 24. Around 30 persons from both sides were injured in the melee.A cross-case was registered on October 26 following the complaint lodged by the Sikh activists who protested over missing ‘saroops’ in the shrine complex. The police have registered a case against the members, officers and employees of the SGPC under Sections 323, 342, 148 and 149 of the IPC.Earlier on October 25, the SGPC had got booked 50-60 Sikh activists for creating ruckus and attacking the SGPC officials and staff members. On a complaint lodged by the SGPC, the police had registered a case against the Sikh activists under Sections 307, 452, 148 and 149 of the IPC.Now SGPC’s secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli has taken up the matter by writing to the CM, Chief Secretary and the DGP to dismiss the cross-case and demanded the immediate arrest of Sikh activists who indulged in quarrel inside the Golden Temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/quash-fir-registered-against-our-officials-162652
29-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Cops register snatching case after 1 month||Tarn Taran, October 28The police have registered a snatching case after one-and-a-half months of the incident.  Moreover, the incident occurred near Dhora police post.The victim, Prabhjot kaur, said she was heading home on a rickshaw on September 15. She said as she reached near Dhora police post, a person wearing a mask on a black-coloured motorcycle suddenly appeared on the spot, snatched her purse and fled away from the spot.She said her purse contained Rs 2,000, a mobile phone, Aadhaar card, Pan card, three-debit cards and other important documents. The police said a case under Section 379-B of the IPC had been registered on October 27.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-register-snatching-case-after-1-month-162653
29-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Three held with 420-gm heroin, 52-kg poppy husk||Tarn Taran, October 28The district police’s anti-narcotics cell arrested two persons and seized 420 gm of heroin from their possession, while the CIA staff of the Patti police arrested one person and seized 52 kg of poppy husk from him.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said that the anti-narcotics team led by ASI Gurdial Singh stopped a car at Rataul village and during checking 420-gm heroin was seized from their possession. The arrested accused had been identified as Joban Singh Billa of Jandiala Guru and Karandeep Singh Sanny of Basanberpur (Amritsar). A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused.Similarly, the police party of the Patti CIA staff nabbed Harjinder Singh Jinda of Pakhopur with 52 kg of poppy husk. The Chohla Sahib police have registered a case under the NDPS Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-held-with-420-gm-heroin-52-kg-poppy-husk-162654
29-10-2020||---||Youth kills woman, injures son in Rayya||Amritsar, October 28A youth killed a woman and critically injured her son in Raya on Wednesday.The deceased has been identified as Rekha Chhabra (55) and her son has been identified as Karthik Chhabra.According to information, the accused Jatinder Kumar Akshay had a rivalry with Krishan Chhabra, who is a husband of the deceased.Armed with sharp-edge weapon, Jatinder entered the house of Krishan around 6.30 am.The accused attacked Rekha, who was worshiping and died on the spot. Later, Jatinder attacked her son who was sleeping in a room. He was rushed to the hospital and referred to Amritsar. His condition is stated to be critical.It has been learnt that Krishan was pursuing a court case against Jatinder’s father Harjinder Kumar, who had died due to a heart attack on Tuesday.Depressed over his father’s death, Jatinder first tried to jump into the funeral pyre and later tried to jump into a canal. He also had a scuffle with some person last night.The entire family of the accused is US citizen and he came along with his father before the lockdown.After getting information, Baba Bakala Deputy Superintendent of Police Harkrishan Singh and Beas police station SHO reached the spot.The Deputy Superintendent said they would soon nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-kills-woman-injures-son-in-rayya-162655
29-10-2020||The Tribune interview||‘Contractual appointments discouraging scholars to join teaching profession’||Dr Lakhwinder Singh Gill who recently retired as Deputy Director, Directorate of Public Instructions (DPI), Colleges, has a vast teaching experience. Before being promoted, he had been teaching the English Department of the SR Government College for Women for two decades. He penned three books in English and published articles in many prestigious national and international journals. Associated with Ekam Sahit Manch, Amritsar, writing poetry in Punjabi is his passion. His poem “Mera Pind Bolia” was much acclaimed in literary circles and it was telecast by Doordarshan Jalandhar. His book on poetry “Tu Kion Nahi Bolda” was lapped up by commoners. Hailing from a remote village near Dera Naba Nanak, he finished his schooling from the village school and did his MA, MPhil and PhD from Guru Nanak Dev University. In conversation with Neeraj Bagga, he gives his views on contemporary education, global impact and future needs.What is the present status of higher education here?As new universities, new colleges are being started and new courses are being introduced in the higher education institutions, the contemporary scenario seems quite encouraging. There is no deficit of physical infrastructure in government or private colleges. Under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) scheme the entire infrastructure in government colleges was updated and renovated. Even state universities gained much from this scheme for updating their infrastructure. The only grey area is the lack of intellectual infrastructure in the department of higher education. No regular recruitment in government colleges since many years and no regular appointments in the universities are the grey areas in the higher education department. Ad-hocism or contract appointments are discouraging scholars to join teaching in colleges and universities. When a PhD and UGC-NET clear scholar does not get regular job and remains underpaid it leads to frustration among the deserving teachers.Do our youth both from rural and urban segments are equipped fully to face the global challenges?Private institutions in the state are playing major role in contributing to the quality education in the state as they are better equipped with physical and intellectual infrastructure. No doubt the school education, barring remote rural area, is also doing well in the recent times. So the higher education institutions are getting good stuff to be trained to grapple with the global challenges. Here the problem is only for the poor segment of society that can’t afford higher education because it is too expensive for the brilliant students coming from impoverished background.Do we have adequate courses available in the higher education to match the market driven job sectors in the country?Here only universities and some selected institutions have been able to do full justice with the newly introduced subjects and with the enrolled students. Some institutions don’t have well equipped labs and workshops for practical subjects. They provide theoretical training only. It is not adequate to make a student master of his/her chosen subject. Hence, students should be extra careful when they choose institutions for their higher education.What is the reason behind a large number of youth migrating to developed countries every year?The real cause of migration of the youth to the foreign lands is job insecurity here. When they see their seniors being underpaid and working on ad hoc for years together, they prefer to leave the country which is very unfortunate. There, at least, they have the feeling of security that they will get what they deserve. No doubt, we do have the quality institutes for the youth but fear of unemployment is always there. It is a known fact that some popular private institutions show big dreams of campus-placements after the completion of their professional courses but that turns out to be stage managed show most of the times. So lack of trust of the youth in private institutions also adds to the fear of joblessness among the youth and so they prefer to migrate to the countries where they feel they can get suitable job after finishing their education.Give your opinion on new National Education Policy?New National Education Policy promotes autonomy and liberalisation in higher education. With a view to develop multidimensional personality among students, it opens up entry and exit points for the students. At any stage of his course the student can leave course and adopt the other one of his choice. Moreover, the stress is also on the vocationalisation of education and introduction of ethical teaching in education to address the rising graph of crime in the society. But the biggest fear in the new education policy is the implementation of it in letter and spirit. There is no surety of financial help from the state without which the implementation of such a policy is an uphill task for the academic institutions. There is no provision of special consideration for geographically and socially backward areas. The policy is uniform in spirit but that uniformity is missing in our prevalent system where every state and every university has its own yardstick so far. Above all, there is no clear cut reference to the pay pattern of teachers teaching in universities and colleges which can further result in exploitation of teachers at the hands of the managements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/contractual-appointments-discouraging-scholars-to-join-teaching-profession-162657
29-10-2020||---||Missing ‘saroops’: Satkar panel members corner SGPC over poor management||Amritsar, October 28After being shunted out from the Golden Temple complex, activists of the Sri Guru Granth Sahib Satkar Committee and other Sikh organisations observed a sit-in at the Heritage Street leading to the shrine here on Wednesday.Infuriated over the missing ‘saroops’, they said why the missing of the ‘saroops’ was not made public. They cornered the SGPC over its failed administration that led to misappropriation of the funds charged for issuing ‘saroops’ and feared that it was a deliberate attempt to conceal the facts which led to SGPC’s U-turn on taking criminal proceedings against 16 officials and staff members who were indicted by the Akal Takht-constituted probe panel.A Telangana High Court lawyer, who headed the probe panel, has prepared a 1000-page investigation report. The circumstances were thoroughly examined and the officials concerned and employees were questioned, but the moot question is where and on whose instance the ‘saroops’ were issued.The SGPC also faced opposition as uncertainty prevailed in the number of ‘saroops’ that were damaged in an accidental fire on May 2016 at its publication branch in Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib.Balbir Singh Muchchal, head of the Satkar committee, said they joined members of the United Akali Dal to stage a symbolic protest to sensitise to the sangat (devotees) about the SGPC’s failure to disclose the number of missing ‘saroops’.“The SGPC was successful in thwarting our ‘insaaf’ morcha (protest) that was staged on October 14 but on October 24, the SGPC taskforce indulged in a clash with us after which cross-FIRs were registered. We have demanded the police that the footage of CCTV cameras that were set up near Teja Singh Samundri Hall must be taken into possession,” he said.United Akali Dal’s Mohkam Singh said they wanted to know the truth about the ‘saroops’. He said during the May 2016 fire incident, the SGPC had declared that only 14 ‘saroops’ were damaged. Later, an official note surfaced which claimed that about 80 ‘saroops’ that were damaged then. “When the issue of misappropriation of funds charged for issuing ‘saroops’ surfaced, the SGPC claimed the figure to be 267, but later the Akal Takht investigation revealed it to be 328. No one knows about the number of ‘saroops’ issued and the funds charged for issuing them embezzled under the nose of SGPC,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/missing-saroops-satkar-panel-members-corner-sgpc-over-poor-management-162658
29-10-2020||Amritsar||Three die, 42 new infections in Amritsar district||3 mobiles seized from central jailAmritsar: The Central Jail administration seized three mobile phones during a checking in the jail premises. Ajmer Singh, Assistant Superintendent of the Central Jail, said that while checking of barrack number 3 in room number 4, the jail staff found a mobile phone from prisoner Sujjal Kumar, alias Ravi Bedi of Ghanke village in Kapurthala. Later, while checking of bathroom an unclaimed mobile was also recovered. Similarly, Bhagwant Singh, Assistant Superintendent of the Central Jail, stated that while checking of chakki number 23 a mobile phone was seized from prisoner Guriqbalmeet Singh, alias Robin of Hansawal village, and Amrik Singh, alias Happy of Taran Taran. A case has been registered under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prison Act at the Islamabad police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-die-42-new-infections-in-amritsar-district-162659
29-10-2020||---||Punjab facing economic curbs for opposing farm laws: Congress||Amritsar, October 28Opposing the “confrontational attitude” being adopted by the Centre, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar today said the state was facing “sanctions for opposing the farm laws”.Jakhar met farmers in Chamiari village of Ajnala and Guruwali village of Attari constituencies, apprising them about the state’s Bills against the Central farm laws.Sunil Jakhar, Punjab Congress President‘Centre indulging in arm-twisting’The Narendra Modi government has been indulging in ‘arm-twisting’ and adopting narrow-minded tactics… but we want to tell the Centre that we are looking for conciliation, not confrontation. He said the Centre’s approach seemed to be to teach Punjab a “lesson”. “The reason being that CM Capt Amarinder Singh has dared to come out with a pro-farmer approach against the ‘black farm laws’,” he said.Jakhar alleged conspiracies were being hatched to deprive the farmers of their lands and hand them over to big corporates could never be tolerated. He said the Centre was imposing economic sanctions on Punjab for taking steps to safeguard the interests of farmers.“First, the arrears of Rs 9,500 crore of GST was revoked, and now to bring Punjab on its knees, Rs 1,100-crore Rural Development Fund has been witheld. But our government will stand by farmers, no matter how high the cost it has to pay.”Pointing out that the struggle could continue for long, he said: “The PM should himself talk to farmers directly and assure them on the issue of MSP”. Harpartap Singh Ajnala MLA said: “Punjabis will fight till these laws are repealed.” Santokh Singh Bhalaipur, MLA, Baba Bakala, said CM Capt Amarinder Singh had sent out a strong message by getting the farm Bills passed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/punjab-facing-economic-curbs-for-opposing-farm-laws-congress-162435
