29-11-2020||---||Two detained in gangster’s brother’s murder case||Amritsar, November 28The police on Saturday detained around four suspects in a case of broad daylight murder of Mani Dhawan, who was brother of gangster Sunny, alias Gorilla, an associate of notorious gangster Simran.The police have initiated the process of bringing notorious gangster Subham on production warrant. He had an old rivalry with the Simran gang. He is currently lodged in Faridkot jail.“He would be brought on production warrant on Tuesday,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar. The police were suspecting an old rivalry between Shubham and Simran behind the brutal killing of Mani Dhawan.The police also launched a hunt to nab two suspects — one belonging to Gurdaspur and the other from Chheharta. The police did not share their identity as they pointed out that it would hamper the investigation.The police were also verifying the involvement of two persons named by the victim’s mother. She told the police that she had seen around four suspects in the morning of Friday and they were having arms.Mani was gunned down by two armed assailants at 88-feet road on the Majitha road in the noon. The victim was basking in the sun near his shop. It is being suspected that Shubham’s accomplices shot him dead.Shubham and Simran’s rivalry started in 2015. Shubham shot dead Simran’s father in 2016. He used to run a dhaba on Majitha Road. To avenge his father’s death, Simran shot dead Shubham’s father, a former cop, in 2018. Similarly, Shubham, along with his accomplice Saraj Mintoo, killed a Hindu leader Vipin Sharma on Batala Road, who allegedly gave shelter to Simran.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-detained-in-gangsters-brothers-murder-case-177468
29-11-2020||---||Nagar Kirtan taken out to celebrate Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev||Amritsar, November 18A nagar kirtan was taken out to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev here on Saturday. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee in association with sabhas, sikh societies and sangats initiated the nagar kirtan from Sri Akal Takht Sahib. Giani Jagtar Singh, Head Granthi of Sachkhand Sri Harmandir Sahib, performed the Chaur Sahib on the holy Sri Guru Granth Sahib. During the nagar kirtan, Sikh sangat chanted Gurbani, hymns and expressed their devotion. On the way of nagar kirtan, the sangat served langar, packed food, sweets and fruits. Meanwhile, band parties, shabad chowki jathas and gatka parties enthusiastically participated in the procession. Former Jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Gurbachan Singh, Head Granthi Giani Malkit Singh, general secretary of Shiromani Committee Advocate Bhagwant Singh Sialka, member Harjap Singh Sultanwind, secretary Mahinder Singh Ahli, were also among prominent personalities who participated in the nagar kirtan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nagar-kirtan-taken-out-to-celebrate-parkash-purb-of-guru-nanak-dev-177469
29-11-2020||
||Cops identify man found dead in Verka||Amritsar, November 28  The police have identified a person whose body was found in the fields in Verka on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Jatinder Kumar, a resident of Katra Safaid. He used to reside at a rented accommodation on Ram Tirath road along with his mother.  Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Harpal Singh said Jatinder used to work as an electrician. He said the deceased got married in 2015 and took divorce after two years. Preliminary investigations revealed that Jatinder went missing on Thursday evening.  The Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police said after taking dinner from his sister’s (Nisha) house in Jhujhar Avenue, he left for his house. After sometime, Nisha called him to know whether he had reached home and Jatinder told her that he had reached home. According to the police, Jatinder was apparently shot dead as there was a bullet hole near his waist. The police have sent the body for a post-mortem. The Verka police had registered a murder case against unknown person on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cops-identify-man-found-dead-in-verka-177470
29-11-2020||---||Auto driver’s hand chopped||Amritsar, November 28Some armed persons chopped off an auto-rickshaw driver’s hand here on Saturday. A resident of Housing Board Colony, the victim, identified as Vicky, was seriously injured.The victim was rushed to a private hospital where his condition is stated to be serious while the police started investigation after registering an FIR.Seema, mother of the victim, told the police that Jeetu and Mota, both residents of Housing Board Colony, had an enmity with Happy Masih of the same locality. She said a few days ago, Jeetu, Mota and their other unknown accomplices attacked Happy Masih leaving him injured. Vicky had helped Happy by taking him to hospital for treatment.She alleged both the accused started nurturing a grudge against her son. Today when her son was returning home, the accused surrounded and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. They not only chopped off his hand but also hit him repeatedly with sharp-edged weapons.Assistant Commissioner of Police (North) Sarabjit Singh said the police had registered a case in this connection and further investigation was under progress. Raids were on to nab the suspects.The reasonVicky’s mother Seema told the police that Jeetu and Mota, both residents of Housing Board Colony, had an enmity with Happy Masih of the same locality. She said a few days ago, Jeetu, Mota and their other unknown accomplices attacked Happy Masih leaving him injured. Vicky had helped Happy by taking him to hospital for treatment. She alleged that both accused started nurturing a grudge against her son. On Saturday, when her son was returning home, the accused surrounded and attacked him with sharp-edged weapons. They not only chopped off his hand but also hit him repeatedly with sharp-edged weapons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/auto-drivers-hand-chopped-177471
29-11-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Singing, writing or researching...she does all with soul||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 28At 81, eminent educationist and writer Dr Iqbal Kaur came up with a song ‘dili nu jandyeo raheyeo, Guru tohade nal’ to motivate the farmers heading to New Delhi for demonstration against the recently enacted agricultural laws. Kaur had developed the skills of singing around 63 years ago during her stay at Preet Nagar, near Amritsar. She holds memories of literary personalities and singers such as Tera Singh Chann, Joginder Baharla and Amarjit Gurdaspuri close to heart; probably her source of inspiration.“I often sing for myself but don’t record and upload on any social media platform. Now, I wanted to support the farmers so I have penned a song and then recorded it to upload on my Facebook account. People appreciated it,” she said.Being a researcher, she is still active in her research work. “I have collected hundreds of traditional Punjabi boliyan and lammi hek de geet (folk songs) sung by women. Now, I am working on several aspects of these. They sing these songs and perform boliyan without any musical instrument. They only clap and tap with their feet to perform Gidha.” She has also written more than 100 boliyan on contemporary issues in which she expressed the sentiments of women facing contemporary challenges such as drug, honour killing and migration.After retiring from the Punjabi department of GNDU in 1999, she continued her work for the Punjabi folk and culture. Apart from researching, she also wrote a book named Batwara and another on Partition of Punjab, recently.“I was chairperson at Bhagat Namdev Chair in the university. I had written two books on Bhagat Namdev’s life and bani. Recently, I compiled a book of 35 stories named Budhe Theh Di Hook on Partition,” she shared.Herself being a victim of Partition, she had witnessed violence and migration at the age of nine. Kaur is the daughter of Gehal Singh Chhajjalvadi, a freedom fighter, who was lost in blackness of the Partition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/singing-writing-or-researching-she-does-all-with-soul-177472
29-11-2020||
||2 die, 50 test positive in dist||Amritsar, November 28 With two deaths due to Covid, the toll in the district reached 493 here on Saturday.  The district health administration has also reported 50 new positive cases. The new cases include 31 influenza-like illness cases and 19 contacts of positive cases. With new cases, the total count of infections in the district has reached 13,013. Meanwhile, with the recovery of 59 patients, the total recovery count has reached 11,857. The district at present has a total count of 663 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-die-50-test-positive-in-dist-177473
29-11-2020||---||Covid casts a shadow on Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev||Amritsar, November 28The Covid-19 pandemic cast a shadow on nagar kirtan organised to mark the 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev on Saturday.Khalsa College Governing Council (KCGC), which organised the nagar kirtan, cut down the number of participants from 30,000 students (last year) to bare minimum this year.Only teaching, non-teaching and senior students took part in the religious procession.The nagar kirtan took off from Khalsa College and reached Golden Temple amid religious fervour. The participants formed queues while practising social-distancing, chanted hymns and passed through various parts of the city to pay obeisance at Golden Temple.A limited display of ‘Gatka’ (Sikh martial art), religious music and a PT show was held as the procession led by decorated palanquin in which Guru Granth Sahib was placed culminated at Akal Takht for prayers. The ‘Panj Piaras’ (five beloved ones), top management functionaries, principals and staff participated in the kirtan.RMS Chinna, secretary, KCGC, said annual celebrations of Parkash Purb were scaled down for maintaining safety protocols. He said the procession was aimed to highlight the philosophy and teachings of Guru Nanak Dev, who advocated universal brotherhood, humanity and peaceful co-existence.The parade highlighted the protection of environment and checking pollution as no plastic was used throughout the procession. Volunteers from the NCC and NSS cleaned the roads through which the procession passed.Celebrations begin in Sultanpur LodhiAkhand Path at Sultanpur Lodhi in Kapurthala district on Saturday marked the formal start of a host of events to be organised to celebrate the 551st Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak Dev.Member of Parliament Jasbir Singh Dimpa, MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, PPCB Chairman Satvinder Singh Marwaha, Deputy Commissioner Deepti Uppal, SSP Kanwardeep Kaur along with other dignitaries attended the ardaas at the pandal set up by the Punjab Government near the historic Gurdwara Ber Sahib.The Punjab Pollution Control Board initiated a drive to plant 551 saplings to preach the message of environment preservation. As a part of the drive, saplings were distributed among the congregation as the prasad.The Punjab and Haryana High Court lawyer Harpreet Sandhu got two huge-sized selfie points created depicting the 551st logo. The selfie points have been installed and inaugurated at Garari Chowk (Rotary Chowk) by Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill and other dignitaries. Conceptualised and designed by Harpreet, the selfie points have become major attractions among the sangat visiting Sultanpur Lodhi during the 551st Parkash Purb.A special brochure depicting the pictorial hymns of Guru Nanak Dev and Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, was also launched. The beautiful pictorial brochure promoting the ethos and preaching of Guru Nanak Dev were distributed among devotees. The unique brochure would also be presented to Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Meanwhile, the Board of Governors of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University Jalandhar has also given the approval for the establishment of a study chair in the name of the first Sikh master. Prof Ajay Kumar Sharma, Vice-Chancellor, IKGPTU, shared information about the area and scope of study related to Guru Nanak Dev Chair.He said the university would work on the study of life, philosophy and teachings of Guru Nanak Dev and its relevance in the contemporary times. Researchers would work on religious and cultural space with special reference to Guru Nanak Dev, historical perspectives, mission and work in subsequent periods.The university will also focus on the role and place of Gurdwara Ber Sahib (Sultanpur Lodhi) in the larger contexts of the teachings of the guru. He shared information subjects related to Guru Nanak Dev like creation of descriptive bibliographical documentation with reference to literary and socio-cultural studies, audio-visual documentation with special reference to Guru’s life and contribution in and around the Doaba region. The study on the travels (udasis) of Guru Nanak Dev, divine music and instruments with reference to rabab, study of inter-faith dialogues of Guru Nanak Dev are also part of university board decisions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-casts-a-shadow-on-parkash-purb-of-guru-nanak-dev-177474
29-11-2020||Amritsar||Webinar sheds light on struggle of India’s teens||Unfolding and exploring the problems faced by urban teens, a web session hosted by Phulkari-WOA, a city-based non-profit organisation, in collaboration with a Kolkata-based Prabha Khaitan Foundation presented author Jyotsna Mohan’s book ‘Stoned, Shamed and Depressed’.  A former journalist, Jyotsna’s book unravels the secret lives of India’s teens and their struggles with addiction to substances, social media and gaming, dealing with intense peer pressure, bullying, body-shaming and the resultant physical and mental issues. While addressing the parents and youngsters attending the session, she said, “I decided to write about the experiences of teens because often we forget to listen to the voice of our children. As inert-personal conversation become fewer after ‘social media’ change, most of the issues that ail youth were completely ignored or slipped under the rug. Through conversations with these children, it hit me that there may not be a solution, only prevention.” Her book elaborates on various problems including getting under the knife at a young age for social acceptance to substance abuse and loneliness that youth go through. “Even parents find themselves clueless sometimes on how to cope,” she said.  Another senior journalist and currently an associate professor of journalism at Harvard University, Nidhi Razdan, was also part of the talks.  Deepa Swani, president, Phulkari, said the session was quite significant, especially for parents. “These are definitely unusual times for parenting when social media has stormed into the lives of very young children and impacted them profoundly. This webinar aimed at bringing it to the forefront and addressing the challenges teenagers and their parents face these days.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/webinar-sheds-light-on-struggle-of-indias-teens-177475
29-11-2020||Amritsar||Resumption of  trains hailed||Families of the Armed Forces personnel expressed happiness over resumption of passenger trains. Col Satbir Singh Warraich (retd) said this step was a big relief, especially for soldiers who were facing problems in reaching their homes.  He said being a festive and wedding season, the defence personnel were facing difficulties due to non-availability of trains.  Col Warraich thanked farmers for maintaining peace and allowing movement of passenger trains. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resumption-of-trains-hailed-177476
29-11-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||When utensils became a luxury, he started selling woollens||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, November 28Left jobless in the wake of the Covid-19 imposed lockdown and lack of supplies, Kabir Bedi, who used to sell utensils, has started selling socks and caps on a rehri to earn livelihood.Bedi had been selling ceramic utensils for the past many years. He said, “There were no supplies when the lockdown was eased. Most of the items were sourced from China. In case they were available, they were too costly.” Bedi said his clients were mostly women from weaker sections and they would have refrained from purchasing utensils from him even if he had replenished his stocks by paying extra.He said he was idle for a few months and got an idea to sell socks and caps when the weather plummeted. “I thought that people might need these items to stay warm. Besides with income going down, ceramic utensils and decorations has become a luxury.”“There were days when I was prepared to do even manual labour, but there was no work. Then I thought of many other options, but nothing worked out,” he said adding that he knew no other work than selling goods.Talking about his skills, Bedi said, “It is all about bargaining. You have to watch out for signals during bargaining and sell the item at the best price.”He said some customers were hard bargainers and selling a product to them was a tough job. “People often brag about how they managed to buy an item at the lowest possible price,” he quipped.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/when-utensils-became-a-luxury-he-started-selling-woollens-177477
29-11-2020||---||Think twice before you opt for this 400-metre stretch||Amritsar, November 28A small stretch leading from Rambagh Chowk towards one of the oldest churches is in woeful condition. The fact that it is historically significant as it leads to multiple heritage structures, including the Ram Bagh and Civil Hospital, has been cast to the bottom of shelves as authorities are yet to restore it.The re-carpeting was done five years ago and since then there has been no repairs. Patches of broken road covered with gravels make for the absence of proper path throughout the 400-metre stretch. Given that it has several intersections connecting the area with bus stand, Crystal Chowk and other important routes, the road gets high traffic congestion almost every day.“No one has ever shown concern in the last five years. It is an important road and must be repaired soon. The debris is dangerous as it causes accidents, especially for two-wheeler drivers. Also, the unlaid road raises dust clouds to pollute the surrounding area. So, most shopkeepers have put glass doors to keep it from entering into the shops,” said Anupam Sharma, a shopkeeper.Bhupinder Singh, another shopkeeper on the stretch, said the shops in the area are being beautified by adding facades but road has been left out of plans. “The administration has spent efforts and money for beautifying the area; which is historically important, but the stretch is a nightmare as it is broken at several points.” A large part it also has haphazardly parked vehicles.Under the recent sanctioned plan for road repairs and re-carpeting, the MC has approved work on several roads. The Mayor has initiated resources to carry out the re-carpeting process but this particular stretch probably will have to wait for some time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/think-twice-before-you-opt-for-this-400-metre-stretch-177478
