30-07-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||City’s parking woes deepen for want of smart solutions||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29In current times, finding parking space in the city has become a big challenge for everyone, be it a city resident or outsider. For the past few years, there has been a phenomenal rise in the number of vehicles and visitors to the holy city, but new parking lots or spaces have not been provided or widened accordingly.Sad to say, the authorities concerned have failed to provide spacious and more parking lots, leading to congestion or parking problems in most markets. Residents are a perturbed lot as it takes quite a while to find a place for parking their vehicles.Present status of parking spaces in cityThe 446-year-old city has narrow lanes in its interior markets. The open spaces, which were once gardens and bagichis (small open yards), have been encroached upon by people decades ago. Now, there is no major parking lot inside commercial areas of the walled city. The only major parking for visitors to the Golden Temple is the Saragarhi parking lot. It is a five-storey parking lot, which remains overcrowded at all times. The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has provided a few small parking lots for two-wheelers near the Golden Temple and a major parking lot is near Gurdwara Shaheedan Sahib. These facilities are insufficient as compared to a large number of devotees visiting shrines on a daily basis in the city. They have no option but to park on the roadside. There are some illegal parking lots in the walled city, which overcharge tourists.Some major commercial centres such as Hall Bazaar, Katra Jaimal Singh, Telephone Exchange, Karmo Deohri, Guru Bazaar Shastari Market, Raja Market, Katra Ahluwalia, Majith Mandi, Loon Mandi, Daal Mandi, etc, have only small parking lots at Kairon Market, Kesri Bagh and Telephone Exchange. Thousands of traders from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and other parts of the region visit these areas daily. Besides, before the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, over one lakh tourists and devotees would visit these markets.Even outer areas of the city also face the same problem. Some markets have proper parking spaces but due to mismanagement and haphazard parking residents have to face inconvenience. The parking lots at Ranjit Avenue, Nehru Shopping Complex, the DC office and Bhandari Bridge are being managed poorly. Besides, in the absence of parking spaces, one can see vehicles parked on roadsides in areas like Putligarh Road, GT Road, Majitha Road, Lawrence Road, Mall Road and Batala Road. As a result, a traffic chaos prevails here. In residential areas, a number of clashes over parking space are reported every year.Commercial buildings without parking spaceThere are more than 300 hotels which do not have a parking lot inside the walled city. As per the building bylaws, the hotels can’t operate without in-built parking spaces, but most hotels have no parking space and they are still open. Only shopping malls and some shopping complexes have a parking lot in their basements.Rate list and overchargingThough there is enough space in parking lots, residents prefer to park their vehicle on roadsides. The parking charges of a scooter and a car are Rs 20 and Rs 50 respectively. There is no time slab applicable. As most parking contractors overcharge and misbehave, residents don’t park their vehicles in the parking lots. As there is no rate list put up at most parking lots, contractors demand hefty charges from customers. Though the MC allots parking lots through the e-tendering process, some politically influential persons succeed in getting contracts and fleece visitors.Proposed parking lotssee no headwayThe authorities had proposed a 32-crore multi-level automated car parking to be built at the Kairon Market to address the parking issue in interior areas of the city. Even four years after the announcement, there is no development or progress on the ground. The multi-level automated car parking lot is also proposed to be built at the Fish Market, but no tenders have been floated yet. Similarly, Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had proposed to use the old Sabji Mandi as the parking lot, but the MC failed to remove the encroachments from there. There will be no relief for residents for many years to come as even if the construction work of parking lot starts, it will take several years to complete. Last year, parking sensors were installed on the Mall Road and Lawrence Road Chowk by Amritsar Smart City Limited under the Smart City project. That was a pilot project under which once a vehicle was parked on the spot, a message would be flashed on the cell phone of the traffic cop concerned, making it easier for him to take necessary action. There is no further development on that project.MC fails to implement its parking policyEarlier, the Municipal Corporation had five parking lots at Fish Market, Kairon Market, Telephone Exchange, Bhandari Bridge and Kachairi Chowk. Last year, new lots were added in the list for auction, including Old Sabzi Mandi outside Hall Bazaar, KD Hospital to Karm Singh Ward on Circular Road, outside the MC’s Ranjit Avenue office, Town Hall to Subash Juice Bar, Hall Gate to Town Hall, Link road alongside Celebration Mall, outside new DTO Office, District Library to Government College and the Sadar police station to Care Well Hospital. The MC failed to allot contracts for the new parking lots due to being opposed by traders. The trader associations of Hall Bazaar and other markets staged demonstrations against the MC’s move to introduce paid parking outside their shops. They were of the view that if there would be paid parking in the market, fewer customers would visit their markets. Finally, the MC surrendered to the shopkeepers’ demands, and the result is that Hall Bazaar remains congested due to haphazard parking.Varun Khanna, a local activist, who has filed several cases in the Punjab State Service Commission for the betterment of parking lots, said, “The parking rates are too high in the city that residents prefer to park their vehicles on roadsides. It should be Rs 5 or Rs 10 instead of Rs 20 or Rs 50. The time slabs should also be introduced like we see in Chandigarh. The shopkeepers should change their mindset and the MC should implement the odd-even policy for the roadside parking lots in the busy markets.“There are two automated multi-level parking lots in the pipeline under the Smart City Project. The Kairon market project is in the tendering process. But we are facing many problems before starting a technically advanced parking lot in that congested space. We have enhanced the cost of the project but the tendering process is yet to complete. After this, we will start the Fish Market project. It would take two years after the tendering process. We are committed to managing the parking lots under the MC,” said CEO, Smart City Limited-cum-Municipal Corporation Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/citys-parking-woes-deepen-for-want-of-smart-solutions-119788
30-07-2020||Our Correspondent||Rural pharmacists hold protest over meagre salary, offer to repair vehicles||Tarn Taran, July 29On the 40th day of the indefinite strike call of the rural health pharmacist officers association, Punjab, the members of the local district unit of the organisation marched in the town and demonstrated repairing of the punctured vehicles to express their protest against the state government.The members of the organisation had been working for the last 15 years on contractual basis with a meager salary of Rs10, 000 per month and have been demanding the regularising of their services.A sit-in dharna by the the workers at the local bypass was taken out wherein they offered to the passerbys to get their punctured vehicle repaired. Varinderpal Singh Bhatia and Harinder Singh Dhunda, district chairman and the president, respectively, in their address condemned the indifferent attitude of the state which had failed to regularise their services since years of promises. “The state was claiming to face a heavy ‘financial crunch’. So we will deposite the money collected from the job done today in the state revenue,” the leaders were quoted as saying. They added that a plan to march to the Kadian (Gurdaspur) residence of Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, minister of the department, on July 31 alongwith their families to express their resentment is on the cards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rural-pharmacists-hold-protest-over-meagre-salary-offer-to-repair-vehicles-119789
30-07-2020||PK Jaiswar
||Six more prisoners test +ve, shifted to Malerkotla sub jail||Tribune News Service Amritsar, July 29  More prisoners were found infected with the Covid-19 disease during the mass sampling being conducted by the Health Department in the Amritsar Central Jail here on Wednesday. The mass sampling started was started after several staff members, including DSP-rank officials, were found infected with the virus. Besides, over 20 jail officials and staff members and over 30 prisoners were found corona positive whose reports came on Tuesday. Today reports of around six prisoners came out positive. While confirming the report, Iqbal Singh Brar, officiating jail superintendent, said those whose tests came out positive were shifted to the Malerkotla sub jail, which has been converted into an isolation centre for prisoners. According to jail officials, these prisoners were shifted from the Patti sub jail recently. As per information, at present, there are around 2,300 prisoners in the jail while many inmates who were facing trial under minor offences and elderly were released on bail as a preventive measure to curb the spread of the deadly virus. Brar said the sampling of around 900 prisoners had been conducted so far and the process of sampling of the remaining inmates was underway. “Those who were found infected with the virus are being shifted to the Malerkotla jail which was declared as an isolation and treatment centre for prisoners,” Brar said. Officials said, “The recovery rate in the state is high as compared to several other states in the country.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/six-more-prisoners-test-ve-shifted-to-malerkotla-sub-jail-119790
30-07-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Aujla to meet defence authorities over Vallah ROB objection||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 29The Amritsar Improvement Trust will approach the Ministry of Defence to lift the objection raised by the Army on a pillar of the railway overbridge (ROB) at Vallah railway crossing. Improvement Trust Chairman Dinesh Bassi said a delegation of the trust, led by MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, will visit the Defence Ministry office to lift the objection.A minor portion of the ROB at the Vallah side falls in the no-construction zone.Even as the construction of the railway overbridge is underway but it will not complete until the Army gives its approval. The Army in a communiqué to the Improvement Trust had directed it to stop the construction of a pillar of the ROB as it fell within the no-construction zone of the ammunition dump at Vallah in January.As per the notification issued on November 11, 2004, any construction in 1,000 yards parapet of the ammunition dump is prohibited.The Improvement Trust had applied for the NOC from the Defence authorities but it did not receive encouraging response.Bassi stated that it was mentioned that the ROB was being raised in the larger interest of the public to provide them smooth movement and remove traffic congestion.Almost all pier caps have been constructed on both sides of the ROB which will have a span of about 800 meters. Once completed it will be the maiden bowstring shape ROB in the entire city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aujla-to-meet-defence-authorities-over-vallah-rob-objection-119791
30-07-2020||Tarn Taran||Sadar SHO transferred, reinstated within hours||In a dramatic development, the higher police authorities issued the transfer orders of Sub Inspector (SI) Baljit Kaur, the SHO of the Sadar police station here, on Tuesday night and then cancelled these the same night. SHO Baljit Kaur was replaced with Inspector Manoj Kumar from Civil Lines who has served as SHO of the Sadar police station multiple times in the past over years. Baljit Kaur was transferred as SHO, Chabal. On the orders of the higher police officials, Inspector Manoj Kumar reached the Sadar police station around 9.30 am on Wednesday to take charge. However, he was told by SI Baljit Kaur that the transfer orders had been cancelled. Inspector Kumar said the higher police officials were duly empowered to issue or cancel transfer orders. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sadar-sho-transferred-reinstated-within-hours-119792
30-07-2020||---||Academic achievers get a booster over coffee||Amritsar, July 29The District Education Officer has initiated a unique, motivational meet and greet programme for the academic achievers from the district.DEO (Secondary) Satinderbir Singh in an attempt to encourage and acknowledge students’ academic success held a ‘Coffee with Toppers’ session here on Wednesday.In a first, the programme is a way to boost the morale and felicitate toppers and support them in their further academic pursuits. The inaugural meet and greet session was held with Harman Sharma, who was the topper in PSEB Class XII exams, along with other merit holders, including Amandeep Kaur and Gagandeep Kaur, who have scored above 98 per cent marks. They met the DEO (Secondary) Satinderbir Singh and shared their stories of hard work and success. These achievers were also entitled for the cash award of Rs5,100 announced by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh during ‘Ask Captain Facebook Live Show’ on Saturday. “It was not our hard work, but also of our teachers, who reviewed our performances and continued teaching through digital applications despite the lockdown. Extra classes were taken and simplified study material of different subjects were provided and tests were taken regularly to ensure meticulous preparation for the examination. We were stressed, but then our queries and exam preparations continued through online and web applications, so it was a respite,” said Harman.DEO Satinderbir stressed on different approach adopted towards government school-teaching methods for this year’s good scores.“It is the impact of the ‘Sikhiya Sudhar Muhim’ and the ‘Mission Cent per cent’, that government schools have consistently been performing well. For the consecutive second year, the government schools have out-shined private ones in the PSEB results both in quantity and quality. Government schools have not only achieved 94.32 per cent pass percentage as against the 91.84 per cent of private schools, but there are 1,903 Government Senior Secondary Schools in the state, of which 1,204 schools have achieved 100 per cent result. On the other hand, of 1,718 private schools, only 528 schools could achieve 100 per cent results,” said Satinderbir Singh, while exhorting students to be the ambassadors of government schools to make people aware about the changing scenario of government school education.“It is a matter of pride for the teachers of government schools, as their hard work has paid off. We are extremely happy with this cash prize announcement as it would further motivate the students to perform well,” he further added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/academic-achievers-get-a-booster-over-coffee-119793
30-07-2020||
||14 booked  as youth injured in firing over monetary dispute||Amritsar, July 29  A monetary dispute took an ugly turn when a group of persons attacked members of a family in their house and indulged in firing leaving a person injured at Bhoewali village falling under the Ajnala police station here. The police booked around 14 persons on the charge of murder bid and under sections of the Arms Act in the incident that took place on July 25. The accused lived in the neighbourhood of the complainant. Tarsem Singh, a resident of the village and the complainant, told the police that on Saturday when they were having lunch, the accused climbed on the rooftop of their house and started pelting stones. One of the accused, Paramjit Kaur, shouted at them and asked to teach the victims a lesson for demanding money. He said the accused, led by Balwinder Singh and Jagga Singh, injured him, his nephews Narinder Singh, Jagbir Singh and his son Sukhjkinder Singh with their weapons. They allegedly ransacked and damaged their house while Gurbhej Singh, one of the accused, fired at them with a country-made .12 pistol. The splinters hit nephew Narinder Singh. He said as they raised an alarm, the accused fled away. He said they admitted Narinder Singh to the Ajnala Civil Hospital. He said he had a monetary dispute with the accused. He said elderly people of the village intervened and tried to strike a compromise, but it proved futile and therefore a complaint was lodged with the police. The Ajnala police registered a case on the charge of attempt to murder and under sections of the Arms Act against Balwinder Singh, Jagga Singh, Sona Singh, Kulwinder Kaur, Mohna Singh, Paramjit Kaur and Kuldeep Singh, all residents of Bhoewali village, Gurbhej Singh of Mattenangal village and Sitara Singh of Kotli Sakka village, besides five unknown persons. Investigating officer ASI Baljit Singh said raids were on to nab the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/14-booked-as-youth-injured-in-firing-over-monetary-dispute-119794
30-07-2020||---||2 septuagenarians die of virus, 75 infections in Amritsar||Amritsar, July 29The Covid-19 disease on Wednesday snuffed out the lives of two septuagenarians, taking the toll to 73 in the district. The health authorities reported 75 fresh cases including a Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), three CIA staff, three BSF jawans and a doctor. The total count of positive cases has reached 1,721 in the district.The deceased have been identified as 79-year-old Anil Mehra of Jaj Nagar and 75-year-old Vidyawati of Sakhti Nagar. The health authorities stated that both patients had co-morbidities. Of the new cases reported, 49 are persons with influenza-like illness and 26 are contacts of positive patients.With a senior police official testing positive, the administration has started collecting samples of his office staff. The rising number of cases has also increased pressure on treatment facilities as at present the district has 421 active cases.One ILI case each was reported from Rayya village, Sultanwind Road, Jagdev Khurd (Ajnala), Kamla Devi Avenue, Loharka Road, Kennedy Avenue, Ram Nagar Colony, Plah Sahib Road, Commissioner of Police’s office, Verka, Vijay Nagar, Master Avenue (Chheharta), Pandori Lubana, Preet Nagar, Pandori Jota, Sandhu Colony Batala Road, Faizpura, Kot Karnail Singh, Boys’ Hostel at Government Medical College, Gali Punjab Singh, Saidpura (Ajnala), Kalwal Ladhewal, Sundar Nagar, Kot Harnamdas, Butala Narangpur, Ganda Singh Colony, Friends Colony, Sohian Kalan, 100-Feet Road, Court Road, Indra Colony, Shivala Colony, Chotta Haripura, Tungbala, Abadi Ram Bal Khurd, DR Enclave, Kot Bhagat Singh, Gurnam Nagar, Suraj Avenue, Mall Road, Loharka Road and two cases each from Tungbala, Bhalla Colony (Chheharta) and Shareefpura.The contact cases include six from Rose Garden (Milap Avenue), four from Vallah, three each from CIA staff, BSF Battalion Khasa and Mehta, two each from Shareefpura, Lakkar Mandi and Bal Kalan village and one from the Police Lines.The health authorities stated that 30 more patients had recovered in the last 24 hours. The district has reported a total of 1,227 recoveries so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-septuagenarians-die-of-virus-75-infections-in-amritsar-119795
30-07-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Gurdaspur gets digital war room to take on Covid-19||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, July 29To strengthen the ongoing battle against Covid-19, the district administration has set up a ‘digital war room’ and started conducting live online sessions on social media platforms to ensure that residents do not “fall prey to TV doctors and quacks whose knowledge of the infection is laughable”.Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq holds a 90-minute brainstorming session every evening with government doctors and other stakeholders in attendance. They include Civil Surgeon Dr Kishan Chand, District Epidemiologist Dr Prabhjot Kaur Kalsi and all 18 Senior Medical Officers (SMOs) posted in the district. Physician Dr Rajesh Lakhanpal, who left a lucrative government job to start his own hospital a few months ago, also remains present as a special invitee.The Facebook Live session is held from 6.30 pm to 8 pm. Residents also give their suggestions on ways and means to outdo the virus. The endeavor has come in for praise from all quarters with Raman Bahl, the Chairman of the Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board, saying the initiative was long overdue keeping in view the rising number of Covid patients in the state.“With the sessions, we not only get a chance to interact with residents but also present our view before them. Recently I told viewers that not everyone agrees to wear a mask, but then not everyone agrees to a loved one getting sick. So I told them that start wearing masks to ensure their loved ones do not get infected. I also tell people to be patient because there are better times ahead,” said Kalsi.“There is a lot of confusion regarding the infection. So it is imperative that we educate the people and the best way to reach out to residents without coming in contact is through the online sessions,” said Dr Chand.Officials said the war room had enabled integration of the Health Department with the police and surveillance teams. “It also gives a better idea of how infection is spreading,” said the DC.Data culled from ITIHAS-the software developed by IIT, Chennai, is also discussed during the sessions. “Like Covid has made shaking hands a thing of the past, these interactions have ensured that holding meetings in crowded rooms become relics of history,” said Dr Kalsi.Meanwhile, the Health Department has ramped up testing facilities, with nearly 1,200 people being tested at random every day. Sources say with the cost of one test being pegged at Rs 4,500, the total amount being spent every day comes to around Rs 54 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gurdaspur-gets-digital-war-room-to-take-on-covid-19-119796
30-07-2020||---||Encroachments cleared in Jahajgarh||Amritsar, July 29The Amritsar Improvement Trust on Wednesday removed sand and gravel from the Sardar Jai Inder Singh Truck Stand Scheme, known as Jahajgarh area.Officials of the trust along with police and de-encroachment paraphernalia swooped down at the site in the morning. Hundreds of tractors, trucks and tippers transporting sand and gravel remain parked over the piece of land, adjoining the GT road, for the past many years.After several campaigns had come to naught in the past to remove the encroachment on its land, Trust Chairman Dinesh Basssi said this time they took the help of police and the district administration. He said placing of sand and gravel besides trolleys and tippers was not the only eyesore but also held back the development of the truck stand scheme. He added that nobody was ready to buy the shops in the scheme, despite repeatedly holding auctions.He said now they would not allow the construction material traders to park their merchandise here. So, two SDOs have been asked to look after the scheme where the trust wanted to invest around Rs 10 crore for the civic amenities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/encroachments-cleared-in-jahajgarh-119798
30-07-2020||---||Teenager shot at, 12 booked for murder bid||Amritsar, July 29A teenager, identified as Gursewak Singh (16), sustained bullet injury after several persons shot at him and his father who were strolling on their rooftop in Bhalaipur Purba village falling under the Mehta police station on Monday late evening. The complainant and father of the victim Amarjit Singh stated to the police that around 12 persons headed by Raja of the same village came outside their house and started damaging electricity meter besides hitting at the entrance gate with sticks. He said when he tried to stop them they took out pistol and started firing at them. He said a bullet hit his son Gursewak in his ribs area. On seeing this, the suspects fled the spot. He said he rushed his son to a private hospital in Rayya where he is under treatment. Besides Raja, the Mehta police have booked Abhishek, Gagan, Jaskaran and eight unknown persons on charges of murder bid and arms act. No arrest has been made till now as the suspects were absconding. Satpal Singh, SHO, Mehta police station said the investigations were under progress to ascertain the cause behind the assault. He said the perpetrators were absconding since the incident and raids were on to arrest them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/teenager-shot-at-12-booked-for-murder-bid-119802
30-07-2020||Amritsar||Woman accuses hospital employee of harassment||A woman attendant of a patient admitted at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital alleged harassment by a safai sewak on Wednesday. She has filed a complaint with the hospital authorities.In her complaint, the victim, Aarti Devi, a resident of Mukerian in Hoshiarpur district, said her husband Nanak Singh was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. She said on Wednesday, the safai sewak, Tilak Raj, who introduced himself as president of a union of Class IV employees of the hospital, misbehaved with her. “He told me he could help me get medicines at a cheaper rate through his contacts. He asked me to go along with him and took me to the backside of the hospital.” The suspects touched her inappropriately, she has alleged.The victim said after the incident, she ran back to her husband and reported the matter. The woman has also alleged that the suspect took away with him all medical records and the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana card of her husband. He had taken the documents on the pretext of helping her in completing admission formalities, she said.Narinder Kumar, president of the Employees’ Coordination Committee at the hospital, said: “We have asked the hospital authorities to take a strict action in the case.”Medical Superintendent Raman Sharma said a three-member committee to investigate the matter had been constituted. He said the matter was of serious nature and would be handled with sensitivity. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-accuses-hospital-employee-of-harassment-119803
30-07-2020||Amritsar||Mafia trying to grab land: AAP||Drug smuggler’s property freezedTarn Taran: The district police on Wednesday freezed property worth Rs 66.6 lakh of a drug smuggler. The police in its move to break the financial backbone of drug smugglers had managed to freeze properties worth Rs 83.4 crore of 78 smugglers till date in the last about 10 months. The police said the property of Gurlal Singh of Dhunn Dhai Wala had been freezed. His residence in Sultanpur Lodhi (Kapurthala), two cars, tractor, bullet motorcycle were among the freezed properties, the police said. OCLecture on guru tegh bahadurAmritsar: The PG Department of History and Travel and Tourism of DAV College organised a lecure on subject “Remembering Guru Teg Bahadur Ji: His Contribution and Significance in History” on Wednesday. The lecture was dedicated to the 400th Parkash Purb of Guru Tegh Bahadur and sponsored by the Gandhian Study Centre. Prof Daljeet Singh, Head, Department of Historical Studies, Punjabi University, was the keynote speaker. He shed light on the life and martyrdom of the Guru. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mafia-trying-to-grab-land-aap-119854
30-07-2020||---||Dhindsa acting at BJP’s behest, says Brahmpura||Amritsar, July 29Taking a dig at rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura today alleged that the Dhindsa-led SAD was conceptualised at the behest of the BJP, which intended to snap its ties with the SAD in Punjab.He alleged: “The BJP does not want to bet on a sinking ship for the 2022 Punjab Assembly elections. Dhindsa, who has close ties with the BJP at the Centre, thus formed a parallel party to take on the Badals.”Brahmpura said he wanted to unite like-minded parties on one platform to offer the people of Punjab a third option.“I had even offered Dhindsa to lead SAD (Taksali), but he opted to float a new party and kept me in the dark. Nevertheless, we are conducting a membership drive. We are in alliance with some parties like the BSP, AAP and the Punjab Ekta Party,” he said.On Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu, he said: “Once Sidhu quits the Congress, we will go barefoot to welcome him into the party fold.”Student body members join Dhindsa groupChandigarh: Satnam Singh Kahlon of the All India Sikh Student Federation and his supporters on Wednesday joined the Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa camp. In a statement, Kahlon appealed to the youth to join hands to fight against those “who have worked against the Sikh community”. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhindsa-acting-at-bjps-behest-says-brahmpura-119588
