30-09-2020||---||3-day induction programme ends at Guru Nanak Dev University Amritsar||Amritsar, September 29The Department of Tourism and Hospitality, Guru Nanak Dev University, organised a three-day induction programme for the new students that concluded on Tuesday.Students from bachelor of hotel management and catering technology(BHMCT), bachelor of travel and tourism management (BTTM) and faculty members participated in the programme which was inaugurated by Dr Mandeep Kaur, professor in-charge, Department of Tourism and Hospitality of the university.Mayur Sud, managing director, Great Himalayan Adventure Studio, and Amitpal Singh, training development and HR manager, Seven Seas Hotel, Rohini, New Delhi, were the resource persons on the first day of the programme.Dr Arun Thakur, assistant professor, Panjab University, Chandigarh; Mohit Guleria, cluster training manager, Radisson and Park Hotels, Chandigarh, and Rahul Narang, housekeeping manager, Ritz Carlton by Marriot, Pune, were the resource persons.On final day, introduction session was conducted, where all students introduced themselves and faculty members Vikas Kumar, Damanpreet Kaur, Sumeer Kaur interacted with the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-day-induction-programme-ends-at-guru-nanak-dev-university-amritsar-148515
30-09-2020||---||Five held with illegal weapon, stolen vehicles in Amritsar||Amritsar, September 29The Sadar police have nabbed five persons for possessing illegal weapon and stolen vehicles.Those arrested were identified as Shiva Haldar, Ravi Haldar, Sanjay Kumar, Veeru and Suraj.According to the police, the accused gathered on the rear of Fortis Hospital along with stolen articles and country-made weapon. After getting the tip-off, the police conducted a raid and nabbed the accused.The police recovered a .315 bore pistol with 2 live cartridges, one scooter, bike, two LPG cylinders and two television sets.The police booked them under Sections 379 and 411 of the IPC, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/five-held-with-illegal-weapon-stolen-vehicles-in-amritsar-148505
30-09-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Post Covid revival? Winters to warm up woollen industry||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 29Battling the effects of Covid-19 pandemic, city-based woollen industry known for manufacturing shawls, blankets, tweed and blazers has been relying on the upcoming winter season to come out of the crisis. Piara Lal Seth, a shawl manufacturer, said the local woollen industry would suffer at least 25 per cent decline in the sales season.Reason being that the order booking period was consumed by the lockdown period. For booking, two kinds of procedures are in vogue. Agents of the local manufacturing units travel to different parts of the country to book orders or buyers come here to procure materials after evaluating the quality of material.He felt that in the changed circumstances, credible manufacturing houses with proven track record of supplying quality material will have an upper hand.Salesmen from the Kashmir valley who sell locally manufactured shawls, stoles, tweeds and blazer in different parts of the country did not come this year due to travel restrictions owing to pandemic. They used to sell these materials to as far as West Bengal.He said as far as the woollen industry was concerned, there was no dearth of labour and the factories resumed operations after May.Gaurav Jain, a tweed and blazer manufacturer, said sale of tweed was good as it was widely used in Kashmir Valley for wearing Phiran, a cloak worn by men, women and children to escape harsh winters. He said the only problem was that the sales period got curtailed.SK Wadhwa, a blanket manufacturer, said since Diwali festival is to be held in November 14, it is likely to generate good business from the next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-covid-revival-winters-to-warm-up-woollen-industry-148506
30-09-2020||Amritsar||Town planner dismissed||The Local Government Department dismissed Municipal Town Planner (MTP) Iqbal Preet Singh Randhawa for not taking appropriate action against violator of building bylaws (construction of a hotel on Court road).The department found that a basement and fifth floor was constructed without approval and four floors covered more than the sanctioned area. The total height of the building was approved 68 ft, but the construction was around 82 ft. In total, there were nine objections related to the building.Apart from Randhawa, the department imposed 25 per cent cut on pension of former building inspector Avtar Bhatia for six years and stopped promotion of Assistant Town Planner (ATP) Sanjeev Devgun for two years. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/town-planner-dismissed-148511
30-09-2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Two die, 108 test positive in Amritsar||With reports of two more deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, the death tally has reached 366 in the district. The deceased were 70-year-old Vimla from Shakti Nagar and Bikanu Ram, 50-year-old, from Dashmesh Nagar.The district health authorities have also reported 108 new positive cases with which the total count has increased to 9,817. The new cases include 57 Influenza-like illness cases and 51 contacts of positive patients. With recovery of 144 patients, the total recovery count has also increased to 8,128. At present, the district has a total of 1,323 active cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-two-die-108-test-positive-in-amritsar-148513
30-09-2020||Tarn Taran||Illicit liquor seized, 2 held in Tarn Taran||Three-month-old Foetus dumpedAmritsar: Some unknown persons dumped a foetus in garbage in Naushehra Khurd village, falling under the Kamboh police station here on Monday. A three-month-old foetus was found dumped by a tea shop owner, who later informed the police. Complainant Chaman Lal of Naushehra Khurd village stated to police that he ran a tea shop near Government Senior Secondary School in the village. He said when he reached his shop at 8 in the morning, he found a foetus dumped in the garbage near the school’s entrance gate. The Kamboh police have registered a case under Section 318 of the IPC (concealment of birth by secret disposal of dead body) against the unknown persons. TNSProgramme on job skillsAmritsar: Amritsar Pharmacy College (APC) in association with the Association of Muslim Professionals (AMP), a Mumbai-based organisation, conducted an employability training programme for its students. Salman Zia, AMP resource person, stressed on teaching highly desirable employability skills such as spoken, analytical and decision making skills to transform students into potential candidates for interviews. APC principal Dr Sachin Saggar, said the college ensured personality development and inculcating soft skills along with technical and subject specific knowledge thus preparing the students for successful professional life. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/illicit-liquor-seized-2-held-in-tarn-taran-148514
30-09-2020||Our Correspondent||Tarn Taran zila parishad, cops at loggerheads over building||Tarn Taran, September 29The police and the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat have been at loggerheads over the possession of a building. The decades-old building situated on Muradpur road was used as the SDM Office, but around 45 years ago, the structure was used as a police station.Eight years ago, the building was declared unsafe by the Public Works Department and city police station was shifted to another building of the Improvement Trust.The issue flared up after Senior Superintendent of Police Dhruman H Nimbale said the state government had released Rs 2 crore for the reconstruction of police station.On the contrary, Harcharanjit Kaur, chairperson, zila parishad, claimed that the building in question was the property of the zila parishad.She said the zila parishad had filed a case in the court of the Collector Land-cum-District Development and Panchayat Officer. Harcharanjit said decision regarding the land measuring 7 kanal, 11 marla and 13 ft went in favour of the zila parishad on September 22, 2017.She said the tehsildar had given the possession of the said building to them on March 17, 2020 and added that Sohan Lal from the Police Department was also present on the occasion.The chairperson said a letter was written to the SSP Office by the Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development)-cum-Chief Executive Officer on June 1, 2020 to vacate the building, but even after three months, belongings of police personnel had not been removed from the building.She said the zila parishad has planned to construct a multi-storey shopping complex with an underground parking on the above mentioned site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tarn-taran-zila-parishad-cops-at-loggerheads-over-building-148509
30-09-2020||Deepkamal Kaur||Heart of Gold: He donated his flat for social cause||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, September 29An 80-year-old retired executive director of Life Insurance Corporation of India, Jalandhar, has shown a big heart, which has now come known a month after he passed away — on August 30 last.BR Mehta, Senior vice-president of LIC Class-I Retired Officers' AssociationA month after the demise of Dr PS Pritam, we have now learnt that he has donated his flat covering an area of 2,050 sq feet, which could be worth Rs1 crore. He has expressed his willingness that it could be used as an old-age home for people with no one to look after them or for some religious activities. Further, Dr Pritam donated an amount of Rs20 lakh to his maid, who was from a humble family background. We salute Dr Pritam for this extraordinary act of kindness for the cause of humanity. May God bless eternal peace to his noble soul.Dr Pritam Singh Pritam, who had spent most of his retired life in the national capital and had recently shifted to a new four-bed room flat at Jalandhar Heights, has left it behind to be donated for some social cause. Besides, he has also generously donated Rs20 lakh from his savings for a domestic maid, who took care of him for the last nearly 10 years. The LIC Class-I Retired Officers’ Association has shared his story with all members.“A month after the demise of Dr PS Pritam, we have now learnt that he has donated his flat covering an area of 2,050 sq feet, which could be worth Rs1 crore. He has expressed his willingness that it could be used as an old-age home for people with no one to look after them or for some religious activities. Further, Dr Pritam donated an amount of Rs20 lakh to his maid, who was from a humble family background. We salute Dr Pritam for this extraordinary act of kindness for the cause of humanity. May God bless eternal peace to his noble soul,” said BR Mehta, senior vice-president of the association.Managing director of Jalandhar Heights Township Sukhdev Singh also confirmed: “A month prior to the demise of Dr Pritam, his brother rang me up and shared with me his willingness to donate the flat for a noble cause. He discussed with me the possible social means, for which it could be used. I am waiting for further correspondence from their side.” He said the property rate was not as high and would have to be calculated once all legal processes for liquidation were followed.Surjit Singh Arora, the younger brother of the deceased, confirmed the development. “My brother was indeed a very noble soul. We wish to use his property for a good social cause, which could be for an old-age home, a gurdwara or any other welfare purpose. So far, we have not had the heart to touch his belongings. We still need time to execute his wishes. I even intend to add up something from my side for whatever project we start in his name. The entire plan may take another month or so to take some shape,” he said, adding that Dr Pritam did not have a wife or kids and that all siblings would jointly take the call.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heart-of-gold-he-donated-his-flat-for-social-cause-148510
30-09-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Canal-based water supply in Amritsar gets shot in the arm||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, September 29After the Cabinet gave its nod for canal-based water supply to Amritsar city in July, the tendering process to set up the water treatment plant has been initiated.The Amritsar Municipal Corporation officials said the government had acquired 40 acres near Vallah, which will have treatment plant, water collection tanks and pumping stations. The government had spent Rs 36.40 crore for acquiring the land.Naresh Kumar, Executive Engineer-cum-Nodal OfficerThe tendering process has been initiated to set up the treatment plant at Vallah. Tenders will be opened on October 4. The World Bank is funding the project and the work will commence soon.Naresh Kumar, Executive Engineer-cum-Nodal Officer of the project said, “The tendering process has been initiated to set up the treatment plant at Vallah. Tenders will be opened on October 4. World Bank is funding the project and the work will commence soon.”The project has been the long-pending demand of residents as the city has been facing severe water crisis for the past few decades.Moreover, depletion of groundwater and its contamination had made it tough for the civic body to meet the routine demand of potable water. The MC spends a good amount on tubewells every year.The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the lending arm of the World Bank, will finance 70 per cent project and the rest will be borne by the Punjab Government. The project was proposed in 2015 by the SAD-BJP government and it took five years for the approval.Naveen Kumar, a local resident, said, “The canal-based 24X7 water supply is a much-needed project. The government should implement it at the earliest. Residents of the walled city and other areas often receive contaminated water. The existing infrastructure is inadequate to meet the increasing demand of residents.” He said, “We welcome the move of the state government as it is the need of the hour. It will also help to address the problem of water depletion.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/canal-based-water-supply-in-amritsar-gets-shot-in-the-arm-148502
30-09-2020||Amritsar||SMS essential to manage crop residue: Agriculture Department||The Agriculture Department has urged owners of combine harvesters to install straw management system (SMS) on their machines.The officials said the government had asked for applications from combine owners to avail 50 per cent subsidy on the SMS attachment.Agriculture Engineer Ranbir Singh Randhawa said, “The combine operators who have not applied for subsidy can do so till September 30.” He said combine owners were informed about this scheme earlier as well.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Gurdial Singh Bal said, “The straw management system helps in shredding stubble into small pieces, which is then scattered evenly in the field. It helps in easy management of crop residue and is one of the best alternatives to stubble-burning.”He said the cooperative societies were provided with machinery in the past. He said farmers should avail maximum benefit and added that farmers can rent baler machines for better management of crop residue.While the government had made it mandatory for combine harvesters to have the SMS attachment, operators were still hesitant to fully adopt it as the SMS slows down the speed of machine and increases diesel consumption. “Due to slow speed, a combine will harvest less area, which will have direct impact on the earnings of an operator,” said a combine operator. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sms-essential-to-manage-crop-residue-agriculture-department-148503
30-09-2020||---||14 booked in Rayya on charge of sexual assault||Amritsar, September 29Fourteen persons have been booked by the police for sexually assaulting a married woman and dragging her on the road. The incident occurred at Rayya on late Sunday evening. The police have registered a case in this connection while no arrest has been made till now.Those booked include Manjit Singh, his sons Ajay, Vicky and Raja, all residents of Dabgarh village in Rayya, besides 10 unknown persons.The complainant, a resident of Chhineman Patti village in Rayya, alleged that the accused barged into her house and pulled her out. They tore her clothes and sexually assaulted her.“On Sunday, at around 11 pm, the accused entered the house by jumping over the wall and broke opened the door of her room,” she alleged that she was alone in her house at that time. She said they assaulted her sexually and dragged her out of the house where they thrashed her. Following her complaint, the police have registered a case under relevant sections of the IPC against the assaulters. The police said the medical examination of the victim was conducted today while raids were on to nab the suspects.2 snatching incidents in cityTwo armed persons snatched purse from a bike-borne person when he was returning home from his duty. The incident occurred on Saturday near Khankot village. The victim has been identified as Balwinder Singh of New Focal Point on Mehta Road. He said when he reached near Khankot drain, two accused travelling on a scooter intercepted him and attacked with a sharp weapon. Balwinder said he fell on the road and the accused took away his purse.The Jandiala police have registered a case in this connection. Meanwhile, Sukhjit Kaur of Ranjit Avenue said that she was answering a call on phone when two youth snatched her mobile. They were travelling on a scooter, she said. The police have registered a case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/14-booked-in-rayya-on-charge-of-sexual-assault-148504
