30-05-2020||Amritsar||Amritsar reports 12 more +ve cases, count reaches 374||Coronavirus cases continue to rise in the border district, as 12 more cases were reported in the last 24 hours.Of these, five cases were reported from Manawala and five from Baba Bakala. In addition, a couple, too, tested positive in the city.With new cases, the total count of positive cases in the district has reached 374. So far, seven persons have lost their lives due to Covid-19.Himanshu Aggarwal, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said the district at present had 60 active cases and 307 persons were discharged after properly healing from the virus.He directed the health officials to isolate and quarantine all those persons, who came in contact with positive cases, till their medical reports arrive. He also directed to sanitise the localities of 12 new positive patients.He called upon people not to panic but adopt precautionary steps such as repeatedly washing hands and wearing face masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-reports-12-more-ve-cases-count-reaches-374-91917
30-05-2020||Amritsar||Covid-19  rumours spreading thick & fast in Amritsar||With the coronavirus cases increasing in the holy city, rumours are also spreading thick and fast despite the Punjab Police warning.A noted ENT surgeon Dr Karunesh Gupta, who runs a hospital in Pink Plaza market near Hall Gate, is the latest victim of such rumours. He has lodged a complaint with the police in this connection.This has made people, especially those in the health services and running eatery joints, coming up on social platforms to clear the air about them being corona positive.Dr Gupta said his team, family and he himself was fit and fine and that wasn’t sure from where the rumours of them being corona positive were being spread.Similar rumours were being circulated on social media platforms regarding Dr Susheel Mahindru, following which he had to release a counter message saying that he has also lodged a complaint with the police in this connection. “I got a number of calls after the rumours were out on social media. I had no option but to counter it and lodge a complaint with the police,” he said.A few days ago, rumours about famous Ahuja Lassi shop, near Hindu College, were spread which were later found to be fake. They clarified this on social media. Similarly, rumours about the owner of a famous eatery joint in Green Avenue were also spread on social media.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh said the city police have already warned people against spreading rumours. “Spreading rumours and that too during such challenging times due to the pandemic is a criminal offence. Our IT teams are keeping an eye on different social platforms and those behind these rumours would be taken to task. Such rumours are posing a big challenge to the police.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/covid-19-rumours-spreading-thick-fast-in-amritsar-91918
30-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Railway staff gear up to handle passengers from June 1||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29The staff members at the local railway station are gearing to handle the resumption of trains from June 1.The Railways released guidelines to handle passengers in the wake of novel coronavirus pandemic.It is mandatory to conduct thermal screening of all boarding passengers. A room will be kept for keeping symptomatic passengers detected during scanning.All up (arriving) trains will be handled at Platform No. 1 and all down (departing) trains will be handled at Platform No.2, 3, 4 and 5.The entry of passengers to Platform No.2, 3, 4 and 5 will be from three locations, including, the entry gates near food plaza, near Parcel office and circulating area of the second entry side.Exit of passengers from Platform No. 1 will be from the main porch, all other entry and exit points shall be closed except entry for parcel office, Platform No. 6 and 7 shall be kept for handling Shramik special trains.Bulk SMSes will be sent to those passengers with confirmed tickets who will only be permitted to travel. Passengers in the waiting list should not come to the station, as they would not be permitted to travel under any circumstances.A ‘yellow’ strip painted at all platforms will be available to guide outgoing passengers so that they remain behind this strip to facilitate incoming passengers to detrain first.Circles/ squares have been painted on the platform to guide passengers to maintain social distancing at the platform while entering.Passengers have been asked to keep away from the yellow strip to maintain social distance at the platform and in train, to allow de-boarding of passengers first and not rush, as the train will be allowed to move only after boarding of all passengers is complete. People have to wear a face mask at the station and during their journey and should download the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app.Vivek Kumar, Divisional Railway Manager, Ferozepur Division, said these guidelines were received from the Minister of Railways.All efforts were directed to implement these to ensure safety and well-being of passengers and the staff.No-parking of vehicle except drop off and pick up of passengers will be permitted. Hands-free sanitiser dispensers with sufficient sanitiser will be provided at the entry and exit gates of the station. Sanitisation of passenger area will be carried out after the departure of each train.Besides, the Railways has been running Shramik special trains on a daily basis throughout the country to ensure that migrants can travel back to their homes.He said it was observed that some people who are availing this service have pre-existing medical conditions, which aggravates the risk they face during the Covid-19 pandemic. A few unfortunate cases of deaths related to pre-existing medical conditions while travelling have been reported.So, to protect vulnerable persons from Covid-19, in line with the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Railways has made an appeal to persons with co-morbidities (for example hypertension, diabetes, cardio-vascular diseases, cancer, immune deficiency conditions), pregnant women, children below the age of 10 years and persons above 65 years of age to avoid travel by rail, except when it is essential.In case of any distress or emergency, they should not hesitate to call out the Railways at helpline numbers 138 and 139.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/railway-staff-gear-up-to-handle-passengers-from-june-1-91919
30-05-2020||Amritsar||NGO sanitises Vallah market||Tubewells to meet water shortageAmritsar: The Municipal Corporation (MC) will instal 42 tubewells to meet the requirement of potable water in the city. With the raise in the temperature, residents have been facing a shortage of water in several areas. Officials said the MC’s General house has approved the installation of tubewells, but the work got delayed due to the lockdown. Mahesh Khanna, chairman, Water Supply and Sewerage Sub-committee, said work orders for 18 tubewells have been allotted to firms, while tenders have been floated for 24 more tubewells. Besides, desilting of sewer lines in the north constituency would be initiated soon. The MC will spend Rs80 lakh for the desilting of the sewer lines. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ngo-sanitises-vallah-market-91920
30-05-2020||---||Her immediate aim is to become financially independent||Amritsar, May 29A journalism student from BBKDAV, Gurleen Kaur (24), is an aspiring theatre artiste, who wants to make a career in doing what she loves. Of course, that was before the Covid-19 pandemic.Now, while preparing for her last semester examinations, which are to be held in July, Gurleen has been enriching her knowledge about socially relevant issues.“I was actively doing theatre with several known theatre groups and was working on a production, which was supposed to be staged at theatre festivals. It got cancelled due to the Covid-19 lockdown. Besides, my last semester of MA in Mass Communication and Journalism has been delayed due to the postponement of examinations. I was planning to apply for full-time courses in theatre in prominent colleges, which I think I will have to wait for now,” she said.Gurleen has been spending her time in the lockdown reading classic plays and watching noted documentaries. “It will help me with my course preparation as well,” she said.While her priority remains theatre, she has a slight change in plans for now. “I have been sending my CV to various media organisations as I am willing to work in the media industry after my examinations. It is important for me to make a living if I need to pursue my dream of doing theatre as aftermaths of Covid-19 will directly impact the theatre industry. It will take a long time for theatre to revive,” she added.She spends most of her time studying for her examinations and doing meditation. “Mediation helps me ease the stress and think clearly. I want to move to a bigger city for a job and maybe in the time to come, theatre activities will resume normally. My immediate goal is to become financially independent.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/her-immediate-aim-is-to-become-financially-independent-91921
30-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Their jalebis fail to draw customers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29The lockdown has literally stolen the “sweetness” of jalebis, gulab jamun and other desi ghee ‘mithais’ sold at Sharma Sweet Shop near BBK DAV College.Prior to the Covid-induced curfew, the shop would witness a huge rush, and its famous ‘jalebis’ and ‘gulab jamuns’ would be sold out in no time.Shop owner Ramesh Kumar said they had reopened, but the sale was minimal. “ I along with five of my workers prepare only a few kg of both sweets every day. But there are only a few buyers,” he rued.“Earlier, we used to prepare sweets in quintals and almost all shelves would be empty by the evening. Now, we are preparing only two items and there are no buyers for these as well. People are afraid of eating outside food. They fear of getting infected. The sale is unlikely to pick up pace for another couple of months,” said Ramesh.Three families are dependent on this small shop for their livelihood. “Generally, we used to start work in the evening and people would buy jalebis and gulab jamuns between 7 pm and 11 pm. The administration has now allowed shops to reopen only on rotation basis and we have to wind up by 6 pm. Timing is not suitable for us. People take sweets only after dinner. We can’t make any other sweet as it can’t stay fresh for long. We are back to work, but not earning anything”, he said.Seven persons from the Sharma family work at the shop. All of them sit idle now.“When the curfew was lifted, people showed enthusiasm and bought sweets only on the first two days. When there was again a spurt in Covid cases, people started avoiding eating outside. We sold only two kg of jalebis on Thursday. The business will resume only after the government allowed us to operate till late in the evening”, said Ramesh Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/their-jalebis-fail-to-draw-customers-91922
30-05-2020||Amritsar||Depot holder among 2 held for trying to sell govt wheat||A depot holder was among two persons nabbed by the police for allegedly attempting to sell off around 15 quintals of government wheat in the city. They were intercepted by local residents, who informed the police and the district Food and Civil Supplies Department.Those arrested are Kundan Singh of Talwandi Dasunda Singh village and Jagjit Singh of Maga Sarai village.Aarti Sharma of Thathiara Mohalla in Batala, said Kundan Singh was a depot holder at Talwandi Dasunda Singh village. She said over 92 quintals of government wheat was allotted to the depot for distributing to poor people. However, the accused loaded around 15 quintals of wheat in a vehicle and tried to sell it to some persons in the city.But, people got a wind of it and they intercepted him with the vehicle. The Police and the district Food and Civil Supplies Department officials were informed. Aarti Sharma, an official of the Food & Civil Supplies Department, also reached the spot and recovered nearly 15 quintals of wheat. A case was registered and both of them arrested. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/depot-holder-among-2-held-for-trying-to-sell-govt-wheat-91923
30-05-2020||---||‘Drug addict’ held for murder attempt||Amritsar, May 29A girl was shot at by three persons posing as CIA staff members when she tried to save her brother here on Wednesday evening. The accused were trying to kidnap her brother identified as Rana.She sustained a bullet injury in her right leg and was admitted to hospital for treatment. The police on Friday arrested one of the suspects, identified as Vikramjit Singh, alias Prince, alias Ganja, of Waryam Singh Colony, while his two accomplices were yet to be arrested. Gurjit Singh, investigating officer, said the accused were drug addict and wanted to abduct Rana for blackmailing and extorting money from his family.Kulwant Singh, father of the victim, stated to the police that on Wednesday evening he along with his son Amandeep Singh, alias Rana, was standing outside their house, three persons with covered faces came on a bike and asked for Rana. They said they were from the CIA staff. They said his sister Balwinder Kaur, alias Bindu, was nabbed by the police in a drug case and she had named Rana as her accomplice.When he refuted the charges, they beat him on gun point and took towards railway line in the Mustafabad area. He said in the meanwhile, Bindu also came to the spot and on seeing her they were clear that the accused planned to kidnap his son. He said he tried to rescue his son while Bindu also intervened. He said when people started gathering, the accused started firing in the air. Bindu caught one of them who later shot her on the leg and fled.Gurjit Singh said a case under Sections 307, 336, 34 of the IPC and 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act had been registered against the suspects. While Vikramjit was nabbed, the police had identified his two accomplices. He said raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-addict-held-for-murder-attempt-91935
30-05-2020||Our Correspondent||2,040 bottles of English wine seized, 3 held||Tarn Taran, May 29In the drive against the smuggling of illegal wine, the district police seized 172 cases of English wine from two different places here on Thursday.The police said three persons were arrested with 170 cases (2,040 bottles) of English wine, meant to be sold in other neighbouring states, at Khara village here. The police said the wine was kept in a canter (MH-04, F-7148).Those arrested have been identified as Dilbag Singh, Sunil Kumar of Amritsar and Randhir Singh of Khawaspur (Tarn Taran). The accused had brought the wine from other states to be sold in the area at high rates.The police recovered two cases (24 bottles) of wine from the residence of Manjit Singh of Guru Teg Bahadur Nagar. The police said the accused, who managed to flee the spot, was selling the wine from his home illegally.Cases under Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act had been registered against the accused, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-040-bottles-of-english-wine-seized-3-held-91953
30-05-2020||---||Woman injured in purse snatching bid||Amritsar, May 29A woman sustained grievous injuries when two unknown bike-borne persons tried to snatch her purse. The victim, identified as Prabhjot Kaur (30), was riding pillion to her husband Charanjit Singh. Though the incident occurred on May 21, a complaint was lodged with the police on Thursday.Charanjit Singh, a resident of Saghna Havelian village, said he along with his wife was going towards Tangra and reached near Mallian village when two youth on motorcycle tried to snatch her purse. She fell down from the bike and was dragged to some distance. She sustained serious injuries, but did not leave the purse. The accused fled away from the spot and he took his wife to the hospital for treatment.Harjinder Singh, investigating officer, said the victim sustained serious head injury and she was in the hospital. She was unconscious and the family was in the hospital for her treatment therefore could not lodge complaint at that time.He said now a case under Section 379-B of the IPC had been registered in this regard. He said certain history-sheeters were taken into custody for interrogation to find the clues about the suspects. However, there was no breakthrough in the case till now.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/woman-injured-in-purse-snatching-bid-91954
30-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||As miseries mount, migrants stage protest||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 29Migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar blocked the Majitha-Verka bypass road here on Friday morning. The migrants said most of them were not able to pay the rent of their accommodations and take food. The landlords were asking them to pay the rent but they had nothing to pay. Some of the protesters claimed that they had no shelter as landlords got the rooms vacated from them.A number of migrants said they were harassed by the authorities during the registration process before allowing them to board the train to their native places.Pulkit, a migrant worker, said, “On Thursday, authorities conducted medical screening of migrants. We boarded a bus for the railway station. On the last minute, they were told that the train had been cancelled. There is no work here. The landlord got the room vacated. I want to go back home.”Ramraj, another migrant, said, “I have been visiting here for the last four days but no train ply on these days. I left the room four days ago in the hope that I would get a train. Yesterday, the officials asked to stay in the ashram. Now I am staying with a friend.”Mahesh Verma, an activist, said, “There is more than 2 lakh population of migrants in the city. Around 60,000 persons had registered to travel to home states. The administration has been sending 1,200 persons daily. It would take three months to arrange trains for all. How they will pay rents and take food. The government is not providing anything.”Even the administration arranged the accommodation for migrants at gurdwaras and Radha Soami Satsang Beas centres.When contacted Rajat Oberoi, nodal officer for Shramik express trains, said, “More than 35,000 migrants had returned home till date. Around 60,000 migrants had registered for the journey, but after the relaxation in the lockdown now they had resumed work and were not willing to return. We need 1,200 persons for any destination to run trains. We are not getting a sufficient number of migrants to run train.”The official refuted the allegations of migrant leaders that the administration was harassing them. “We are in touch with all associations of migrants and all are satisfied with the services of the administration. Some self-style leaders gathered handful persons and demonstrated. Actually, there were only 80 persons who want to go to Chhattisgarh. We cannot arrange train for 80 persons, so contact other districts and labour working at brick-kilns. The train for Chhattisgarh would be arranged soon,” added Oberoi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-miseries-mount-migrants-stage-protest-91955
30-05-2020||---||Review decision to close gurdwaras, says Majithia||Amritsar, May 29SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia has urged the authorities to reconsider the decision to shut to devotees the gurdwaras, including the Golden Temple, in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic.He was talking to mediapersons after coming out of the Golden Temple where, he along with his supporters, donated 800 quintal of wheat for the Guru Ram Das Langar Hall here on Friday.He said the entire sangat and SAD workers of Majithia came forward to contribute in shape of “dasvand” (10 per cent of one’s income). He said Guru Sahib was giving them innumerable happiness and they came to share some of them.He said the holiest shrine of Sikhs must be opened to public as when no medicine worked during illness, all hopes rested on God. Then why to keep His abode closed. He wondered when markets and even liquor vends were opened what was the need to shut the temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/review-decision-to-close-gurdwaras-says-majithia-91956
30-05-2020||Amritsar||SAD demands removal of PSCAD managing director||The SAD On Friday demanded the removal of Managing Director of Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank (PSCAD), who has allegedly been given a second extension on this coveted post during the lockdown period at the behest of a cabinet minister.In a statement here, former chief parliamentary secretary Virsa Singh Valtoha said it was shocking that the minister had not only violated the standard procedure while making this appointment, but has also given a wrong justification for his arbitrary decision.Demanding immediate removal of the newly appointed MD, Valtoha said that the PSCAD Bank catered to the financial needs of farmers and it should be run in a professional manner.“The minister deliberately chose the lockdown period to appoint his close-aide as MD of the PSCAD Bank and issued the circular three days in advance in this regard without calling the meeting of board of directors. As per norms, the agenda for this appointment has to be decided 15 days in advance. But all these norms were thrown to the wind,” he said. The SAD leader said even the argument stated for giving second extension to the person after retirement was based on fabricated facts. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-demands-removal-of-pscad-managing-director-91957
30-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||Challans being issued against rules?||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 29In a classic case of a senior officer proposing and his subordinate disposing, notwithstanding Gurdaspur SSP Swarandeep Singh’s orders to junior officials of not challaning single occupants of cars who are not wearing masks, cops are still issuing challans.Ever since the restrictions were eased during the ongoing lockdown, there have been complaints that cops on duty at ‘nakas’ issue challans to single occupants of cars “for violating government orders of not covering their faces with masks while driving.”DC Mohammad Ishfaq, too, admitted that “single occupants not wearing masks are not liable to be prosecuted.” However, the cops claim that they have orders from the top which run contrary to the claims of the DC and the SSP. Even the Civil Surgeon, Dr Kishen Chand, stands by what the DC and the SSP say. “Masks are mandatory in public places and a car is not deemed to be a public place,” he said. “We follow orders from our seniors,” said a cop. However, he could not explain who these senior officers were and when such orders were passed. On May 28, ASI Gurcharan Singh was supervising a checkpost at Ravi Dass Chowk. A person, who was driving a vehicle in which nobody else was present, claimed that he was stopped and asked to come out and explain why he was not wearing a mask. He was told to shell out Rs 200. He immediately called up the SSP who, in turn, asked the officer to let him go without challaning. When contacted, the SSP said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/challans-being-issued-against-rules-91958
30-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Loans from banks will not help small industries in tough times’||THE unprecedented global health crisis has jeopardised the country's economy and has impacted every individual. Many industrial units are staring at a bleak future while hoping for a good economic package from the government for their survival in these critical times. Rajiv Sharma, owner of Ashoka Rolling Works, is no different. Established by his father in 1972, the firm is a small industrial unit of wire drawer. In an interview with PK Jaiswar, he talks about the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the business in the past two months. Excerpts…This is definitely a challenge for the small and medium scale industry. However, the government has asked banks to give loans generously, albeit after fulfilling all conditions. This is not going to help small industries. It appears that the Centre or the state governments are not pro-MSMEs.Rajiv Sharma, owner of Ashoka Rolling WorksHow has the lockdown impacted your business?No doubt, the lockdown has dented every single industry everywhere. My firm deals in iron wire drawer and raw material comes from outside Punjab while the finished product is also exported out of the state. As the entire country is under lockdown, we are facing problems in getting raw material and later, supplying the finished product. At present, we are operating with 50 per cent strength. It has become difficult for us to meet the expenses. We are like in a Catch-22 situation right now. We don't know how to survive in this period.Do you expect your business will resume with full capacity in the near future?Frankly speaking, we don't expect the situation to improve in the near future. It would take at least one year to get back on track, if we survive it. Labourers have returned to their native places after getting panicky in the current scenario when they had no cash.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?We have been paying our workers and also making all-out efforts to ensure that they get essential items, including dry ration. I still believe that no one will sleep hungry in the holy city. I always ask my workers to share their problems with me. But as I said earlier, survival is becoming harder and harder.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?This is definitely a challenge for the small and medium-scale industry. However, thegovernment has asked banks to give loans generously, albeit after fulfilling all conditions. This is not going to help small industries. It appears that the Centre or the state government is not pro-MSMEs.What are your expectations from the government?A recession has been going to continue for a longer period. The government should waive or reduce the GST to half to a certain period to push the economy. It should also waive power bills further. The government should have financially helped the medium and small industry to stay alive. Though the government offered loans through banks, it is after all a loan.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/loans-from-banks-will-not-help-small-industries-in-tough-times-91757
30-05-2020||Amritsar||Drones: Prime suspect held in Amritsar||In a major breakthrough, the Amritsar rural police arrested Ajaypal Singh, the prime suspect and alleged kingpin of a module involved in cross-border smuggling busted in January this year.He had been absconding since then and his arrest was likely to shed light on the entire nexus, Senior Superintendent of Police (Amritsar rural) Vikram Jeet Duggal said here today. The police have arrested 10 persons in the case till now. The SSP said names of certain Pakistan-based smugglers had come to light during the investigations carried out so far.He said the module was active for the past several months before it was busted. The police had recovered two heavy-duty drones with a remote, two wireless sets, Rs6.24-lakh drug money and a car from their possession. The SSP said a case had been registered against Dilbagh Singh, alias Bagha, of Khasa, for providing shelter to Ajaypal. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drones-prime-suspect-held-in-amritsar-91815
