30-03-2020||What steps can be taken to prevent spread of virus?||Joint efforts can help mitigate Covid||Implement social distancing properlyThe decision of the government to impose curfew in the state at a time when there were only a few Covid-19 cases is laudable. But it is unfortunate that some people continue to defy the curfew orders by unnecessarily commuting on roads. Moreover, they are defeating the social distancing concept by gathering in groups near milk and vegetable delivery vehicles, casually touching packets of essential items while deciding which one to buy, visiting their neighbours and relatives and nearby parks for yoga and exercise. Children in neighbourhood continue to play with each other and people continue to spread rumours on social media. The authorities must implement the curfew and social distancing stringency at the grassroots level. The importance of social distancing can be highlighted by the fact that one person was responsible for 70 per cent of the coronavirus cases in the state. We can win this pandemic war and save lives by isolating ourselves and taking social distancing and curfew seriously.Simran SidhuQUESTION Ensure people don't face hardshipsThroughout the country, hospitals and medical staff are working round the clock to check the spread of Covid-19. The state is no exception. The Chief Minister is personally supervising the relief operations. The district administration is geared up to tackle the situation. The authorities claim to have made adequate arrangements for providing essential items such as milk, curd, cheese, vegetables, fruits, dry ration and medicines on the doorsteps of residents. NGOs and religious bodies are extending a helping hand to the government in this time of crisis. But the daily wagers and people living the below poverty line are the worst-hit. The state government has announced financial help for the registered labourers and workers, but nothing has been announced for the benefit of casual, unregistered and unorganised labourers. These people also need immediate help. General public is facing a lot of difficulties in getting essential items. The situation is even worse in villages and small towns around Bathinda. Necessary steps must be taken immediately to ensure that the people stranded inside their houses due to curfew do not face any hardship. The government machinery and general public must cooperate with each other during this crucial period. Most importantly, the administration must ensure that people are not exploited and fleeced by shopkeepers by creating artificial scarcity of essential items. The government must handle hoarders strictly.Pursharth JoshiKeep close tab on violators of curfew'Either we swim together or we sink together'. Keeping this philosophy on mind, each one of us should contribute our bit towards fighting the coronavirus by just staying at home. We, as individuals, should understand the intensity and direness of this situation we are in. The government and the district administration are doing good to contain the spread of the disease, but that is not enough. We should have been able to contain the spread at stage 2 by imposing strict lockdown or even curfew. But now as we have already moved to stage 3 and statistics have been increasing, following exactly the pattern of other affected countries like Italy and Spain, we can foresee an unwanted and irreversible situation in the future. Hence, stop when we still can. The government should keep a close eye on violators followed by a severe punishment. It should also focus more on neutralising panic created by fake news and rumours. Besides, society should act wisely and by no means should take it lightly. People should avoid going out in the name of buying essentials. #Stay Home #Stay Safe.Amit KesarwaniNeed to follow govt advisory strictlyThe Centre, state government, district administration and NGOs are making efforts on a war footing to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Unfortunately, the world is yet to find a vaccine for its treatment. We should keep on mind that unusual times need unusual efforts. In this hapless situation, the cooperation of people with the administration and the health authorities is a must. Residents should follow the government advisory on this. Moreover, who have been asked to isolate themselves, they must remain indoors. They must keep some distance from other family members as well. Though the curfew imposed by the state government as a precautionary measure is causing some inconvenience to people, people must extend their full support to the government, especially the Health Department, in its efforts to check the spread of Covid. The district administration needs to ensure that public awareness campaigns, as claimed by it, are carried out at the grassroots level. These should not remain on papers only. In nutshell, joint efforts of public, administration and health authorities can help mitigate the effects of Covid-19 pandemic.Prof NK GosainSuggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to btitribune@gmail.com or post it to Bathinda Tribune, SCF-117, Opposite Harchand Cinema, Goniana Road, Bathinda, by April 5.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/joint-efforts-can-help-mitigate-covid-63112
30-03-2020|| ||2 booked for opening fire at Chananke village||Amritsar, March 29 Even as the curfew restrictions are imposed all over Amritsar, several people do not dither from taking law in their hands. Two days after a firing incident was reported in Kale village that left two injured, another firing incident was reported at Chananke village, falling under Mehta police station, on late Saturday evening.  Though no one was injured in the incident, the police said two persons, indulged in firing over some monetary dispute, were booked. No arrest has been made so far.  Those booked have been identified as Gurwinder Singh and Harpreet Singh, both residents of the same village. Gurpreet Singh, the complainant, alleged that he had some monetary dispute with the accused. He said at 8 pm, the accused engaged in a verbal duel with his wife Baljit Kaur on Saturday. Villagers intervened and the matter was settled. However, the accused came back and fired two gun shots at the entrance gate and fled after threatening them of dire consequences.  The police said a case under Sections 336, 506 and 34 of the IPC and 25, 27, 54, 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the duo. Raids were on to nab them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-booked-for-opening-fire-at-chananke-village-63110
30-03-2020||Our Correspondent||Drainage Dept retiree running from pillar to post for gratuity||Tarn Taran, March 29Swinder Singh, a resident of Plasaur village here, has been running from pillar to post to get the remaining amount of his gratuity. Swinder (60), who retired as an operator from the State Drainage Department in January 2019, said after his retirement, the Accountant-General (AG), Punjab, had sanctioned an amount of Rs7.11 lakh as his gratuity in March last year. Besides, a letter in this regard was also sent to the District Treasury Officer. He said of the total amount, only Rs4.11 lakh was deposited in his bank account. He said he had been struggling to know about the rest of the amount. He has an account in the Sarhali road branch of the State Bank of India. He said when he contacted the bank authorities, they asked him to approach the District Treasury Office. Major Singh from the District Treasury Office said the letter received from the AG office was sent to the bank. Swinder, along with former sarpanch of his village Gurbhej Singh, visited the bank on a number of times to know about Rs3 lakh, but to no avail. When contacted, Nidi Aggarwal, branch manager of the bank, asked him to meet the bank accountant to collect information regarding the missing amount. But, the accountant, without listening anything, asked to write a letter to the bank in this regard.Gurbhej appealed to the district administration to look into the matter and take action against officials of the bank for harassing Swinder.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drainage-dept-retiree-running-from-pillar-to-post-for-gratuity-63109
30-03-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Nationwide lockdown spells doom for migrants||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 29Lakhs of migrants working in different factories as labourers, semi-skilled and skilled artisans are a harried lot.Reason: The nationwide lockdown has spelled disaster for them as they are out of work.Vijay Kumar, an artisan, working at a yarn unit, said they were shocked at the unexpectable turn of events, as they were paid wages on meter basis and not given any welfare funds. He said they do not expect their factory owners to pay them salaries, as they were already running units with meagre sources. He said he would be more than happy to return to his native place in Bihar’s Saharsa.Hari Ram, a power loom worker, said his continuous requests to his house owner to not charge rent for a month were turned down. His Rs800 per month goes to foot rent at Haripura locality.He said area grocer refused to give ration on credit and insisted on paying the previous balance. He said the entire system had been upset for workers in general and migrants in particular, adding that they had no alternative but to go back to their native places.Around 25 migrant workers, working in canteens of medical college, also wanted to return to their native villages.Dr JP Singh of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad appealed to the landlords not to charge rent for at least a month from migrants and factory owners should pay them a month of their salaries in advance.He said the government should release subsidised ration such as grains from its stores to ESI card holders to mitigate suffering of workers and retain them here. He said over 70 per cent workforce in factories come from other states. Their migration will only lead to chaos in manufacturing sector, which is already experiencing shortfall of skilled artisans.Amarjit Singh Asal, a Left leader, said all kinds of workers, including, domestic help, were undergoing a hard time in their lives. He said the government and factory owners must come forward and extend a helping hand.Kamal Dalmia, chairman of Focal Point Industries’ Association, said: “Factory owners are ready to share all responsibilities. However, the government is dithering on all its promises. No relaxation in paying power tariffs has been given and government did not include us in any kind of package.”He said industries were already reeling under crisis and staring at another disastrous situation, as many units may not be in a position to revive after April 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nationwide-lockdown-spells-doom-for-migrants-63108
30-03-2020||---||Fatehgarh Shukarchak volunteers win DC’s praise||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 29The district administration has lauded the role of a group of youngsters from Fatehgarh Shukarchak for taking care of poor people who are in need of essential items in their village. The volunteers, after identifying 400 poor families in the village, collected money from well-to-do families and bought groceries. Each identified household was provided 15-kg grocery items, which included flour, pulses, sugar, tea and oil among other things. The youngsters also sprayed hypochlorite solution using agricultural spraying machines to sanitise the entire village.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, while lauding the role of the youth, said he visited the village to meet and encourage them when he came to know about their efforts. He said the youth from other villages, too, would be inspired by their efforts. He said the administration would provide all help to such volunteers, who are selflessly helping humanity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fatehgarh-shukarchak-volunteers-win-dcs-praise-63105
30-03-2020||---||SGPC arranges buses  for stranded J&K tourists||Amritsar, March 29Under the initiative by the SGPC to send back home outstation tourists who got stranded due to curfew restrictions, around 60 tourists belonging to Jammu and Kashmir returned through special buses on Sunday.SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said two buses left for J and K today. “Our buses would drop them at Jammu only. However, those from Kashmir valley would make their own arrangement from there. The passengers were made to sit at a distance from each other as per the directions of the health department. Besides, the buses were also sanitised and the passengers too were provided with hand sanitisers”, he said.Earlier, the SGPC had sent tourists to Delhi and Haryana in five buses. Similarly, four buses were flagged off for Shahjanahpur (UP) and Bathinda too. The buses also ferried the stranded tourists at Delhi for various parts of Punjab.At present, various tourists from Tata Nagar (Gujarat), Mumbai and Bihar too were accommodated in various inns of the SGPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sgpc-arranges-buses-for-stranded-jk-tourists-63104
30-03-2020||---||Karyana assn warns against overcharging||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 29The Karyana Traders’ Association has warned shopkeepers against overcharging any commodity. The association has also urged residents not to store food items.Harjipreet Singh Kang, president, Karyana Traders’ Association, said after meeting the Baba Bakala SDM, curfew passes were issued to shopkeepers at Raya, Beas, Baba Bakala, Buttar, Dhardio, Sathiala, Butala and Khilchian.The shopkeepers are now allowed to open their shops from 2 pm to 6 pm. Residents will have to call up the designated shopkeepers and will get essential items on their doorstep.“We should contribute society by providing food to the masses at normal prices. It will be the best service to the nation. We also urged residents not to panic in this situation and they must not store food. The country has enough stock,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/karyana-assn-warns-against-overcharging-63103
30-03-2020||---||200 prisoners released on 40-day parole in two days||Amritsar, March 29 Around 200 prisoners lodged in Amritsar Central Jail were sent on 40-day parole in view of the Covid-19 threat in the past two days. Jail Superintendent Arshdeep Singh Gill said the process was still on and more inmates would be released in the next few days.While giving details, he pointed out that as per the criteria laid for their release, no inmate with an imprisonment of more than seven years was released.  Besides, the prisoners lodged under the charges of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, sexual harassment, rape, acid attacks, NDPS Act with more than three years of imprisonment and inmates lodged under unlawful activities could not avail this parole. Gill said prisoners who were imprisoned for less than 10 years and were aged over 65 years, were also released on 40-day parole.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/200-prisoners-released-on-40-day-parole-in-two-days-63101
30-03-2020||Gurbaxpuri---||Daily wagers await relief||Tarn Taran, March 29  The condition of a large number of people who have gone jobless owing to the lockdown has turned critical in the area. Reason: Daily wagers, who used to make their both ends meet with meagre income, are facing a tough time to even meet their daily needs.  Bagichi (45), a resident of Jodhpur, was seen collecting vegetables and some other eatables from garbage on Friday at a market in Tarn Taran. He said the family members were starving for the last three days and he came to the town to make arrangements for food.  Beero, Sukho, Narinder Kaur and other women from Doburji village came out of their homes to get work on Sunday. These women went to Kakka Kandiala and Tharu villages to seek farm labour for digging potatoes, but farmers denied them work saying that since there was no movement in the market, they would not be able to sell their produce. A few women collected wood from roadside trees to prepare food, as they were not in a condition to purchase an LPG cylinder even. They said no relief has reached them so far, adding that the panchayat was working partially. As a result, most of the actual needy families were denied facilities. Local SDM Rajnish Arora said the relief was being sent to residents.        Residents of Jaura village raised slogans against village elders for their failure to provide two-square meal to the poor of the village. The labour class of Chutala village, too, lodged protest against the administration for not providing them essential commodities.  The administration has made arrangements to inform residents about the mobile number of the officials in case of need, but in many cases, officials were not attending calls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/daily-wagers-await-relief-63100
30-03-2020||---||DC: No restriction on picking, distribution of newspapers||Amritsar, March 29  Newspaper vendors and hawkers are finding it difficult to reach picking points in some of the areas due to curfew restrictions despite Deputy Commissioner’s orders of relaxation.  The district administration had allowed the movement of vendors from 6 am to 9 am on the first day of imposition of curfew.  Vendors claimed that the cops on duty don’t allow them to reach at picking points. In case they manage to reach at a picking point, the police do not allow the distribution of papers in various areas of the city.  Ravi, a newspaper hawker, said: “It seems the cops are not aware of the district administration’s directions. Sometimes they do allow us to go to picking points, but most of the time they deny. They suggest some other way to cross the road.” Vendors claimed that three hours were not sufficient to distribute all copies, especially in the outskirts. “The administration should extend the time limit from 3 hours to 5 hours. We need time for the collection of payment too,” said Harjinder Singh, another vendor.  Deputy Commissioner Shivdullar Singh said: “There is no restriction on the distribution of newspapers. I have directed the police to not stop newspaper hawkers at any point during the curfew.” The district administration officials said newspapers were the only authentic source of news. They said it should reach every household so that people can verify news or guard against rumours received through social media applications.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dc-no-restriction-on-picking-distribution-of-newspapers-63099
30-03-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Admn starts home delivery through Swiggy, Zomato||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, March 29Amid the ongoing lockdown due to coronavirus threat, the administration has roped in online delivery companies such as Swiggy and Zomato to deliver grocery items on the doorsteps of residents.Earlier, the administration had allowed kiryana stores to deliver grocery to homes, but in the absence of any set mechanism with them, the administration sought help from companies which already have an experience of home delivery.The administration has also revised the list of shopkeepers, whose numbers were earlier shared with the public for home delivery of grocery, vegetables and fruits.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said: “People had complained that most of these numbers were either not answering calls or were switched off. The list has been revised and a new list will be shared with the public.”The administration has also allowed brands as Easyday, Reliance Fresh and Big Bazaar to deliver essential items to customers at their homes. Over the counter purchase at these stores is not allowed. The Deputy Commissioner has also warned shopkeepers against overpricing and stated that strict action would be taken if someone was found doing so.Veggie prices go northMeanwhile, the prices of vegetables in the city are soaring with tomatoes priced at Rs100 per kilo, onions at Rs65-70 per kilo and green chillies costing Rs200 per kg. The green chillies along with coriander leaves were usually offered complementary to customers on the purchase of veggies.The administration said the prices would go down soon, as the administration had allowed operations at Sabzi Mandi daily, which was closed during the initial days of the lockdown.To cater to the financial needs of residents, a total of 103 bank branches in the district operated today. Additionally, around 200 ATMs were stocked with currency, the officials in the administration said. Meanwhile, in relaxation to brick kilns, the district administration has allowed them to operate after getting permission from the District Food and Civil Supplies Controller.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-starts-home-delivery-through-swiggy-zomato-63098
