30-12-2020||Sheetal||Amandeep Sidhu talks about her experience of shooting in Amritsar||Zee TV is coming up with a new show Teri Meri Ek Jindri and to shoot for its initial schedule, the cast is in Amritsar. Starring Adhvik Mahajan and Amandeep Sidhu in the lead roles, it is produced by Prateek Sharma under the banner of LSD Films.If Jalandhar-born Adhvik, last seen in Divya Drishti, was glad to be in his home state, then Amandeep is happy to be in Amritsar as she has many childhood memories associated with the place. She says, “Whenever we had our vacation, we would visit our aunt (bua ji) in Amritsar and spend our entire holiday here. So, in other words, it was customary to visit the Golden Temple twice a year to offer our prayers. ”Talking about her role, Amandeep says, “Both Mahi, my character, and I are family-oriented. I always celebrate my birthday with my parents rather than friends. Mahi too loves her family. Both of us believe in being independent as well.” Ask about her dream role and she doesn’t have to think much for she wishes to play a cop someday.Shooting in the cold weather of Punjab is altogether a different experience for her. Amandeep explains, “It was close to three or four degrees at 6 in the morning when we were shooting. It was difficult because we were shivering, and the body was numb. At the same time, it was fun because it’s for the first time I have shot in such a cold weather. I will cherish this for life. And also, I had guilt-free binge of all the local delicacies such as chole kulche stuffed with aloo, gobhi, desi ghee ki jalebi and golgappe during my shoot days.”A rule at Amandeep’s house requires everyone to come together and celebrate New Year as a family, no matter what. She says, “It has been going on for years. We all are in Delhi before the year ends and celebrate with home-cooked food.”And what are her expectations from 2021? “Well, I just want the pandemic to end. And then everything will be normal. From 2020, one thing that we have learnt is to plan less, for God has a different plan.”In her co-actor Adhvik, Amandeep says, she has found her best friend. “Not just Adhvik, but the entire cast is like family. We had a lot of fun shooting together. Adhvik is really supportive and we can gossip, cry and share a lot of things with each other.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amandeep-sidhu-talks-about-her-experience-of-shooting-in-amritsar-191408
30-12-2020||---||On the back of determination||Manmeet Singh GillTribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 29At the age of 23 years in 1997, an unfortunate road accident left Dawinder Singh paraplegic. But instead of resigning to the fate, he has set himself up as a successful entrepreneur and a philanthropist. Presently, he is the vice-president of Spinal Cord Injury Association (SCIA) and working to fast track the rehabilitation process for the victims of spinal cord injuries.Dawinder was going to Delhi to attend to his copper trading business when the tragedy befell him. “I along with my younger brother had set up the business. It was all going good and annual turnover ran into several crores.” Dawinder was also pursuing his education in bachelors in agriculture sciences at the time.Having been bedridden for a year, Dawinder launched his e-commerce company in 1998. “Doctors suggested my family to provide me with a computer reasoning because it would help me kill time and keep depression at bay. The computer did open the doors of knowledge for me and I started learning again,” he said.Presently a successfully diamond and gold trader, Dawinder shared, “Financial independence is important for everyone but even more important for people with disabilities.” Talking about the rehabilitation process, he was confined to bed for five long years. “I did not use a wheelchair all those years.”Experts at the Indian spinal injury institute, however, advocated the use of one. And he did so, this sped up recovery. Now, his association promotes the use of wheelchair as soon as possible. “Our association also gifts the wheelchairs to the spinal injury patients. What I had learned in five years, we want patients to learn that from my experience,” he said, adding that the association was formed in 2010 and now has around 500 members. The association regularly organises events for its members.He also got himself a special driving licence to drive vehicles. “Disability is in the mind. One should strive to come out of the depression which seeps in after such injuries and adapt according to the situation,” he suggests. He has also been featured in a book by the Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment titled ‘Yes, We Can’ – which has 100 inspiring stories of differently-abled entrepreneurs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-the-back-of-determination-191245
30-12-2020||---||GNDU increases hostel seats in wake of offline examination||Amritsar, December 29Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has decided to increase the number of seats in the hostels for students in the wake of offline examinations. The varsity has been conducting offline examinations, but students, who live outside Amritsar, were facing problems due to the limited hostel allotment guidelines issued by the university due to Covid-19.Students had approached the authorities as they were facing difficulties in finding accommodation out of campus. “We received their request to consider possible solution to the accommodation problem for outstation students, especially girls. So, we have increased the number of seats to be allotted for hostel accommodation inside the campus. Seats in girls’ hostels have been increased by 200 and at boys’ hostel by 100. We will be looking to accommodate students safely, keeping in mind the one room per student rule,” said KS Kahlon, GNDU Registrar.The university has also set up examination centres at regional campuses in Jalandhar and Gurdaspur for students hailing from these areas.“Given the extreme cold weather conditions and looking at students’ convenience, we have asked them to sit for exams at these regional centres. Those students who got hostel accommodation in Amritsar will have to sit for examination at the GNDU main campus and students near Gurdaspur and Jalandhar, who couldn’t get a hostel accommodation, will have a choice either to choose their centre in Jalandhar or Gurdaspur campus or the main campus,” he said.The university has also made arrangement for hostel accommodation facility for students in Jalandhar and Gurdaspur centres with 30 seats each for boys and girls at Gurdaspur campus and 50 seats each at Jalandhar campus.Hostel accommodation criteria will be the same for both campus i.e. students who live far from Jalandhar and Gurdaspur will be preferred.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-increases-hostel-seats-in-wake-of-offline-examination-191246
30-12-2020||
||Youth protest outside Reliance petrol station, force its closure||Amritsar, December 29 A group of young farmers from the adjoining villages staged a protest outside the Reliance petrol station at Jandiala Guru and asked the operators to close the operations. The farmers stated that they would not allow it to function. The management succumbed to their demand after the agitators threatened that they would stage a continuous protest outside the pump.  The agitators are protesting against the petrol stations of Reliance group as the corporate houses are behind the controversial agri-related laws.  Meanwhile, a Nihang organisation has lent a support of Rs5 lakh in cash, 500 blankets and 200-kg dry fruits for the protesting farmers in Delhi. Budha Dal chief Baba Balbir Singh said the Centre is wrong in not accepting the demands of the general public and “the laws should be made for the benefit of general public than harassing them.” Baba Bidhi Chand Tarna Dal chief, too, sent a help of Rs1.25 lakh and Baba Gajan Singh has donated Rs51 thousand for the stir.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-protest-outside-reliance-petrol-station-force-its-closure-191247
30-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||137 people cross over to Pak||Tribune News ServiceAMRITSAR, DECEMBER 29Shahin, a Pakistan national, was elated to return to her country after getting critical treatment for her legs in India. Stuck for a long time due to the Covid-induced lockdown and post regulatory guidelines, she was among the 137 Pakistani and Indian nationals who crossed over to Pakistan from the Attari-Wagah Joint Check Post (JCP) on Tuesday.She along with many of her stranded compatriots heaved a sigh upon returning to their country. She recalled that she had come here in July 2018 for getting an advance treatment for both her painful legs. Wife of a retired Pakistan government official, Mohammad Yunus, she thanked Indian doctors for their proficiency in the medical field besides acknowledging India and Pakistan governments for facilitating travel of such patients. She, however, disliked the long period lived during the lockdown.An Indian national Muwasir Nabi said the pandemic and its restrictions hampered his education. He is pursuing BTech degree from Peshawar. He could not return to Pakistan for his classes as he was at his home in Jammu and Kashmir when the lockdown happened. Indian national Abida from Srinagar stated that her children were visiting their Nanu’s residence in Pakistan after three years. She is a votary of easy travel between the two countries by burying their bitter rivalries to forge peaceful and harmonious future for their nationals.The 137 Indian and Pakistani nationals who crossed over to Pakistan had come from different parts of the country, including Delhi (97), Madhya Pradesh (13), Gujarat (9), Jammu and Kashmir (7), Chattisgarh (4), Rajasthan (3), Maharashtra (2) and west Bengal (1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/137-people-cross-over-to-pak-191248
30-12-2020||
||AAP to contest all seats in next local body elections||Amritsar, December 29 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) would contest the next municipal corporation and municipal committee elections in Punjab on its election symbol, said party leaders during a press conference here on Tuesday. District president (Urban unit) Advocate Parminder Singh Sethi, Rural president Seema Sodhi, along with secretary Iqbal Singh Bhullar were present during the press conference.  Speaking on the occasion, Sethi said the AAP would contest all seats in the local body elections. He said  it would be an opportunity for the urban people to make a difference in the development and governance in cities.  Seema Sodhi said large amount of funds were being misappropriated in municipal corporations and municipal committees. “To prevent such corruption, it is imperative that an educated and competent person be elected as representative,” she said. Talking about the ongoing peasant agitation, she said the farmers of the country were agitating on the streets in the bitter cold. She also praised party leader and Lok Sabha member Bhagwant Mann for raising the voice of farmers in front of the Prime Minister in the Parliament’s Central Hall recently.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-to-contest-all-seats-in-next-local-body-elections-191249
30-12-2020||
||Amritsar Mayor opens development works||Amritsar, December 29 Mayor Karmjit Singh Rintu initiated installation of interlocking tiles, recarpeting of streets and other development works at New Preet Nagar in ward number 22 of the East Assembly constituency. The cost of this work is around Rs 50 lakh. Apart from this, installation of water pipeline also inaugurated to facilitate the area residents under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project. While addressing the gathering, the Mayor said that we were committed to provide basic amenities in every area of the city. He said that in continuation of the development initiatives in the city, the Interlocking tile and concrete recarpeting of streets have been initiated. The residents will get relief with these development works. Significantly, the road of this area links with Batala Road and GT Road Verka, which will facilitate the public. On the occasion, councillor Jaswinder Singh and several other prominent personalities of the area were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mayor-opens-development-works-191250
30-12-2020|| ||Three cops get Commendation Disk of DGP||Amritsar, December 29Days after the busting of drone module by the Amritsar rural police, the DGP Punjab police, Dinkar Gupta, has honoured the officials involved in the investigations. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, the police authorities said the ASP (under training) Abhimanyu Rana, Maninder Singh, SHO (under training) Gharinda police station and DSP (D) Gurinderpal Singh Nagra were honored with DGP Commendation Disk while SI Amandeep Singh, additional SHO Gharinda police staion, SI Binderjit Singh, in-charge CIA Amritsar rural and constable Pritpal Singh were promoted by one rank. The Amritsar rural police have busted a drone module on December 14 with the arrest of two persons— Lakhbir Singh and Bachittar Singh— who had procured a heavy duty drone from Delhi. On their disclosure, the police had arrested eight persons in the module including four jail inmates and two Delhi residents who were involved in illegal manufacturing and selling of drones. Four more drones were recovered from their premises in Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-cops-get-commendation-disk-of-dgp-191251
30-12-2020||---||Sathiala govt school to be renamed after martyr||Amritsar, December 29The Punjab Government has renamed seven government schools after freedom fighters and martyrs under its educational institutions renaming policy.Giving more information, Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla, on Tuesday, said that to keep the memory of freedom fighters, martyrs and eminent personalities alive and recognise their work in our minds, the state government had started this initiative.Under this, Government Senior Secondary School (Boys), Sathiala (Amritsar) will be named as Shaheed Inspector Raghbir Singh Government Senior Secondary School. Other schools in the state that would be renamed include two government schools of Bathinda; two schools of district Mansa; one each from Ghunnas (Barnala) and Gurdaspur.The notification in this regard would be issued shortly, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sathiala-govt-school-to-be-renamed-after-martyr-191254
30-12-2020|| ||Youth shot at in Ranjit Avenue||Amritsar, December 29Atul Kumar, alias Ghudda, a resident of New Golden Avenue was allegedly shot at by two motorcycle-borne persons here when he along with his friends was returning home after dining at eating joint in posh Ranjit Avenue locality. Though the incident occurred four days ago, a case was registered with the police on Monday.  He was rushed to a hospital by his friends because of gunshot injury. The incident occurred near Beant Park where he had stopped for answering nature’s call. He suffered bullet injury on his left leg. The police have registered a case of murder bid against unknown bike-borne persons and launched further investigations. The victim stated to the police that on December 24 he along with his friend Jobanjit Singh of Gate Hakima, Varinder Singh, alias Raghu, of Majitha road had gone to Ranjit Avenue C-block for having dinner. They were travelling on an SUV. He said at around 10.45 pm while returning home they stopped their car near Beant Park road turn for answering nature’s call. Suddenly, two persons came on a motorcycle and shot twice at him. He suffered bullet injury on his leg and therefore fell down. They fled from the spot after threatening of dire consequences for quarrelling with Vippy. He said his friends who were in the car immediately took him to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.According to the police, Atul said around 15 days ago he had a quarrel with Vippy of the Tehsilpura area and lodged a complaint with the police following that a case was registered and he was arrested. He said Vippy had come out on bail. Investigating Officer Sub-Inspector Iqbal Singh said that a case under Sections 307 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against unknown assailants. Further investigations were under progress, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-shot-at-in-ranjit-avenue-191256
30-12-2020||---||Unsafe: Public safety goes for a toss while executing road work||Amritsar, December 29Public safety is often ignored while executing public works, especially on roads. The stretch of outer circular road near Beri Gate, where the sides of the road have been dug up to lay underground pipes, is a case in point.These 4-ft deep trenches are a constant threat to the lives of commuters, as no arrangements to warn drivers have been made. In the name of safety, a few sand bags have been placed alongside the edge of the dug up area.With fog reducing visibility during the evening and early morning hours, sand bags are hardly visible to drivers. “The construction work here is going on for the past several weeks. Luckily, no accident has happened so far, but there must be ample safety measures every time such works are initiated,” said Gurnam Singh, an area resident.Nearby shopkeepers said as visibility during the fog is low, drivers cannot see trenches and it may result in an accident someday. Those having shops along the stretch also said their businesses, too, have been hit as the work was going on at a slow pace.City residents said the safety of commuters was of least concern for contractors executing the works, as they never bothered to barricade the area.“Ideally, a temporary fence should be put up at the place and ample warning signs should be displayed,” another resident Harjit Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unsafe-public-safety-goes-for-a-toss-while-executing-road-work-191257
30-12-2020||---||Two deaths, 20 more infections reported in Amritsar district||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 29The district reported two more Covid-19 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 551. The deceased have been identified as Sarbjeet Singh (69) of Budha Theh village near Baba Bakala and Jagjeet Singh (78) of Green Avenue.The district health authorities reported 20 new cases on Tuesday, taking the infection count to 14,452. The new cases include 11 influenza-like illness cases and nine contacts of positive patients. Meanwhile, with discharge of 46 patients, the recovery count has reached 13,469. The district at present has a total of 432 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-deaths-20-more-infections-reported-in-amritsar-district-191258
30-12-2020|| ||Husband, in-laws booked for dowry demand, assault||Amritsar, December 29A woman was allegedly thrashed by her husband and her in-laws for dowry leaving her injured. The police have registered a case in this connection while further investigations are on. Those booked were identified as Ramandeep Singh, his father Dalbir Singh, mother Surjit Kaur and brother-in-law Jarnail Singh. No arrest has been made till now, said the police authorities.The victim identified as Staffy Singh stated to the police that she was married to the accused around a year ago. After the marriage the accused allegedly started harassing her for dowry. She said in August, she gave birth to a baby girl. She alleged her husband under the influence of liquor beat her mercilessly. She said again on December 24 evening, he beat and left her seriously injured. She was admitted to the Civil Hospital for treatment. Following this, a complaint was lodged with the Maqboolpura police for registration of case. The police authorities said a case under Sections 498-A, 323, and 34 of the IPC had been registered and further investigations were under progress. The accused would be arrested soon, they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/husband-in-laws-booked-for-dowry-demand-assault-191259
30-12-2020||Amritsar||Man dies after hit by a speedy bike||Man shot at in Sheron villageTarn Taran: Three unidentified armed robbers shot and critically injured a man on the national highway near the District Administrative Complex in Sheron village on Tuesday. The injured has been identified as Balwinder Singh (45) of Dilawalpur village, who is a security guard of the State Bank of India, Chabal branch. Balwinder Singh after performing his night duty was returning home on motorcycle. Three robbers came on a bike and fired three shots at Balwinder Singh. They managed to escape from the spot when he raised the alarm. He was admitted to the Community Health Centre, Kairon. The Sarhali police have started investigation. OCFarmers’ jatha leaves for DelhiTarn Taran: Farmers and members of other sections of the society under the banner of Punjab Istri Sabha left for Delhi from the border town of Bhikhiwind on Tuesday. Rupinder Kaur Marimegha, Kiranjit Kaur Valtoha and Harjinder Kaur Algon led the jatha. Prithipal Singh Marimegha, state CPI leader and other speakers, while addressing the protesters, condemned the privatisation policies of the BJP-led Union Government. They said the government was playing in the hands of corporate houses. The leaders demanded immediate rollback of the farms laws. OCRs17,850 looted from petrol pumpTarn Taran: Three motorcycle-born armed robbers looted Rs 17,850 from petrol pump on the pretext of filling petrol in Mohanpur village, 30 km from here, on Monday. Jaswinder Singh, proprietor of the petrol pump, in his statement to the Chohla Sahib police said that three armed robbers came to the petrol pump and asked to fill Rs 500 petrol in their motorcycle. After filling petrol when the salesman demanded for payment one of the robbers pointed a gun and demanded to hand over the cash. The salesman handed over Rs 2,100. After that another robber with his pistol entered the office of the pump where Jaswinder Singh was sitting. He also threatened him to hand over the cash. Jaswinder Singh gave him the cash of Rs 15,750 .The robbers managed to escape from the spot. The Chohla Sahib police have registered a case under Sections 379 and 34I of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. ocWoman robbed of chain, mobileAmritsar: Two unknown scooter-borne persons snatched a mobile phone and gold chain from a woman who along with her daughter and daughter-in-law was going to meet some relatives. The victim, Mamta, a resident of Katra Khazana told that when she reached near Sai Das road, two unknown persons came on a scooter and snatched her mobile and gold chain weighing around 15 gm. Though the Division D police station have registered a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC. Meanwhile, the Verka police have nabbed two snatchers, identified as Harman Singh and Tejpal Singh of Ludhar village. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-dies-after-hit-by-a-speedy-bike-191262
