30-11-2020||---||Drug peddler nabbed with 3-kg heroin||Amritsar, November 29The Amritsar rural police on Sunday arrested a person allegedly involved in cross-border drug peddling here. He was identified as Himmat Singh, alias Gill, of Modhe village falling under the Gharinda police station here.With his arrest, the police busted a drug module running by Malkit Singh lodged in Faridkot jail.While addressing mediapersons, the Amritsar rural police revealed that there was a specific input that Himmat Singh, along with Nanak Singh of Vaniyeke village and some unknown persons, had formed a gang and was indulging in smuggling of drugs from Pakistan through the Indo-Pak border. The informer said they had smuggled a huge quantity of heroin and hidden it in sugarcane fields at Panjgariya village.They said a raid was conducted immediately and Himmat Singh was arrested. According to the police, he confessed before the police about the heroin smuggled from Pakistan. On his information, the police seized 3 kg of heroin hidden in sugarcane fields.During interrogation, he revealed that the entire network was being run by Malkit Singh, alias Fauji of Muhawa village. He was currently lodged in Faridkot jail under the Official Secret Act and the NDPS Act. Immediately, Faridkot jail authorities were informed who confiscated a mobile phone from his possession.Fauji has connections with Pakistan-based smugglers and used to run the drug cartel from the jail through phone. On his orders, drugs consignments were slipped into the Indian side. Himmat Singh told the police that the Pakistan-based smugglers had put the contraband in soft drink bottles and smuggled the same into India with the flow of Ravi waters. They chose the area from where the river turned and crossed the border.The police said while raids were on to nab Nanak Singh, Malkit Singh would be brought on production warrant for further interrogation in the case. They said all the forward and backward linkages of the drug cartel were being ascertained.Property of a smuggler, his wife freezedTthe rural police have freezed the property of a smuggler, Sarwan Singh (R), and his wife Narinderpal Kaur of Dhulka village falling under the Jandiala police station here. The police said 300 gram of heroin was seized from Sarwan Singh in 2007. In a statement issued here on Monday, they informed that a Rayya-based residential house worth Rs 25.9 lakh had been freezed by the competent authority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/drug-peddler-nabbed-with-3-kg-heroin-177855
30-11-2020||
||As protests continue, only 2 trains ply from Amritsar||Amritsar, November 29 As the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) continues to protest along Amritsar-Delhi railway track at Jandiala Guru, the Indian Railways has yet not resumed (to and fro) more trains from Amritsar railway station except two daily trains. The ‘Rail Roko Andolan’ entered its 68th day on Sunday. The two trains were being diverted from Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas route. The Indian Railways short terminated, originated and diverted many trains. The 02715 Nanded-Amritsar Express special train will be short terminated in New Delhi. Consequently, the 02716 Amritsar-Nanded JCO will short originate from New Delhi and remain partially cancelled between NewDelhi-Amritsar-NewDelhi on November 30. The 02925 Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Express will be short terminated in Chandigarh. Consequently, the 02926 Amritsar-Bandra Terminus Express will short originate from Chandigarh and remain partially cancelled between Chandigarh- Amritsar-Chandigarh on November 30. Many trains will be diverted. The 02903 Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express special will be diverted to run via Beas-Tarn Taran-Amritsar and the 02904 Amritsar-Mumbai Central Express will be diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas.  The 04650/74 Amritsar-Jaynagar Express special was today diverted to run via Amritsar-Tarn Taran-Beas. Railway officials said normal rail traffic would be restored once the agitators along the tracks would be removed. They said it would be seen after the talks between the Centre and farmers. Addressing the farmers at Jandiala Guru, Swainder Singh Chatala, said they were ready for prolonged agitation. He said the ongoing agitation would continue and they were mentally prepared for the long haul.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/as-protests-continue-only-2-trains-ply-from-amritsar-177856
30-11-2020||---||No one wants to buy house here||Amritsar, November 29Residents of Avtar Avenue in Kot Khalsa area have been forced to commute on pothole-ridden streets. The roads are in stark contrast to the ones proposed under the Smart City. Irate residents said despite repeated assurances at the time of elections, politicians forget to fulfill the promises after winning polls.Locals said for years they had been demanding repair of damaged roads, but nothing has happened on the ground. They said recently a local MLA held a function to inaugurate recapeting of streets, but even after a fortnight, the work has not commenced.“Apart from the problem being faced by commuters, poor quality of roads has devalued properties. If an area remains neglected for a long, nobody wants to buy a house or property in that area,” said Sanjeev, a property dealer.Residents said after every rain, the entire area turns into a puddle and they cannot even step out of their homes. “The condition of streets in our area is worse than those in rural areas. The government should develop all the areas in a balanced manner. While roads in posh areas are recarpeted even before they are damaged, localities like ours always suffer,” said Sukhwinder Kaur, a housewife.Residents said roads in all 10 lanes of the locality were in a poor condition. They stated that demand for better roads should be fulfilled at the earliest and work as promised should be initiated at the earliest. “Carpeted roads are a basic necessity. Vehicles get damaged and accidents take place due to poor quality of roads,” said another resident, Kultar Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-one-wants-to-buy-house-here-177857
30-11-2020||
||Resumption of train services brings cheer to auto drivers||Amritsar, November 29 The Railways did not come out with a fresh schedule for the Amritsar railway station on Friday. However, restoration of railway traffic, albeit select train services, brought cheer to auto drivers in the holy city. They look forward to complete restoration of train services. The resumption of train services has brought some relief for auto drivers, who are now looking forward to better days after the lockdown. Since the introduction of the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, they were unable to earn customers and money. The suspension of train services has resulted in a huge drop in the number of their clientele and tourists in the city. As per a rough estimate, about 35,000 autos are operating in the city and due to the pandemic the families of these auto drivers are struggling for their livelihood. Harpal Singh, president, Auto Drivers’ Union, said there were about 35,000 auto drivers in the district who earned their livelihood for about their 1.50 lakh family members by taking pilgrims and tourists to their destinations. He said with the suspension of passenger trains, tourists could not come to the city, which had created an economic crisis for the families of these auto drivers. Harpal said after the lockdown, most of the auto drivers were forced to sell fruits and vegetables in their autos or to do other works to feed their families. He stated that they had just started regaining business and then passenger trains were had to be suspended again due to the ‘rail roko’ agitation by farmers, which prolonged their economic hardships. The president thanked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh for his concerted efforts to get train services resumed in the state. He also thanked the farmers for lifting their dharna on the request of the Chief Minister. “We are hoping that with the resumption of train services, our business will once again flourish as passengers will start coming to the city in a large number,” he added. Before the lockdown, the holy city used to be visited by over one lakh devotees daily from all over the world.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/resumption-of-train-services-brings-cheer-to-auto-drivers-177858
30-11-2020|| 
||CKD honours 55 meritorious teachers||Amritsar, November 29 A religious programme was organised with great devotion at CKD Gurdwara Sri Kalgidhar Sahib to commemorate the 551st Parkash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev. Melodious divine hymns chanted by Central Khalsa Orphanage and Bibi Prabhjot Kaur jathas created a spiritual aura at the occasion. CKD president Nirmal Singh wished Gurpurab greetings to all sangat. While shedding light on the unique ideology of Guru Sahib, he commented that Guru Nanak took incarnation to end social evils and degradation of the time. His preachings are not only for one religion but for all humanity. President Nirmal Singh emphasised on the need to spread the teachings of Guru Sahib to all nook and corners of the world to create a better society. During the function, a poem depicting the life, ideals and principles of Guru Nanak Sahib was presented in the beautiful words by student Samreen Kaur and lecture by Vipanpreet Kaur. On this auspicious day, the best teachers selected best from each of the 50 CKD educational institutions were honoured for their outstanding performance. As a mark to express respect, appreciation and gratitude to the teachers for their valuable contribution, a total of 55 teachers were honored with “Best Teacher Award” by CKD management. Chairman CKD schools Bhag Singh Ankhi, honorary secretary Sawinder Singh Kathunangal, officiating honorary secretary Ajit Singh Basra, vice president Dr Inderbir Singh Nijjar while congratulating the awardees, encouraged the teachers to work harder in accordance with changing roles and challenges of the present era. At the occasion, Diwan office-bearers expressed grief over the pitiful plight of farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ckd-honours-55-meritorious-teachers-177859
30-11-2020||A day in the life of||Fallen on hard times, his fortunes are punctured||Charanjit Singh Teja Tribune News Service Amritsar, November 29The outbreak has disrupted the routine of Surjit Singh, an auto-rickshaw driver, but he still tries to stay on the city roads, on the lookout for passengers; and bread, for the longest time. “One can’t survive by running an auto-rickshaw only, some other job is also a requisite to earn livelihood, especially after pandemic,” he says. Earlier, he was a full-time driver, but the lockdown forced him to explore other options and selling vegetables fit well with him. Now, you will find him selling vegetables in the morning and then hitting the city roads with his ride later in the day. “The work of auto-rickshaw was good and I used to earn a satisfactory amount by working eight to ten hours. But it has not been revived till the date,” Surjit shares, before going deeper into the quagmire, “there is no tourist in the city. More than 50 per cent drivers were dependent on tourists for local tours and Attari border tour. Now, retreat ceremony is suspended and most of the tourist spots opened only in November… and the number of auto-rickshaws is almost double on the roads than required.” The auto-rickshaw drivers have doubled the fare but takers are scarce. “Today, I spent Rs150 on fuel and earned Rs300. Now, Rs150 is required for tomorrow’s fuel and 150 is my earning for the day,” he reveals, and is soon plunged into muse, “How one can run a house from this minimal income.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fallen-on-hard-times-his-fortunes-are-punctured-177860
30-11-2020||---||2 separate FIRs filed in hand chopping case||Amritsar, November 29A day after the chopping off of a hand of an auto-rickshaw driver, identified as Surjit Singh, alias Vicky, the police have registered two separate FIRs against the two accused on charges of murder bid and causing grievous injury.On Saturday, both the accused — identified as Daljit Singh, alias Jeetu, and Deepak Kumar, alias Deepu Mota — residents of LIG flats of Housing Board Colony, had attacked and seriously injured Happy Masih of the same colony with sharp-edged weapons.The condition of Vicky is still serious as he lost an excessive amount of blood in the incident, said the police authorities. Nevertheless, the accused were still at large even after a lapse of 24 hours.Sarabjit Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (North), said raids were on to nab Jeetu and Mota who had been absconding since the incident.Seema, mother of the victim, had told the police that Jeetu and Mota had an enmity with Happy Masih of the same locality. She said a couple of days ago (on November 26), the two, along with their unknown accomplices, had attacked Happy Masih leaving him injured. Her son Vicky had helped Happy and took him to hospital for treatment.She alleged both the accused started nurturing a grudge against her son. On Saturday, Surjit, along with his wife Harjinder Kaur, had gone to the Housing Board market when the accused attacked and injured him. They chopped off his hand while he was being hit repeatedly with sharp-edged weapons.The ACP said two separate FIRs under Sections 307, 323, 324, 326, 506 and 34 of the IPC had been registered against Jeetu, Mota and their unknown accomplices. He said raids were on to nab the two suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-separate-firs-filed-in-hand-chopping-case-177861
30-11-2020||---||PIL on regular medical officer at Attari PHC disposed of||Amritsar, November 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has disposed of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a resident of Attari village seeking appointment of a medical officer (MO) at Primary Health Centre (PHC) after the state government stated that a decision on representations made by the petitioner would be made soon. Harjinder Singh, a resident of Attari, had filed a PIL stating that the PHC at Attari did  not have a medical officer as a result of which the residents of the border belt were  facing problems in getting medical treatment. Singh stated that he had filed his first representation before the health authorities in 2015. He had then again filed the representations before the authorities concerned in 2018 and then again in 2019. He stated that residents of the area, which is over 35-km away from the city, were dependent on the PHC for their medical needs. Kanwar Pahul Singh, legal counsel for the petitioner, said the state government responded that the authorities concerned would consider the representations made by the petitioner earlier and convey the decision to him. The court also made it clear that it had not expressed any opinions on the merits of the case and respondent authorities would be at liberty to examine the matter keeping all facts and facets into consideration and therefore accept or reject the same in accordance with law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pil-on-regular-medical-officer-at-attari-phc-disposed-of-177863
30-11-2020||Our Correspondent ||Powercom team attacked in Mari Udhoke village||Tarn Taran, November 29 The team of the Powercom checking power theft at Mari Udhoke village on Saturday was attacked by a group of villagers. They stoned the employees, who somehow escaped unscathed from the spot. Engineer Suraj Parkash, SDO of the Powercom Sub-division, Khalra, in a complaint to the Khalra police said there were reports that some of the villagers were stealing power. The employees of the team had detected it by connecting wires with the naked cables passing near the houses of some of the customers. The employees were collecting the wires of the guilty customers when they were attacked and stones were hurled at them. The police said that as many as 30 villagers have been booked under Section 382, 353, 186, 34 of the IPC. “Four of the accused have been identified as Tarsem Singh, Daktar Badal, Rinkoo and his brother Ladi of the same village,” an official said.Gurpreet Singh Gandiwind, state leader of the PSEB Employees Federation, sharply condemned the act and police’s inaction in many such cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/powercom-team-attacked-in-mari-udhoke-village-177864
30-11-2020||---||Notorious criminal held for bouncer Jagroop’s murder||Amritsar, November 29The city police have arrested notorious criminal Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukh Datar, in connection with the killing of a bouncer Jagroop Singh Jagga of Nangli Bhatha village here on October 9.Datar was an accomplice of gangster Preet Sekhon who had claimed responsibility for the murder on social media. He had also warned his other rivals of the similar fate. Datar has been facing two cases of murder bid and as many cases under the NDPS Act.Sarabjit Singh, Assistant Commissioner of Police (North), said the police had also recovered the car used in the crime while efforts were on to nab Preet Sekhon who was still at large. Datar was produced in court and brought on police remand for further interrogation, he added.It may be recalled that on October 9 when Jagroop was returning home after duty as a bouncer in a hotel in the posh Ranjit Avenue locality, four persons opened fire on him. He had suffered around six gunshot injuries on his neck and back and died on the spot. He was accompanied by his friend Sukhwinder Singh Goldy.According to police investigation, a quarrel took place between Sekhon and Jagroop at a marriage function of a common friend at Sanghna village last year. Later, the duo had struck a compromise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/notorious-criminal-held-for-bouncer-jagroops-murder-177865
30-11-2020||---||Eight succumb to virus, 53 fresh cases in Amritsar district||Amritsar, November 29The district health authorities reported eight deaths related to the Covid-19 on Sunday. With this the toll has increased to 501.The deceased have been identified as Hansraj Bhambhani (69), from Gopal Nagar, Dharminder Singh (52), of Kot Karnail Singh, Aasa Ram (40), of New Golden Avenue, Prem Nath (58), of Verka, Nalini Munjal (72), of Racecourse road, Manjit Singh (62), of Ganda Singh colony, Harjinder Singh (51), from Shiv Nagar, and Balkar Singh (66).The district also reported 53 new positive cases with which the total count has reached 13,066. The new cases include 38 influenza like illness cases and 15 contacts of positive patients.Meanwhile, 61 patients, including Medical Education and Research Minister OP Soni recovered. Soni tested positive last week. The district has witnessed a total of 11,918 recoveries to date. At present, the district has a total of 647 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/eight-succumb-to-virus-53-fresh-cases-in-amritsar-district-177866
30-11-2020||Our Correspondent ||2 held for running illegal wine shops||Tarn Taran, November 29 Launching a crackdown on illegal liquor smuggling, the district police have booked a large number of ruling party activists for running illegal wine shops in the area and seized a huge quantity of IMFL, PML and beer.The police said the raids were conducted at Bhauwal, Kalia Sankatra, Harike and Sheron villages where the wine contractors were running illegal wine shops. Baldev Singh of Radhalke village and Bohar Singh of Bainka (Bhikhiwind) village (both salesmen), have been arrested. Senior Congress leader Sarpreet Singh, alias Joti Sekhon, of Patti town was among the others who have been booked for running illegal wine shops.  Joti Shekhon is close to Harminder Singh Gill, MLA, Patti. Joti was behind bars in connection with the recovery of smuggled wine from other states. Harman Sekhon, cousin of  Joti Sekhon, was the state spokesman of the Youth Congress, Punjab, who is still at large.Harminder Singh Gill a few days back said in a press conference that Shekhon brothers were the wine traders and they had done nothing illegal though huge quantity of wine of other states was recovered from them. The police recovered 3,78,815 ml of IMFL, 2,77,335 ml of PML and 15,600 ml beer from the shops during raids conducted on Saturday from four places. The accused have been booked under Sections 420, 409 and 120-B of the IPC and Sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act by the concerned police stations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-held-for-running-illegal-wine-shops-177867
30-11-2020|| ||CRPF constable among 7 booked for gangrape of teen||Amritsar, November 29 A teenage girl was allegedly gang-raped by a Central Reserve Police (CRP) constable and his friends after luring her for marriage. The incident occurred on different dates in different hotels in Delhi and in Ajmer (Rajasthan) after the accused ‘kidnapped’ her from her village on October 5. A case was registered with the Lopoke police only on Saturday evening. The medical examination of the victim was conducted by a three member medical board on Sunday, said investigating officer and crime against women (CAW) cell in charge inspector Snehlata. The police have booked seven persons, including two women in the case. They were identified as Bhavani Partap Singh, Gaurav, Sunil, Surinder Singh, Neetu, Usha all residents of Ajmer and Ravinder Singh. A case under Sections 363, 366-A, 376-B, 376-D, 506 and 120-B of the IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act was registered against them. The 17-year-old complainant in a statement to the police alleged that she came in contact with CRP constable Bhawani Partap Singh through social media platform Instagram. She alleged on October 5, the accused came to her village falling under the Lopoke police station here and lured her for marriage. He took her to Amritsar from where they went to Delhi. She said that the accused forcibly made physical relations with her at different hotels. She alleged, later he took her to Ajmer where his friends Sunil, Gaurav, Surinder and Ravinder raped her. Snehlata told that earlier a Zero FIR was lodged with the Rajasthan police at Ajmer from there the FIR was transferred to Amritsar rural police for further necessary action as the victim was kidnapped from her village.She said the victim actually lived with her uncle in Ajmer. When her condition deteriorated, the accused left her somewhere. She then went to her friend where her family members came and she narrated the entire incident. She said further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/crpf-constable-among-7-booked-for-gangrape-of-teen-177868
30-11-2020||What precautions must be taken to prevent second outbreak of the virus?||‘Blaming govt won’t help, we should be ready to help ourselves’||A shout-out to citizens for wearing a maskEverybody is familiar to the ongoing second wave of Covid-19 in Punjab. This should not be ignored. I love hanging out but since the lockdown I have been very careful about protecting myself from the virus. I only go out if I have an important work and always wear a mask and carry a bottle of sanitiser. But, whenever I step out and I notice many people are not masked. Seeing all this, I request all citizens to wear it and take all the precautions. Not only government but citizens must also be responsible for being aware. Concluding, the government should fine the persons violating the norms.IzleenNo laxity, for state can face worst scenarioIn the early stages of the pandemic Punjab did exceedingly well in containing the spreading virus. Resultantly, the cases came down considerably but in view of further relaxations in day to day movement and activities, a lurking fear of a second wave looms large over the state. Preventive voluntary measures such as the use of masks, distancing and hygiene are not being followed seriously by the people. Because of the casual attitude displayed, the scientific predictions by experts do indicate a second wave in six-eight weeks in Punjab which is a cause for grave concern. Infection and death rates are ascending. In this sort of scenario the onus lies on the residents and the government alike to act and react in a responsible manner to minimise the spread of the virus. Many nations are already up against this kind of wave of infections. Countries like Thailand, Japan and Czech Republic have fared well on account of the widespread use of face masks. Realising the significance of mask use, these should be distributed free of cost to those who are unable to buy them. The CM's assertion 'mask hi vaccine hai' should be publicised extravagantly. People with co-morbidities should be given quick access to treatment at government healthcare facilities. The government hospitals and health workers should create confidence among the people. An outreach approach should be adopted to identify and help the infected. People should be advised not to travel unnecessarily beyond a 5-km radius. Most businesses should be allowed to operate except night clubs as the lockdown cannot eliminate the virus. People in high risk areas should be pressed upon to stay at home; avoid using public transport to meet others outside their household. Large gatherings must be shunned. Night curfew to keep the people off the streets can be considered if the things go out of hand. Until a vaccine hits the markets, precautions should be taken religiously. Concerted and strenuous efforts ought to be made to prevent and mitigate the possible second wave of infections. Evidence-based investigative and therapeutic practices must be ensured if infected people are to be treated effectively. The government must take this into its stride. It is the moral duty of us all to not only look after our health, but also of others.Tarsem S BumrahThe onus is as much on people as on authoritiesThe authorities should create maximum public awareness on how to beat covid-19 while keeping a keen eye on the rule breakers. Residents should follow the guidelines issued by the departments so that they can keep themselves and the people around them safe. They should sensitise people about the virus and encourage them to forward the message to others. Everyone, whether an authority or an individual, should learn from the experiences of the first wave and try to keep the second wave at bay till a vaccine rolls out. As they say, 'Prevention is better than cure'.Jatinderpal SinghMaintain distance, avoid useless outingsThe second wave is going to depend on citizens. Virus is going to infect only when one is coming in its contact, so precaution is going to play an important role.Maintain distance, avoid going out unless it is unavoidable and do not forget to wear a mask. If you have any symptoms get tested, don't mistake it for flu. Avoid touching any surface when you are out, it may be contaminated. Administration should start random Covid testing of commuters. No one should be spared for not wearing a mask. Checking at restaurants, party halls should be done to ensure government guidelines are followed. Halt Permissions for any religious or political functions where count expectation is not clear. Testing of people coming from other states should be made compulsory. Awareness campaigns to motivate citizens to use digital platform to pay all their utility bills can help greatly.Rupinder Singh BhatiaOur responsibility should be biggerTrue, the second wave of coronavirus cases has arrived. Little do we know how grave it can turn out as it has in Europe, the US and several other nations in the world. Considering how irresponsible we all have been in ensuring to follow even the basics to further prevent the spread, I first of all, feel rather than blaming the authorities, we should blame ourselves. Do we even wear masks? Do we avoid social functions? Do we avoid busy bazaars? However, with second the wave having arrived, it's time to wake up, to be vigilant to help ourselves. Just blaming the government won't help till we aren't ready to help ourselves. To sum up, our responsibility and support to the government will play a bigger role. It's all up to us. Regrets later on can be painful, rather very painful.Rameshinder Singh SandhuComplacency will cost us all dearThe danger of second wave of is looming large in the state with the increase in sizeable number of infected cases. This is nothing new, the US and many countries in Europe are already victims of this second wave. Though the central and state governments know about this, as your main heading says 'to quell spike, teams rushed to HP and Punjab', but with passage of time people of the state have become complacent. Also the main reason for the same is lenient attitude of the Punjab Police; instead of fining the people for not wearing a mask, I saw the other day a team of policemen headed by a high police official distributing free mask to the people not wearing the same in Hall bazaar. People instead of appreciating this gesture are taking undue advantage by ignoring the preventive guidelines. We should not forget that harsh steps like the lockdown taken by the government. The second one may cripple the already declining economy of the state. In the past during the first wave, we blamed number of factors like a foreign country, a particular community, government's negligence, poor healthcare system and so on, but for second wave only people of the region would be responsible. The old saying 'prevention is better than cure' is changed in the present case to 'prevention is the only cure'.Harsh N JoharCaseload rising, why all can’t be masked?The current scenario of Punjab seems to be in hazardous as the number of cases is witnessing a rise everyday. People are responsible for this because they do not follow the norms. The big question arises here 'Why people do not wear mask?' If someone asks them so, it leads to an altercation. People who do not wear it say they can’t breathe properly in a mask, while other says it makes them dizzy. But to combat this pandemic, we need to wear mask whenever we go outside. And those who can't breathe properly in a mask or feel groggy should stay at home. I would like to emphasise on the fact that we have the right to exercise our freedom, but one's freedom should not become a reason for someone else's suffering.Saahil HansQUESTIONFarmers have reached Delhi to get themselves heard over farm laws. Do you think the Centre has been at fault in handling the situation and allowing it to go so far?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (December 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/blaming-govt-wont-help-we-should-be-ready-to-help-ourselves-177869
