31-05-2020||Tarn Taran||SAD sarpanch, 7 others booked||Ban on carrying weapons in cityAmritsar: The DCP-cum-Executive Magistrate Jagmohan Singh, under Section 144 of the CrPC, has banned carrying of firearms, explosives, inflammable material and sharp-edged weapons during the Ghallughara week, culminating on anniversary of the Operation Bluestar on June 6. He said the rule would remain in force till June 10. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-sarpanch-7-others-booked-92359
31-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||This famous sweet shop faces low footfall, banks on online orders||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 30The popularity of a sweet shop can be gauged from the fact that a roundabout located at a prominent central place of the city is known by its name. The Novelty sweet shop is located near the Novelty chowk.Amid the lockdown, this famous sweet shop is witnessing a low footfall of customers these days.Harish, who sits on the counter, said, “Since the dine-in was prohibited as a safety precaution to contain Covid-19, we just bank on online orders. To tell people that we are open, we have been using social platforms.”“The sale has come down to just 20 per cent of the pre-Covid figure as customers refrain from coming to the shop. Our online customers demand sweets and snacks, but orders are scant in numbers,” Harish added.He said with less sale of sweets, they have started providing essential grocery items as well. The management of the shop is very particular about safety precautions. All staff members have been provided with proper safety gear, including gloves and masks. The shop premises are sanitised twice a day. Besides, there is thermal scanning of all customers at the main entrance of the shop.A board with a message, ‘Saftey matters, we care for you’, has been installed on the rear of the main display counter to make people aware of the pandemic. Besides, markings have been made on the floor to follow social distancing norms.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-famous-sweet-shop-faces-low-footfall-banks-on-online-orders-92361
31-05-2020||Gurbaxpuri||This principal gives moral support 
to girl students in testing times||Tarn Taran, May 30Rajpal Kaur, principal, Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Kairon (Patti), has been providing emotional and moral support to girl students, who missed the second golden chance to appear for the Class X Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) supplementary exams, which were to be held in March. But, these were cancelled due to the Covid-19 lockdown.She said, "There are many Class X students who failed to clear their exam of one or more subjects in September 2019. As a result, these students were to appear for the supplementary exam in March 2020 as a golden chance to be provided by the PSEB. In March, the lockdown was announced. Thereafter, the state government has promoted the regular Class X students to the next class. But, students who were to clear the supplementary exams in March have been left in the lurch.”Sandeep Kaur of Sakhira village was to appear for the Class X supplementary exam in March. She said she had appeared in the supplementary exam in September, 2019, but failed to clear the exam. Sandeep, whose father works at a brick-kiln, said she has been facing mental challenges as the government has forgotten them.Sandeep said in the present situation, she has not only forgotten what she had learnt but also lost her peace of mind as the financial position of the family is not well.The school principal said, "I am worried about these students and I remain in touch with them through a WhatsApp group. I make efforts so that these testing times do not affect them psychologically. I have also apprised the board authorities to think of these students."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-principal-gives-moral-support-to-girl-students-in-testing-times-92362
31-05-2020||Amarinder S Dhiman||‘Slowdown is best time to make new developments in any field’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?Initially, we faced problems as our business was suddenly hit and supplies were affected. Customers were hesitant and reluctant in purchasing products. Now, things are improving gradually.Did you plan anything new during the nationwide lockdown?We have done something different. We immediately started developing our own mask-making machines. Looking at the need of the hour, we used our resources such as the design section and the manufacturing section for manufacturing mask machines. I don't believe in sitting idle and wait for the situation to get normal. Instead, I used the lockdown period to develop mask-making machines. Recently, we started making masks. We engaged in the process when the lockdown was announced and got success within a few weeks. In the factory where we were manufacturing confectionary machines, we started developing mask-making machines. In the candy factory, we started making masks.What lessons as a businessman have you learnt during the lockdown?I believe that the best time to make development in new fields is during slowdown because when there is heavy rush of the customers, there is a high demand and pressure. So, during that period, you don't get time to think of new development.Are you also facing problems due to a shortage of migrant labour?We used to have labour from UP and Bihar. But, we figured it out that they were not regular. So, a couple of years ago, we decided that we would hire local labourers here. In this way, we didn't have to face any labour shortage after the lockdown.How much time will it take for the business to revive?Nothing is certain at present. We don't know how long this problem will stay. I believe it would take another six months for the situation to come back on track.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/slowdown-is-best-time-to-make-new-developments-in-any-field-92363
31-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||No social distancing here||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 30Even as cases of the Covid-19 pandemic are increasing day by day, the government guidelines like wearing face masks in public places and maintaining social distancing are being easily ignored especially in walled city areas.In the markets, people can be seen roaming without wearing face masks and flouting the social distancing norms. The district administration and health authorities were alarmed after the city reported Covid-19 patients recently.“The markets in the walled city are congested and usually witness a huge rush. Though following the curfew restrictions and subsequent lockdowns, the rush is not as it used to be, but people have failed to comply with the guidelines,” said Munish Kumar, a resident of the walled city area.Naveen Sharma, another resident, said though people were wearing face masks but as far as social distancing was concerned, it was a definitely a casualty, especially in markets.However, the problem is not confined only to the walled city area it can be seen in many other parts. To tackle the rush and ensure maintenance of social distancing, the district administration has categorised the shops in three zones and they were to open as per their turn.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Jagmohan Singh said there were clear instructions from the district administration and nobody was allowed to flout the norms. “Police officials have been asked to set up checkpoints and challan the people who were found violating government directions,” he said.It was unfortunate that people did not understanding that the importance of maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. They were not only risking own their lives but also putting the lives of their loved ones at risk. He said the police had challaned over 250 persons in the recent past for not wearing masks. He said a drive had been launched to check the violations.In Tarn Taran, 1,188 challaned for not wearing masksTarn Taran: The district police issued challans to as many as 1,188 persons in a single day for not wearing face masks here. SSP Dhruv Dahiya said each violator had been fined Rs 500 per head. The SSP appealed to people to make it a habit to wear mask when stepping out of house to keep themselves safe in these times of the Covid-19 threat. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-social-distancing-here-92346
31-05-2020|| ---||Youth stabbed to death, six booked||Amritsar, May 30  Deputy Singh (20), a resident of Rangarh village falling under the Gharinda police station here, was stabbed to death by several youths.  Though the incident occurred Wednesday, he was under treatment at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and succumbed to his injuries on Friday evening.  The police have booked six persons on charges of murder. They were identified as Sagar Singh, Yudhbir Singh, both residents of Ranike village, Pritpal Singh, Karan Singh, Preet Singh of Attari and Babb of Ranike. Gurpreet Singh, the complainant stated to the police, Deputy Singh and several other persons in the village had organised a ‘chhabeel’ in the village on Tuesday. He said Jagroop Singh was repeatedly making rounds of the area on his bike at a very high speed and Deputy Singh had stopped him from doing so. Jagroop got angry. He went away murmuring. He said on Wednesday, he along with Deputy Singh, Akashdeep Singh of Rangarh had gone to Attari to buy some goods. He said near Attari pond, the accused came on bikes and started stabbing Deputy Singh with sharp weapon. He said the accused also thrashed them. When the accused fled away, they rushed the victim to hospital where he succumbed to his injuries on Friday.  The police have registered a case under Sections 302, 148 and 149 of the IPC. Police authorities said that raids were on to nab the suspects who were on run.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/youth-stabbed-to-death-six-booked-92347
31-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||MC collects ~1.43 crore  from sale of 23 shops||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 30The Municipal Corporation (MC) collected Rs 1.43 crore by selling its shops to tenants at various locations in the city. The MC had offered the tenants ownership of its 691 shops last year. The drive was derailed due to Covid-19 lockdown.After relaxation in the lockdown, 23 shopkeepers deposited the money and bought shops from the MC. Estate Officer Sushant Bhatia said they had collected Rs 1.43 crore from 23 tenants and gave them ownership rights of shops. More shopkeepers will buy the shops in the coming days.Earlier, the shopkeepers had confusion about the ownership of roofs of these shops. On February 3, the MC general house meeting made it clear that the shopkeepers would own the roof rights. Now more shopkeepers, who were tenants in the MC’s shops, are willing to buy the properties.The estate wing officials are expecting to generate Rs50 to 80 crore from the sale.The MC owns 1,100 shops in the city in which tenants have been running their business. Around 767 tenants applied to buy the shops. After scrutiny the MC considered 691 of them eligible. The MC can give ownership rights to tenants under the Punjab Municipality (Vesting of Proprietary Rights) Scheme 2017.The shopkeepers have to pay the market price of the shops. The shops are located at 33 markets, including Pul Paurian, Fire Market Chittara Road, IDH Market, Rambagh, SBS Market, Sabji Mandi Rambagh, Bhushanpura, Inder Palace Road, DD Bhatia Market, Sheranwala Gate, Maha Singh Gate near Nishant Cinema, Lahori Gate, Gurdwara Saheedan Sahib, Bhagtanwala, Power House Colony , Chatiwind Gate, Hukam Singh Road, Katra Sher Singh, Tikoni Market, Kot Atma Singh, Beri Gate and Gate Hakima.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-collects-1-43-crore-from-sale-of-23-shops-92348
31-05-2020||Tarn Taran||1 killed, 6 hurt in clash over laying of water pipeline||A 60-year-old person was killed and six others injured in a clash over installation of underground water pipeline in Maddar Mathra Bhagi village, 50 km from here, on Saturday.  Bhikhiwind Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Rajbir Singh said the deceased had been identified as Joginder Singh. Those injured have been admitted to different hospitals and their condition is reported to be stable. The police have booked eight persons under Section 302, 307, 326, 148 and 149 of the IPC. Two of the suspects were identified as Sital Singh and his brother Darshan Singh, said the DSP. According to the police, Joginder Singh and his associates were working in fields when the suspects, led by Sital Singh and his brother Darshan Singh, arrived. Armed with sharp weapons and baseballs, they attacked the victims. Joginder received an injury in his head and died on his way to hospital, said the DSP. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-killed-6-hurt-in-clash-over-laying-of-water-pipeline-92349
31-05-2020||---||Removal of e-pharma advts from Aarogya Setu app welcomed||Amritsar, May 30The North India Chemists and Druggists Association on Saturday welcomed the government decision to withdraw advertisements of e-pharmaceutical companies from government-run Aarogya Setu mobile app.Chemists all over the country including the Punjab Chemists’ Association affiliated to the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists had strongly opposed the promotion of private e-pharma firms on a mobile app promoted by the government.It pleaded that a website www.aarogyasetumitr.in, linked to the official mobile application Aarogya Setu in ‘illegal, arbitrary and discriminatory’ manner, promotes and act as a marketing tool for e-pharmacies only.Chemists associations from all over the country had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that it was not mentioned on the website that these medicines could be procured from local chemists. This was misleading and gives an impression that medicines used in the treatment of Covid-19 in India were available only through e-pharmacies. They had alleged that several e-pharmacies were operating illegally and in violation of provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. A number of petitions were pending in the court against operating of these pharmacies already.Surinder Duggal, president, North India Chemists and Druggists Association, said the Central government had dropped e-pharmacies advertisements from the app and this was informed by the government late yesterday evening.He said that we appreciate the government decision following the concern raised by the chemists all over the country.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/removal-of-e-pharma-advts-from-aarogya-setu-app-welcomed-92350
31-05-2020||---||Jail warder booked for misbehaving with staff||Amritsar, May 30  A jail warder got into a brawl with a pharmacist deputed at the Amritsar Central Jail on Thursday evening. The warder, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition, also misbehaved with staff who came to the spot after getting the information and tried to intervene. The incident came to light when a complaint was lodged with the local police in this connection. The Islamabad police have registered an FIR against jail warder Satnam Singh. Avtar Singh, Assistant Superintendent of the jail, said on Thursday night he got a wireless message from inside the jail complex that jail warder Satnam Singh under the influence of liquor had got into a quarrel with pharmacist Rajinder Singh. He tore his turban and threatened him at the jail mess. He said he, along with Deputy Superintendent (Maintenance) Baljit Singh and other staff members, went to the spot and tried to pacify him. However, he started misbehaving with them also and used an abusive language. A complaint was lodged with the Islamabad police where a case under Sections 323 (causing grievous hurt), 185 and 353, IPC, for assaulting and obstructing a public servant from discharging his duties, besides Section 52 of the Prisons Act was registered. He was yet to be arrested, said the police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jail-warder-booked-for-misbehaving-with-staff-92351
31-05-2020||---||GND varsity to conduct exams of exit classes from July 1||Amritsar, May 30 Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) has decided to conduct terminal examinations of only ‘exit’ classes of degree and diploma courses from July 1 to 20. The date sheet has been uploaded on the website of the university. Prof KS Kahlon, registrar, GNDU, said examinations of intermediate classes will not be held during this time and the decision regarding the same will be conveyed later as per the unfolding situation in the wake of Covid-19 and the consequent instructions of the Punjab Government.  Kahlon said on an average, 70 per cent of the syllabus was completed before the lockdown. The remaining syllabus was completed by teachers through online classes.    Keeping in consideration this limitation of online teaching instead of classroom teaching, a few measures have been adopted in the pattern of setting up question papers in the interest of the students in order to reduce their stress and anxiety.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gnd-varsity-to-conduct-exams-of-exit-classes-from-july-1-92352
31-05-2020|| ---||SAD distributes food to migrants||Amritsar, May 30 The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has raised concern over the poor arrangements for migrant workers, who are willing to return their homes. Today, the SAD distributed food for migrants at Lily Resort on the Verka-Vallah bypass. The migrants were there for the screening before the journey. Gurpartap Singh Tikka, district president, SAD, said, “We have discussed the matter with the officials and asked to arrange the transportation for migrant workers. We observed that they need food at screening centers. So, we in collaboration with the SGPC distributed langar here”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sad-distributes-food-to-migrants-92353
31-05-2020||Our Correspondent||One more case in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, May 30The district reported one more case of Covid-19 on Saturday. The number of active cases has risen to five while 161 patients have been sent to their homes after treatment.The 28-year-old patient is a resident of Verowal village. He had returned from Kuwait on May 26 and his test report was received on Saturday by the administration. He was admitted at the isolation ward of the local Civil Hospital, said officials of the Health Department.Meanwhile, 14 foreign returned persons who were kept in the quarantine centre of Sri Guru Anged Dev College, Khadoor Sahib, were sent to their homes on Saturday after the expiry of the isolation period. The returnees were given covid-19 negative certificates by the health department.These persons had returned from countries like Canada, Australia, Muscat, Malaysia, Indonesia, etc. The tests of these persons came negative.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/one-more-case-in-tarn-taran-92357
31-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||13 new cases, 4 of them have no travel or contact history||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 30With 13 more cases reported on Saturday, the total count of Covid-19 positive cases has reached 387 in the district. Of the fresh cases, four — one each from Hathi Gate, Green Avenue, Gilwali Gate and Baba Bakala with ILI (influenza like illness) — were reported at the flu corner. All four had no travel or contact history and are presumed to be cases of community spread.Of the remaining, while one patient had returned from Delhi, the remaining eight were contacts of four earlier cases. The eight patients include two from Lashmansar Chowk, one from Rani Ka Bagh, four from Gate Hakeema and one from Gilwali gate.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said at present the district had 73 active cases admitted at the Covid care centre. The district has also reported 307 recoveries and seven deaths due to the disease so far.Covid test of anganwari workers soonThe Tarn Taran administration has announced to conduct Covid-19 tests of all anganwari workers in the district as they have been at the forefront of fight by participating in a door-to-door survey of suspected patients. The district has 1,121 anganwari workers and 1,059 anganwari helpers. District officials stated that 23 samples of anganwari workers were sent on Saturday.‘Poor quality’ PPE kits sent for testing||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/13-new-cases-4-of-them-have-no-travel-or-contact-history-92358
31-05-2020||Amritsar||Stray dogs maul 2-yr-old to death in Amritsar||A two-year-old boy was reportedly mauled to death by stray dogs at Varpal village here on Friday. The victim, Gursanjhdeep Singh, was the only child of his parents.Sources said the child was playing with his toys when he ventured out of the house. Since the street was deserted, stray dogs dragged him to the fields and mauled him to death.Balbir Singh, a relative of the deceased, said he was returning from fields when he saw stray dogs with blood all over their mouth. He said when he reached home, he found the child missing. He said they then ran towards the fields and found the boy lying badly mauled.Amarjit Singh, grandfather of the deceased, said Gursanjhdeep died on the spot. He was cremated today.Locals said stray dogs had been attacking their cattle for the past some time, but the authorities have failed to take appropriate measures despite repeated complaints. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/stray-dogs-maul-2-yr-old-to-death-in-amritsar-92256
