31-08-2020||---||SMO among 5 lose Covid battle||Amritsar, August 30Five more persons, including a senior health official, lost their lives due to Covid-19 here on Sunday. With these deaths, the toll has reached 158 in the district.The health authorities also reported 113 new positive cases. The total count of positive cases has reached 3,921 in the district.The deceased have been identified as Dr Arun Kumar, SMO, Civil Hospital, and a resident of Vijay Nagar (Batala Road), Kashmir Kaur, a 52-year-old resident of Chabhal Road, Amarjit Singh, a 70-year-old from Nawakot, Palwinder Singh, 42-year-old from Baba Bakala and Sheela Rani, a 72-year-old from Guru Harkrishan Nagar.Of the fresh cases, 70 are persons having symptoms of influenza-like illness (ILI) and 43 are contacts of positive cases. The new ILI cases were reported from the Rajasansi police station, two from Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) team posted at Sri Guru Ram Das Ji International Airport and one oral surgeon from Government Dental College and Hospital.Of the contact cases, six were reported from BSF battalion posted at Khasa, five from Khanna Paper Mills, two from the Police Department, two from KD Hospital and eight from Basant Avenue.At present, the district has a total of 699 active cases. The district health authorities stated that 78 patients had been cured of the illness in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of recoveries has reached 3,064 in the district.SMO would be remembered as corona warrior: MinisterSenior Medical Officer (SMO) Dr Arun Sharma, posted at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyr’s Memorial Civil Hospital, who died of Covid-19 here this morning was undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu along with senior officials of the Health Department and the civil administration attended the cremation.Dr Arun Sharma had tested positive for the virus 10 days ago. The Health Minister said he was one of the brilliant medical officers. He was just 53 years old. “He had been performing his duties with dedication since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March. He would always be remembered as a true frontline corona warrior for his services,” said Sidhu.Dr Arun was a cardiac patient. He is survived by his wife, daughter and son.No dental services for 15 days as 3 surgeons catch virusWeekend curfew impact||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/smo-among-5-lose-covid-battle-134100
31-08-2020||Tarn Taran||Cop dismissed for lewd texts||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-dismissed-for-lewd-texts-134102
31-08-2020||---||Flourishing harmful weed along roadsides a health hazard||Amritsar, August 30The wild growth of harmful weed, known as congress grass, has flourished abundantly during the monsoon season. Its proliferation has become a cause for concern as it poses a risk to the health of residents and animals. The wild growth of the weed can be seen alongside roads, vacant plots and even government institutions. A visit to the government ESI Hospital on Majitha Road revealed that how the entire vacant area had been overgrown with the poisonous weed.The weed causes skin allergies and respiratory problems among humans and animals. Health experts say that parthenium hysterophorus (congress grass) pollens are known for causing diseases as eczema, dermatitis and asthma among human beings. The milch animals grazing at a plot having a growth of the weed too run the risk of getting dermatitis.As the pollens of the weeds are known to travel far and wide along with their high growth and survival rate, most of the roadsides can be seen covered by the wild growth of this allergic weed. With incessant rain giving an impetus to its growth, stray cows can be seen having it along with grass.The state Agriculture Department in the 90s had run wide campaigns to eradicate the weed. However, as such campaigns are seldom taken these days and the weed has covered all possible places. An employee of the ESI Hospital said, “We fear reptiles like snakes also take a shelter in this wild growth. The residents of nearby government quarters are worried and do not allow children to go out.” He said they faced problems when it flourished during the rains.An official of the Agriculture Department said the best time to uproot the harmful weed was September and October. Its flowering time was these two months. He said the weed must be uprooted before they produced seed. “It can help in checking the growth in the next season,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/flourishing-harmful-weed-along-roadsides-a-health-hazard-134103
31-08-2020||---||1984 anti-Sikh riot victims’ families rue delay in justice||Amritsar, August 30Disappointed over the delay in justice, a delegation of victim families of the 1984 anti-Sikh riots met Satnam Singh Gill, president, Minority Welfare Organisation, and members of its core committee here on Sunday.Representatives of the families of the riot victims also urged the organisation president to hold meetings with the affected families in villages and cities.The delegation members included Jathedar Harpal Singh Chabba, Mohan Singh Amritsar, Jassa Singh Johari, Kashmir Singh, Amrik Singh Cheema Bath, Sukhdev Singh, Gurmukh Singh Fattuwal, Balbir Kaur, Amarjit Kaur and Harjit Kaur. In a press statement, the delegation stated that the ruling parties of the country and the state had treated Sikhs as a criminal tribe by not paying heed to the 1984 massacre of community people.On the occasion, a 51-member committee was also constituted by the organization to play a wider role in representing the affected Sikh families living around the world. Resolutions were passed unanimously on the issues.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1984-anti-sikh-riot-victims-families-rue-delay-in-justice-134104
31-08-2020||---||Dhadi sabha arranges essentials for needy||Amritsar, August 30 The Covid-19 has taken its toll on the Dhadis too. With their dharmic diwan sessions getting suspended in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, it was difficult for them to make both ends meet. On Sunday, the Sri Guru Hargobind Sahib Shiromani Dhadi Sabha arranged essential commodities for its members here. Baldev Singh MA, head of the sabha, told that despite constraint, ration worth Rs 1 lakh for the fourth time was arranged for the Dhadis and their families. He told that the government had temporarily put a halt on holding Dhadi sessions at gurdwaras to avoid any rush. “Earlier, ration worth Rs 2.20 lakh was distributed thrice. This help is being provided to the needy with the cooperation of sangat from local and overseas without any discrimination”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dhadi-sabha-arranges-essentials-for-needy-134105
31-08-2020||Neeraj Bagga ||Record revenue for Ferozepur Division||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 30The Ferozepur Division has earned record revenue of Rs 881.01 crore during the current financial year upto July, which is 44.44 per cent higher as compared to total goods revenue of Rs 609.93 crore, achieved during the corresponding period last year.The division earned a record revenue of Rs 259.97 crores during July, which is 63.68 per cent high as compared to the goods revenue of Rs 158.83 crores earned during the corresponding period last year.The DRM said the Ferozepur Division set a new milestone in its history by achieving the highest ever goods revenue of Rs 17.13 crore on August 29. Rajesh Kumar Aggarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, said there was a 52 percent increase in the freight transportation through goods trains this fiscal in comparison to the similar period of 2019. He said the Covid-19 pandemic threw a tough challenge to entire nation and its citizens. Similarly, the Railways were also witnessing a situation which was never faced by this organisation. He recalled that “the wheels of national transporters were halted when the lockdown was imposed. But Northern Railway took this disaster as an opportunity and initiated many steps to bring back the share of Railways in goods transportation from Road to Rail.”As many as six Business Development Units (BDU) at the zonal and divisional levels were established to tap the business of freight transportation. One of them was established at the Railway's Ferozepur division to improve its goods transportation service.He informed that the BDU under the Ferozepur Division conducted many meetings with Freight Customers drawn from different industries, trades and their unions. He said meetings were held with traders dealing in cement, foodgrains, cement, sugar, automobile, textile and other commodities. He added that many of them stressed for development and improvement in goods sheds and arrangement of piecemeal traffic for small quantity cargo. A special care is being taken while are loading and unloading perishable seasonal fruit and vegetables. Export in parcel and container through Bangladesh have been permitted. A record 100 tractors were dispatched to Bangladesh on August 20 through a New Modified Goods (NMG) rake.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/record-revenue-for-ferozepur-division-134106
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent||Two officials to regulate traffic in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, August 30To keep a check on anti-social elements and to streamline traffic in the district, SSP Dhruman H Nimbale has deputed two inspector rank police officers to regulate traffic and PCR functioning in the district. Both officers would work under the supervision of SP(Traffic and Security). Besides Tarn Taran, these officers would also supervise traffic and PCR functioning in Patti, Khemkaran, Bhikhiwind, Chabal, Goindwal Sahib and Khadoor Sahib, the SSP said. He said one inspector rank officer would supervise traffic and another officer would supervise the PCR functioning. The SSP said the traffic on National Highways would be regulated by the traffic police. He instructed the traffic police to identify accident-prone areas in the district. The SSP said the PCR had 36 motorcycles and six Activa scooters with 84 employees, who would keep a close watch on anti-social elements.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-officials-to-regulate-traffic-in-tarn-taran-134107
31-08-2020||Our Correspondent ||Two cousins killed in road accident||Tarn Taran, August 30 Two cousins were killed in a road accident when their bike was hit by a motorised cart on the Nagoke-Jandiala Guru Road, near Jatti Umra village, 35 km from here, on Saturday. The victims have been identified as Rajbir Singh (20) and his cousin Simranjot Singh (15), both residents of Khakh village.  The Verowal police have booked Harjinder Singh Tooti of Khakh village, who was driving the cart, under Sections 304-A, 427 and 279 of the IPC. Harjinder fled the spot after the accident, the police said. Investigating Officer (IO) ASI Avtar Singh said Rajbir Singh was driving the bike and his cousin Simarajot Singh was sitting pillion. He said the victims were going to Dhota village on their bike. When they reached near Jatti Umra T-Point, the cart hit their motorcycle and both died on the spot, the IO said. On the statement of Ishar Singh, father of Rajbir Singh, the police had registered a case. After postmortem, the bodies were handed over to family members, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-cousins-killed-in-road-accident-134108
31-08-2020||Amritsar||Exemption from late fee sought||Three mobiles seized from jailAmritsar: Mobiles phones and other prohibited material continue to sneaked into the high security Amritsar Central Jail, if the recent seizures are anything to go by. The jail authorities on Saturday confiscated three mobile phones, two from jail inmates during a routine search. Bhagwant Singh, Assistant Superintendent of the Jail, said a mobile phone was seized, along with battery and SIM card, from Bhupinder Singh of Hoshiarpur who was lodged in Barrack No. 5. Similarly, another mobile phone was seized from Ramandeep Singh, alias Ramma alias Deep of Kotla Tarkhana village, lodged in Barrack No. 8. One mobile phone was found unclaimed on the premises. On a complaint lodged by the jail authorities, the police have registered two separate cases under the Prisons Act against the accused. TNSThieves strike at liquor vendAmritsar: Two motorcycle-borne persons stole from the cash box of the liquor vend at Nath Di Khuhi village under the Mehta Police station here on Friday. A vend employee was counting cash before putting up the shutters, when the two youths came on a bike and pointed a pistol at him. They took the money and fled from the spot, said Anil Chawla, the employee. He said one of the youths was a Sikh. On his statement, the police have registered a case under Section 379-B (2) and 34 of the IPC against unknown persons. Further investigations are underway. TNS4 booked for firing shotsTarn Taran: Four unidentified persons had been booked under Sections 452, 336 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 25, 27, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act by Chohla Sahib for firing at the house of Chamkaur Singh of the village. Investigating officer Sub-Inspector Parkash Singh said the accused trespassed on the residence of Chamkaur Singh and fire two shots which struck the doors of the house. The accused managed to flee the spot after committing the crime. The members of the family hid themselves in the rooms of the house. oc||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/exemption-from-late-fee-sought-134109
31-08-2020||Quote||‘Perception of people towards +ve patients disappointing’||(As told to PK Jaiswar)When the pandemic was quickly spreading and central jails across the state were staring at the potential risk of having aplenty of cases, the Punjab Government took the decision to decongest jails by releasing inmates, facing minor charges, besides the elderly lodged in jails.This increased the workload of the staff who worked hard to release the prisoners on bail. However, the fear of jails becoming virus clusters was not unwarranted, as soon many staff members started getting infected with the virus. DSP Hemant Sharma was one of them.He goes on to share his experience…“I remained asymptomatic and I was advised home isolation, but it was very difficult to keep myself stress free and motivated during the quarantine period. When you have young children and elderly people with you, there is always a fear of them catching the virus. Though, my other family members including my mother (65) and aunt (68) fortunately tested negative, I started living in a separate room on the third floor. My wife, SP Tarn Taran Richa Agnihotri was also advised home isolation. My 2-year-old son was staying with her. “Even after living in the same house, I did not meet my son.“In order to keep myself motivated, I remained involved in physical activities. I used to do workout in the morning besides doing yoga and meditation. I believe keeping yourself stress free and physically active is the mantra to defeat the virus.“However, what was disappointing during the period was the perception of people towards Covid patients. They attach some kind of stigma with the disease, which is very disappointing. People need to change their mentality and be sympathetic towards patients. Nevertheless, my gunmen and other staff members helped us a lot during these testing times.“The policemen and doctors were working as frontline warriors and this should be respected.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/perception-of-people-towards-ve-patients-disappointing-134111
31-08-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Unsafe buildings in Amritsar pose a threat to lives of residents||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, August 30Old and unsafe buildings in the city are posing a threat to the lives of residents as these may collapse anytime due to heavy rain during the monsoon.During the last rain on Friday, three old buildings collapsed, claiming four lives.According to the last survey by the MC in 2017, there were around 125 unsafe buildings in the city. The MC had reportedly issued notices to the owners of these buildings. No survey has been conducted after that.However, a number of such buildings have collapsed due to rain and claimed several lives. Despite this, the MC did not take any preventive measures prior to the onset of the monsoon this year. Officials of the civic body have only issued notice in case of complaints by neighbours, but have not followed up the cases.Last year, buildings in the walled city, Ghee Madi, Katra Ahluwalia Bazaar, Guru Bazaar, Pratap Bazaar, Cheel Mandi, and around the Golden Temple collapsed due to downpour. A MC official said notices were served on owners of old buildings, asking them to either get these repaired or vacate these and move to a safer place. MC officials claimed they were unable to take any action in the matter as several cases were sub judice.Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu assured of taking action in this regard. A large numbers of buildings in the city are centuries old. Sikh shrines, akharas (sects), bhungas and seminaries are in a good condition as theses have been renovated a number of times. A number of buildings of the British-era are still in a good shape. Most of the unsafe buildings are residential which owners are not keen to demolish or renovate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/unsafe-buildings-in-amritsar-pose-a-threat-to-lives-of-residents-134112
31-08-2020||Does the lack of smartphones among students hinder access to education?||Provide free smartphone to every student in state||Provide mobiles at cheaper ratesThe survey suggests that in most rural areas, students do not have a smartphone to attend online classes. Even though the government is working towards giving better education, there is need of technological education, which includes computer literacy. In my opinion, textbooks must be provided and classes should be conducted once a week in schools to check students' performance and students of a particular class should be divided into groups for online studies. Tablets must be distributed among students of rural and remote areas. However, poor internet connection is one of the major problems being faced by students in rural areas. The pandemic has affected people, especially parents and children's education. The government should provide smartphones and tablets at cheaper rates to students, especially the poor ones.Khushpreet Kaur BrarAll political parties must come forwardKeeping in view the rapidly rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, classroom teaching is not possible in the near future. The government has started online studies but a majority of the poor students do not have a smartphone. Hence their studies are suffering. Till date, the government could distribute phones to students of Class XII only. As the future of the young students of the state is at stake, all major political parties should provide free a smartphone to each student of the state. They should put in all their energy just as they do during the election time. They even go abroad for collecting funds for the elections. With the same enthusiasm and spirit seen at the poll time, they should collect funds and provide phones to students. Besides, big business houses should also donate money for this cause under corporate social responsibility.Naresh JoharMore Innovative ideas are neededSchool education during the Covid era is heavily dependent on mobile phones. NCERT survey is based on students of the Education Ministry-run Kendriya Vidyalayas, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas, which are meant for gifted students from rural areas and Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools to understand the effectiveness of online learning measures. Majorities of these students belong to well to do families and can bear all the expenses. Of course, the situation is likely to be far grimmer at state-funded schools and the poorer private schools where the majority of students study. Students find online classes difficult or burdensome with most students facing problems in understanding various concepts. Moreover, poor internet connectivity, difficulty in accessing content on phones, lack of knowledge in using devices for learning, erratic power supply and non-availability of devices are among the major hindrances hampering online learning. Paucity of devices among teachers and their unfamiliarity with the devices and online teaching methods also created roadblocks. The government should provide required gadgets to the students who do not possess the amenities for online classes. Community mobile banks may be created where people can donate old but functional mobile phones. Help may be taken from governments, charity organisations, companies under CSR and alumni for obtaining smart phones.Gursharan Singh KainthNo substitute for classroom teachingThere is no denying the fact that the lack of phones hinders access to education. Around 27% students allegedly have no access to smart phones and laptops to attend online classes despite the government having distributed smartphones to class XII students free of charge to fulfill one of its promises made during the State Assembly elections. Many students and parents assert that the erratic power supply plays spoilsport in their online teaching-learning process. Lack of knowledge of using devices effectively for concrete educational purposes further adds to their woes. Besides, teachers are not well versed with online teaching methodology and techniques to impart education to students for whom it is altogether a novel proposition to receive education online. Though online teaching is well intended , it cannot be the substitute for the classroom system.Tarsem S BumrahSchool libraries can lend a helping handIn the new normal everything across the spectrum is under transformation. However, education has been sorely hit. The only viable solution visible to this predicament is taking online sessions the way the courts are operating. No doubt that the online education system is discriminatory in itself. Not every student can have access to it as lack of mobile phones, internet connection and skills to operate it but it is a necessary evil. Though the government is doing their best by distributing smartphones but it will only benefit a handful. A lot more can be done in this direction to ensure accessibility to all. In the first place, teachers should adopt different ways to teach students. Taking online sessions via mobile apps would not suffice. Schools and colleges should allow students to use library so that who do not have books or cannot afford to buy can get it's xerox from the school libraries. Teachers should also come forward to guide the children through their studies. They should be approachable so that students do not hesitate to bring their problems to them.Shivangi AroraTV, radio could be the answerSchool education in times of pandemic is heavily dependent on mobile phones, laptops, etc. Most households have access to mobile phones. But at the same time many also don't have smartphones. Although the state has provided free smartphones to class XII students, same should be done for class X and Class XI too. The government should provide poor students with electronic devices to help them participate in e-learning. Broadband, telecom and electronic companies should also help by offering cheap smartphones and free of cost or cheap data plans to such students. Further steps can be taken for making education easily accessible to students which include telecasting lectures for students on TV channels and audio classes could be aired on the radio. Worksheets and other materials can be delivered to students with newspapers in all languages on weekly basis and a query and assignment box can be installed at the school, wherein the students can drop off their assignments and queries.Saanya AggarwalMany poor students need govt helpThe Covid-19 pandemic has forced the government and private schools across the country to suspend classroom teaching and shift to online classes. The Punjab Government has promised that the distribution of smartphones to Class XII students studying in government schools will be completed by November 2020 to facilitate e-learning during these difficult times. With the help of the Internet, learning has shifted to online medium. The states all over the country are now beginning to go for e-learning. Now the question is: “Will the government be able to fulfil the promise?” A large number of students of government schools are still unable to attend online classes because they do not have the money to buy a smartphone. These students are totally dependent on the government for help. In such a situation, the government needs to act swiftly so that such students get smartphones to attend online classes amid the pandemic.Saahil HansQUESTIONOn the one hand the number of Covid cases is rising in the state, but on the other the Centre has decided to lift restrictions on social gatherings in Unlock 4. Do you think the decision of the Union Government is well advised?Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (September 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/provide-free-smartphone-to-every-student-in-state-134113
