31-03-2020||Tarn Taran||Jan Dhan accounts: Bank mitras seek to do away with biometrics||Bank mitras, who are village-level representatives of several banks, are worried as officials have instructed them to use biometric machines to handle Jan Dhan and social security accounts.A banking correspondent on Monday said besides, employees were also marking their attendance manually and benefits of various schemes, including atta dal, were given to beneficiaries without using the biometric system. He said according to new instructions of banks, they had been asked to operate biometric machines to handle Jan Dhan accounts and other facilities.Banking correspondents have urged the administration to do away with this system for time being to withdraw money from Jan Dhan accounts and use other social security schemes. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/jan-dhan-accounts-bank-mitras-seek-to-do-away-with-biometrics-63529
31-03-2020||---||Use COVA app for curfew passes||Amritsar, March 30The district administration has asked residents to use COVA app to get emergency passes for movement during the curfew, instead of rushing to offices.The officials said soon other services such as online delivery of grocery and other essentials would also be accepted at the mobile app. Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said residents would also be able to get information of home-quarantined people in their areas. The services on the app are available in Punjabi, Hindi and English languages.Dhillon said the mobile app would help residents in getting authentic information about government instructions on the issue. He said after receiving the requests for emergency passes, it would be delivered at the registered mobile number of the applicant.He said the testing capacity of suspected coronavirus patients at Government Medical College has been doubled in the view of the ongoing threat. He said the new PCR machine to ensure speedy test reports has also been installed at Government Medical College.Meanwhile, Civil Surgeon Prabhdeep Kaur Johal conducted a meeting with health officials to review the work being done to protect residents from coronavirus threat. She said the Health Department employees were working 24X7 in this medical emergency time. She also appealed to residents to follow lockdown guidelines and avoid coming out of their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/use-cova-app-for-curfew-passes-63528
31-03-2020||---||Rumour-mongering a challenge for police||Amritsar, March 30At a time when the country is facing a grave crisis in view of Corona pandemic, cops on duty are trying to control the law and order situation and urging people from taking precautions while purchasing household goods. Not only this, they are facing another daunting challenge of rumour-mongering and circulation of fake information on social-media platforms.The police have warned against circulation of videos on social platforms without checking its veracity. On Sunday, a video went viral on social media in which several youngsters were accusing cops of thrashing them and a youth was seen injured. The video was claimed to be of Amritsar.The local police had to release a clarification in this connection that no such incident had occurred in the city. “It is categorically stated that this was some old video and it is not related to Amritsar or Amritsar police,” said a police spokesman in a message to the media.The police officials said such nefarious rumour-mongering provoking public sentiment at this crucial time of national crisis is a blatant shameful act. More so in the light of the tireless efforts being made by the Punjab Police to leave no stone unturned in helping the citizens, said Police Commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill.He said strict action under the provisions of law would be taken against those who seek to disturb the harmony and social fabric of society.“Though a majority of people are doing their bit by helping others, there are some who are indulging in rumour-mongering that could create some law and order problems. We will not tolerate this and appropriate action will be taken against such elements,” the Police Commissioner said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rumour-mongering-a-challenge-for-police-63527
31-03-2020||---||Agriculture SIs to donate one day’s salary to CM relief fund||Neeraj BaggaAmritsar, March 30The wholesale grocery and vegetable markets were opened in the morning hours on Monday.Retailers replenished dwindling stock of groceries and vegetables. However, the norms of social distancing were not followed and people were seen standing in close proximity with each other.Majith Mandi, Swank Mandi, Dhab Wasti Ram and areas around housing wholesale markets of cereals, pulses, spices, snacks, oil and other eatables witnessed the arrival of retailers from different parts of the district.Similar, scenes were witnessed at wholesale vegetable market at Vallah and fruit market outside the Hall Gate. Both were opened and visitors were seen buying vegetables and fruit in bulk.Miniscule traffic was also witnessed on roads during early hours. Vendors were seen selling vegetable and fruit in streets.However, retailers were getting eatables at rates more than the rate list issued by the district administration. For instance, potato at Rs40 per kg, ginger Rs150 per kg, cauliflower Rs50 per kg, carrot Rs30 per kg, okra Rs80 per kg, capsicum Rs80 per kg and bean Rs60 per kg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/agriculture-sis-to-donate-one-days-salary-to-cm-relief-fund-63526
31-03-2020||---||Multiple distribution drives to cover needy, migrant families||Amritsar, March 30Phulkari CAN, a philanthropic wing of Phulkari Women of Amritsar, distributed essential ration to 280 families of daily wage labourers in Takia Chanan and more than 120 families of daily wage labourers in Shekh Wala Kharkhana. It marked the start of periodic distribution of essential commodities to the needy by Phulkari CAN till the situation normalises.“The distributions are a part of COVID19-HELP THE HELPLESS  campaign started by Phulkari CAN to help that section of society which is without any means of sustenance or otherwise in need, due to Covid-19 preventive measures,” said Dr Rashmi Vij, executive member, Phulkari CAN, who supervised the distribution with all precautionary measures required to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Additional Commissioner of Police, Jatinder Sharma, facilitated the distribution process with the help of Punjab Police personnel, who joined the volunteers. “The food packets were made with donations collected by Phulkari CAN. Phulkari CAN has also partnered with Golden Temple Kar Sewa for the distribution of langar to those in need, which started with distribution to 400 local daily wagers in Islamabad, Verka; 150-200 migrant labour from UP and Bihar in Verka, who will be provided langar on a daily basis. More areas with people in desperate need of food will be included soon,” Dr Vij said. Nidhi Sindhwani, president, Phulkari CAN, said: “These extraordinary times call for each one of us to rise to the occasion. We are making a concerted effort to identify such areas that require aid and with the help of the administration, police and local volunteers will make appropriate arrangements for the distribution of ration packets.”Another initiative under this campaign is a move to encourage citizens to prevent stray animals from starving due to the lockdown by placing food and water for them outside their homes. The All-India Pingalwara Charitable Trust, too, came forward to help over 500 families in need of ration and essential items. “We have already procured and prepared the ration for distribution. We will collaborate with the district administration to ensure smooth and fair distribution of supplies,” said Col Darshan Bawa, co-ordinator, Pingalwara Trust.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/multiple-distribution-drives-to-cover-needy-migrant-families-63525
31-03-2020||Amritsar||Grocery retailers replenish dwindling stock||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/grocery-retailers-replenish-dwindling-stock-63524
31-03-2020||---||Post Graduate doctor fearing Covid infection tests negative||Amritsar, March 30A post-graduate student-cum-junior resident doctor at Government Medical College here has been admitted to isolation ward. The student had posted a tweet tagging Chief Minister saying that she had developed symptoms of coronavirus but was facing trouble in getting the test done.The student stated that she visited the isolation ward a few days back to get a mask and might have caught the infection there. Civil surgeon Dr Prabhdeep Kaur Johal said the student was insisting to stay at the hostel and was not willing to get admitted to the isolation ward. “We admitted her to the isolation ward and sent her samples for testing which tested negative,” said the Civil Surgeon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/post-graduate-doctor-fearing-covid-infection-tests-negative-63523
31-03-2020||
||Admn efforts help bring down prices of veggis||Amritsar, March 30 The efforts made by the district administration to streamline the delivery of vegetables, especially allowing sabzi mandi to operate on all days, has resulted in bringing the prices down to quite an extent.  The vegetables were priced extremely high in the city in the past few days. The administration has also released a list of wholesale and retail prices of different vegetables to check overpricing by vegetable vendors.  As per the rate list issued by the market committee, the wholesale and retail prices of tomato were ranging between Rs10 and Rs16 (wholesale) and Rs20 and Rs25 (retail) per kg, respectively. However, in the last few days, it was costing as high as Rs80 to Rs100 per kg.  The prices of pumpkin as per the list are between Rs7 and Rs10 (wholesale) and Rs12 and Rs15 (retail). Astonishingly, it was sold at a high price of Rs100 per kg during the initial three days of lockdown. The price of onion, as fixed in the list, is Rs10 to Rs22 (wholesale) and Rs30 to Rs40 (retail).  Even as the difference in wholesale and retail prices of vegetables in normal days was high and consumers had often complained of high prices, it had further increased post lockdown, as a few sellers had started exploiting the need of residents.  “The decision of the administration to fix the rates of different vegetables and making it public will now help residents in reporting incidents of overcharging by vendors. Earlier, they were totally at vendors’ mercy, as they did not know the wholesale prices,” said Supreet Kaur, a resident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/admn-efforts-help-bring-down-prices-of-veggis-63522
31-03-2020|| 
||Kapurthala prisoner who escaped custody arrested||Amritsar, March 30 A Kapurthala jail inmate, who escaped from police custody in Amritsar a week ago, was arrested within 24 hours from his residence. A complaint was, however, lodged with the police on Sunday, following which a case was registered against the prisoner identified as Bhupinder Singh, alias Sanju, a resident of Basti Gujjran in Jalandhar.  According to the police, Bhupinder was lodged in jail for possessing drugs under the NDPS Act. On March 23, his health condition deteriorated and he was referred to Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. He was suffering from epilepsy. When he was admitted to the hospital, a cop was busy in completing formalities, while another cop was with him. He pretended that he was semiconscious. The cop who was with him took a break and was having tea. Taking the advantage of the situation, Bhupinder fled from the hospital premises. The jail guards immediately sounded alert and informed their higher-ups about the incident. As the curfew was imposed in the entire state following Corona pandemic, he went to his house in Jalandhar, where jail guards were keeping a watch.  As he came to his house, jail wardens Balkar Singh, Raj Kumar and Angrej Singh nabbed him and handed him over to the police. As the prisoner was nabbed within 24 hours, the Jail Department took departmental action against the guards and lodged an FIR against the jail inmate. A case under Section 224 of the IPC was registered against him.  99 released on parole  As many as 99 jail inmates lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail were released on parole and interim bail in the view of Covid pandemic. The step was taken to decongest the jail complex where around 3,400 prisoners and undertrials were lodged against the capacity of 2,200 inmates. Duty magistrate PPS Goraya from the district administration and jail officials headed by superintendent jail Arshdeep Singh Gill were present on the occasion.  They said a total of 289 jail inmates were released in the past three days. As per the criteria laid for their release, no inmate with imprisonment of more than seven years was released. Besides, the prisoners lodged under charges of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, sexual harassments and rape, acid attacks, the NDPS Act with more than 3 years of imprisonment and inmates lodged under unlawful activities will not be released under the drive. Gill said old age prisoners who were imprisoned for less than 10 years and aged over 65 years were also released on 40-day parole.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/kapurthala-prisoner-who-escaped-custody-arrested-63521
31-03-2020||---||Sans money, pensioners a harried lot||Amritsar, March 30Pensioners were a harried lot on Monday as the government and various branches of national and private banks failed to release their pension on time. Amid the undergoing curfew, the state government had announced to open banks to felicitate the release of pension for two days starting Monday.Gurdeep Singh Randhawa, a retired Principal, said: “We kept standing outside the bank branch for over an hour, but to no avail. After looking at my account book, the officials did not give any reasonable answer. Normally, the pension is deposited in our accounts on the 27th of every month.”Shingara Singh, another pensioner, said: “Uncertainty has been bothering us over the release of our pension ever since the 21-day curfew was clamped down. I was asked to come on Monday to get my pension, but to no avail.”Similar scenes of pensioners gathering outside different branches of banks were witnessed in the city.At a bank branch on Dhapai Road, Jaswinder Kaur of the CPI approached the police for the smooth distribution of pension among people.Officials said banking services were opened to offer cash to people while the national curfew was enforced.The banks opened on Monday and will remain open on Tuesday as well. From April 3, the banks will be opened for two days a week.Besides, they have to adhere to the norms of social distancing while discharging banking solutions. In this scenario, they were issuing token numbers to only those customers, who could be accommodated on Monday. They said customers of all kinds would have to cooperate with the staff to stop the spread of virus and smoothly discharge services.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sans-money-pensioners-a-harried-lot-63520
