31-10-2020||Amritsar||Mentally disabled girl (10) molested||Road safety officer appointedAmritsar: The Tarn Taran police have appointed a road safety officer in order to guide the department in road safety management thereby reducing the number of road mishaps. Dhruman H Nimbale, SSP, Tarn Taran, said as per the directions of the ADGP (Traffic), a road safety officer had been appointed who would identify the black spots in the district where road accidents occurred regularly thereby claiming precious lives. He would guide the police department for taking steps that would help in reducing accidents on these spots. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mentally-disabled-girl-10-molested-163801
31-10-2020||---||2 lose Covid battle, 39 new cases in Amritsar||Amritsar, October 30The district reported two deaths on Friday, taking the death toll to 454 in the district. Those who lost the battle against the deadly virus include 65-year-old Bhagwant Singh of Sultanwind Road and 60-year-old Devraj of Amritsar.Meanwhile, 39 new cases of the Covid-19 disease were reported by the Health Department. As per the data released by the department, as many as 11,863 persons had been infected with the virus out of which 11,078 were cured of the disease.At present, 331 patients were under treatment. Around 31 patients were discharged after recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/2-lose-covid-battle-39-new-cases-in-amritsar-163802
31-10-2020||Amritsar||Headless body of migrant labourer found||A migrant from Uttarakhand was found brutally murdered near the railway tracks near the Khasa area here on Thursday evening. His head and arms were found chopped and missing from the spot.Initially, the police suspected that his head was chopped off to hide his identity. However, the police found a voter identity card from near the body following which the victim was identified as Kulbant Singh, a resident of Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand. Later, his wife Swarn Kaur and son Jaswinder, who arrived on Friday, confirmed it as that of Kulbant Singh. Sukhwinder Singh Malhi, SHO, Government Railway Police, said after finding the voter card, the police approached the Uttarakhand police through which they located the victim’s family.He said earlier the body was kept in the mortuary for identification. It appeared that the body was dumped there around two days ago. He said the postmortem examination of the victim would be conducted at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/headless-body-of-migrant-labourer-found-163805
31-10-2020||---||State-level birth anniv function of 
Lord Valmiki at Ram Tirath today||Amritsar, October 30To celebrate Lord Valmiki’s Revelation Day, a ‘Shobha Yatra’ was organised by the Valmiki Milap Sabha here on Friday. Om Parkash Soni, Minister of Medical Education and Research, was the chief guest at the shobha yatra. Soni announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh to the Bhagwan Valmiki Milap Sabha, Gudam Mohalla, and Rs 10 lakh to Central Valmiki Temple. Amritsar is the land of gurus and saints and many scriptures have been written on this land, Soni said. He said the need of the hour was to base our life on the teachings of Lord Valmiki. He also flagged off a langar sewa at Khazana Gate and distributed langar among sangat.The Punjab Government was celebrating the birth anniversary of Lord Valmiki across the state with a state-level function to be held at Ram Tirath on October 31. He said that during this time online virtual events would be organised across the state during which Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh would also participate. Virtual functions would be held on October 31 at 11.45 am in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/state-level-birth-anniv-function-of-lord-valmiki-at-ram-tirath-today-163809
31-10-2020||---||Farmers oppose Centre’s ordinance on air pollution||Amritsar, October 30Farmers and Kisan union leaders opposed the Centre’s new ordinance to control air pollution, under which a violator can be sent to jail for five years and penalised Rs 1 crore for burning crop residue.Opposing the ordinance introduced by the Centre, Sarwan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee said the agriculture sector accounts for only six per cent of the total pollution while industry pollution is up to 51 per cent and vehicles’ share is 25 per cent. If the government is concerned about pollution, then they should enact to curb industrial pollution. With a sense of revenge, the Centre has brought this ordinance.”Satnam Singh Pannu, a farm leader, said, “We have submitted a memorandum to the government to implement recommendations of the National Green Tribunal instead of this anti-farmer law, which calls for a fine of Rs one crore. The NGT recommends that the government should provide straw management mechanism and agricultural machinery to farmers for free. The government should pay Rs 2,500 per acre to farmers to manage crop residue in the fields. Instead of providing solution, the government has decided to suppress farmers with such laws, which is not acceptable.”Meanwhile, the dharna entered the 37th day. The protesting farmer unionists met a delegation of the state government led by Tript Singh Bajwa and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. The union leaders opposed the state government’s Bills passed by the Cabinet to negate the Centre’s Acts.Gurbachan Singh Chabba, secretary, Kisan Union, said, “The Centre is not operating goods trains. Farmers have vacated railway tracks, but the government wants to take revenge from the farmers of Punjab and suspended services of trains without any reason.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-oppose-centres-ordinance-on-air-pollution-163806
31-10-2020||---||Minor girl kidnapped, molested||Amritsar, October 30In a shocking incident, a 12-year-old girl was kidnapped by unknown persons from her house in the wee hours on Thursday leading to panic and tension in Dharad village falling under the Jandiala police station here.However, they later left the victim outside her house at around 5 am. The incident left the girl in the shock who only told her family that the unknown persons had molested her. Following the complaint lodged by victim’s paternal aunt, the police have registered a case under Sections 365 and 354-A of the IPC and Section 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.The complainant told the police that her brother-in-law and his wife were mentally challenged and they had a 12-year-old daughter. She said on Thursday she was sleeping with her grandmother. She said at around 3.30 am, some unknown persons barged into their house and bundled the girl into their car and fled. She said they tried to locate them but failed to find the girl. She said at around 5 am they left the girl outside the house.She said when the girl arrived she was in utter shock and did not say anything but she was teased and molested by the unidentified persons.Police authorities said they had detained a person on suspicion and further investigations were under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/minor-girl-kidnapped-molested-163807
31-10-2020||GETTING infected with the Covid-19 disease does not mean that one has to live in fear long after he has recovered. Now||‘No need to live in fear after recovery’||The fact that the virus leaves the patient physically exhausted would not be entirely incorrect as the first impact that it has is on one’s mind. For me, the first symptom was when I lost my sense of taste and smell. Working throughout the pandemic in the field had always put me at risk that I thought I was prepared for, until I tested positive. Two days of high fever and initial symptoms like no sense of taste and smell, incessant coughing and body weakness, I tested positive along with four other members of my family, including my husband and 70-year-old father-in-law.The mandatory quarantine period was when I found myself in crisis management mode. One has to be cautious but should not panic. All this while, my symptoms were restricted to a minor chest infection and cough that eventually cured over time. After a week in quarantine, the Covid threat became very real for us when my father-in-law, who was asymptomatic in the beginning, developed chronic Covid pneumonia and his condition deteriorated within 24 hours.That when we had to make a choice between getting him hospitalised or choosing home care. The most difficult aspect of the disease is not the treatment but to brave out the sudden physiological changes it causes in your body. Exhaustive cough, blood red eyes and muscle cramps that would make you wish you did not have legs, difficulty in breathing, anxieties about the disease…the list is long. All this while, the doctors were telling us to keep ourselves distracted by indulging in positive activities that I now understand is the best remedy for all your Covid-related anxieties.After the 15-day quarantine period, we tested negative though my father-in-law took almost a month to recover from pneumonia. The residual symptoms lasted for over a month for others as well and were equally exhausting. It includes stomach infections, muscle pains, severe headaches, fatigue, nerve compressions and low platelet count. Before we had got infected, my family and I were building our immunity by rigorously following all the do’s and don’ts. But it could not save us from falling ill. What we have learnt from the experience is that we have to find our strength, physically and mentally, and be positive.By Neha Saini||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-need-to-live-in-fear-after-recovery-163808
31-10-2020||PK Jaiswar||Historic Ram Bagh lies in utter state of neglect||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 30Residents of the holy city are peeved over pathetic condition of the historic Ram Bagh popularly known as Company Bagh. Located right in the heart of the city, Ram Bagh is crying for attention while custodians of the heritage structure have turned a blind eye towards wild growth and heaps of garbage.The sprawling complex of the heritage garden is a favourite among health freaks. “Ram Bagh was a summer abode of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and later turned into resting place by Britishers. It is now crying for attention. It presents a picture of neglect with heaps of garbage scattered amid wild grass when someone enters from Madan Mohal Malviya road,” said Anil Vinayak, a retired bank employee.Another resident, Sandeep Sharma, pointed out that the area has become a safe haven for bad elements who roam freely due to the absence of regular patrolling by the police.“The garden is maintained near Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Mahatama Gandhi’s statue while other part is totally neglected by the authorities concerned,” said Sharma and added that the garden has turned into a dump yard.“It is ironical that under the Smart City Project, the Hall Gate and Circular Road outside the walled city are being given a heritage look, while the actual heritage structures are being deserted,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, a local resident.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said the part which had been neglected comes under the purview of the Archaeological Survey of India.He said they had neither completed the conservation project nor handed over the same to the Municipal Corporation. “We face the backlash as a common man is not aware about this. The area which is under our jurisdiction is intact while the Archaeological Survey of India does not allow us to interfere in the area, which is under their purview. We will send a reminder to them,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/historic-ram-bagh-lies-in-utter-state-of-neglect-163795
31-10-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Every house becomes a school now||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, October 30As the pandemic struck, students, especially of primary and secondary classes, learnt to study on their own during the seven months of lockdown. Relying just on the online platforms for studies, there seems to be no separation between the home time and playtime. By now, most of the students have imbibed the habit of checking their phones early in the morning for any messages from their teachers.Sifting through videos on different topics and saving the links of the best out of them for future references has become the new normal as taking down notes on paper seems outdated these days. Taking online lessons on a particular topic seems easier to students than going through the notebooks.“My parents never allowed me to use the family desktop fearing that I might change the settings unintentionally. But now, things have changed. They have bought one for me too,” said Harshpreet, a Class VII student. She said apart from watching videos sent by the teacher she has made a bank of her own from those available online.Most of the students have already learned the tools required for making an online search. “Initially, it was difficult as using right keywords is very important. But, months of trials and errors, searching for a good source is not a problem anymore,” said Manpreet Singh, a Class XI student.Even most of the parents, who in the absence of any knowledge about teaching pedagogies, were caught off guard, now seem to have realised that they need to upgrade them. Monica Sharma, parent of a three-year-old said, “It was my daughter’s first year. I suddenly realised how difficult it is to teach a child to write.” She said over the months and with help from Internet and friends, she has managed to acquire quite a few teaching skills.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/every-house-becomes-a-school-now-163796
31-10-2020||Gurbaxpuri||It’s getting from bad to worse day by day in Jandiala Guru||Tarn Taran, October 30Arguably one of the busiest towns, Jandiala Guru, is just another victim of the local administration’s delinquency, particularly of the Municipal Council, Tarn Taran. With each passing day, the condition of the Jandiala road, which links National Highway No. 54 to the local stretch here, is worsening.It is teeming with the town’s premier educational institutions like Mata Ganga Girls College, Sri Guru Arjun Dev Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sri Guru Harkrishan Public School and Bhai Veer Singh Birdh Ghar, an oasis for the aged people. The residence of local MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri, too, is situated in vicinity. The railway crossing here, which joins Jandialu Guru township, is inevitably prone to accidents. Apart from this, it also leads to the bus stand, grain market, offices related to the Mandi Board like the District Mandi Officer (DMO) and so on.“The road was repaired about five years with the main fault lying in the central curve of the road which makes it accident prone. Ever since the installation of the sewerage pipes the road has not been repaired and it has been ages,” a shopkeeper of the area said.The whole situation gains more tension at the railways crossing when it is closed and long queues of the vehicles piled up at the site take longer than usual to pass causing inconvenience to the flow of traffic. Kamaljit Singh, Executive Officer (EO) of Municipal Council, said the tender for the maintenance of the road had been floated and the work is expected to start soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/its-getting-from-bad-to-worse-day-by-day-in-jandiala-guru-163797
31-10-2020||
||Food for Thought to tickle taste buds of masses amid pandemic||Amritsar, October 30 At a time when businesses are grappling with the adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic, Phulkari, a women’s group in the city, has been trying to promote Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) through a campaign, which connects Amritsar’s food lovers with its entrepreneurship aspirations. Launching its pilot project ‘Food for Thought’, the group aims to highlight and connect local food entrepreneurs through social media platforms that promise more than 7000+ followers. From organising virtual weekend bistros (October 30 and 31, November 6 and 7) to webinars on food economy and launching a cookbook compiled of grandma’s recipes from home bakers, the campaign aims to give visibility to local produce and food experts. These weekends will allow the citizens to order food of 11 home chefs from a common menu giving them greater visibility and an increase in their clientele base. “Phulkari had promoted 75 MSMEs in the month of May alone when relaxations were given and businesses needed a boost. Under ‘Food for Thought’ initiative, we have organised business-oriented activities and engagements that will ensure exchange of ideas between entrepreneurs and industry experts,” Phulkari chief Deepa Swani. “We are also coming up with a cookbook with home recipes of members. Its purpose is to document the age- old recipes, which have been passed from generation to generation,” said Swani.  The cookbook’s innovation lies in the fact that the recipes are shared not just by members who are food experts, but by others as well. This book is being endorsed by celebrity chefs, including Deepak and Samta Gupta. Deepak has managed 45 restaurants in Dubai, Doha, Bahrain and India Habitat Centre over the years. His culinary experience also includes assignments in London, Southampton, Glasgow and Birmingham. Gupta has cooked for MF Hussain and international supermodel Naomi Campbell. Her culinary experience ranges from Japan to New Zealand and Goa. She is a food consultant for several leading five star chains.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/food-for-thought-to-tickle-taste-buds-of-masses-amid-pandemic-163798
31-10-2020||---||Rangreta joins SAD (Taksali)||Amritsar, October 30Ajit Singh Rangreta, former chairman Punjab (SC) Land Development and Finance Corporation and his supporters today joined SAD (Taksali) in Amritsar.Welcoming Rangreta in the outfit, SAD (Taksali) chief Ranjit Singh Brahmpura said this would strengthen the party’s base in Majha region.He said Rangreta belongs to a Panthic family. “His father Ujagar Singh had played a prominent role in the Akali Dal and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). More such families are in touch with us,” he said.Brahmpura said like-minded parties should join hands to fight the SGPC elections followed by the Assembly polls. “People of Punjab are fed up of traditional parties like the Congress and SAD. We should give them a third option. There are several parties vying to come at a common platform,” he said.Criticising the Central Government’s anti-farm policies and revoking Rural Development Funds and goods trains to Punjab, Brahmpura said, “There can never be any issue that cannot be resolved through dialogue. The Centre should come forward instead of making confrontational moves,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rangreta-joins-sad-taksali-163799
31-10-2020||---||Building inspector’s husband ‘demands’ bribe; probe marked||Amritsar, October 30Municipal Corporation Commissioner Komal Mittal on Friday ordered to withdraw the charge of East Constituency from building inspector Harpreet Kaur after a complaint was made against her husband who was demanding a bribe of Rs 1 lakh from a building owner to allow him an illegal construction.The MC Commissioner had received a complaint from Manoj Chhabra, a resident of Shivala Colony, Muslamganj, that Rahul, husband of Harpreet Kaur, demanded the bribe. The complainant had submitted a phone recording to the Commissioner in which Rahul was asking him to give the first instalment of Rs 50,000.Recording submitted to MC CommissionerThe MC Commissioner had received a complaint from Manoj Chhabra, a resident of Shivala Colony, Muslamganj, that Rahul, husband of Harpreet Kaur, demanded the bribe. The complainant had submitted a phone recording to the Commissioner in which Rahul was asking him to give the first instalment of Rs50,000.On Thursday, Komal Mittal had issued a notice to building inspector Harpreet Kaur to explain her position regarding the complaint within 24 hours. Harpreet submitted her response today. Taking action on the complaint, Commissioner Komal Mittal instructed that the reply of Harpeet Kaur was not satisfactory and withdrew her charge of East Constituency. Now, she has been deployed at the head office.The Commissioner also marked a departmental inquiry into the case to the Additional Commissioner and asked to submit the report on the issue. “The further action would be taken after the inquiry report,” stated the MC Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/building-inspectors-husband-demands-bribe-probe-marked-163800
31-10-2020||Amritsar||Cop hurt in firing, 2 held in Amritsar||A constable was reportedly injured in firing by gangsters in the Majitha road bypass area here today. Navjot Singh, posted in the CIA staff wing, sustained a bullet injury in the chest and was taken to a hospital.Following a tip-off that gangster Prince, alias Jahaj, was supplying drugs in the area, a car was signalled to pull over near the Verka bypass, but the occupants opened fire at the police and sped away. Later, Jahaj and Randhir Singh of Haryana were nabbed following a chase. Jahaj is facing 20 criminal cases. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cop-hurt-in-firing-2-held-in-amritsar-163550
