31-12-2020||Amritsar||Two deaths, 35 new cases in Amritsar dist||Saplings planted at delhi bordersTarn Taran: The Kar Sewa Sect, Khadoor Sahib, started two decades ago to protect environment, planted saplings at Tikri, Palwal and Singhu borders of Delhi. The followers of the sect had gone to Delhi with ration and saplings. Baba Sewa Sigh, head of the sect, had returned his ‘Padma Shri’ award to the President of India in solidarity with the agitating farmers. Farm unions have been protesting against the three agri laws introduced by the Centre from the last couple of months. Bhai Davinder Singh of the sect said volunteers planted saplings at Singhu, Palwal and Tikri borders with the help of farmers. Bhai Gurpreet Singh said these plants would inspire the coming generations to fight for their rights. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/two-deaths-35-new-cases-in-amritsar-dist-191851
31-12-2020||---||Credit plan for Amritsar dist launched, will give a push to farm sector||Amritsar, December 30Ranbir Singh Mudhal, ADC (Development), launched the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) for 2021-22 with an outlay of Rs 13,368 crore for the border district on Wednesday. The PLP was launched at the District Consultative Committee. The PLP document covers the potential credit areas under the priority sector. The PLP outlay has been increased by approximately 1.21% from last year.He stressed on quality lending to farmers under modern farming practices and the need of nurturing farmer interest groups and FPOs so as to boost the district’s development. Bankers are guided to focus on the MSME sector as it plays crucial role in welfare of the district.NABARD district development manager Jaskirat Singh informed that agriculture credit should increase under investment credit so that capital formation in agriculture sector can take place. The theme for the year 2020-21 is ‘Collectivisation of agriculture produce for enhancing farmers Income’ to improve farm economy by adopting collectivization by farmers for both forward and backward linkages.Taking into account the above factors, the total projections of the PLP for the year 2021-22 have been estimated at Rs13,368 crore inclusive of Rs4,516 crore for crop loan, Rs 781 crore for term loan for agriculture allied, Rs521 crore for agriculture infrastructure, Rs608 crore for agriculture ancillary activities, Rs4,310 crore for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), Rs609 crore for export credit, Rs522 crore for education, Rs1,307 crore for housing, Rs32 crore for renewable energy, Rs80 crore for other categories and Rs77 crore for social infra indicating a growth of 1.21% over PLP 2020-21 projections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/credit-plan-for-amritsar-dist-launched-will-give-a-push-to-farm-sector-191850
31-12-2020||The administration was in no mood to redress the genuine grievance of the residents of the Sachkhand road||Clean up the mess||for the stray dogs, cows, pigs etc. The shopkeepers said they have requested the authorities to remove it but no action has been taken so far. The residents of the road said the SDM, Tarn Taran, who is the administrator of the municipality, was quite a fence sitter as he hasn’t taken up the issue till date.Dhotian: a sporty villageThe residents of Dhotian village have a rich history in sports at the national and international level for decades. A known wrestler Arjun Singh of the village, also called Arjun Dhoti was the ‘Rushtam-e-Hind’. At present Sarup Singh is the gold medallist in senior nationals in discus throw and Simarjit Kaur also got a gold in the National School Games. The village’s ‘tug of war’ team had garnered fame at the international level. The residents have preserved a photograph, which is more than hundred years old, with all its members in it. It was clicked in the year 1920-21 (pic). According to the history, the village’s team defeated opponents from the UK in 1904 in a competition held in London. Dr Gurdial Singh Gill (80), a retired Civil Surgeon and resident of the village said that the team also participated in a contest held in Delhi and Queen Victoria was the chief guest at the time. He said that each members of the team was given one Morabba (25 acres) land as a gift by the British government. Assa Singh, Thakar Singh, Arjun Singh, Daushanda Singh and others were among the top members of the team. The residents are keeping the spirit alive at present as they have opened a gym where the youth practice in the morning and evening hours.Mastering the stroke!Jaiveer Singh Aulakh, a Class V student of Delhi Public School (DSP), Amritsar, has a mind full of cricket history of the last two decades. He dreams to play for the national team one day. The son of a local medico couple, Jaiveer during the lockdown was smitten by the ‘cricket bug’. Having all the time in the world, he subsequently thought of fulfilling his passion for cricket. So, he went about reading stories about the lives of leading Indian cricketers parsing through the glimpses of the international ties of last two decades. He also utilised the already customised portion of his house as ‘nets’ for practice. However, the suicide of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput badly hurt him as Jaiveer is a big Dhoni fan and Sushant’s role in the biopic of the former India captain was his one of many sources of motivation. “Dance keeps me physically fit and singing ‘Chakk De India’ songs boosts my confidence,” the 10-year-old said. “With God’s grace, consistency and hard work, I hope to lead Indian cricket one day.Clubbing sports & jobsBhai Gurdas Youth Sports Club, Pandori Ran Singh village, is satiating the thirst for sports of the residents, particularly the youths. The club was established about 20 years back and has made arrangements for different sports like football, volleyball, athletics, wrestling, etc. Yodhbir Singh, former sarpanch of the village, who is the president of the club, said that it had given more than 100 players to the society, including several national level players. He said two youngsters were also playing for national basketball team and this could open the doors for jobs in the sports quota for them. Many national level football players, too, have brightened the name of the village. The club has its own gym. The teams of the club regularly take part in the tournaments from local to the national level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/clean-up-the-mess-191849
31-12-2020||Neha Saini||City-based IT professional & mother of two wins Mrs India Queen of Hearts pageant||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30A city-based IT professional and a mother of two, Harshita Mishra, has won the title of Mrs India West Zone at the Miss and Mrs India Queen Of Hearts — 2020 pageant held in Delhi recently. Mishra, who participated in a beauty pageant for the very first time, also won several titles such as Mrs Popular and Mrs Confident at the pageant. At 40, she was the oldest contestant in the category of the married women.Sharing her experience of winning the pageant, Harshita, said it was a surprise win for her family. “My husband and kids were pleasantly surprised when I told them that I won several titles. My husband couldn’t sleep during the night of the finale event as I was in Delhi and he was here,” she said. Calling her decision to enter the beauty pageant quite random, Harshita said she never considered herself a ‘beauty queen’. “All through my life, I had been studious, mostly academically inclined. The fact that I spent a major part of my life building a career and taking care of kids never really gave me a chance to consider for something like this. But during lockdown, I got to rediscover myself by taking care of myself, my fitness and pursuing other interests. My family encouraged me to enter the competition when I told them about the competition,” said Harshita.Preparing herself for the pageant was not a cakewalk for her. “I trained myself for hours every day, keeping a track of my fitness routine. I learnt to play flute to hone my skills for competition. I was working throughout the lockdown, helping kids with studies. It was exhausting. But it made me stronger,” she said. Her transformation, she said was more mental than physical.“I had always seen myself as an achiever but never thought that I could associate myself with beauty. I worked as a scientist with ISRO in the beginning of my professional life and later spent years in USA as an IT professional, raising kids while my husband was serving in Kashmir. So, for me, grooming myself in terms of physical appearance and mental makeup required time that I never had for myself. With this pageant and the support of my family, I have got an important opportunity and I am happy to enjoy my success. The true meaning of beauty, she said, comes through self-acceptance. Beauty should not be superficial. It lies in being true to yourself,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-based-it-professional-mother-of-two-wins-mrs-india-queen-of-hearts-pageant-191848
31-12-2020||---||GNDU to install portable ambient air quality sensor||Amritsar, December 30Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) elaborated upon the several initiatives it has undertaken in order to make the campus environment friendly and improve the air quality in and around it. In a webinar attended by distinguished scientist from Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, Prof J Srinivasan, VC Prof Jaspal Sandhu, informed that university would soon install portable ambient air quality sensor (PM2.5) as part of collaboration with Research Institute of Humanity and Nature (RIHN) Kyoto Japan.He said the Department of Botanical and Environmental Sciences, GNDU, is collaborating with atmospheric scientist Prof. Sachiko Hayashida from RIHN as part of working group on ‘Crop residue burning in North India’ under Aakash Project and GNDU will install portable ambient air quality sensor as part of collaboration.He also shared several other green initiatives like starting an electric bus service for transportation inside campus for students in the webinar. The webinar was hosted by UGC-Human Resource Development Centre, GNDU, is a flagship programme of UGC, New Delhi.Prof J Srinivasan, who was lead author and review editor of intergovernmental panel on climate change’s fourth assessment report on climate change for United Nation, talked about climate change modelling and challenges in mitigating the climate change. He emphasised that climate change was far greater challenge and need political will and reduced dependence on coal and carbon based fuels. Other experts in the panel included Prof AP Dimri, an expert of climate modelling from JNU New Delhi, who deliberated on climatology of north India along with monsoon trends. Dr Satnam Singh Ladhar, ex-director, Punjab State Council of Science and Technology, gave expert talk on impact of stubble burning on climate change.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-to-install-portable-ambient-air-quality-sensor-191847
31-12-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Amritsar MC House meet today||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30The General House meet of the Amritsar Municipal Corporation (MC) will be held at Ranjit Avenue office on Thursday afternoon.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu stated that all the health guidelines issued by the government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic will be followed. This will be the first General House meet in the last 10 months.The MC officials said the meeting will be attended by only councillors and heads of departments. The Mayor appealed the participants to wear masks and use sanitisers before the meeting.The councillors condemned the Mayor and MC officials for not announcing the meeting 72 hours before. Some councillors stated that they had not received agenda of the meeting.According to information, the House would discuss the proposal to improve air quality index of the city and ban on plastic bags. There is a proposal to notify slums to provide basic facilities. Several development proposals would also be discussed.It’s being expected that meeting would be a stormy affair as the Congress councillors and oppositions have several grievances with work orders passed through the Finance and Contract Committee. Objections raised on tendering proposal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-mc-house-meet-today-191846
31-12-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Home sweet home||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30While the festival season is in full bloom, the celebrations this season have been a low-key affair as people preferred to stay home and be with their families and close friends instead of going to hotels and restaurants for partying. The residents stated that the fear of coronavirus has changed the way these festivities were held.Even those who made it a point to be at a hill station on New Year’s Eve earlier have avoided going away from home to be safe. “For years we had been going to Shimla to celebrate. It is a kind of annual ritual but this year we would be staying home,” said Ragini Arora, a homemaker. She added that the present situation requires people to stay home and be safe.While the tendency to dine out has already squeezed in the past few months, the hotels and restaurants, which earlier sold costly entry tickets for New Year revels, are worried. A large number of these places used to host parties for the public on the day.Sukhwinder Singh, a resident, said, “People had to make booking in advance earlier but this time the public would prefer to celebrate at home.” He said that in view of the safety guidelines issued, the residents should avoid going out. Though the market places are gearing up for the celebrations, the shopkeepers have apprehensions that the people would not come out in such large numbers as they used to do in the previous years. “Shopkeepers are getting the decorative lights fixed as they did every year but the mood in the market is not upright,” said Rakesh Kumar, a shopkeeper.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/home-sweet-home-191828
31-12-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Tourism sector still in the doldrums||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, December 30On June 8, hotels and restaurants were allowed to reopen after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the local tourism industry has not reached the level of pre-Covid occupancy and tourist footfall even after over six months.Piyush Kapoor, general secretary, Amritsar Hotel and Restaurant Association (AHARA), said, failure of the Central Government in resolving farmers’ stir added to the woes of the industry.He said the stir led to disruption of rail connectivity for the couple of months. Four pairs of trains were operational, which was highly insufficient to bring in passengers. Kapoor said the hospitality sector continues to remain in doldrums. He said hotels were incurring losses on account of low occupancy as their running cost remains very high.Hoteliers were hoping against hope as a large number of tourists come to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple on New Year. Taxi operators demanded to conduct Retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah joint check-post and open Jallianwala Bagh to attract tourists.Malkiat Singh, a taxi operator said, as trains were not allowed to operate, majority of tourists came by their own vehicles and did not hired taxis.He said taxi operators had been rendered jobless and rued that the government has not formulated any policy to bail them out of financial crisis. Hoteliers and taxi operators said there was need to swiftly resume train service, increase domestic flights and reopen other tourist hotspots in the district to increase the footfall of tourists.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tourism-sector-still-in-the-doldrums-191829
31-12-2020||Amritsar||Open drains in walled city drive residents up the wall||Residents of the walled city raised objection over the open drains on both the sides of the streets near Kesar da Dhaba in Katra Moti Ram here today. The MC has been installing interlocking tiles in various streets of walled city area. While recarpeting the streets, the curve drains are being constructed for drainage of rainwater and waste in case of choking sewer lines.  Anil Khanna, a resident of Katra Moti Ram said, “The area is a tourist hub due to the Kesar da Dhaba in the vicinity. It  is awful to see waste littered in the open drains. Now, the MC is recarpeting the streets.”  Sandip Singh Executive Engineer of MC said, “We have an 8-inch sewer line in most of the densely populated inner city areas. The narrow sewer is not capable of draining out the waste. In case of blockage, the open drains are being used as an alternative. We have installed the pipes along with the manholes. If the residents allow us to remove their ramps, we will install pipes all over and close the curve drains. We will discuss the issue with the area residents tomorrow, said MC officials.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/open-drains-in-walled-city-drive-residents-up-the-wall-191830
31-12-2020|| 
||Ex-agriculture officials express solidarity with protesting farmers||Amritsar, December 30 The Retired Agriculture Officers Association, while expressing solidarity with the farmers protesting against the agriculture laws, has demanded from the Central Government to repeal the controversial laws. During a gathering at Bhandari Bridge to announce support for the farmers, the agriculture experts discussed the harmful effects of the laws on the agrarian society. They also lauded the farmers for the peaceful movement.  They stated that the concerns of the farmers were genuine and when corporate houses would come in the field of marketing of agricultural commodities, the existing government mandis would be exploited. Dr Dilbagh Singh Dhanju said, “The farmers understand the ploy of the Central Government and are justified in their demand for repeal of the laws. These laws will push the poor and middle class farmers towards complete poverty and will also stop rural development by stopping marketing fees.”   Dr Paramjit Singh Sandhu, Dr Gurdev Singh Kohli, Dr Rajesh Kumar Sharma and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/ex-agriculture-officials-express-solidarity-with-protesting-farmers-191831
31-12-2020|| 
||BJYM workers burn effigy of Cong MP Ravneet Bittu||Amritsar, December 30 Activists of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the youth wing of the BJP, burnt an effigy of Congress MP Ravneet Bittu during a protest outside Hathi Gate here on Wednesday.  District Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president Gautam Arora alleged that Bittu had tried to incite violence with his statement issued to a news channel. Bittu is the representative of the public and making such statements does not suits him, state Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha  (BJYM) in-charge Rajesh Honey said.  The agitators stated that Bittu with his ‘heaps of corpses’ remark had shown his true face and for him the human lives did not matter. The leaders stated that the Congress MP was fond of controversial statement so that he could stay in limelight.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bjym-workers-burn-effigy-of-cong-mp-ravneet-bittu-191832
31-12-2020||
||Technology made it possible to go beyond classrooms amid Covid||Amritsar, December 30 Now that all students and teaching fraternity have become well-versed with the new normal in education, majority of academicians believe that technology has turned out to be a breather.   With the re-opening of schools post lockdown, the offline classes did manage to bring normalcy back to school experience, but with the current threat of the new variant of Covid-19 looming large, educators feel that adopting digital learning tools such as computers, projectors and starting up smart classes, along with the conventional classroom teaching, would definitely help in safe continuation of the learning process.  Meenakshi Sial, educator and supervisor, Bhavan’s SL School, says that digital tools of learning have proved to simplify concepts of the most difficult subjects also such as maths, biology, chemistry and physics.  “Despite the reopening of schools for senior classes, we are yet to consider the impact of new Covid-19 strain and health safety of students from primary and middle classes. Regardless, the school education system has to adopt digital learning as a permanent feature. The technology is user friendly, self-explanatory and makes the learning process more fruitful. Technology made it possible for teachers to reach out to students like never before, with virtual classrooms now becoming extended classroom communities for discussion.”  She says that education has moved on from the traditional ‘chalk & talk’ method. “The Indian Government has also come up with various digital platforms for learning such as Diksha and Swayam app. Those platforms provide the learning opportunities not only to the students but also to teachers to upgrade their skills. In such a platform, classroom courses at one place can be recorded in the real-time and can be used for teaching the students who cannot attend their classes. This can definitely serve as a viable option for spreading literacy in rural areas to achieve the dream of the educated India.”  Though, this new normal still needs to cater to a wider audience, she says the only possible way for this is promoting the use of technology in education to prepare students for the future. “In education, technology can be a game changer,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/technology-made-it-possible-to-go-beyond-classrooms-amid-covid-191833
31-12-2020||---||Act against those defaming Khalsa Aid: Aujla to PM||Amritsar, December 30Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla on Wednesday shot off a communiqué to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, calling for action against those defaming the Khalsa Aid and its founder Ravi Singh.“The Khalsa Aid is a charitable organisation, which believes in the Sikh principle of ‘sarbat da bhala’. It helps people ravaged by war and natural disasters,” he said.The MP claimed, “Certain media outlets do not approach the organisations for their comment, but merely use their platform to generate hatred and false information.”He requested the PM to intervene and ensure strict action against those trying to undermine the spirit of the Constitution.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/act-against-those-defaming-khalsa-aid-aujla-to-pm-191646
