03-04-2020||---||Snow Avalanche Study Establishment distributes sanitisers and face masks to UT police||Chandigarh, April 3As part of its contribution to the fight against COVID-19, Snow Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) here handed over 100 bottles of hand sanitiser to the Chandigarh traffic police today.SASE, a DRDO laboratory, also distributed 200 face masks to protect the police personnel while on duty in these difficult times. SASE Director, Naresh Kumar, said that DRDO is working on war footing to help the armed forces, para military and civilian population. He added that SASE will also provide food to the needy in the days to come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/snow-avalanche-study-establishment-distributes-sanitisers-and-face-masks-to-ut-police-65072
03-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali reports two coronavirus cases in connection with Nizamuddin event||Mohali reported two more coronavirus cases in the district---both believed to be related to a religious congregation in Delhi that has become the latest source of COVID-19 scare.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said in a tweet that authorities were now trying to trace the contacts of the two who tested positive on Friday.“2 more positive cases in the district, had attended religious congregation at Delhi. In isolation. Contacts being traced. Contacts of positive case in Jagatpura - 48 sample negative, 3 awaited. Contacts of other positive cases - 14 sample negative, 5 awaited,” Dayalan’s tweet said.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said that one case came from Mauli Baidwan and the other Sector 68 in the district. A third person has been home quarantined.This would be Punjab’s first reported coroanvirus cases in connection with the Tablighi Jaamat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. This also takes the number of cases in the district to 12.Punjab’s latest media bulletin meanwhile shows that the state reported six new cases on Friday. The state has reported five deaths so far. .The daily bulletin shows 1381 of 1585 samples sent for testing came back negative. Authorities are awaiting results for 153. One has been discharged so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-reports-two-coronavirus-cases-in-connection-with-nizamuddin-event-65048
03-04-2020||Vijay Mohan||Chandigarh's Institute of Microbial Technology to take up Covid-19 testing||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, April 3In a major boost to increase testing rate among suspected coronavirus patients, the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) here will take up testing of Covid-19 sample. In the initial phase, IMTECH plans to operationalise capabilities to test of 50 to 100 samples a day, which can be subsequently ramped up as and when required.IMTECH has already augmented its capabilities to carry out clinical testing for COVID-19 and has the necessary expertise in molecular microbiology. The institute has the requisite infrastructure, including Bio-Safety Level (BSL) -3 facility, as the labs are advised to take all appropriate bio-safety and bio-security precautions before testing.A newly constructed BSL-2+ virology lab equipped with Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) equipment has also been established. All the mandatory approvals required for testing of clinical samples have been obtained to operationalise testing at the earliest.This is in line with the directives issued by the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India and an advisory issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to operationalise COVID-19 testing by laboratories under Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and other labs affiliated to Department of Science and Technology, Department of Bio-Technology and the Department of Atomic Energy.With a limited number of test kits available, India has been primarily testing patients with a travel history and is currently ranked lowest in terms of testing per million population and this step by ICMR to involve all government accredited labs will be a game changer in testing of COVID-19 samples.IMTECH, a laboratory under the CSIR, is engaged in research in many areas of modern biological sciences and microbe-related biotechnology, with special emphasis on research that is interdisciplinary and of a collaborative nature, such as immunity and infectious diseases, protein design and engineering, fermentation science, microbial physiology and genetics, bioinformatics and microbial systematics, exploitation of microbial diversity for bio-actives and enzymes for bio-transformations.Apart from testing clinical samples, IMTECH is also supporting health care professionals by providing Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to prevent them from contracting any infection while serving patients. The institute is also extending help to the local administration and Red Cross Unit of Chandigarh by providing the logistical and infrastructure support.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-institute-of-microbial-technology-to-take-up-covid-19-testing-65029
03-04-2020||---||Chandigarh traders raise concern, write to PM, Punjab Guv||Chandigarh, April 2Chandigarh Beopar Mandal today wrote to Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore regarding concerns of traders/shopkeepers of Chandigarh.“We request the government to take notice of our survival and amend this order to allow us pay them only Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 per month as ration cost to our employees till continuance of the lockdown,” stated beopar mandal in the communiqué to the PM and Punjab Governor.“We as small and medium traders won’t be able to pay full salaries during the lockdown period as currently our businesses are shut and we do not have any source of income,” beopar mandal added.Businessmen also sought exemption from rent of business establishments and waiver of interest on loans/EMIs.“Lastly, most of our traders have taken overdraft/CC limits or term loans in order to run their businesses. As per the prevailing situation when there is no business activity, serving these interests is also a big challenge,” said Charanjiv Singh, chairman, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal.“As the country is going through a national disaster, we request the government to take cognisance of the situation and allow waiver for such interest up to June 30, 2020, in order to help traders maintain their business continuity in this economic crisis,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-traders-raise-concern-write-to-pm-punjab-guv-64919
03-04-2020||Panchkula||Good Samaritans come to the aid of slum-dwellers||When India battles Covid-19, many people have come forward to help needy through various means, including distribution of food items in slums. Jaswinder Kaur, a resident of Sector 4 here, has been doing the same. Many others are helping her in this noble cause.These people in a joint effort are distributing processed food as well as supplies to hundreds of ‘jhuggi-jhopri’ dwellers for the last many days in Panchkula and in nearby areas. They have also pledged to keep going in the coming days.Just like Jaswinder, a Sector 7 resident Aastha Johar along with her younger brother Lakshjit distributed hand sanitisers among several policemen on duty during the lockdown period.The 18-year-old, who is a Class XII student, runs an initiative called “Let’s do something” under which she has thought of reaching out to at least 500 police personnel. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/good-samaritans-come-to-the-aid-of-slum-dwellers-64917
03-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||Mohali vendors continue to sell items at higher price||Mohali, April 2The fear of Covid-19 has already burdened the people around the world and to add to this misery are vegetable and fruit vendors who are selling goods at double the price.Despite making certain rules and regulations to ensure that people are not overcharged, the Mohali administration is unable to serve the purpose.After conducting surveys at Sectors 70, 71, Phases 9, 11, Landran and Mataur villages, it was found that vegetable and fruit vendors were selling items at much higher price as compared with the capped price.Residents complained that vendors were not taking proper precautions. Majority of the fruit vendors did not wear masks and gloves while selling items.Sunita, a resident of Phase 11, said, “In my area, apples and bananas are being sold at Rs 200 and Rs 70 per kg, respectively. The rates charged by the vendors are unaffordable for the common man.”Vibhuti Mishra, a resident of Landran village, said, “Vendors are fleecing residents of our area. They are selling items two times more than the price fixed by the Deputy Commissioner.”However, vendors said they were getting material at expensive rates due to which they were unable to sell it to people at cheap rates. Some vendors failed to show the bill when they were asked for it.Lalit, a resident of Sector 70, said, “I bought 1-kg oranges for Rs 90 today against the fixed rateof Rs 60.”Mohali SDM Jagdeep Saigal said if compared with the old rates, new rates of vegetables and fruits went down in the past few days as the supply had increased. “We have put various teams, including 20 mandi supervisors and a few inspectors, on job to keep a check on prices. Strict action will be taken against those found selling vegetables and fruitsabove the capped price,” the SDM said.Reviewing the demand and supply of fruits and vegetables in the district, Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan had issued a revised retail rate list for sale of fruits and vegetables in the city.The DC had also warned fruit and vegetable sellers against overpricing and said the prices should not exceed the fixed rate and any violation of the order would not be tolerated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-vendors-continue-to-sell-items-at-higher-price-64914
03-04-2020||Kharar||Residents ban entry into Kharar villages||Villagers have banned the entry of outsiders in majority of villages under the Kharar subdivision. Nakas have been laid at the entry point of all villages.While giving information, the Kharar SDM, Himanshu Jain, said, “Public committees have been formed in villages. Barricades have been laid at the entry point of all villages.”“The step has been taken by residents of villages themselves as they want to help the administration and the police in imposing curfew orders,” the SDM added.“Villagers are manning entry points round-the-clock,” the SDM said.Meanwhile, the Kharar BDPO, Hiten Kapila, said there were 140 panchayats in Kharar block out of which majority had restricted the entry of outsiders in villages. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-ban-entry-into-kharar-villages-64913
03-04-2020||Mohali||Doorstep delivery comes as a boon for senior citizens||Roping in of big retailers into home delivery of groceries has proved to be a boon for senior citizens in the city as more than 333 elderly persons received groceries on their doorstep today.More than 2,000 orders were being delivered per day on the doorsteps of elderly people by big retailers.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district administration, in collaboration with the Mohali Industry Association, started a priority delivery service of essentials to the senior citizens of the district. It was realised that age and health factors of senior citizens mandated urgent delivery of essentials to them, so this initiative was undertaken.The initiative was being well received by senior citizens and so far, 333 priority deliveries had been made to them as per the orders placed by them on the area-wise designated numbers, he said.Dayalan said nearly 9,500 orders had been catered to by the big retail stores such as Big Basket, D-mart, Bhejo, More, Reliance, Big Bazaar, Grofers, etc, in the past four days.He said stores did not have ample manpower to deliver groceries on the doorstep, so the district administration permitted big retailers to operate in the district.The Deputy Commissioner said that going a step further in the direction of delivery of essentials on the doorstep, the district administration had registered and uploaded the data of local grocery stores on the state government’s COVA app.He said COVA app was launched a couple of days ago for people in Punjab to get their curfew passes for emergencies, to report mass gatherings, to know home quarantine patients and foreign-returned travellers and a lot more on Covid-19.He said now a home delivery module related to essential items for public had been launched in the COVA app by the Punjab Governance Reforms Department. He said the district administration had partnered with local vendors for the purpose and people shall now be able to place an order for delivery on the COVA app itself. The move was aimed at improving citizen service delivery and easing citizen experience during the lockdown.He further said people could download COVA app and use the home delivery module for supply of essential items at homes. The app was launched by the Punjab Government and is available on Play Store and iOS Apple Store.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doorstep-delivery-comes-as-a-boon-for-senior-citizens-64911
03-04-2020||Kharar||Suspected patient admitted to Kurali Civil Hospital||A suspected Covid-19 patient has been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Kurali. He has been kept at the isolation ward of the hospital.Dr Bhupinder Singh, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Civil Hospital, Kurali, said, “The suspected patient is a PGI employee. He was in contact with Om Parkash, a resident of Nayagaon, who died due to Covid infection at the PGI.” “His samples have been sent for analysis,” the SMO added. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspected-patient-admitted-to-kurali-civil-hospital-64908
03-04-2020||---||Centre comes forward to help disabled||Chandigarh, April 2The National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) has asked persons with disabilities to dial their helpline number 73039 44839 if they need any assistance during the lockdown.“The Covid-19 pandemic has been declared a disaster by the National Disaster Management Authority, headed by the Prime Minister,” said Arman Ali, executive director, NCPEDP.On March 26, the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (GOI) issued disability inclusive guidelines to secure the protection and safety of persons with disabilities during this crisis.“People with disabilities are not a homogenous, distinct group. They are to be found in every strata of society and in every aspect of life and they need to be enabled during this pandemic, said Ali.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-comes-forward-to-help-disabled-64906
03-04-2020||Harshabab Sidhu||6,600 examined during survey at Jagatpura, Nayagaon villages||Mohali, April 2A door-to-door survey was conducted at Jagatpura and Nayagaon villages today where two positive Covid-19 cases were reported recently, said Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh.He said teams of the Health Department visited around 1,230 houses at both villages and examined nearly 6,600 residents there. Dr Kuljeet Kaur, Senior Medical Officer (SMO), Gharuan, who led the survey teams, said health teams found five persons having mild symptoms of common cold and cough. Their samples would be collected soon. Village people were asked to maintain social distancing, wash hands frequently, eat good food and stay at home.The Civil Surgeon said the situation arising from the Covid infection in the district was completely under control and with the help of the district administration, the Health Department was leaving no stone unturned to curb the spread of the deadly disease.He said the health teams were constantly examining the health of those who were quarantined across the district as a precautionary measure. No fresh positive case was reported from across the district today.Dr Manjit said the support of people was very important for the complete elimination of this deadly disease. “Stay at home should be the only mantra for people to stay away from this deadly disease,” he said and added that those who had been placed under home quarantine should not go out and follow the guidelines properly.He urged the residents of the district to stay home and follow guidelines.The Civil Surgeon said yesterday, 95 samples were taken from the district of which 17 were from Jagatpura village. The reports of 25 samples were found to be negative while the rest of the reports would come tomorrow, he said. Meanwhile, the Health Department identified 12 more persons from the district today who might have attended the Tablighi event at Nizamuddin in Delhi.Precautions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/6-600-examined-during-survey-at-jagatpura-nayagaon-villages-64903
03-04-2020||---||Youths steal cash bag from Sec 40 store||Chandigarh, April 2A bag containing cash was stolen by two youths from outside a provision storein Sector 40, who escaped on an Activa. The incident was caught on CCTV cameras.Sources said Rajesh Khanna, in his complaint to the police, reported that his shop was open and various items of daily need were kept outside for sale.Rajesh Khanna had also kept a cash bag outside the shop where he was himself present.The CCTV camera installed near the shop shows a young boy wearing a yellow T-shirt coming outside the shop and keeping a watch on Khanna. He saw that the money recieved from the customers was kept in the bag.When the shopkeeper was busy, the suspect stole the bag and escaped from the spot.The police were informed and the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was scrutinised in which the suspect is seen escaping on an Activa along with his accomplice.The police said an investigation had been initiated at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youths-steal-cash-bag-from-sec-40-store-64902
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||266 rounded  up for curfew violations in Chandigarh||The UT police today rounded up a total of 266 persons for violating curfew orders.Meanwhile, the police said 110 vehicles were detained and 74 vehicles were impounded in different parts of the city. Five cases under Section 188 of the IPC were also registered at the Sector 39 police station.Police officials said staff at nakas had been asked to thoroughly check curfew passes and allow only those persons to move in the city who have some valid reason.Meanwhile, since March 23, a total of 7,270 persons have been rounded up, 4,236 vehicles have been detained and 1,086 vehicles have been impounded. Moreover, a total of 111 persons have also been booked under Section 188 of the IPC till April 2.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/266-rounded-up-for-curfew-violations-in-chandigarh-64901
03-04-2020||---||Over 120 Jamaatis traced, quarantined in Panchkula||Panchkula, April 2Over 120 persons, including those who may have travel history to Nizamuddin, who attended regular Jamaats in different parts of the country have been traced, said Deputy Commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja on Thursday.Of the total traced persons, 3 have been kept in an isolation ward at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, as they might have travel history to Nizamuddin. The remaining persons have been kept at quarantine facilities at Nada Sahib and Mouli.6 samples collectedAs many as 6 samples were collected on Thursday for Covid-19 test and sent to the PGI. Results of a total of 18 persons are awaited. Panchkula has witnessed 2 positive Covid-19 cases so far.As many as 24 persons have been admitted to an isolation ward of the Civil Hospital. A total of 293 persons are under home quarantine while 392 have been quarantined at temporary shelter homes.Active surveillance in several villagesThe Health Department on Thursday carried out active surveillance at Rehna, Bar and Khuda Baksh, the Civil Surgeon said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-120-jamaatis-traced-quarantined-in-panchkula-64900
03-04-2020||Lalru||Contact of Covid-infected doc quarantined in Lalru||A 65-year-old woman from Lalru Mandi was home quarantined by the administration here today. The administration took this precautionary action after a 43-year-old doctor at a private hospital in Mohali who operated upon this woman tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.As part of the preventive steps in the backdrop of the Covid-19 outbreak in the country, the 65-year-old woman has been kept under medical supervision as a precautionary measure. However, her family members, too, had also been advised to remain isolated inside their home.All these people had been asked to remain home quarantine and call the surveillance officer in case they start developing symptoms, said a health official. Meanwhile, the Health Department has deployed police officials and have barricaded the entire lane to restrict the entry of outsiders.Sukhwinder Singh, SMO, Lalru, said the woman living near Durga Devi temple in Lalru Mandi was suffering from illness for the past several days.The SMO said she was operated upon and later discharged from the hospital on March 24. The doctor, who operated upon the woman, tested Covid-19 positive.The SMO said they had not seen any Covid-19 symptoms in the patient but had been home quarantined as a precautionary measure. Tests would be conducted if she was found symptomatic.District epidemiologist Dr Harmandeep Kaur said the team also visited houses in the neighbourhood and all of them had been asked to remain inside. Regular updates would be taken to check whether the 65-year-old woman developed any symptoms. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/contact-of-covid-infected-doc-quarantined-in-lalru-64899
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Couple held for thrashing girl||A couple has been arrested for thrashing a girl in Sanjay Colony, Industrial Area, Phase 1, following an altercation over filling water from a tap.According to the police, complainant Nancy alleged that she was filing water. Suspect Maya reached there and asked her to remove her tub so that she can fill water. This led to an argument between them following which Maya called her husband Sunny. The police said the couple then thrashed the girl.It is alleged that Sunny hit the victim with a brick.The victim suffered serious injuries. She was admitted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, in Chandigarh.The police have registered a case under Sections 323 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code against the couple and arrested them. They were later released on bail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-held-for-thrashing-girl-64898
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Ban on chewing gum sought||In order to control the spread of Covid-19, a ban on chewing gum or bubble gum has been sought.In a letter to Punjab Governor and UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore, and UT Adviser Manoj Parida, Ajay Jagga, member, Rogi Kalyan Samiti, requested to consider a complete ban on the use of chewing gum/bubble gum and similar products in Chandigarh and Punjab. The entire stock be taken over by the Health and Food Safety Departments and even Excise and Tax Department can be roped in for this purpose.Details of purchases and stocks available in Chandigarh and even in Punjab are easily accessible through the GST purchase portal.However, after imposing an immediate ban, 48 hours could be given to surrender stocks. Haryana had already done it, he said. Jagga said the product was extremely dangerous and could help spread Covid-19 by spitting with chewed gums. As such, in the public interest, consider imposing an immediate ban. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ban-on-chewing-gum-sought-64897
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Forest Dept clueless about leopard||Three days on, the Forest Department is still clueless about the leopard, which was reportedly sighted in the Sector 43-44 area on Tuesday.However, putting an end to rumours regarding killing of two dogs by a leopard in the Sector 43-44 area, a senior officer of the department today said after getting information, he visited the area and interacted with residents but didn’t get any clue. Even no pug marks were seen there.On Tuesday, the department received information that a leopard was sighted in the area.Since Tuesday, the department carried out an intensive search operation, but it did not get any success.Officials of the department have asked residents to stay indoors and remain alert.The police were also using drone-fitted cameras to conduct the search.With people staying indoors during the 21-day nationwide lockdown to check the spread of Covid-19, wild animals, including endangered ones, have been spotted on deserted streets at several places in the country over the past few days. Sambars were also seen crossing roads in northern Sectors of the city again. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/forest-dept-clueless-about-leopard-64896
03-04-2020||---||Now, telecom operators to track location of quarantined persons in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, April 2For strict adherence of guidelines, the UT Administration has directed telecom operators to track the location of quarantined people.“In case of any violation, strict action will be taken by the Administration under the law,” said UT Adviser Manoj Parida. Don’t send patients to PGI, States toldNeighbouring states have been requested to not to send any patient without consultation and consent of the PGI. This has been decided to ensure that the PGI, which has been declared as a dedicated Covid Wing (Nehru Extension), can devote its full energy and resources to fight against Covid-19.During a meeting with senior officers in the war room at the UT Secretariat, UT Administrator VP Singh Badnore informed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the videoconference today appealed to all citizens to strictly follow the lockdown instructions of the government so that the spread of Covid-19 could be successfully contained.The Prime Minister concentrated on maintaining supply chain of essentials, including groceries, vegetables and milk. He expressed that special care of senior citizens and Divyangs be taken in the present situation. The UT Administration will comply with all directions received from the Prime Minister.Nine mobile langar vans started in UTThe Administration has started nine permanent langars in various parts of the city through mobile vans. These vans will supply langars at Chachi Colony, Colony No. 4, Sanjay Colony, Daria, Maloya, Sarangpur and Tin Shed Colony. Several social organisations have come forward to assist the Administration.Thereafter, during detailed review of the arrangements made by the Administration, the Administrator was also informed that necessary arrangements had been made between three hospitals i.e. PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16.Women beneficiaryIn order to stagger the payment and avoid crowding in order to maintain social distancing, credit of money into women beneficiary account holder under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana will be staggered based on the last digit of the account number of the beneficiaries and SMSes will be sent to those beneficiaries whose mobile number is seeded in the account. SMSes will also indicate the day on which the beneficiary has to come to the bank branch for the withdrawal of money.Neighbouring states have been requested to not to send any patient without consultation and consent of the PGI. This has been decided to ensure that the PGI, which has been declared as a dedicated Covid Wing (Nehru Extension) can devote its full energy and resources to fight against Covid. Further, Dr Jagat Ram, Director, PGI, clarified that there is no shortage of funds for medicines and equipment in the PGI.Finance Secretary Sinha stated that all arrangements had been made for smooth withdrawal of money by women beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) while maintaining social distancing.MC Commissioner KK Yadav stated the POTA-CABIN ration shops had been opened in Maloya for the benefit of residents. In addition to the existing 8 companies, which are doing home delivery of essential items, Swiggy has also been permitted to distribute groceries, vegetables, etc., in Chandigarh.Deputy Commissioner Mandip Singh Brar informed that 43,569 food packets were distributed in Chandigarh yesterday. Moreover, nine permanent langars had been started in various parts of the city through mobile vans. These vans will supply langars at Chachi Colony, Colony No. 4, Sanjay Colony, Daria, Maloya, Sarangpur andTin Shed Colony. Several social organisations had come forward to assist the Administration. The Administrator advised the officers to involve voluntary organisations, charitable agencies and public in various operations.Director General of Police Sanjay Baniwal stated that all efforts were been made to ensure the compliance of instructions. At present, situation is peaceful in Chandigarh.The Administrator directed to ensure that supply lines, including vehicles carrying essential items and empty vehicles after unloading, shouldn’t be stopped by the police. The police authorities should ensure that operator of 9 companies providing groceries, vegetables and milk should not be harassed. He also informed that arrangements had been made to counsel the stranded labourers in camps setup by the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-telecom-operators-to-track-location-of-quarantined-persons-in-chandigarh-64895
03-04-2020||Our Correspondent||Fatehgarh Sahib MP reviews arrangements||Fatehgarh Sahib, April 2Dr Amar Singh, Fatehgarh Sahib MP, today held a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner, SSP and other officials to take stock of the steps being taken by the district administration in the wake of Covid-19.Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLA, also attended the meeting. He offered the Deputy Commissioner to use as much amount from his MP Lad fund for combating Covid-19 and to provide ration and food to the needy. He authorised the district administration to purchase any equipment, beds, medicines and other required material of any amount.He urged the DC to ensure supply of essential commodities and medicines, especially senior citizens. He also took stock of the arrangements made for the procurement of wheat and expressed satisfaction.Amrit Kaur Gill, Deputy Commissioner, and Amneet Kondal, SSP, briefed the MP about various steps taken by the administration for supplying essential commodities.The MP appreciated the work being done by the civil and police administration and health authorities. He appealed to people to follow the guidelines of the government and to maintain social distancing. Kuljit Singh Nagra, MLA, said the state government was committed to provide everyone in need with food.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fatehgarh-sahib-mp-reviews-arrangements-64882
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Rotarians on the forefront||Rotarians have been doing their bit by taking care of medical supplies and feeding the hungry in view of the lockdown in the city.Past Rotary International president Rajendra K Saboo, along with members of the Rotary Club, has been spearheading the task force to help the Administration and the medical authorities.The Rotary Club has been supplying N95 masks for doctors, as well as gloves and 3-ply masks for nurses and paramedic staff.Already, 50 N95 masks, 25,000 3ply masks, 200 PP gowns and 10,000 examination gloves had been supplied to the PGIMER, said Club President Surinder Pal Kaur.“The club is arranging another consignment of 1,000 PPE sets for doctors of the PGIMER and 500 PPE for the GMCH, Sector 32,” she said.The club has already spent more than Rs12 lakh on the medical supplies so far, she added. Another senior Rotarian, Past District Governor Kawal Bedi is coordinating the daily supply of 1,000 food packets for junior doctors and nursing staff at the PGIMER.The club has been organising 400 food packets daily with the logistic support of DGP Sanjay Beniwal, besides 145 families in the club’s adopted project at Saketri village have been supplied with ration.Inner Wheel Club members have taken care of nearly 50 families of daily wagers by supplying them with ration for a month.Rotarians from Mohali and Panchkula are also working closely with the Administration to manage the situation. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rotarians-on-the-forefront-64881
03-04-2020||---||MCM DAV College takes e-route for teaching||Chandigarh, April 2The faculty at the Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women has now switched to e-classrooms.The enterprising faculty of the college is harnessing various online apps, tools, platforms and media for sharing study material, holding online discussions, giving assignments and conducting tests.Principal Nisha Bhargava said in view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the college was taking all possible measures to make sure that academic activity did not suffer and students were not left directionless. She said: “Fighting the handicap of social distancing, MCM faculty is proactively in touch with students and conducting online classes that are benefitting thousands of them. Audio/ audio-visual lectures conducted through apps such as Zoom, Skype, Hangouts, YouTube, Google Classroom and WhatsApp have found favour with the teachers as well as learners.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mcm-dav-college-takes-e-route-for-teaching-64880
03-04-2020||---||Online application for entrance tests in Panjab University||Chandigarh, April 2The candidates willing to take admission to various courses in Panjab University for the 2020-2021 session can apply online for various entrance tests.For online application, candidates have to first register on the entrance test website, so that they can pay the fee. To facilitate the candidates, provision of online fee payment has been introduced this year. Candidates can pay the entrance test fee online through net banking, credit card and debit card. The facility of paying through bank challan at any branch of the State Bank of India is also available. After paying the fee, candidates can complete their forms. Candidates can download prospectus from the website. Admit card will be available online on the date given on respective websites:uglaw.puchd.ac.in||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/online-application-for-entrance-tests-in-panjab-university-64879
03-04-2020||---||Support pours in from Infosys||Chandigarh, April 2Several agencies, institutes and organisations are coming forward to support the fight against Covid-19.IT major Infosys recently donated four cardiotocography (CTG) machines, PPE kits, gloves, goggles and sanitisers to the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32.Dr Alka Sehgal of the department said the CTG machines are used for recording the foetal heartbeat. During labour, a mother requires monitoring and needs clinical examination for at least 20-24 times. “Normally, we use these machines only in high-risk pregnancies for closer observations, but in the present scenarios where social distancing is the need of the hour and prevention of exposure to healthcare providers of utmost importance, the machines will reduce the need for doctors to touch the patients many times,” she said.Hospital launches teleconsultation servicesCloudnine Group of Hospitals, a chain of maternity, childcare and fertility care group of hospitals, headquartered in Bengaluru, has launched its teleconsultation service in response to the growing health concerns caused by the spread of Covid-19. The service is part of the emergency response measures for coronavirus based on the guidelines released by the Medical Council of India, in partnership with NITI Aayog. The services have been made available at Chandigarh and other units across India. This service shall allow customers to consult doctors from their homes via video call, thereby avoiding the non- essential visitors to the hospital.Doctors will advise and follow up with patients according to their conditions and symptoms. Customers may use this service for follow-up consultation on their ongoing treatment as well. This health service shall be available on mobile phones through “It’s our Baby” app which currently has 100k users. This will include doctor consultations, electronic prescriptions and electronic medical certificates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/support-pours-in-from-infosys-64878
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Centre sanctions project to UIET in Panjab University||The Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology has sanctioned a research project, ‘Multi-Modal Framework for Monitoring Active Fire Locations (AFL) and Precision in Allied Agricultural Activities using Communication Technologies’, with an outlay of Rs 81.25 lakh for two years (2020-2022) to a team from the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) in Panjab University.The team is looking forward to rope in Punjab and Haryana as the user agency as stubble-burning is one of the major problems being faced by citizens in northern India. It is a precursor to various respiratory disorders such as asthma, skin and eye-related diseases and low breathing air quality. Despite Centre’s initiatives to increase awareness about the evil, there has been a tremendous increase in the number of such incidents every year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-sanctions-project-to-uiet-in-panjab-university-64877
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||NHAI donates Rs 1.38 lakh||The staff at the Chandigarh regional office of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have voluntarily decided to pledge a day’s salary to the PM CARES Fund and contributed Rs 1.38 lakh.The authority said it was ensuring smooth passage for all vehicles carrying essential goods and emergency services on national highways. “Also, food, water and other support is being extended to drivers carrying essential goods and people stranded around the national highways near toll plazas,” said a senior official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhai-donates-rs-1-38-lakh-64876
03-04-2020||Mohali||Mohali postpones fee collection, admissions at schools, institutes||In view of the Covid-19 outbreak, the district administration today issued an advisory to all private educational institutions that the admission process and collection of fee for the 2020-21 for students continuing in the same school may be postponed till further orders.Girish Dayalan, Deputy Commissioner, said they had received complaints from parents against private institutions for collecting fee and donations from students for the next academic year. He said it had come to their notice that some of the private schools in the district have fixed first week of April as the last date for depositing the school fee. He said some others were insisting on paying fee in April and May and sending reminders to parents through SMS and warning of fines for delayed payments.He said in the hour of crisis, the school management should be mindful of the hardships being faced by parents and not make fee payment mandatory during the lockdown.Dayalan said due to the epidemic, it was not possible for parents to deposit the school fee as per the schedule fixed by private schools. He said directions had been issued by the State Education Department to reschedule the collection of fee by the private educational institutions.He said keeping in view the above situation, all recognised private educational institutions had been directed to reschedule the date for the payment of admission fee and to allow at least one month after normalisation of the situation for the payment. He said no penal charges should be levied by the schools and strict action would be taken if a complaint was received. He further clarified that if any parent had already deposited the fee, no refund will be made by the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-postpones-fee-collection-admissions-at-schools-institutes-64874
03-04-2020||Our CorrespondentKharar||Chandigarh University comes up with serving trolley||Chandigarh University, Gharuan, has designed a special serving trolley that is being used by volunteers of the university to serve cooked meals twice a day to the poor and needy in Mohali villages.“I watched a news on the television where an NGO was distributing food among poor and suddenly, there was a big rush near the distribution truck and social distancing went for a toss,” said Rakesh Kumar Negi, technical and maintenance supervisor at the university, who conceptualised the design of the serving trolley.The serving trolley has been made from a water cooler stand that was available in the university junkyard. “The trolley can handle 30-kg food at a time and is useful to maintain the necessary precautions while distributing the food,” said Negi.Ever since the lockdown began, Chandigarh University has been running a campaign, ‘CU-AID’, for distributing food among the poor and needy. Currently, the university community mess is preparing and distributing cooked meals among more than 2,000 persons and it plans to extend the distribution to needy persons to Chandigarh by the next week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-university-comes-up-with-serving-trolley-64873
03-04-2020||Sanjay Bumbroo||Vegetable supply may be affected in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, April 2The door-to-door vegetable supplyn in Chandigarh and Mohali are likely to be hit as most of the vendors from Jagatpura village are not being allowed to move out of their houses after a positive Covid-19 case surfaced on Wednesday.Tension had gripped the area as 20 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) are now in charge of the area instead of the Punjab Police.A senior police official said the densely populated area had been handed over to the CRPF as it was important for villagers, including migrants, to follow the curfew restrictions in the area.Most of the vendors bring vegetables from the Sector 26 grain market and sell it to residents in Mohali, along with nearby Sector 48, 49, 50, 47 and 46. Now, with the sealing of villages, the supply of vegetables would be affected.A 55-year-old resident of Jagatpura was found positive for Covid-19. He had been in contact with the 22-year-old patient from Sector 30 who had a travel history to Dubai.Deputy Commissioner Girish Dayalan said the district administration had accepted the services of the CRPF because the village was densely populated. He said the area had been sealed for a day and if no other positive case was found, vegetable vendors would be allowed to move out of the village. He said more than 40 samples had been sent for testing from the possible contacts of the Covid-19 positive case.Girish Dayalan said for maintaining consistent supply of milk to people, the district administration has coordinated with Verka and from March 23 to April 2, 8 lakh litres of milk has been supplied to those living in the Mohali city. He said besides this, 73,707-kg curd, 9,906-kg paneer and 62,186 litres of lassi have also been supplied to people.Similarly, from March 26 to April 1, a total of 530 tonnes of vegetables have been sold in the district. In Mohali and Kharar, 274 tonnes, 95 tonnes in Lalru, 30 tonnes in Dera Bassi, 70 tonnes in Zirakpur, 37 tonnes in Kurali and 30 tonnes of vegetables have been sold in Banur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vegetable-supply-may-be-affected-in-mohali-64862
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Youth held for violating curfew||Four Wheels of car stolenChandigarh: Four wheels of a car were stolen during lockdown in Kajehri. According to the police, complainant Jitender Singh reported that he had parked his taxi near Doaba hotel in Kajheri village on March 22. Due to the lockdown, the complainant didn’t drive his car. However, on April 1, he went to check his car and found that four wheels of the car had been stolen. The police were informed about the incident following which a case of theft has been registered against an unknown person at the Sector 36 police station. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-held-for-violating-curfew-64852
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Feel sad about what we’ve done to mother earth: Yograj||In this highly interconnected world, it is difficult to sit back and take refuge in one’s house. More so for people who are used to running around for most part of the day.Former cricketer and actor Yograj Singh is one such person and this lockdown for him has been a challenge so far. However, every demanding situation is an opportunity for growth.“I think, to be honest, it is not a very good thing that has happened. I am someone who spends over 15 hours a day doing things, including going to the gym, teaching at the academy, shooting, writing, meeting people and what not. Suddenly, all this has stopped and I am holed up, unwillingly,” he says.However, the actor has had some realisations and all accomplishments and wealth feel paltry.“Money is not important; property is of no value… the accumulation of things is a waste. None of it is helping the human race fight this virus and imagine we’ve spent all our lives in materialism.”What’s crucial according to Yograj is that we help each other, support mankind in times of difficulty. “I’ve been chasing my dreams all along, from one thing to the other. A major focus in all of it has been contributing to society. Be it my time, talent or my fortune, I’ve devoted it towards community work. In this time, I want to do it even more.”Having said that, Yograj has figured out what else needs his attention and time. It’s his family. “This compulsory confinement is very boring but it has woken me up to a shortcoming. I haven’t given enough quality time to my family. And I am fortunate to have such a loving and caring household. Now, with my wife, daughter, some relatives, helping staff and pets, I’ve become aware how beautiful this experience of being among your folks is. I want to do more of this. I did know its value but didn’t work towards it as much. Now I will.”With his sons in Delhi, he does miss them but makes sure to stay connected. “Yuvi, his wife, younger brother and mom were to come to Chandigarh when the lockdown was announced, so we decided they will stay put there but we talk on WhatsApp every day for hours. I am grateful to have my family around. It’s a blessing.”Other things he does daily are working out every evening for two hours, watching films with all family members, sharing motivational messages with his fans and talking to his students.“This is for now the routine. Being a spiritual person, I do go in deep thoughts. I feel very sad about what we have done to mother earth. We have to understand our mistakes, reflect and help each other. Like I tell my fans and students, it’s a match between humans and virus, we can fight it and we can win it.”Yograj Singh wants all of us to value the bounties of nature and take care of these.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/feel-sad-about-what-weve-done-to-mother-earth-yograj-64851
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||PGI Chandigarh Covid facility gets functional today with just 5-day PPE||The PGI is all set to start a dedicated Covid facility tomorrow, but without adequate personal protective equipment (PPE).Sources said the current stock would vanish in just five days. PGI Director Dr Jagat Ram said they had placed orders for quality PPE. However, due to a countrywide shortage, they have not been able to procure it in large quantity. An order for over 15,000 PPEs was placed last week by the PGI with government approved suppliers, but none of them has been able to deliver.On an average, 70 to 80 PPEs are required by health workers deputed in different departments.The third floor of the hospital with 60 beds will be used in the initial phase, while on the fourth floor, 15 ventilators will be at the disposal in the intensive care area.The UT had decided that all positive patients will be shifted to the Nehru Extension Block of the PGI and all three hospitals (the PGI, GMSH-16 and GMCH-32) will continue to screen patients and take samples.Uttam Thakur, president, Association of Resident Doctors of PGI, said Covid patients were being effectively isolated at the three tertiary care facilities. The isolation facilities at none of these centres stand overwhelmed. The feasibility of converting vacant/almost ready other hospitals in the UT like the one in Sector 48 into Covid Hospital should be considered.”Concerns raised by PGI staff||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chandigarh-covid-facility-gets-functional-today-with-just-5-day-ppe-64850
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||TBRL residents’ panel provides food to 1,000 in Chandigarh||In view of prevailing curfew to curb the spread of Covid-19, the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory (TBRL) Residents Welfare Committee has come forward to provide meals to the needy in the city.Volunteers, along with a representative of the Administration, went to different areas of the city and distributed food and ration to daily wagers and labourers. Over the past three days, nearly 1,000 persons were served food and this will continue till the lockdown ends.TBRL personnel have also appealed to the people of the city to comply with the orders given by the Administration and the government to avoid the spread of this pandemic and maintain social distance. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tbrl-residents-panel-provides-food-to-1-000-in-chandigarh-64849
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||I’m in Chandigarh, not Mumbai: Kher||With the Opposition doubting MP Kirron Kher’s presence in the city at a time when the battle against Covid-19 is in full steam, Kher took to the social media to say that she is in her Sector 7 house and is in touch with UT officials.The local MP wrote, “I assure city residents that I am in the city among them. Do not believe in rumours that I am in Mumbai. Since the lockdown, I have been at my Sector 7 house. Like you, I am also following the lockdown. I also appeal to you to follow it. I am working towards the cause with the Administration and MC officials. I do not want to be a hindrance in administrative activities by moving out.”Earlier, Congress leaders had targeted her for not being involved in serving the people. Some even posted messages that the MP was missing. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/im-in-chandigarh-not-mumbai-kher-64848
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||Suffered physical, mental challenges, says Covid survivor doctor||The fifth Covid patient in the city, a 26-year-old woman, was discharged from the PGI on Thursday night after being tested negative twice as per the protocol.The Sector 19 resident was infected with Covid after coming in contact with her patient whom she was treating in the UK. She completed a 14-day isolation period in the hospital yesterday.Dr Payal (name changed) said, “I had symptoms the day I arrived and I decided not to go home. I straightaway went to the PGI.”Being a doctor herself, she somehow knew that the disease was imminent.“The only thing that kept me going during the illness was that I looked forward to a bigger motive in my life, which is to treat my patients. We are nothing without our patients. We have taken an oath to help people in their vulnerable times,” she said.During the illness, she experienced diarrhoea, chest pain, severe abdomen pain, headache. The disease not only challenges the patient physically but mentally as well. This is exactly what happened with Dr Payal. She said, “I have never felt this unwell before. We have all experienced common cold or flu but this viral illness was a bit different. It affects you more than any other flu. I was exhausted.”Dr Payal shared, “I had high fever and breathlessness initially. Later, I lost smelling and taste senses completely.”She added, “I have seen it in my patients and personally experienced that you feel unwell on the second or third day and start feeling much better the next day.”“On the eighth day, I suddenly felt very unwell. I told my mother over the phone that I was dying and that was the worst part of the illness. My body was aching terribly. I experienced inexplicable things,” she said.She spent most of her time sleeping in isolation after taking medication. She suffered from fever frequently.“The suffering is a mix of both physical and mental challenges. You don’t know what is happening to your parents because you can’t see them,” she said.“My parents were isolated at home. I kept praying for my mother. Even now, we are sitting in the four corners of the house. Many people don’t maintain distance at home and all of them end up getting exposed,” she added.While I was sick, I used to tell my mother everything before calling my consultant. That’s how much, I needed family support, she said."I think people need to know, it is the same virus that causes common cold every year, but in a different way. Our body is not immune to it. I have seen healthy people ending up on the ventilator. You need to realise the serious complications of this disease. Many people are dying because of this," she added.The nursing staff and doctors of the PGI were very supporting, she said.She has a message to the public.“Everyone wants to make a difference in others’ lives and this is a perfect way to contribute to the mankind by being well-informed. People in my area were very scared when they came to know that I had tested positive. The human body is not immune to Covid, even if the person is young.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suffered-physical-mental-challenges-says-covid-survivor-doctor-64847
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||10-month-old, grandmother test positive||Two more Covid-19 cases have been reported from the city. They are contacts of an NRI couple from Sector 33-A which tested positive a couple of day ago.Those who tested positive for the virus today are the 59-year-old mother of the man and a 10-month-old baby girl of the couple. All of them are admitted to the GMCH-32. The man’s father has, however, tested negative for Covid.The NRI couple had returned from Canada on March 13. They developed symptoms on March 26 and got admitted to the GMCH two days later. Three secondary contacts (neighbours) of the couple have also been sampled at the GMCH and their reports are awaited. They are currently admitted to the GMCH. The couple’s four relatives, who live on the ground floor of the house, are under home quarantine and currently asymptomatic.Sector 35 man’s wife, son test negativeThe wife and a son of the 49-year-old Covid patient of Sector 35 have tested negative.Houses at Faidan screenedThe UT Health Department carried out a special drive at Faidan today. An IDSP team conducted a door-to-door survey of the area to locate persons with influenza-like illness symptoms. A total of 1,942 households were covered. While none with fever was reported, six residents were suffering cough and five others had a common cold. Thermal scanning was done on 112 persons. The survey was conducted in view of a positive case reported in the adjacent Jagatpura village, which falls in Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-month-old-grandmother-test-positive-64846
03-04-2020||Chandigarh||86 took part in former Golden Temple Ragi’s Sec 27 event, quarantined in Chandigarh||All 86 persons, who attended a religious event of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa, a former Hazoori Ragi of Golden Temple, at a house in Sector 27 on March 19, were today home-quarantined by the local authorities. The 62-year-old ‘Gurbani’ exponent had died due to heart attack yesterday, a day after he tested positive for Covid-19 in Amritsar.Over 36 others quarantined tooThirty persons, who had come in a contact with an NRI couple who had recently tested positive, have been home-quarantined too. Besides, six others who came in a contact with a doctor, a resident of Sector 49, who had tested positive recently, have been put under home quarantine.Till now, about 1,300 persons have been quarantined in the city.According to officials, all those who have been quarantined belong to Sectors 27, 18, 33 and 36. They are said to have come in the contact of the event organiser near the dais and the Ragi. Family members of the organiser, who is the owner of this Sector 27 house, are among those to have been quarantined.The Padma Shri awardee had returned from abroad in February and later attended many religious events at different places.The police today barricaded the area around the Sector 27 house where the Ragi had attended the event. Health experts visited the house and enquired about the persons who attended or came in contact with the Ragi.111 Tablighi attendees put under home quarantineChandigarh: A total of 111 residents, who had attended Tablighi Jamaat at different places, including Maharashtra, Rajasthan and New Delhi, were home-quarantined in city on Thursday. They are residents of Mauli Jagran, Vikas Nagar, Ram Darbar and Mani Majra. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/86-took-part-in-former-golden-temple-ragis-sec-27-event-quarantined-in-chandigarh-64844
